18-07-2021||West Bengal||Didi to visit Delhi on July 25 amid row||With an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections after its landslide victory in this year's West Bengal assembly polls, the Trinamul Congress is planning to take the opportunity of its biggest annual event, the July 21 Martyrs' Day rally, to reach out to people across the country by telecasting party chief Mamata Banerjee's speech in various languages in different states. Banerjee's speech will be telecast on giant screens across West Bengal, and for the first time, also in other states like Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Punjab, Tripura and poll-bound Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, a senior TMC leader said. The West Bengal chief minister will address people virtually for the second consecutive year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In West Bengal, the speech will be aired in Bengali, in which Banerjee will originally deliver it, while translated versions in local languages will be telecast in different states, he said. In Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah's home turf Gujarat, where assembly elections are due in 2022, the TMC plans to air Banerjee's speech on giant screens in several districts and has already started distributing leaflets in Gujarati informing people about the scheduled programme, the TMC leader said. "Modi and Shah had taken the lead in BJP's campaign during the West Bengal elections. Now, it's our turn to spread Didi's message in Gujarat and other states," he said. The party is also planning similar programmes in Uttar Pradesh, which will also go to the polls next year. The chief minister's nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee, after taking charge as the party's all- India general secretary, had vowed to spread the TMC's wings in other states to achieve a pan-India presence. Deft organiser Mukul Roy, who has recently returned to the TMC from the BJP, has been given the charge for spreading the party's presence across the country. Graffiti and posters projecting Banerjee as 'Amma', a sobriquet attached to late AIADMK leader Jayalalitha, have come up in Chennai, as the TMC tries to make inroads into the southern states with its first foray being in Tamil Nadu. Plans of a rainbow coalition against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections are being nurtured in various quarters, with even the CPI(M) expressing its willingness to be a part of the bandwagon at the national level along with the TMC, its bitter rival in West Bengal. Banerjee, a veteran in national politics, has said that she will visit New Delhi for a few days after the July 21 programme to meet "old and new friends". She also plans to go to the Parliament, which will be in session then, and hold parleys with senior leaders. Mamata Banerjee is expected to launch a scathing attack on the BJP at her virtual rally, which also comes just days before her visit to New Delhi on July 25. She will be in the national capital through the week and meet several other opposition leaders. She is likely to call on AICC leader Sonia Gandhi, though no appointment has been confirmed yet by either side. Akhilesh Yadav and Arvind Kejriwal are expected to call on her as well. All eyes are on the possibilities of an opposition alliance emerging ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. If the Prime Minister and the President give her time, the Bengal Chief Minister has said she would certainly meet them as well. Her visit to Delhi comes at a time when the Calcutta High Court is hearing a case on post-poll violence in which the National Human Rights Council, in its report, has said ": There is no rule of law in Bengal, only the law of the ruler" or the ruling party. Banerjee has said that she may also meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi if she gets appointments with them. The TMC observes July 21 as Martyrs' Day in remembrance of the 13 people who were killed in police firing in a rally of Youth Congress, of which Banerjee was then a leader, in Kolkata in 1993 demanding that voter identity cards be made the sole document required for voting to ensure free and fair elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
18-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC MLA ‘attacked’ at Farakka toll plaza in Bengal||A ruling TMC MLA in West Bengal filed a police complaint alleging that he was attacked by ‘goons’ associated with a toll plaza run by a central agency in Murshidabad district on Sunday for protesting overcharging of vehicles. Authorities of the toll plaza at Farakka, however, dismissed the allegation that local MLA Monirul Islam was attacked, and claimed that commoners protested after he refused to pay toll tax and his associates created a ruckus. "I have been hearing complaints of overcharging by the toll plaza located near the West Bengal-Jharkhand inter-state border. When I went there to check for myself, some goons associated with the toll plaza management reached the spot and charged towards my vehicle during an argument and brickbats were hurled at us. However, I was not physically harmed as the police and locals escorted me out," he told reporters. The toll plaza management, however, said that the legislator's behaviour had infuriated the locals, who protested against it and he had to leave the spot. "He refused to pay toll tax for his vehicle and his companions created a ruckus," they said, adding there was no attack on the MLA. An officer of Farakka police station said that commotion started after Islam reached the spot with around 10 people and brickbats were hurled subsequently. Islam was escorted out of the area and the situation is now under control, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s ‘shahid divas’ speech to be aired in different languages across India ||With an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections after its landslide victory in this year's West Bengal assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress is planning to take the opportunity of its biggest annual event, the July 21 Martyrs' Day rally, to reach out to people across the country by telecasting party chief Mamata Banerjee's speech in various languages in different states. Banerjee's speech will be telecast on giant screens across West Bengal, and for the first time, also in other states like Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Punjab, Tripura and poll-bound Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, a senior TMC leader said. Bengal chief minister will address people virtually for the second consecutive year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “In Bengal, the speech will be aired in Bengali, in which Banerjee will originally deliver it, while translated versions in local languages will be telecast in different states,” he said. In Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah's home turf Gujarat, where assembly elections are due in 2022, the TMC plans to air Banerjee's speech on giant screens in several districts and has already started distributing leaflets in Gujarati informing people about the scheduled programme, the TMC leader said. "Modi and Shah had taken the lead in BJP's campaign during the West Bengal elections. Now, it's our turn to spread Didi's message in Gujarat and other states," he said. The party is also planning similar programmes in Uttar Pradesh, which will also go to the polls next year. The chief minister's nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee, after taking charge as the party's all- India general secretary, had vowed to spread the TMC's wings in other states to achieve a pan-India presence. Deft organiser Mukul Roy, who has recently returned to the TMC from the BJP, has been given the charge for spreading the party's presence across the country. Graffiti and posters projecting Banerjee as 'Amma', a sobriquet attached to late AIADMK leader Jayalalitha, have come up in Chennai, as the TMC tries to make inroads into the southern states with its first foray being in Tamil Nadu. Plans of a rainbow coalition against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections are being nurtured in various quarters, with even the CPI(M) expressing its willingness to be a part of the bandwagon at the national level along with the TMC, its bitter rival in West Bengal. Banerjee, a veteran in national politics, has said that she will visit New Delhi for a few days after the July 21 programme to meet "old and new friends". She also plans to go to the Parliament, which will be in session then, and hold parleys with senior leaders. The TMC chief may meet Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and other top opposition leaders during her visit. Banerjee has said that she may also meet President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi if she gets appointments with them. The TMC observes July 21 as Martyrs' Day in remembrance of the 13 people who were killed in police firing in a rally of Youth Congress, of which Banerjee was then a leader, in Kolkata in 1993 demanding that voter identity cards be made the sole document required for voting to ensure free and fair elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal minister Sadhan Pande's condition very critical||Bengal minister Sadhan Pande, who is in hospital with a severe infection in lungs, continued to be very critical on Sunday, officials said. Pande, the minister for Consumer Affairs, and Self Help and Self Employment, continued to be on ventilator support, an official of the private hospital said. "Mr Pande's condition continues to be very critical. Doctors are keeping him under constant watch at the ICU," he said. The senior TMC leader was rushed to the hospital on Friday night in a semi-conscious state after he complained of chest pain and severe breathing issues. Pande has chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and renal disorders, the hospital official said. A four-member medical team, which included an endocrinologist, is treating him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Tributes pour in for India's first female doctor Kadambini Ganguly||Tributes poured in for Kadambini Ganguly on Sunday as Google Doodle honoured the countrys first woman doctor with a special graphic on her 160th birth anniversary. The doodle, a portrait of Ganguly with the image of the main building of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital in the background, has been designed by Bengaluru-based artist Oddrija, and it was widely shared across the country. Politicians and common people from all walks of life hailed Ganguly as a champion of women's rights in India. Along with Anandi Joshi, Ganguly became the first woman in colonial India to study medicine and earn a degree in 1886. While Joshi studied at Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania in the US, Ganguly pursued western medicine at Calcutta Medical College (CMC). Born in a Brahmo family on July 18, 1861, Ganguly, along with Chandramukhi Basu, became the first female graduates in India, from Bethune College in Calcutta. After her marriage with Brahmo reformer Dwarkanath Ganguly, the couple battled CMCs prohibition on women studying there, and Kadambini joined the medical college on June 23, 1883 despite strong criticism from the colonial society. She was awarded the Graduate of Medical College of Bengal (GMCB) degree in 1886, which even attracted the attention of Florence Nightingale who enquired about Ganguly from a friend in a letter in 1888. Ganguly later studied in Britain. A champion of women's rights, Ganguly was among the six members of the first all-women delegation of the 1889 Indian National Congress. After her husband's death in 1898, she practiced medicine in Kolkata till her death in 1923. Sharing her photograph, Congress tweeted: "Today we honour Kadambini Ganguly for inspiring generation of Indians to aspire for greatness. She was not only one of the first female graduates from India but also among the first women to practice western medicine in all of South Asia." "Remembering #KadambiniGanguly ji on her birth anniversary. In a male-dominated society, Kadambini Ganguly fought all restrictions & prejudices to study medicine. She actively campaigned for the emancipation of women and their admission into academic institutions," National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma said in a Twitter post. Politicians cutting across party lines paid tributes to Ganguly on the occasion. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted: "Tributes to #KadambiniGanguly, one of the first two female physicians from India on her birth anniversary. She studied medicine in 1883, trained in Scotland & established medical practice in India. Her contribution to women emancipation shall always be remembered." "Pay my humble tribute to #KadambiniGanguly, one of the first two female graduates during British ruled India, and the first female physician in India and South Asia. Her struggle and fight in true sense, inspires Indian and Bengali women," Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said in a Twitter post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Traders arrested for stocking, selling life-threatening nylon-made kite strings||Police have arrested two persons for stocking and selling life-threatening nylon-made kite strings from Nadia’s Santipur following a spate of accidents in the past one month in which over a dozen persons were injured by these strings. Sources said the arrest was made after four-year-old Aayan Akbar suffered grievous injury from a nylon-made kite string that got entangled around his throat on Monday while riding on a scooter with his father. “He received six stitches in the throat. Another youth was also injured in a similar incident. He received 12 stitches in his throat,” said a source. The cops raided several places in Santipur and adjacent areas since Thursday afternoon and seized over a few thousand rolls of nylon-made kite strings. Traders Bhaskar Sandhukhan and Bijoy Krishna Basak were arrested on Friday for selling them illegally. “The seized nylon strings has been smuggled into the town. The duo have been remanded in jail custody for 14 days,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang followers feel let down with his decision to hand over faction’s flag to Bimal Gurung||Binay Tamang’s colleagues in the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction had been headed towards his house, surprised by the suddenness of his decision to resign, but they returned halfway after the veteran decided to hand over the faction’s flag to their arch-rival Bimal Gurung, sources said. Tamang on Thursday resigned as the head of the faction he had formed in 2017 and headed since, at a media conference at his residence in Dali, some 4km from Darjeeling on Thursday. Tamang had said he was handing over the flag to the original owner Gurung, and his decision in 2017 to join hands with Trinamul was to “save the hill, people and the party”. “We had been following his media conference and the moment he resigned from the party, there was a buzz and many of us rose up and started heading to his home to diffuse the situation,” an insider said on Saturday. “But we felt let down with the decision to hand over the flag to Gurung and this is when we decided not to proceed further.” The insider added why they felt let down. “We had followed him when he decided to revolt against Gurung.” Some of these leaders sent Tamang text messages, but refused to divulge the contents. The sources said a woman leader of his faction had reached Tamang’s residence on Thursday evening. “However, when she saw Tamang was with Noman Rai (a leader of Bimal Gurung’s faction), she too decided to return without meeting him,” said the source. Leaders of the Tamang camp this paper spoke to said that though differences had lately cropped up between Binay Tamang and his general secretary Anit Thapa, they had no inkling that it was irreparable. “We still believe that a one-on-one meeting between the two leaders would have diffused the situation. If we had reached his house on Thursday evening and had a good talk, we believe the issue would have become normal,” said a leader. However, even this leader added that by Saturday “much water had flowed down the Teesta for reconciliation”. Sources said that some indirect grievances were being aired by Tamang in the faction’s WhatsApp group for some time. “However, none thought he would resign,” said the source. In recent months, there had been a buzz within a section of leaders that Tamang was in touch with Trinamul and BJP leaders, without informing the rest of the faction. Tamang had dismissed these as “mere rumours”. Party leaders admitted that seeds of factionalism were sown when Anit Thapa took charge of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) after Tamang stepped down in 2019 to contest the Darjeeling Assembly by-election. Tamang, however, lost to GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba who was contesting on a BJP ticket. Tamang’s recent decision to take absolute control of the party and issue a media gag on all leaders was the catalyst for dissent within the party, said the source. Thapa’s invitation at the state government event to mark the 207th birth anniversary of Nepali poet Bhanubhakta Acharya at Chowrasta on July 13 and his s subsequent decision to attend a Darjeeling subdivisional committee meeting afterwards were possibly the immediate triggers for Tamang to tender his resignation. Tamang and Gurung, also an ally of Trinamul, were not invited to the Chowrasta event. At the subdivisional committee meeting, sources said that Thapa had told the leaders that the faction should not derail because of one person. Many feel that Tamang was of the opinion that Thapa’s statement was aimed at him.. “Thapa’s speech at the subdivisional committee seems to have been the final nail in the coffin,” felt a source. Thapa was on Friday elected the “acting president” of the Morcha faction, while continuing to discharge his responsibility as the general secretary.Soon after taking charge, Thapa reversed Tamang’s media gag on the leaders of the faction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Malda man beaten to death over suspicions of plotting robbery||A farm labour, Sheikh Ghishu, 36, died and his friend Sheikh Sadagar, also of the same age, had to be hospitalised after allegedly being assaulted by villagers under Ratua police station of Malda district late on Friday night. The villagers accused the duo, who were standing with another friend near a mango plantation around 11.30pm, of being thieves and conspiring a crime in the village. The third friend, Sheikh Sajjad, escaped. Ghishu and Sadagar, who were badly beaten up till the police arrived and the assaulters fled, were taken to Malda Medical College & Hospital where doctors pronounced the former dead. Sadagar, speaking from the hospital bed on Saturday, said: “We were simply chatting near the mango plantation when some villagers came and accused us of being criminals. When we said no, they started beating us. Sajjad somehow fled but we two were beaten up till the police came.” Search is on for the assaulters, Malda district police chief Alok Rajoria said. The district has seen similar brutal assaults in the recent past too, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||BSF bullet kills suspected smuggler in Nadia’s Chapra||A suspected smuggler was gunned down in Nadia’s Chapra by a Border Security Force jawan who tried to thwart an attempt to breach the barbed wire fencing for smuggling birds and medicines during the early hours of Saturday. Sources said Ashique Halsana, 18, was earlier a construction worker in Mumbai who was forced to return home to Ranabandh-Bhatgachi village in Chapra in April 2020 during the pandemic-induced lockdown. He allegedly got involved in a smuggling racket after the lockdown lifted as he failed to land a job here. A BSF spokesperson of the South Bengal Frontier said that early on Saturday around 10 persons were trying to make a passage from the Indian side of the border by cutting the barbed wire fencing at Bhatgachi to smuggle exotic birds and medicines. “When one of our jawans challenged them, they attacked him with sharp weapons and stones. Later,  the jawan  fired in self-defence and one of the bullets hit Ashique.” A source said that Ashique was found lying dead in a canal close to the India-Bangladesh border in the area. He had a bullet injury on his chest, added the source. Chapra police recovered the body and began a probe following a complaint lodged by the BSF authorities. Later, BSF’s Krishnagar sector DIG Amerish Kumar Arya and Battalion-82’s commanding officer Sanjay Prasad Singh rushed to the site of Saturday’s firing and appealed to villagers to discourage youths from joining smuggling rackets. After various failed attempts to get a job in Bengal, Ashique was allegedly lured by his uncle to join a smuggling racket. His sister Tia said that he had been trying to get a job in the village for months. “Dada had been trying to get the job of a construction labour locally but he got nothing owing to lockdown-like restrictions. On Friday night, he left home with uncle Feroz and did not return,” said the sobbing girl. Sources said Feroz operated a smuggling racket and several teen of the area had joined it during the lockdown in hopes of a regular income. “Feroz should be blamed for Ashique’s death as he lured him into smuggling. Many other youths have joined the racket,” said a neighbour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Tea export earnings in Bengal dip despite better rates||The dip in tea production last year as the pandemic hit the country reduced export by over 40 million kilos but the brew fetched a better rate from overseas, data published by the Tea Board of India reveals. Still, the tea industry earned Rs 500 crore less through exports in 2020 compared to 2019. In 2019, the Indian tea industry produced 1,390.08 million kilos of tea. In 2020, the figure was 1,257.53 million kilos, down by around 133 million kilos. The pandemic-induced lockdown and inclement weather during monsoon months contributed to this dip. In 2019, total tea export was 252.15 million kilos. In 2020, it slid to 209.72 million kilos. The average price realised per kilo of tea was higher in 2020 at Rs 249.63, compared to 2019 when it was Rs 227.55. However, the marginal rise in prices could not compensate the production deficit. In 2019, the total earnings from tea export was over Rs 5,700 crore, which came down to around Rs 5,200 crore in 2020. “Similar to production, exports also came down last year. There was, however, a marginal increase in average price. In all, the industry lost around Rs 500 crore of earnings from export in 2020 compared to 2019. This year, we expect exports to go up as production has been steady so far,” said Sumit Ghosh, secretary of the north Bengal branch of the Tea Association of India. Like with exports, tea prices rose in the domestic market. In 2019, the average price at auction centres was Rs 140.73 per kilo. In 2020, it climbed to Rs 184.69 per kilo. A tea planter in Siliguri said the price rise was the only saving grace. It also enabled tea companies to shell out extra towards revised workers’ wages in Bengal and Assam. This year, despite the second wave of the pandemic, the overall scenario seems positive, tea experts said. In the first five months of 2021, 275.01 million kilos of tea was produced, higher than production in the corresponding months of 2020 (210.23 million kilos). On the export front, the total tea exported from January to April this year is around 5 per cent less than in the corresponding period of 2020. However, there has been a rise in price by around 19 per cent. In the domestic market, the price per kilo is lower than what it was in 2020 but higher than the rate in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Birbhum health dept holds camp at village in Mohammedbazar to vaccinate tribal people ||The Birbhum health department on Saturday held a camp at a remote village in Mohammedbazar to vaccinate tribal people by taking the help of a tribal outfit to overcome the community’s fears. The survey revealed many tribal villagers feared the Covid vaccine would kill them. Hence, officials roped in tribal outfit Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta to convince people of the jab’s benefits. A health official said the efforts of the tribal organisation worked. On Saturday some 650 tribal villagers turned up at a school in Bharkata village to take the jab. Rabin Soren, secretary of the tribal outfit, said members of his outfit came forward to take the jab to remove misconceptions among villagers. “A survey revealed tribal people’s reluctance to get vaccinated. We tried to convince them that the vaccine was necessary in view of the impending third wave of the pandemic. But the effort did not elicit a good response and so we thought of a special drive,” said Jayanta Sukul, a deputy chief medical officer in Birbhum. Soren said they had asked the health department to organise more such camps in tribal pockets of the district to overcome reluctance among the tribal populace. “We have appealed to the health department to vaccinate tribal people in other pockets of the district and we will help the government in this job,” said Soren. Sukul agreed that there were many areas bordering Jharkhand where tribal people were reluctant to take the vaccine. “We will continue to organise such special camps.” Officials said vaccination among the tribal population was needed as these people travel across the district and outside mainly to work as farm hands. “A large number of tribal people go to Burdwan and Hooghly districts to work as farm labourers. So, the vaccination is important for their safety,” said a district official in Birbhum.. Health officials said while there was a shortage of vaccines in the district, a large number of people were now queuing up for both first and second doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 5,000 tourists without negative reports sent back from East Midnapore ||Officials in East Midnapore have since Friday set up barriers on the outskirts of the district’s sea resorts and are checking vehicles and hotels to turn away tourists without up-to-date Covid negative reports or proof of their being fully vaccinated. A senior official of the district administration said since Friday night they had sent back around 5,000 tourists, including some from hotel rooms in Digha and Mandarmani on Saturday during raids conducted jointly with the police. The crackdown on tourists comes in the wake of an order issued last Monday by the Contai subdivisional officer stating that those entering East Midnapore tourist towns such as Digha, Mandarmani, Sankarpur and Tajpur must provide either a negative Covid test report not older than 48 hours or proof of being fully vaccinated with two doses to be eligible to book a hotel. “The extraordinary crackdown comes in the midst of findings that similar to hawkers and hotel workers, tourists are also acting as superspreaders in this pandemic. So, despite the losses suffered by the tourism industry, (tourist) movement will have to be restricted,” said Ramnagar-I BDO Bishnupada Roy, who is leading the checks over this weekend. The checks started on Friday night. Police personnel were also seen on the fringes of Digha on Saturday afternoon and evening, turning away scores of tourist vehicles whose occupants did not have the required Covid documents. “The weekend saw a big influx of tourists here, with most not obeying the norms (that mandate carrying proof of their current Covid-negative status or being fully vaccinated with both the doses),” said an official. Officials said they had opted to scan incoming tourist vehicles because of recent reports that several hotels in the seaside towns of the district had been wilfully flouting Covid safety protocol. Current Covid safety protocol dictates hotels to operate at 50 per cent occupancy. However, many hotels on Saturday were during the raids found to have close to 75 per cent occupancy. Many had admitted visitors without the required Covid-negative or fully-vaccinated documents. Authorities on Saturday sealed one hotel in Digha and start cases against two others in Digha and one in Mandarmani. The raids in the hotels were led by district magistrate Purnendu Majhi. Some hoteliers on Saturday closed their hotels in the wake of the raids. “We had thought we could make some profit this year (after last year’s losses during the pandemic-induced lockdown) but more than 80 per cent of our bookings have been cancelled. With the revenue we currently have, we can’t even pay for electricity,” said a New Digha hotel manager, Ashish Khan. The local hoteliers’ association joint secretary Bipradas Chakraborty admitted the industry was taking a hit. However, he claimed it was a “necessary loss” to keep the pandemic at bay. “We will follow all necessary measures to operate our hotels safely,” he said. Last week, the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority had begun conducting rapid testing for incoming tourists but gave up the effort later owing to insufficient infrastructure and the sudden influx of tourists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
18-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 899 new cases and 8 deaths||Bengal on Saturday reported the 27th consecutive day of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases. Active cases fell by 151 on Saturday to reach 13,333. The state reported 1,042 recoveries, 899 new infections and eight deaths. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, which were the worst-hit during the second wave of the pandemic in Bengal, logged 62 and 58 new Covid infections. Calcutta did not report a single death on Saturday and North 24-Parganas only one. Saturday was the 10th successive day since the second wave when not one among Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day, while Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent during the peak of the second wave, was down to 1.58 per cent on Saturday. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 Nineteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Saturday. Bengal’s recovery rate is 97.94 per cent, the highest ever since the onset of the pandemic since March last year. The national recovery rate is now 97.25 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent and that of the nation 1.32 per cent. “We have been recording fewer than 1,000 new Covid infections in the state for many days now. The number of deaths across the state has also shown a drop. Our next goal is fewer than 10,000 active cases within a couple of weeks, after which other goals will be set,” said a minister. “The daily trend of recoveries and infections shows that Bengal seems to have safely crossed the residual of the second wave of the pandemic by now,” he added. The state now has a total of over 15.17 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first infection was detected in March last year. The figure includes nearly 14.86 lakh recoveries and 17,988 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-169
