19-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata unveils 2024 campaign slogan with eye on Delhi||Mamata Banerjee’s intent is now splashed all over Calcutta. “Desh Jaader Chaichhe (whom the country wants)” is the tagline, with 2024 scribbled on top of posters as Mamata prepares to take the next big leap in  national politics, a much-cherished goal of the Bengal chief minister that has eluded her since 2014 when she first went public with her national dream. The new campaign line has been revealed days before Mamata takes the dais on Wednesday, July 21, for a virtual address to her party leaders and workers to commemorate the death of 13 Youth Congress workers in police firing in 1993. “She will reveal her vision and her plan just 48 hours from now. After the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls, it is very much clear that she is the only leader in the country who can stop Narendra Modi and Amit Shah,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha MP. The virtual rally of July 21 is scheduled to  be streamed to other states as well. There are plans afoot to show the rally on big screens across Gujarat, the home turf of Modi and Shah, along with Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tripura, Assam and some other places. Like last year, Mamata will address party workers from her office at 30B Harish Chatterjee Street, her residence from where she has pitched most of her political battles all her life. “There is tremendous interest around Didi’s political plan. There is an Opposition space in states like Gujarat and Didi wants to get that,” said a Trinamul source. The “Desh Jaader Chaichhe” campaign—with images of Mamata and Abhishek Banerjee-- is a step forward from the catchline that brought Mamata back in the game in Bengal. Trinamul went into the polls this summer with the slogan, “Bangla nijer meyekei chaay (Bengal wants its own daughter)." The “daughter” pitch was a projection of the carefully constructed image of Mamata as the girl next door who took on the CPM behemoth single-handedly and decimated it politically. The Bengal chief minister’s national ambitions are not new. She has tried to put herself in the role of a kingmaker, like when she popped the name of former president Abdul Kalam in 2012 for Rashtrapati Bhawan opposing the UPA nominee Pranab Mukherjee. That move had backfired. Despite winning 40 seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Mamata was left with no role in Delhi as the Narendra Modi-led BJP had a clear mandate. The outcome of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls for Modi was the same as 2021 for Mamata. Both returned with a bigger mandate. Soon after his appointment, Trinamul’s new all India general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee, had announced that the party  will prepare to contest in other states as well. In the past too Trinamul had contested in states like  Kerala and Gujarat with no impact on the poll results. In the North-East, it had made gains in Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura but could not hold on to it. “The mood of the country is different this time,” said a Trinamul leader. The Uttar Pradesh elections scheduled for early 2022 would be a litmus test for the Opposition and could also be the breakout moment for the Trinamul in national politics. After the Bengal Assembly results, Trinamul launched a membership drive in the state, with its eyes set on disgruntled leaders from the Bahujan Samaj  Party in  rural areas. Mamata’s attempts to bring other national parties into the same platform have yielded mixed results so far. In 2019, she had managed to bring most of the Opposition parties to the Brigade Parade ground in Calcutta. The Assembly poll results have upped her stocks in the national scene, though whether she would be acceptable as the face of the Opposition is yet to be tested. That Trinamul, with sundry charges of corruption and a certain ambiguity towards democratic practices, is not a dependable ally, has been understood by  both the BJP and the Congress over tie-ups sealed during different periods in the last two decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Youth commits suicide after killing brother with sharp instrument in East Midnapore||A 26-year-old youth was murdered with a sharp instrument in East Midnapore’s Chandipur early on Sunday by his younger brother after he had reportedly refused the latter’s demand for money for  online games on his mobile phone for several days. The assailant then apparently poisoned himself at a nearby field and died at hospital on Sunday morning. Neighbours said Suryakanta Mondal, formerly employed as a godown assistant in Sealdah, had taken refuge at a cousin’s home earlier last week after his younger brother Chandrakanta had “terrorised” him for money. “We all knew Chandrakanta as an unfortunate example of a wayward youth. He was unstable, unemployed and frittered away money on online gaming,” said a neighbour, adding that Chandrakanta was “addicted” to an online wartime role-playing game on his phone. The incident occurred at Sultanpur village, where Suryakanta had recently returned on break from Calcutta and where Chandrakanta formerly worked as a mechanic. On Saturday, Chandrakanta also struck his mother on the head during the scuffle with his elder brother. The neighbours said several screams were heard over a period of 30 minutes and aside from the fatal outcome for both the brothers, their mother received 12 stitches and survived. She was admitted to Tamluk district hospital as of Sunday. Neighbours recovered Chandrakanta’s body from near a village road several hours after the incident with a bottle of poison and his bicycle by his side.“Chandrakanta used to ask his brother and mother for money repeatedly,” said cousin and neighbour Subhajit Ghatak. Local panchayat member Ranjan Mondal said the village was “aware of Chandrakanta’s behaviour” but expressed his “utter shock” at Sunday’s incident. “We could have never imagined this outcome,” he said. Tamluk subdivisional police officer Atish Biswas said officials would speak with the deceased’s mother for further details when she regained consciousness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling administration to close all towns for a day every week to tame Covid||The Darjeeling district administration on Sunday decided on closing all towns across the district for one day every week to stem the spread of Covid-19. The focus is on closing the crowded markets in these towns. The day for closure in each town will be decided by local authorities in consultation with trade bodies. For instance, Darjeeling town will be closed on Thursdays. said T. Roy, the SDO. The decision comes in the wake of a spike in Covid cases in the district. On Saturday, Darjeeling district logged 89 new infections, the highest in Bengal. SDO Roy said Chowk Bazar and Chowrasta areas of Darjeeling town will be closed on Thursdays, but essential services, including pharmacies and bakeries, will be open. With a steady trickle of tourists, authorities are undecided whether restaurants in Chowk Bazar and Chowrasta will stay shut on Thursday. Sources said Fuleshwari bazar in ward 24 of Siliguri will be declared a containment zone. Siliguri Municipality Corporation area reported 21 new infections on Saturday. Darjeeling district police increased vigil on tourists coming to the hills. Checkpoints have been set up in places like Simulbari in Kurseong to check if tourists have a negative RT-PCR report or a double vaccination certificate before entering the hills. “Checks are being conducted in hotels and homestays to see if Covid-19 protocols are being followed,” said a police source. On Saturday, police arrested 266 people across the district without proper masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Congress leader Pabitra Chanda dies at 55||Pabitra Chanda, the working president of North Dinajpur district Congress, died at a private nursing home here on Sunday afternoon. He was 55. Chanda, a resident of Debinagar in Raiganj town, had been sick for quite some time. On Sunday early morning, as his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to the nursing home where he died around 12.30pm. Since his college days, Chanda had been associated with politics and over the years, he handled a number of posts in the Congress. Along with politics, Chanda was also known for his contribution to sports, art and culture. Chanda was a member of the district sports & games association and was also the president of Raiganj Cultural Forum. “Pabitra Chanda was a rare politician in the district because of his cordial relation with leaders of all political parties. His acceptability among people from different walks of life was something that many prominent political leaders would envy,” said a senior Congress leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang’s team members extend support to Anit Thapa ||Members of Binay Tamang’s team that had gone to hand over the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha flag to their arch-rival Bimal Gurung on Friday extended support to Anit Thapa 48 hours later. The support by people considered close to Tamang and from his Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) constituency of Bloomfield-Risheehat is seen as a major moral boast from Thapa, who took over the reigns of the faction after Tamang had resigned as the party’s president and from its primary membership on Thursday. “There was confusion among the party cadres following the recent development. We held a meeting and many party functionaries have decided to stay with the party and support Anit Thapa,” said Y. Chamling, president of the Morcha faction at Bloomfield-Risheehat. Chamling and his team had gone to Bimal Gurung’s party office at Patlebas on Friday and handed over the Morcha flag to Gurung on the instruction of Tamang. Tamang had said since the “original owner”, Gurung, had returned after being on the run for more than three years, he was handing over the flag. Chamling said his team had followed Tamang’s flag handing directive primarily to fulfil his “family responsibilities”. “Apart from political relations, I also share a family tie with him. I, along with my team, went to hand over the flag to fulfil our family responsibilities,” said Chamling. The Bloomfield-Rishehaat team went to Kurseong on Sunday to extend their support to Thapa. “I would rather quit politics than support Bimal Gurung,” said Thapa. Both Gurung and Thapa’s faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are allies of the Trinamul Congress. Over the past three days, Thapa managed to garner support of most of the functionaries of the faction, including Kalimpong MLA Ruden Sada Lepcha. There has been some churn in hill parties with some former leaders of the Binay Tamang camp joining Bimal Gurung’s faction. On Sunday, leaders of the Darjeeling town committee of the Thapa’s faction, Zahid Khan, Allan Chhetri and Shyam Ghisingh, along with other 20-odd supporters, joined Gurung’s faction. Some supporters from Pedong in Kalimpong and also Kurseong have joined the Gurung camp. Thapa on his part has started reorganising his team, especially in Bijanbari-Marybong and Mirik. Tamang had surprised his party leaders and workers by his decision to quit the faction he had formed in 2017. Tamang had cited a number of reasons from conspiracy to remove him from hill politics to taking moral responsibility for his faction’s defeat in the 2019 and 2021 polls and double standard role being played by some of his party leaders. Tamang, who is preoccupied with rituals following a death in his family, told this newspaper that he would come up with a detailed explanation within a few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports drop in cases for two weeks||Bengal on Sunday reported the four consecutive weeks or 28 successive days of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, as the state logged 1,012 recoveries, 801 new infections and 11 deaths. Sunday also marked two weeks or 14 uninterrupted days of reported new infections clocking fewer than 1,000 per day. The total of active cases fell by 222 on Sunday to touch 13,111 now. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.56 per cent on Sunday, indicating a shrink in Covid-19 spread. Bengal’s recovery rate is at an all-time high of 97.95 per cent and the national rate is 97.28. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent. In the key parameter of case growth or the percentage of growth of cases over the past week compared to the week before that, Bengal is 20th among the states, with its case growth falling by 42.1 per cent. Bengal has been able to maintain a case growth of –40 to –60 for over a month now. Calcutta logged 92 new infections and one death. North 24-Parganas reported 72 new infections and two deaths. Sunday was the 11th successive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Sixteen districts reported double-digit figures. Kalimpong, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia logged single-digit figures. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta apart, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Howrah and South 24-Parganas reported just one death each. The state now has a total of over 15.18 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.87 lakh recoveries and 17,999 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Unidentified persons open fire at Trinamul leader’s home in Cooch Behar ||Unidentified persons on Sunday afternoon entered the gates of the ancestral house of Cooch Behar district Trinamul president Partha Pratim Roy at Jiranpur, some 18km from district headquarters, fired in the air several times and left. Roy was away in Cooch Behar town at the time of the incident but his elderly parents were at home. Police are trying to ascertain the cause of this attack. Roy said he had no answers. Senior police officers rushed to the spot and recovered empty cartridge shells from the spot. Roy’s father has filed a complaint and a probe has started. No one has been reported injured so far. “Around 2pm, I received a phone call from my father who told me that three-four people entered the front area of our house and fired bullets. I immediately rushed home with some party workers. Both my parents are perturbed. I have no inkling as to why some people would organise such an attack,” said the district Trinamul chief. Roy added that he had come to know that the intruders were commuting in a Maruti van. “As they were fleeing, my father saw them getting into the van, but could not identify any of them,” said Roy. The incident sparked tension in the area. A number of local Trinamul leaders and supporters visited Roy. During the past few years, violence has erupted in the district owing to the acute infighting within Trinamul. Internal feuds were also considered a key reason for the party’s poor performance at the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the 2021 Assembly elections. “But such indiscriminate firing, that too, at the district president’s house, is unprecedented. We doubt if it has any connection with the party. We hope the police find out who all were behind this and nab them,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Last month, a self-styled leader of the banned terror outfit Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), Daosar Langkam Koch, had issued a statement where he had accused Roy and Binoy Krishna Burman, Trinamul’s district chairman and a former state minister, of trying to dilute their demand for separate statehood. The two Trinamul leaders should start working towards separate statehood or face the consequences, the KLO leader had said in the statement. “Our officers are exploring all angles. We are also trying to find out the type of firearms used. Security arrangements have been made in the area,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri magistrate writes to PWD and tea company, seeks answers on MP properties ||The district magistrate of Jalpaiguri has written to the state PWD department and a tea company that owns the tea estate in the Dooars, asking them how they allowed John Barla, the Union minister of state for minority affairs and Alipurduar MP, to raise property on their land. Barla, who recently came into limelight for demanding a separate statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal, has been accused of encroaching on leasehold land of the tea estate and a state government plot to build a house and a commercial complex. The BJP MP, who hails from Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat of Jalpaiguri district, allegedly has built a house on land leased out to the tea company by the state and is building a multi-storeyed commercial complex on land owned by the state PWD at Chamurchi More in Banarhat. Acting on local Trinamul leaders’ complaints against Barla’s properties earlier this month, district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu had sought a report from the district land and land reforms department on the status of both  plots. The report last week revealed the MP does not own either of these plots. “Based on the report the DM has sent letters to the state PWD and the tea company, asking how they can allow the MP to make constructions on their land. Once she receives replies, she will send a detailed report to the state land and land reforms department and to Nabanna,” said an official of the district administration. Another senior official pointed out that even if it is proved that Barla has encroached upon the plots, it won’t be possible for the district administration to take steps against him. “Permission has to be sought from the Speaker of the Lok Sabha before starting legal proceedings against the MP. Only the state government can initiate steps,” the official said. Trinamul leaders in Jalpaiguri district, who had brought the issue to the notice of the administration, are doing the groundwork. “We have apprised a number of state leaders on how the MP, who is a Union minister of state now, has violated the law by making such constructions. We would also urge the chief minister to look into the issue,” said K.K. Kalyani, the district Trinamul chief. Ever since the issue came to the fore, Barla stopped responding to calls made by the media. On Sunday, calls made by this paper to him went unanswered. Other BJP leaders in the Dooars are unfazed. “We have opened the MP’s office and an office of our tea trade union in the (Banarhat) building. In Banarhat and nearby areas, most people lack proper documents of their land,” said a BJP leader in Banarhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur Projects Limited works out ‘lucrative’ voluntary retirement scheme for staff||The loss-making state-run power utility, Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL), is working out a “lucrative” voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) for its employees, mostly those above 50, in a bid to downsize its manpower as a part of cost control measures. The DPL now has 1,900 employees on its payroll, after transferring 700 of its employees to West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) in 2018-19. It spends Rs 42 crore a month or Rs 504 crore a year on salaries. “This amount is a major burden for a company like ours, which has been making losses to the tune of Rs 150-200 crore (annually),” said a source in the DPL. Sources in the DPL said the company is in the process of identifying workers who are physically unfit for proper performance and those whose attendance is irregular. However, it hasn’t yet been decided if this new VRS package would be optional or compulsory. A DPL official said the state government sent an instruction to the DPL management last month, asking for an attractive VRS package as the previous one announced in 2017 was rejected by most of the eligible employees for apparently being “too meagre in exchange of the work years being sacrificed”. “In 2017, we had offered a VRS package, as an option, to our employees who were aged above 45 years then. But only 12 employees had opted for that VRS, while we had a target to downsize at least 25 per cent of the manpower. This time, we are working to make it more lucrative,” said a DPL official. However, the move has elicited criticism from trade unions. “We are not against the VRS, if an employee willingly chooses it. But we won’t allow the government to force it on anyone,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a district secretariat member of the CPM’s labour arm Citu in West Burdwan. He added that the government can afford to pay a VRS package to employees but at the same time has not paid retirement benefits to many former employees. “The DPL or the government should first pay them their dues by way of retirement benefits. Only then will we allow them to introduce this VRS. A handful of employees opted for the scheme the last time, and it will be no different this time,” said another Citu leader. The Citu also alleged that the state government might hand over the utility to a private player in the near future, which is why it has been trying to downsize drastically. The allegation came in the wake of the state government’s instruction to the DPL management to convert its office in Calcutta into a guesthouse and complete the process to hand over the waterworks of DPL to the Durgapur civic body soon. “The DPL comprises a power plant, a coke oven plant and a water plant. We have been asked to hand over the water plant to the Durgapur civic authorities and reallocate employees of the now-closed coke oven plant,” said a DPL official. “We have learnt from sources that the guesthouse in Calcutta would be sold to a private company in the power sector. Initially, there were plans that the state-run power generation utility would take over the power plant, but we now know it is not keen to do so,” said a Citu leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
19-07-2021||West Bengal||Four fake policemen arrested with ‘POLITE’ van on NH10||Four persons, posing as plainclothes policemen, were arrested on Sunday morning by a team of Bhaktinagar police under Siliguri Metropolitan Police. The four, who had an SUV with them with a sticker that bore the inscription “POLITE”, possibly to trick people into thinking that it was a police van, had allegedly been stopping vehicles on NH10 and were extorting money from drivers. According to police sources, a driver from Champasari area of Siliguri filed a complaint, alleging that the quartet had taken Rs 700 from him. Based on the driver’s complaint, the police swung into action and arrested the four, Dilip Lohar of Sikkim but staying at Salugara on the outskirts of Siliguri, Raj Lohar and Shib Shankar Mahato of Vivekananda Nagar in Siliguri, and Nitesh Tamang of Lower Soreng, Darjeeling district. “They were in an SUV, stopping vehicles at Eighth Mile (near Sevoke, on NH10), asking for documents from drivers while confidently claiming that they were police officers, and eventually asking for money from the drivers,” said a police officer. During the raid, the police also seized the SUV as well as some articles such as torches. “A case has been registered against them for impersonating police officers and extorting money,” the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
19-07-2021||West Bengal||At least five houses damaged in erosion of Hooghly river bank in Santipur||The ongoing spate of erosion of the Hooghly river bank in Nadia’s Santipur continued this weekend with at least five houses being lost, in addition to nearly 30-bigha agricultural land, early on Sunday morning. The panicked residents relocated along with several moveable properties over the weekend. Till Sunday afternoon, 10 families have taken shelter at a local primary school whereas a few other families are reportedly staying at relatives’ houses in nearby areas. Angry over the “lackadaisical” approach of the district administration in undertaking preventive measures, local residents blocked NH12 for about an hour on Sunday afternoon. They alleged that except for sand-bag piling, no protective measures had been taken. “The sandbag piling work is basically an eyewash in which the contractor is benefited. No official from the local administration or the irrigation department has bothered to examine the actual results,” alleged Nilakamal Biswas, who lost his home to erosion on Sunday. The blockade, which started about 1pm, was withdrawn at 2pm after local police officers had assured the residents of taking up their grievances with the district administration. Sources said Sunday morning’s erosion occurred “all of a sudden” as victims lost their properties “before they could reckon what was happening”. “It was around 6 in the morning when we felt tremors like an earthquake. Within a few minutes, the riverbank began to fall into water which advanced further. We lost our houses barely within half an hour,” said Raimohan Dey, a farm labourer. An official of the state irrigation department said: “We have already carried out protective works in many erosion-prone areas and riverbanks in Santipur block. But there was no indication of immediate erosion at Char Saragar. Nevertheless, we will take up some temporary work. Major preventive work will be done once the monsoon is over.” The Nadia district administration has also been mulling an initiative for a fresh vetiver plantation programme as a supplementary measure to protect the erosion-prone banks of the Hooghly in Ranaghat and Kalyani subdivisions. Nadia, a pioneer in using Vetiver, a type of grass with a mat-like root system that works as soil binder, has asked irrigation officials to provide feedback on the pilot project of 2015 so that similar projects can be taken up in rectifying the loopholes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-168
