20-07-2021||West Bengal||Adhikari booked for transfer threat to senior cop, call detail access claims||Amid the nationwide row over alleged snooping activities with Pegasus spyware, Leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, stoked a controversy when he said that he got access to call details of Purba Medinipur district SP Amarnath K, prompting the police on Tuesday to file suo motu cases against him. Adhikari, during a party meeting in the district's Tamluk area on Monday, had also publicly advised the local police chief to "refrain from doing anything that might lead to his transfer to Kashmir". Taking cognisance of his remarks, the district police, during the day, filed suo motu cases against the BJP MLA and 14 of his aides under various sections of the IPC, including one dealing with the Disaster Management Act for holding a rally without permission, and another related to deterring a public servant from performing his duty. The senior BJP leader, in his message to the district superintendent of police (SP), had said, "Do not file fake cases. I have evidence to prove that they are fake and politically motivated. I will file public interest litigation seeking a CBI probe into such allegations. "Please do not do anything that would lead to your transfer to Kashmir's Anantnag or Baramulla." The saffron party legislator is facing multiple probes, one of which involves alleged tarpaulin theft. The Nandigram MLA, who narrowly defeated Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in assembly elections held earlier this year, also said, "I have details of all calls made to you (SP and other police personnel) by the office of the nephew (TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee)," and added that "if you have the state government's support, we have the Centre by our side". Citing the example of former Kolkata police commissioner Rajeev Kumar, who the CBI had grilled for his alleged involvement in chit fund cases, Adhikari said it would be best if police officers carry out duties without bias. He hailed the NHRC report on Bengal's post-poll violence, which noted that the situation in the state is a manifestation of "law of the ruler" and not the "rule of law". The leader of opposition added that he would hold a mass agitation in the district on August 9 with one lakh people to protest against all such "malpractices". The district SP, when contacted, said, "We have lodged suo motu cases against Mr Adhikari. He claimed he has call records. Since he is not working in the law enforcement, he can't be having such devices (to record calls)." The Nandigram legislator's assertions at the party meeting have further triggered a war of words between the TMC and the BJP, with the state's ruling party demanding Adhikari's arrest for "illegally snooping into the phone of a public servant and threatening him with a transfer". "Suvendu Adhikari should be arrested immediately and interrogated in custody. He has proved that Pegasus was used to snoop on many people, including Abhishek Banerjee. It is a heinous crime. The Centre is misusing its powers," said TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh. The state BJP unit, however, came out in Adhikari's defence and said if action is taken against Adhikari, TMC leader Mukul Roy should also be arrested for making similar allegations after switching over to the BJP in 2017. "Suvendu Adhikari is a seasoned politician. He made the statements at a rally. If the police can lodge cases against Adhikari, then why is Mukul Roy being spared? "After joining the BJP, he said in an interview that the TMC government had tapped his phones. Was that statement true or false?" state BJP chief spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya maintained. Roy, who had quit the TMC in 2017 and joined the BJP, returned to the state's ruling party last month. The TMC has come down heavily on the BJP government at the Centre after party leader Abhishek Banerjee's name apparently figured in the list of targets of the Pegasus spying operation, terming it as "an attack on democracy".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
20-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu warns police chief with Kashmir transfer threat||Leader of Opposition in Bengal and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari, during a party meeting in Purba Midnapore, publicly advised the district police chief to refrain from doing something that would prompt his transfer to Kashmir's Anantnag or Baramulla. Adhikari who is facing multiple police probes, including one related to alleged tarpaulin theft, asserted at a meeting held here on Monday that it would be wrong to assume that the BJP was weak as it has the central government by its side. Citing the example of former Calcutta Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar, who was grilled by the CBI for his alleged involvement in chit fund cases, Adhikari said it would be best if police officers perform their functions with integrity and to carry out their duties without prejudice, The senior BJP leader, in his message to the district Superintendent of Police Amarnath K, said, "Do not file fake cases. I have evidence to prove that they are fake. I will file public interest litigation seeking a CBI probe into such allegations. "Please do not do anything that would prompt your transfer to Kashmir's Anantnag or Baramulla." The Nandigram MLA who narrowly defeated Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in elections held recently, also said he has "details of all calls made to you by nephew (TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee), and added that if you have the state government to support you, we have the Central government by our side." He hailed the NHRC report on Bengal's post-poll violence which had stated that the situation in Bengal is a manifestation of "law of the ruler" and not "rule of law". The leader of Opposition added that he would hold a mass agitation in the district on August 9 with one lakh people to protest against all malpractices in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
20-07-2021||West Bengal||Madhyamik results declared, record 100 per cent students pass||The West Bengal Board Class 10 examination result was declared on Tuesday with a record 100 per cent pass percentage and 90 per cent of the students securing more than 60 per cent or more marks in the new evaluation method. The Madhyamik Pariksha (Class 10) examination could not be held this year due to the pandemic situation and the evaluation was based on the candidate's performance in the 2019 class examination in Class 9 and internal assessment for every subject in class 10 on a 50:50 basis. West Bengal Board of Secondary Education President Kalyanmoy Ganguly told a press meet that this 100 per cent pass of candidates is an all time record. Last year's pass percentage was 86.34 per cent. Ganguly said if a candidate is not happy with the results, he/she will be able to sit for tests once the Covid- 19 situation improves but in that situation this result won't be valid any more. Around 10 lakh students secured 60 per cent or more marks in the new evaluation method. At least 79 candidates got 697 marks out of 700 in the evaluation of this year's Madhyamik Pariksha. Asked if 79 candidates will then be considered as occupying first rank, Ganguly said "I can say this much that these students have been awarded 697 marks. And there is no merit list this year unlike in past." The number of girl students was higher than boys this year. While 6,13,849 females were slated to sit for the papers, the number of males was 4,65,850. A total of 10,79,749 candidates were slated to sit for the exam this year but due to the Covid pandemic the board had to cancel the examination as advised by experts. By typing their date of birth and registration numbers the candidates can access the scoresheet from www.wbbse.wb.gov.in, https://wbresults.nic.in, www.exametic.com and some other websites. The schools can collect marksheet from 49 camps of the board from Tuesday and from schools only parents will be given the mark sheets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
20-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: At 666, Bengal logs lowest daily count since March 26||Bengal on Monday reported 666 new Covid-19 infections, the lowest in a day since March 26, 115 days ago. The state logged 29 successive days of a drop in its total number of active Covid-19 cases, with 1,006 recoveries and 12 deaths. The number of active cases fell by 352 to reach 12,759. Monday was also the 15th straight day of fewer than 1,000 new infections in a day. Calcutta logged 53 new infections and no deaths. North 24-Parganas logged in 93 cases and two deaths. Monday was the 12th successive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths and Jalpaiguri, Nadia, Howrah and Hooghly one each. Bengal’s recovery rate is at an all-time high of 97.97 per cent, with the national rate at 97.34. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while the nation’s is 1.32 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.65 per cent on Monday, indicating the shrink in Covid-19 spread. “This is beginning to look a lot like the pre-second wave period of relative normality. Over the next few days, we hope to see fewer than 500 new cases being found in a day. The total number of active cases should fall to below 10,000 again in 10 days or less,” said a minister. The state now has a total of nearly 15.19 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.88 lakh recoveries and 18,011 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
20-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19 travel restrictions: Double dose or negative test must for entry from Assam||The Bengal health department and the administrations of Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts which share borders with Assam imposed restrictions on entry of people from the neighbouring state from Monday because of a surge in Covid-19 cases in northeastern states. “Anybody entering Bengal from Assam has to be either fully vaccinated or will have to carry an RT-PCR negative report issued not more than 72 hours ahead of his/her travel. At the border check-post, they will have to furnish the certificate of vaccination or a copy of the report to enter Bengal. The decision has been made to control the Covid-19 situation and because of the apprehension of a third wave,” said Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar. On Monday, health department staff and police were deputed at Pakhriguri in the Kumargram block of Alipurduar and at Baxirhat in the Tufanganj 2 block of Cooch Behar. Both Pakhriguri and Baxirhat share borders with Anirban Choudhury While the health staff checked those entering Bengal from Assam, the police examined their vaccination certificates and RT-PCR reports. Aminur Rehman, who was on his way from Guwahati to Siliguri with three friends, had to return because they could not produce either of the documents. “All of us have taken the first dose of the vaccine and were going to Siliguri. But we were told about the restrictions at the border and asked to come with RT-PCR negative reports. We are returning to Guwahati now,” said Aminur. But Manish Kumar and his wife could easily cross the border. They were from Guwahati and headed for Siliguri. “Both of them are fully vaccinated and carried the certificates. They were allowed to head for their destination,” said a policeman at the border. While Assam logs around 17,00 infections a day on an average, Manipur records close to 1,000 new cases everyday. Sources said any resident of Bengal, who had been to Assam and were returning home, had to follow the same guidelines. “If he cannot produce either of the documents (vaccination certificate or RT-PCR negative report), he will be sent to a quarantine centre for at least seven days,” said an official. Tufanganj 2 block development officer Prasenjit Kundu said: “We are allowing people to enter Bengal according to the guidelines. There are many local people who cross over to Assam every day for work. We are conducting rapid antigen tests on a regular basis when they are returning.” Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty (OSD) of the state health department deputed for north Bengal, held a meeting with officials of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in Siliguri on Monday on the possible third wave of Covid-19. “It has been decided that in Siliguri, vaccination camps will be organised at the ward level. On each day, camps would be held in three wards of the city where 500 doses of vaccine would be available. While 400 doses would be administered to people in general, 100 doses would be kept for mothers who have children aged 12 years or less,” said Roy. He also mentioned that checkpoints would be raised at the entry points of the district so that people coming from outside could be checked. “People coming from outside should have a negative RT-PCR test report or two doses of vaccination. We also have plans to start rapid antigen tests at these points so that people tested negative can enter the districts,” the OSD added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
20-07-2021||West Bengal||School principal and teacher among eight arrested for child trafficking in Bankura||A 57-year-old principal and one of his female colleagues at a central government school in Bankura and six others were arrested on Sunday night for their alleged involvement in a child trafficking racket. “We have arrested the principal of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, along with seven others, including a female teacher and her husband, in the child trafficking case. We have rescued five children and sent them to a government home,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura police chief. The police rescued three girls and two boys, aged between nine months and six years, from the custody of the principal. On Monday, a Bankura court sent principal Kamal Kumar Rajoria and two others to police custody for five days. The five others were remanded in jail custody. Bengal child and women welfare minister Sashi Panja tweeted a photograph of Rajoria along with BJP MP and minister of state of education Subhas Sarkar at a BJP programme. Sarkar, however, pleaded ignorance. “It was a programme of distribution of educational stationery to students and the principal was just invited,” Sarkar said. Police sources said, a group of villagers, including a few local Trinamul leaders, on Sunday spotted the principal and seven others trying to pack three children, who were crying, into a car. The police have learnt that Rajoria had joined the JKV in 2017 as a principal and was living alone in his quarter on the school premises. Initially, the principal tried to argue that the children had come for admission to the school, but the villagers weren’t satisfied as admission to the school starts from class VI and informed police. He told the police that his wife also knew about the children as he kept them with him on humanitarian grounds. “But we contacted the wife of Rajoria in Rajasthan who said she had no knowledge about such children living with her husband,” said a police officer. Police sources said Rajoria, who is a resident of Rajasthan’s Dausa, first purchased a nine-month-old baby from a red-light area of Durgapur’s Kada Road and handed it over to Sushma Sharma, an assistant teacher of the school, who had no child. Sharma and her banker husband are among the arrested eight persons. “Later, he brought two baby girls, aged around four and six years, and kept them at his quarter for the past few months. On Sunday evening, a woman, along with her mother and four others, came with two more children and handed them over to the principal. The principal was trying to send the new children to other places,” said a police officer. The police said they would interrogate Rajoria to know why he would keep the children illegally and what the purpose was. “We suspect the children could be trafficked to other states and there may be many people involved in the racket,” said a police officer. Trinamul leaders in Bankura said Rajoria was very actively associated with the BJP and took part in the campaign for the Assembly elections this year. “The photograph along with Subhas Sarkar proves his connection with the BJP,” said a Trinamul leader. Ananya Chakraborty, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said she had sought a report from the Bankura district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
20-07-2021||West Bengal||Had not permitted BJP MP and minister John Barla to use leased land: Tea company||The company that owns the Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat of Jalpaiguri district had not issued permission to Alipurduar MP and Union minister John Barla to build a house on the leased land of the garden, representatives of the Indian Tea Association said here on Monday. The BJP MP and minister, who hails from Lakhipara, built a house on a plot of the tea garden, which was completed after he became a parliamentarian in 2019. Barla, who was  an employee of this tea garden till 2018, had earlier got quarters by the garden management on the land, sources said. On Monday, Sanjoy Bagchi, secretary of the Dooars branch of Indian Tea Association, along with the garden’s manager and representatives of the tea company, met Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu. Lakhipara is a member-garden of the ITA, the largest association of tea planters in the country. “We submitted in writing that the (Lakhipara) garden authorities had not granted permission to the MP to build a house. The garden can’t issue such a permission as it has taken the land on lease from the state. The land can be used only for infrastructure needed to run a tea estate,” said Bagchi. Recently, Trinamul alleged that the Alipurduar MP, who had raised a cry for separate statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal, had built personal property on government land in Jalpaiguri. Taking note, the DM asked for a report. According to the report, Barla, recently elevated as  junior minister for minority affairs, had built a house in Lakhipara and was constructing a commercial complex at Chamurchi More in Banarhat on a plot owned by the state PWD. This prompted the DM to write to the PWD and tea garden how they allowed private construction. Responding to the letter, a team of planters’ association and tea company met the DM on Monday and handed her a written reply. Members of the tea delegation, however, dodged a direct reply when asked if the tea company had overlooked Barla’s construction of the house on the garden land. A senior manager in another tea estate of the Dooars, when asked to comment, said any interruption of the construction work might have led to “problems in the garden”. “Speaking from the point of view of the tea garden management, any abrupt move can leave his followers disgruntled and lead to protests,” he said. The DM confirmed that the tea company in writing said it had not given permission to the MP. “We are awaiting the reply of the state PWD. We will then send details to the state government,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
20-07-2021||West Bengal||Youth commits suicide after forced marriage with minor girl||A youth allegedly hanged himself at his house a few hours after he was forced to marry a minor girl by a “salishi sabha” at Mankutbandh village in Malda district on Sunday. Sources said Manik Mandal, 20, had an affair with a minor girl of the same village. He was forced to marry the girl at a local temple. On Sunday, some local people spotted the duo in a mango plantation and intercepted them. Shortly, a salishi sabha was convened. Tushar, Manik’s brother, said: “At the meeting, a section of villagers advocated that they immediately get married. We pointed out that the girl is minor. Also, my father was away from home for some work and we pleaded that they wait. But none of them listened to us.” Later, a section of people at the meeting arranged the couple’s marriage at a local temple. “My son was mentally depressed because of the decision imposed on him. We also felt humiliated by the manner in which he was forced to marry the girl,” Shyamali, the boy’s mother said. The youth didn’t reach the legal age of 21 for marriage either. The sources said Ashish Mondal, a member of Manikchak panchayat from the village, was present at the meeting. “It is disappointing that Mondal did not try to dissuade others from arranging the marriage as the girl is a minor. If he could not handle the situation, he should have informed us or the child-line,” said an official of the Manikchak block administration. Mondal, however, denied the charges. Alok Rajoria, Malda police chief, said a case had been registered after the youth’s death. “Our officers are investigating the case,” he said. The incident has brought to light the practice of convening salishi sabha in rural areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
20-07-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek and Prashant on leaked list of Pegasus targets||Abhishek Banerjee and Prashant Kishor, the two most influential figures associated with the Trinamul Congress during the recent Bengal elections after Mamata Banerjee, were among the potential or intended targets of the Pegasus spying operation, a media collective reported on Monday. According to The Wire, the Indian news portal that was part of the global collective, Kishor’s phone was broken into using the spyware during the Bengal Assembly elections and the numbers of Abhishek and his personal secretary were among the potential targets. The Guardian, the UK newspaper that was part of the media alliance, reported that an examination by Amnesty’s Security Lab “found evidence of intrusion by Pegasus in April — in the midst of the election campaign — indicating Kishor’s phone calls, emails and messages were being monitored throughout the final weeks of the bitter contest”. The timing of the purported hacking of Kishor’s phone — in the middle of the Bengal Assembly elections — raises disturbing questions, especially whether the foulest form of electoral malpractice was committed by those who wanted to dislodge Mamata from power. The Bengal election battlefield is no stranger to allegations of foul play but never before has the possibility of such sophisticated snooping entered the picture. “Those who did (the hacking) were looking to take undue advantage of their position of power with the help of illegal snooping,” Kishor told The Guardian. Kishor had also worked closely with the DMK in Tamil Nadu — another handsome victor this summer — and is on board with the Congress for the Punjab Assembly elections with speculation rife on a larger, pan-India role for him in the Opposition space. According to The Wire, Amnesty’s forensic analysis found traces of infection on Kishor’s phone on April 28, just a day before the last of the eight phases of polling in Bengal. It added that traces of Pegasus on Kishor’s phone were also detected on 14 days in June 2021 and 12 days in July 2021, including July 13, the day he met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi. On Monday evening, Abhishek, Trinamul national general secretary, MP and Mamata’s nephew, tweeted: “Two Minutes of SILENCE for the SORE LOSERS!” He added: “Despite ALLIES like ED, CBI, NIA, IT, ECI, @BJP4India’s money + might and #PegasusSpying, Mr @AmitShah couldn’t save his face in #BengalElections2021. Please COME Prepared with Better RESOURCES in 2024!” Several senior Trinamul leaders said they expected Mamata to focus on the issue on Wednesday, July 21, when the party commemorates Martyrs’ Day. “Expect fireworks from her on Wednesday,” said a party vice-president. Mamata is scheduled to address the biggest annual event on the Trinamul calendar virtually – because of the pandemic -- from 2pm. This time, the party has made arrangements for the event to be shown live at various locations across India, including Gujarat and Delhi. “She realises the firepower of this issue, and she will utilise it optimally,” he said, quickly adding a reminder about Mamata’s repeated allegations in the past couple of years that her phone had been hacked by the BJP and the agencies at its disposal. “If the use of such methods during the Bengal elections is taken as a test case, then it is quite clear that such things hardly have any impact on the electoral outcome,” Kishor told The Wire. Kishor, who helped Trinamul script a remarkable turnaround within two years of the Lok Sabha poll setback, added: “Having said so, there is no denying that those who did so were looking to take undue advantage of their position of power with the help of illegal snooping.” Kishor’s I-Pac has been retained by Trinamul for not only the general election of 2024 but also the Assembly polls of 2026 in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
20-07-2021||West Bengal||Seven persons arrested with deadly kite strings in Nadia ||Seven persons flying kites were arrested from Nadia’s Santipur on Monday for endangering public life, the action coming in the backdrop of a spate of accidents in the town over the past one month related to the use of nylon and other banned strings by kite fliers. On Monday afternoon, a Class XII girl suffered a deep cut in the throat from a nylon-made kite string while she was cycling back home after her tuition. Last week, the police arrested two persons for selling and stocking nylon strings after many cases of injuries were reported, including one in which a four-year-old suffered a severe gash on his throat and had to be given six stitches. The recent incidents coupled with an increasing demand among residents for action against kite fliers using life-threatening strings prompted the police on Monday to raid several pockets in the town. “We have tried our best to sensitise people and also urged them to refrain from flying kites using life-threatening nylon and metal strings. But, a section of people have preferred not to listen and hence we were forced to take action,” a senior police officer of Ranaghat police district said. The senior cop added: “The use of life-threatening nylon kite strings compelled us to act against kite fliers. Nylon and metallic strings are stronger and  more dangerous than regular cotton strings as the former do not snap easily. Falling kite strings become lethal when they catch unsuspecting cyclists and motorcyclists by the throat and lead to severe injuries.” On Monday, police personnel, along with civic volunteers, raided several houses and arrested seven kite fliers, all in their 30s, from rooftops of their homes. Several others were detained  for interrogation. The police also confiscated a large number of spools and prohibited kite strings. Police sources said the arrested persons will be produced before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court on Tuesday. Separate police teams during the raids also seized several rolls of prohibited nylon strings, kites and spools from those flying kites. Welcoming the police action, social activist Anupam Saha said: “The government should  ban the sale and stocking of all types of dangerous strings used for kite flying.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
20-07-2021||West Bengal||Border Security Force personnel arrests biker with 3.5 kilos of gold biscuits in North 24-Parganas||Border Security Force (BSF) personnel seized 30 gold biscuits, weighing 3.5 kilos and worth around Rs 1.72 crore, from a truck driver when he was leaving the Petrapole international cargo port in North 24-Parganas on a motorcycle on Monday. The accused, identified as Suman Tarafdar, 29, is resident of Jayantipur of Petrapole. Also arrested with him was his alleged associate Aashiq Haldar, 23, who was riding pillion. Aashiq hails from village Kalyani. Both the youths were handed over to the customs department along with the seized gold. The duo were then taken into police custody. Suman is associated with a Calcutta-based transporter and drives trucks to Bangladesh, the police said. A BSF spokesperson of South Bengal Frontier said Suman had gone to Benapole in Bangladesh with export items on July 15. On Monday, he returned without the truck apparently owing to illness. “When he was leaving on his motorcycle that had been parked at the ICP Petrapole parking lot, our team became suspicious. He was stopped near the railway crossing and frisked. Our personnel found the gold biscuits strapped around his waistline,” the spokesperson said. During questioning, Suman confessed to have received the gold biscuits from one “Karim bhai” in Benapole to hand them over to members of an alleged smuggling racket on the Indian side of the border, BSF sources said. “He said he had been offered Rs 1,000 for the job,” the BSF spokesperson added. Arun Kumar, commanding officer of 179 battalion, got in touch with customs officials at ICP Petrapole with an appeal to prevent smuggling by persons involved in import and export as well as cross-border movement of vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
20-07-2021||West Bengal||Firing incident: TMC leaders of Cooch Behar visit ancestral house of Partha Pratim Roy||A number of Trinamul leaders of Cooch Behar district, including former state minister Rabindranath Ghosh, visited the ancestral house of Partha Pratim Roy, the party’s district president, at Jiranpur on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town on Monday, a day after some men had entered the premises of the house and fired bullets in the air. Ghosh, who is known for his differences with party colleague Roy, reached the latter’s house with some associates, spoke to the family members and residents nearby, and assured them of all help from his side. “These past few days, there have been multiple incidents of violence in Jiranpur. Earlier, the panchayat office was ransacked and on Sunday, some people entered the district president’s house and fired in the air. We want the police to take stern steps and arrest all those involved in the attack,” said Ghosh. The former minister, however, had to face criticism from a section of party leaders who are known to be close to Roy. They claimed that after the firing incident on Sunday, Ghosh had remarked that it was an “orchestrated attack.” “What he (Ghosh) said led to confusion among party workers. He should refrain from such remarks,” said Rahul Roy, a district secretary of Trinamul. Cooch Behar Trinamul is also known for acute infighting, something which has cost the party dearly during both the 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 Assembly polls. Police probing the firing said it was unlikely that the attack was organised by a terror outfit like the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO). Recently, the KLO had issued a statement that contained a direct message for Roy and another Trinamul leader about taking the issue of separate statehood seriously or facing consequences. “We are working on some inputs and hope to nab those who had fired the bullets (inside the premises of the campus of Roy’s house). It seems some locals were involved in the case and our officers are trying to know the motive. Security has been beefed up in the area,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-167
