21-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu pays tribute to those killed in post poll violence, slams Mamata||Paying tribute to those allegedly killed in violence unleashed by the TMC after the declaration of Assembly poll results, Leader of Opposition in Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday said "what happened in the state over the past two months has eclipsed the great Calcutta killings of 1946". Maintaining that at least 30 party activists were killed by TMC goons since May 5, when the Mamata Banerjee government took over the reins of the state for the third time, Adhikari claimed that the observations made by the NHRC in its report on post-poll violence has shaken the world. "We expect the judiciary to take action after taking into consideration the NHRC report, which has just exposed the tip of the iceberg. Such report will put anyone with a sane mind to shame. "What happened in Bengal over the past two months has eclipsed the great Calcutta killings of 1946, Noakhali riots and the Sikh killings," he said as the BJP observed Shahid Shraddhanjali Divas in memory of the workers allegedly killed in the violence. Incidentally, the TMC on Wednesday marked its annual Shahid Divas' with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee virtually addressing people during the day. The Mamata Banerjee-led camp commemorates Shahid Divas every year to pay homage to the 13 Youth Congress workers who were killed in police action in 1993. Mamataback then was a member of the grand old party's youth wing. Sources in the BJP said at least 175 workers of the party were killed in the state over the past few years. The Nandigram MLA further said the TMC was under the impression that such attacks, abetted by the state police, would decimate the BJP in the state, but they are mistaken". In a jibe at the ruling party, he said, "A section of milk-giving cows of Didi (CM Mamata Banerjee) actively launched attacks on scheduled caste men and women among others. One shudders to think the kind of torture women had to endure. The NHRC could not take note of several complaints due to paucity of time." The BJP has built safe homes for its 25,000 homeless party workers, supporters and their families, he stated. The saffron camp legislator, in yet another dig at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, said, She had gone all the way to Nandigram from Bhawanipore to contest elections. After being rejected by people there, she is now desperate to get elected to the Assembly, notwithstanding the Covis-9 situation. Setting a new precedent, a non-MLA CM is running the state. We will surely dislodge this government one day. From three, our tally has increased to 77 in the Assembly. He sought to know why the ruling dispensation isn't keen on holding long-overdue municipal polls. "In her party, there is only one post and the rest are lamp posts," he claimed. Adhikari also alleged that Covid-19 restrictions are applicable only on the movement of BJP workers, while TMC, over the past few weeks, has taken out "at least 1000 rallies to protest fuel hike. Slamming Mamata over her silence on the atrocities perpetrated on women in Bengal, Agnimitra Paul, another BJP legislator, said, "Despite everything, our woman CM remains unmoved."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata appeals to all parties to take on BJP, save country||Mamata Banerjee’s annual July 21 rally turned into a clarion call to all national and regional parties for a grand alliance against the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “I don’t know what will happen in 2024. My appeal to all parties is to make a front and plan (for the polls from now),” Mamata said in her address delivered virtually from her Kalighat residence. “If the doctor comes after death, then there is nothing that can be done. If you can call a meeting, I can attend. We can sit together and talk, where is the country heading to,” Mamata said. The Bengal chief minister made it clear that stitching together a coalition ahead of the polls would not be enough to take on the BJP monolith. “Forget self-interest. Save the country, save the states and the  federal structure,” Mamata said. The latest round of revelations under the Pegasus  scandal, in which the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is accused of compromising national security as several dozens of Indians including key political leaders were potential targets of snooping by the Israeli-made spyware, has given Mamata fresh ammo to take on the BJP. Though Mamata’s name did not figure in the list of potential targets, her nephew and Trinamul general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and adviser Prashant Kishore’s names have been included. During her speech, Mamata, however, claimed that she too was a victim of the snooping. “If they are tapping Abhishek’s phone, I talk with him, my phone is also being tapped. If they have PK in the list, I talk to him as well,” she said. Mamata alleged ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls, a meeting that she held with Abhishek and PK was recorded. Mamata said under the shadow of the Pegasus scandal it was important to hold in-person meetings with other leaders of the Opposition during her visit to Delhi next week. “I cannot talk with Pawar ji or Chidambaram ji, chief ministers of other states since my phone is being tapped. Instead of giving money to the people, they are spending it on spygiri,” she said, describing the snooping controversy as bigger than “Whitegate (Watergate scandal)". “Democracy is under threat. We have to start our planning from now. Pegasus is dangerous, ferocious. Their dictatorship is too much. Whatever you are doing is being recorded, your brain is being scanned,” she said. She also displayed her phone with sticking tapes all around it as a safety measure against snooping. The tapes are unlikely to be of any worth against the spyware that enables remote surveillance of smartphones, unlocks content and transforms it into a listening device.  The spyware is sold by the Israeli  developer NSO only to governments across the world to combat terrorism and serious crimes. The report that was released last Sunday internationally, said that  selected numbers were targeted in 2019. Mamata's  virtual address, which was streamed live in some other states, was also heard by leaders of several political parties, including two former allies of the BJP—Shiv Sena and Akali Dal—who were among the audience at the Constitution Club in Delhi. Those listening to Mamata’s speech were Sharad Pawar, P Chidambaram, Supriya Sule, Priyanka Chaturverdi, Digvijay Singh, Manoj Jha of RJD, Samajwadi Party’s Ramgopal Yadav and Jaya Bachchan, Balwinder Singh Bhunder of Akali Dal, K Keshav Rao of TRS, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva and AAP’s Sanjay Singh. Referring to the Pegasus scandal repeatedly in her 30-minute speech, Mamata also questioned whether the judiciary could play a role. “The country will be ruined if this goes on. The phones of Supreme Court judges are being tapped. Spygiri chal raha hai. Ministers, officers, all leaders, all judges, all media houses are captured by Pegasus. The BJP has destroyed all the pillars of democracy. Whatever one says it is recorded and used for blackmail with Pegasus. Instead of a democratic state, we have surveillance state,” she said. “I want to ask the Supreme Court can’t it take suo motu cognizance of the matter (use of Pegasus for surveillance)?” Mamata reminded Pawar and Chidambaram about the time when the central agencies had hounded the two leaders. Chidambaram even had to go to jail. Repeating her "Khela hobe" slogan of the Assembly elections, Mamata said the game will be on in other states, till the BJP was removed from power. “They thought with Pegasus, money power, muscle power, mafia power, central agencies they will capture Bengal, but the people have taught them a lesson,” she said. In what would seem to be a planned show of strength on the ground, Mamata said if the Covid situation improved, she would call a rally of all the Opposition parties at Brigade Parade ground in December, with an invite to Sonia Gandhi and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
21-07-2021||West Bengal||10,000 tea garden employees to strike for pay hike in north Bengal||Around 10,000 employees in the tea sector of north Bengal have decided to observe a pen-down strike for three hours on July 24 for salary hike and launch a movement if the demand is not met by then. In the tea industry, those employees are referred to as staff (those working in posts below managerial levels) and sub-staff (workers who serve as cook, gardener, driver, peon and likewise). Partha Lahiri, the general secretary of the West Bengal Tea Garden Employees’ Union, said the salaries used to revised once in three years. But since 2014, other than some interim hikes, there has been no major hike, he said. “Every month, each employee is losing a portion of his salary. That is why we have decided to observe a pen-down strike for three hours on July 24. If no initiative is taken by the planters to meet our demand, we will launch a movement,” said Lahiri. In January this year, an interim hike of 15 per cent was announced for the employees. After the increase, a sub-staff earns Rs 7,000 to Rs 9,000 a month, while a staff earns from Rs 20,000 to Rs 32,000. “But this is inadequate, if compared to the earlier revisions when there used to be agreements for three years,” Lahiri said. “We welcome the state’s plan to introduce minimum wages in the tea sector but unless it is implemented, we want the old practice of three years’ agreement to continue.” Sources in the planters’ associations said there had been a 15 per cent hike in the salaries earlier this year and they were unwilling to raise the pay further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Heads of government schools demand more Class XI seats ||Anticipating greater demand for Class XI seats across Bengal after the “100 per cent success rate” in Madhyamik, heads of government schools have demanded that the West Bengal Higher Secondary Education Council lift the cap on the number of higher secondary students an institution can admit. Madhyamik results were declared on Tuesday. Council guidelines cite that schools can admit 275 students in each of the three streams of science, humanities and commerce. But heads of institutions said this year this cap needs to be done away with. If not, many students who cleared Madhyamik won’t be able to study further. “This year, 100 per cent students have cleared the exam, which is on an average 13.66 per cent more than other years. Schools need to accommodate these students in Class XI with their available infrastructure. We fear that within a few days we will face huge pressure to admit these students. So, existing admission curbs need to be scrapped,” headmaster of Mathurapur Krishnachandrapur High School Chandan Maiti said. Maiti, also state general secretary of Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses, said they had appealed to the council to consider relaxing the cap on admissions. “Every year the number of qualifying students goes up but the increase is usually around 1 per cent. When accommodating that 1 per cent is a problem, imagine the predicament this year,” said Santipur Municipality High School headmaster Kinshuk Chakraborty. He added that he was planning to write to the council to seek permission to  admit extra students this year. “Students deserve the right to admission and pursue their dreams,” Chakraborty said. Santanu Mandal, headmaster of Dighalgram Netaji School in Nadia’s Haringhata block, said: “Lifting the cap on the number of Class XI seats is needed particularly for the humanities stream to which most students seek admission.” Several science teachers said most schools did not have laboratory infrastructure to handle extra students. “The available infrastructure is not enough. Science aspirants will suffer,” said a headmaster in Birbhum. Teachers in several government and government-sponsored schools said the state government would have to upgrade at least 2,000 Madhyamik schools to Higher Secondary schools to accommodate all students who passed Madhyamik this year. Sources said there are around 18,500 high schools in Bengal of which around 7,000 offer higher secondary courses. An official of the education department said the demand was logical. “Normally schools are allowed to admit extra students in case of exigencies. However, it is too early to comment on this now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Police arrest grocer in connection with child trafficking case ||Police on Tuesday arrested a grocer in connection with the child trafficking case in which eight persons, including the principal of a central school, had already been held in Bankura. Grocer Bikash Gupta has been arrested from the Coke Oven police station area of Durgapur as he allegedly facilitated the “purchase” of five children from a woman. “We have arrested another person who is linked to the child trafficking racket. The principal of the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya had a plan to send the four children to Rajasthan, which is his home state. We are interrogating the principal and the husband of the woman teacher to know the actual purpose of buying the kids,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura police chief. The investigators said they were trying to find out whether the woman’s claim that she was the mother of all the five children was true. “It is clear to us that there was a deal to sell the children and Rs 2.25 lakh had been paid to the woman. But it is not clear whether the woman is the mother of all children or she had brought them from other places. We need to go for a DNA test to confirm it,” said a senior police officer in Bankura. On Friday, CPM’s youth wing DYFI and its women wing, AIDWA, jointly demonstrated in front of Bankura police station demanding punishment of those involved in the trafficking racket. Chairperson of the state commission for the protection of child rights Ananya Chakraborty met the children at the Bankura home. She also held a meeting with district magistrate Radhika K. Aiyar and police chief Sarkar at Bankura circuit house in this connection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid crisis: Over 2 crore people associated with tourism sector lost jobs, says Centre ||Over two crore people associated with tourism sector in India lost jobs because of Covid-19, revealed data shared by the Union minister of tourism in the Lok Sabha on Monday. However, tourism stakeholders pegged the number of job losses in the sector at over four crore. In a reply to questions from Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista and another legislator, Union tourism minister G. Kishan Reddy said on Monday that his ministry had engaged the National Council of Applied Economic Research earlier this year to conduct a study on the economic losses for households engaged in tourism in the backdrop of the pandemic. “The study observes that a significant number of jobs were lost in the tourism sector once the lockdown was implemented,” Reddy said. He furnished data which said 14.5 million jobs were lost in the first quarter after the lockdown had been clamped last year, followed by 5.2 million jobs in the second quarter and 1.8 million jobs in the third quarter. “Altogether, 21.5 million people lost jobs. In the pre-pandemic period, that is, in 2019-2020, around 34.8 million direct jobs were available in the Indian tourism industry,” pointed out an observer. The data shared by Reddy also indicated that the foreign exchange earnings (FEE) from tourists for the calendar year of 2020 had declined by 76.3 per cent compared to 2019. The minister provided month-wise foreign tourist arrival (FTA) of 2020, which showed that around 2.7 million people from abroad had visited India last year. “There is almost a decline of 75 per cent in the FTA as compared to 2019 when 10.53 million foreign tourists had visited the country,” the observer said. Reddy told the Lok Sabha that the ministry had constituted a task force headed by himself for the revival of the industry and it would have senior officials and representatives of tourism stakeholders’ associations as members. Veterans in the tourism sector of north Bengal said the number of jobs lost in the pandemic was much more than what the minister had said. “The data only include those who are in the organised sector of the industry. Several others, who serve at grassroots like porters, cab drivers, guides, homestay owners and their employees, have also lost earnings. Altogether, we feel, at least four crore jobs have been lost,” said Raj Basu, who has been associated with tourism for years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Congress leader found hanging in Raiganj, TMC flag on face||The body of a Congress leader from a village on the outskirts of Raiganj town, North Dinajpur district, was found hanging from a tree on Tuesday morning with a Trinamul flag covering his face, while a Trinamul worker from Cooch Behar district’s Dinhata sustained a bullet injury late on Monday. Sources said Debesh Burman, 50, the booth president of Congress in Gouri panchayat area under Raiganj block of North Dinajpur had gone out of home on Monday evening for tea at a local stall, but did not return home till late night. His family members started a search. On Tuesday morning, some residents spotted his body near his house hanging from a tree with the flag of Trinamul on his face. Police were told. Senior officials rushed to the spot from Raiganj. A sniffer dog was engaged. “We will also send a forensic team for investigation. Our officers are waiting for the post-mortem report,” said North Dinajpur SP Sumit Kumar. Burman, local sources said, was a CPM worker and a panchayat member till 2018. He then defected to the Congress. His son Bidrohi alleged Burman was murdered. “We suspect some people killed him and hanged his body to make it look like suicide. We want their arrests,” he said. District Congress president and former MLA Mohit Sengupta, however, said there was no point in jumping to conclusions. “There was a flag of Trinamul but it does not mean Trinamul supporters murdered him. It may be a conspiracy. First, we need to know if it is suicide or murder. We want a thorough investigation,” said Sengupta. BJP MLA of Raiganj Krishna Kalyani met bereaved family members. District BJP chief Basudeb Sarkar alleged Burman was murdered. “We suspect Trinamul,” he said. District Trinamul leaders denied the charges. “The police should find out the truth. BJP is trying to malign our party,” said a district leader. In Cooch Behar’s Gitaldaha-I panchayat under Dinhata-I block, Trinamul worker Sayed Hossain, in his early 30s, sustained a bullet injury in his leg late on Monday while he was having tea at Gitaldaha railway station. Hossain, admitted to the subdivisional hospital in Dinhata, alleged that panchayat pradhan Abual Azad and his son, also Trinamul workers, planned the attack. The incident again brought to the fore the infighting within Trinamul in Cooch Behar. Azad could not be contacted by this paper. No one has been arrested yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 752 new infections and 10 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday logged 992 Covid-19 recoveries, 752 new infections, and 10 deaths, as its total active cases dropped for the 30th consecutive day, by 250 to 12,509. A month ago on June 20, Bengal had 23,016 active cases. Bengal has 3.11 per cent of India’s active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. The state’s recovery rate is  97.99 per cent, with the national rate at 97.34. A minister said over 26 per cent of Bengal got the first dose of vaccine, and 7.6 per cent both doses, ahead of national figures of 24.5  and 6.4 per cent. “In terms of people fully vaccinated in a state, we, with over 76 lakh people, are second only to Maharashtra (nearly 93 lakh) in India,” the minister said. Tuesday was the 16th successive day of less than 1,000 new infections detected in a day. With Calcutta logging 60 new infections and North 24-Parganas 82, Tuesday was also the 13th straight day since the second wave when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures while South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.48 per cent on Tuesday, indicating the decline in Covid-19 spread. Of the 10 deaths, Calcutta reported one and North 24-Parganas two. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday, while Calcutta apart, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Jhargram, East Midnapore, Howrah reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.32 per cent. The state now has a total of over 15.19 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.89 lakh recoveries and 18,021 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Pegasus: Trinamul vows to disrupt Parliament on hacking||The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday said the party would not allow the proceedings of Parliament to take place in the ongoing monsoon session until the Pegasus “snooping” was discussed in the Lok Sabha as well as the Rajya Sabha. Trinamul alleged that Mamata Banerjee’s phone, too, had been hacked and demanded clear answers from the Centre on the eavesdropping. Trinamul’s parliamentary party in both the Houses submitted notices on the alleged hack by the Israeli spyware — sold only to government agencies — and protested by the Gandhi statue on the Parliament premises on Tuesday. “The SPIES and their LIES! It is absolutely unpardonable how the @BJP4India govt. has been snooping on all opposing voices across the country!” said Trinamul in a statement issued on Twitter on Tuesday afternoon.On Monday, the names of Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee and poll consultant Prashant Kishor had emerged among those whose mobile phones were purportedly targets for the NSO Group’s spyware. Trinamul leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandyopadhyay on Tuesday said the party suspected that Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, too, was a victim of the alleged misuse of Pegasus. Mamata herself had on numerous occasions in the past publicly said she suspected her phone had been hacked by the BJP, at times naming Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah as those responsible for it. “Was this done to cater to Shri @narendramodi’s peaking insecurities? We strongly condemn such grave violations. #PegasusSpying,” Trinamul tweeted on Tuesday. Derek O’Brien, Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha, said: “The Centre has tried to turn the attention of the Opposition parties by mentioning that many other countries have also been the targets of Pegasus. But we do not care about any other country but India.” “We will not allow the proceedings of Parliament until they discuss the snooping,” he added. Trinamul’s Krishnagar MP Mahua Moitra placed nine questions on behalf of the party for Modi, or Shah, or Union IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. The questions are: ⚫ Has any ministry or department or agency of the Centre purchased or used Pegasus software at all, and since when? ⚫ Is the Pegasus software still used? ⚫ Who are the people on whom spying happened? ⚫ What is the duration during which the data were collected on these individuals? ⚫ Are the data collected still being retained by these agencies? If so, for what purpose? ⚫ Under what laws did the spying happen on these people? ⚫ Which individuals and agencies requested data collection? ⚫ Which individuals had to provide authorisation for the data to be collected? ⚫ What are the agencies and individuals with whom the collected data had been shared — whether formally or informally? Seniors in Trinamul said Mamata was likely to come out firing on all cylinders in her Martyrs’ Day address. They said she would not waste time in latching on to the Pegasus “scam” as a major issue, one which could cause the BJP discomfort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Suo motu case filed against Suvendu Adhikari for ‘malicious’ picket||The inspector in charge of East Midnapore’s Tamluk police station on Tuesday evening filed a suo motu case against the BJP’s Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari and 14 others, for a “malicious” picket on the premises of the East Midnapore district police headquarters on Monday. Adhikari, accompanied by 14 others, including five BJP MLAs, led the picket called “Tamluk SP gherao” to protest “police inaction” against alleged political violence inflicted on BJP workers. Tamluk inspector-in-charge Arup Sarkar’s report states Adhikari, now the BJP’s leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, and others from his party had been requested not to hold the rally in the light of Covid-19 safety protocols, but they disobeyed these and also reportedly made communal statements aimed at ASP (headquarters) Syed M.M. Hasan. “The main points are that Adhikari and 14 others used questionable language and obstructed a road on the premises of the police headquarters despite being asked not to,” said a source. Among others named in Sarkar’s complaint are MLAs Ashok Dinda (Moyna), Rabindranath Maiti (Bhagabanpur), Santanu Pramanik (Khejuri), Arup Kumar Das (Contai South), Tapasi Mondal (Haldia), and BJP district unit chief Nabarun Nayak. Sources said the BJP leaders entered the area around 2pm with a large crowd, and made incendiary statements over the mic, including those aimed at ASP Hasan. Sarkar took note of the purported utterance as “demeaning and threatening” in his complaint. Adhikari allegedly also tried to browbeat the state police force, presumably the IPS officers, by threatening transfers. “Don’t do deeds that will get you posted in (Jammu and) Kashmir’s Anantnag or Baramulla,” he reportedly said. Bhagabanpur MLA Maiti said the BJP workers were being “attacked” and the “police are working for Trinamul”. “That is why the leader of the Opposition (Adhikari) warned the police. The police filed a case against us for political reasons. We will deal with it legally,” said Maiti. Amid the Pegasus phone-hack row, Adhikari claimed he was in “possession of all their (police’s) phonecalls”. Trinamul state general-secretary Kunal Ghosh said Adhikari exposed the BJP’s role in the alleged snooping scandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Public works department nixes prior land nod for John Barla||The state public works department (PWD) has written to the Jalpaiguri district magistrate that it had not given any land at the district’s Chamurchi More in Banarhat to John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar who was recently made the Union minister of state for minority affairs. Barla is developing a multi-storeyed commercial complex on a plot at Chamurchi More that the PWD also confirmed belongs to it. The letter from the department comes shortly after the tea company that owns the Lakhipara tea estate, also near Banarhat, told the administration that it did not grant permission to Barla to build a house on its garden. The first-time MP completed building a house on the garden, a plot taken on lease from the state government, after winning the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The clarifications from the PWD and the tea company come in the wake of allegations from district Trinamul leaders that the BJP minister had built properties on government land. Acting on them, district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu had first sought a report on the status of the plots specified by Trinamul. When a report by the district land reforms department pointed to the tea garden and PWD, she wrote to both, asking if they had granted permission to the MP for private constructions. “As both the state PWD and the tea company replied to the DM’s letter in the negative, a new letter has been sent to both on Tuesday, asking them to take possession of their respective plots,” said an official. The district administration, sources said, also shared these details with Nabanna and state land and land reforms department. “No specific instruction has reached us on what to do next. So,  authorities concerned (PWD and the tea company) have been asked (at our level) to recover their plots,” the official added. District Trinamul leaders said they briefed their state leadership on the issue. “Our allegation has been proved correct. The rest is up to the administration and the state government,” said district Trinamul president K.K. Kalyani. “We know there are encroachments on many government plots in Banarhat. The administration never made any move to clear them. Trinamul is acting against Barla with vindictiveness,” said BJP’s Jalpaiguri district chief Bapi Goswami, but ducked the allegation of the MP’s illegal misuse of government land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP leaders  to counter Mamata Banerjee’s annual Martyrs’ Day on July 21||Bengal BJP leaders will highlight the “plight of party supporters” in the aftermath of Assembly poll results across Bengal and in Delhi on Wednesday to counter Mamata Banerjee’s signature annual Martyrs’ Day on July 21. Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, who used to be a main draw on Martyrs’ Day till he switched to the BJP last December, will lead the BJP’s assault in Calcutta. The BJP’s Nandigram MLA and Bengal assembly’s leader of Opposition, will be present at BJP’s party office at Hastings, Calcutta, along with other state leaders. In Delhi, state BJP chief and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh and the other party MPs from Bengal will sit in a demonstration at Raj Ghat as part of the event named Shaheed Shraddhanjali or ‘Respect to the Martyrs’. Some sources close to Adhikari claimed that the idea of a counter event on July 21 first came from him. “This event will be observed by all BJP workers right up to the booths…The programme will also be live streamed on social media platforms so that we can inform Bengalis across the world about the breakdown of law and order in Bengal and the plight of BJP workers…” state BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. On Wednesday, images of victims of post-poll result violence will be displayed at all the BJP party offices in the state and in Delhi. “The world must know what Trinamul did in Bengal,” said Bhattacharyaa. According to him, from May 2, when the poll results were announced, 38 BJP workers were killed and 30 of them died even before May 5, the day Mamata took oath as chief minister. Since its drubbing the BJP has focussed on post-poll result violence to combat the Trinamul politically. They have moved court on this issue, raised it with the governor of Bengal, in the state Assembly and Centre. Now the BJP is planning to make the July 21 event of the party a success as part of its strategy to challenge Mamata. “There is no doubt that July 21 is an important event in Bengal politics as it is Mamata’s signature event... Hence we wanted to create a signature event for ourselves on the same day. Secondly Trinamul has planned to telecast Mamata Banerjee’s speech on giant screens in six other states apart from Bengal. This (the BJP event) will be our opportunity to counter her claims and highlight the real situation of Bengal in front of the world…” a state BJP office bearer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyrs’ Day: Trinamul aims to reach out to one crore people ||The Trinamul Congress has set for itself a goal of reaching out to one crore people in Bengal and organising over 100 programmes in at least half a dozen states for the Martyrs’ Day on Wednesday so that the message of Mamata Banerjee is spread far and wide in the wake of the party’s landslide victory in the Assembly elections. July 21 used to be observed every year by Trinamul since its inception through a mega rally at Esplanade in Calcutta in remembrance of 13 people killed in police firing in 1993 during a Youth Congress rally led by Mamata. For the second year in a row, the event has to be virtual on account of the pandemic. “We would reach out to at least one crore people in Bengal this year through over one lakh small-scale programmes, from where the speech of our supreme leader Mamata Banerjee would be telecast. There would be events in Delhi and other states too. This is above and beyond the reach through social and mainstream media,” said Trinamul’s national spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, who is in charge of handling one of these events in Lucknow of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. Last year, Mamata had claimed she had been able to reach at least 50 lakh people through the virtual conduct of the event. This year, in the wake of Trinamul’s historic victory — and the drubbing handed to the BJP — that ensured her third consecutive stint as chief minister, Mamata is likely to go all out in her attack against the saffron camp and its running of the nation. Senior leaders said among various raging issues, the controversy over the alleged hack via Pegasus was likely to feature prominently in her address. They said the party had directed smaller units to organise as many small programmes as possible, with TV sets or giant screens in districts, to avoid violation of Covid-19 safety protocols. Besides Bengal, the virtual event would be observed at venues such as the Constitution Club of Delhi, and at least 25 venues in Uttar Pradesh, besides states like Tripura, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. Trinamul said several leaders of various parties in the non-BJP political space would be present at the Constitution Club. “Many leaders of our friendly parties would attend the programme at the Constitution Club, with us. They wished to attend the programme and listen to Mamata Banerjee,” said Derek O’Brien, Trinamul’s leader in Rajya Sabha. Trinamul sources said the move to organise the show on July 21 in Delhi and at hundreds of places in several other states was part of an exercise to gauge the level of appreciation for her after she single-handedly forced the saffron electoral juggernaut to a grinding halt outside Bengal’s gates. The sources said since the victory in the Assembly elections, people of many states, including key leaders of non-BJP parties, started inviting her for campaign. “The programmes in the other states are being organised following the proposals from people of those states, as the people there want to listen to Mamata Banerjee,” said Roy, the chief whip of Trinamul in the Rajya Sabha. Trinamul leaders in various districts of Bengal said they had a bitter experience last year in pockets where the BJP had gained in strength since the Lok Sabha election of 2019, mainly in the Jungle Mahal, north Bengal and in some districts such as Hooghly and Nadia. In those places, Trinamul had not been able to organise programmes in hundreds of booths, allegedly on account of the BJP’s atrocities. In some of those places, such as Purulia, Jhargram and Bankura, several Trinamul workers were allegedly beaten up by BJP workers and driven away from their villages before July 21. However, this year, the same Trinamul leaders have been getting requests from those areas, where BJP supporters are keen to switch flags in the wake of the results. “The tables have turned, and how. We are organising the programme in every booth where the BJP stopped us last year,” said Raju Singh, the Trinamul’s youth wing chief in Bankura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-165
21-07-2021||West Bengal||Eid al-Adha: Muslim community members urged to adhere to Covid protocol||The Bengal chapter of the All India Imam and Muezzin Organisation, headquartered in Murshidabad, on Tuesday issued a notice to all members, asking them to exhort community members to get vaccinated and adhere to Covid-19 protocol in their Eid al-Adha speeches on Wednesday. The association said the occasion of Eid should be used to motivate community members to get vaccinated and wear masks in view of the probable third wave of the pandemic. “There has been a stereotype going around that many in our community are against vaccination, which needs to be corrected. The exhortation of imams will help in achieving this. We want to change this on such an auspicious day,” said one member. The organisation has over 6,700 members in Bengal alone. The Tuesday circular also ruled that no children would be permitted into Wednesday’s prayer meet in view of the pandemic. Sources said the imams would on Wednesday also address the issues of vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Our community is over 50 lakh strong in the state. We need to take the scientific step forward,” said district president Abdul Razzaq.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
21-07-2021||West Bengal||DRI seizes gold worth Rs 4 crore, two arrested ||Acting on a tip off, a team of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized gold worth around Rs 4 crore and arrested two persons in this connection in Siliguri late on Sunday evening. Sources in the DRI said a team raided a private bus in Siliguri and detained Rakesh Kumar and Ramesh Kumar Shukla, both residents of Uttar Pradesh. “As their luggage was frisked, 50 gold bars weighing 8.3 kilos were seized. The estimated price of the gold is around Rs 4 crore. The gold was transported illegally from Myanmar to Assam and was supposed to be smuggled to Uttar Pradesh,” said a source. Meanwhile in Jalpaiguri’s Dhupguri, a group of miscreants barged into the house of Umesh Das, a private moneylender, and decamped with Rs 1.5 lakh. They also hacked his right hand, leaving him seriously injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-166
