22-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee explains 'Khela Divas' date after BJP equates it with great Calcutta killings||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said she had chosen the date August 16 to observe Khela Divas or Day of Sport as a mark of respect to sixteen football fans who died in a stampede during a football match on this day in 1980 at Kolkata's Eden Garden stadium. While addressing the TMC annual Martyrs Day rally, she announced that the state government would observe Khela Divas on August 16 every year. "Khela Hobe (will play)", she declared, renewing the battle cry she made during the state assembly elections, adding the fight will continue till BJP is ousted from power at the centre. According to a ndtv report, the explanation on why August 16 was chosen was possibly a response to criticism of her choice of date by Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta, known to be close to the BJP. Taking a dig at Banerjee's announcement, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta said that Muslim League launched its Direct Action Day and began the Great Calcutta Killings in 1946 on August 16. "Interesting @MamataOfficial has declared August 16 as 'Khela divas'. It is the day the Muslim League launched its Direct Action Day & began the Great Calcutta Killings in 1946. "In today's West Bengal, Khela Hobe has come to symbolise a wave of terror attacks on opponents." he tweeted. His tweet reinforced BJP claims of widespread post-poll violence in Bengal. The matter is in fact currently in Calcutta High Court. "16 August used to be commemorated by many sporting clubs earlier. But that is dying out now. That's why we have chosen to mark Khela Hobe Divas on August 16," Banerjee said, as quoted by ndtv.com. "In the coming days, Khela Hobe indeed. To protect civilization and culture, sports, the sporting spirit is very important. Those who are misinterpreting don't understand that spirit," Banerjee said, adding, "Khela Hobe has become a theme across India. We are happy about that. So, we have fixed a day to celebrate the spirit." Footballs made by the handicraft department of the state government will be handed over to various sports clubs poor children on the occasion. "Khela Divas, which will be marked by the distribution of footballs to needy children," she said. On 16 August this year, the state's sports and youth department will distribute one lakh footballs to sporting clubs across the state. 283 clubs of the Indian Football Association will get 10 footballs each. The rest will go to clubs in villages. "50,000 'joyee' footballs have already been made by our mothers and sisters," the chief minister said. "Joyee" is the brand name of footballs being made by an NGO run by former footballers. August 16 is also a day after Independence Day. "But our freedoms are being threatened today. We need to defend that. We need to fight for freedom of speech," Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Higher Secondary: Murshidabad girl tops exam with 499 marks ||A girl from Murshidabad district topped the class 12 board examinations conducted by the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE), while over 97 per cent of the 8.19 lakh candidates passed the exams, the results of which were announced on Thursday. The examinations were not held this year due to the raging COVID-19 pandemic and marks were awarded based on a student's previous academic performance. Eighty-six candidates were among the top 10, and the chart was topped by a girl from the minority community who hails from Murshidabad district and secured 499 marks out of 500, council president Mahua Das told reporters. The council, however, didn't identify the topper as no merit list was officially announced this year. Of the 8,19,202 candidates who were slated to appear for this year's class 12 board exams, 97.69 per cent have passed, Das said, adding that the pass percentage was 97.70 each among boys and girls. "A total of 3,19,327 examinees got first division marks or more than 60 per cent. This is a bit lower than last year," she said. Das said that 9,013 candidates got the O grade (90-100 per cent marks) as compared to 30,220 last year. Similarly, 49,370 students got the A plus grade (80-90 per cent marks) as against 84,746 last year. "Though the number of students getting the O and A plus grades is significantly lower as compared to last year, the number of B plus grade (60-69 per cent) recipients has increased to 1,65,186 from 1,10,265 last year," she said. The number of students getting A grade (70-79 per cent) has slightly dipped to 95,758 from 96,825 last year, Das said. A total of 99.28 per cent of the students in the Science stream passed the examinations, while the pass percentage was 99.08 per cent for Commerce, and 97.39 per cent for Arts candidates. Candidates can access their results by entering their registration numbers on the designated nine websites, she said, adding that marksheets will be distributed to the schools from 52 camp offices of the council from July 23 onwards. Das said that some schools had sent last year's class 11 results a year later in June, 2021 and there were many inconsistencies, while marks awarded by some institutions were unusually high. "We could have withheld these results but considering the future of the students, our experts evaluated the answer sheets of class 11 final exams and awarded the marks," she said. If any school or candidate is unhappy with the result, the head of the institution will have to approach the local office of the council. As the class 12 board examinations were not held this year due to the pandemic, an evaluation method was worked out wherein the highest marks secured by a candidate in four of the seven subjects in the 2019 class 10 examinations were given weightage along with his/her marks in class 11 annual test. The total marks secured by a candidate in the class 12 projects and practical were also added to the weightage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata terms Pegasus snoopgate worse than Watergate||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday claimed that the snooping on Supreme Court judges, journalists and political leaders among others using the Pegasus spyware, news of which broke earlier this week, was "worse than the Watergate scandal" which broke in the US during the Nixon presidency. BJP was quick to counter the attack of the Trinamool Congress alleging that Mamata Banerjee government has been using the same Israeli snooping software to put her political opponents, journalists, government officials and even her own party leaders and ministers under surveillance. Banerjee likened the scandal which allegedly involved using spyware developed by an Israeli firm to infect the mobile phones of hundreds of Indians in a bid to spy on them to the imposition of a "super-emergency in the country". The chief minister claimed that all impartial institutions have been politicised by the BJP-led Government. "Pegasus is worse than Watergate scandal; it is super emergency," Banerjee told a press conference at the state secretariat here. "They (BJP leadership) don't trust even their own officers and ministers," she said, adding "I have heard they tapped the phones of several RSS people." The BJP's state president Dillip Ghosh claimed that his party, which has been under attack by various political parties at the national level, does not believe in the culture of phone tapping. The TMC denied the charge saying that only the authorities of a country can use the services of the company that sells Pegasus. "Mamata Banerjee has put her opponents, journalists, officials, her own party leaders and ministers under surveillance using Pegasus," Ghosh told reporters. Claiming that TMC leaders keep contact among themselves through WhatsApp, where the conversation is encrypted, Ghosh said, "They (TMC) don't make normal phone calls or share SMSs as they know that everything is being tapped." The BJP doesn't believe in the culture of phone tapping and it is the culture of the Congress, where Mamata Banerjee began her political innings, he said. Reacting to Ghosh's jibe, senior TMC leader and minister Sobhandeb Chatterjee said everyone knows that only a country can use the services of the Israeli company "even if clandestinely" "Dilip-babu is known for wild claims. His comments on phone tapping has no basis," he told PTI. "But he should remember that peddling such lies will only harm the spirit of truth and principle in politics. It violates the religion of politics," Chatterjee added. A global media consortium has recently reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two central ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of business persons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking using the Israeli spyware Pegasus, which is usually supplied to government agencies. The Indian government and Israeli surveillance company NSO Group, which sells Pegasus spyware worldwide, have separately refuted the reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyr's Day: Didi asks Opposition parties to unite across India||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday underscored the need for unity of Opposition parties across India and proposed a front to rid the country of the despair created by the Narendra Modi government, seeking to inject a sense of urgency and cautioning against a replay of the costly complacency of 2019. “There is despair, instability, violence and confusion across the country…. We want to bring in a new ray of hope,” said the Bengal chief minister, pitching for a “pro-people government” in Delhi after the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “I don’t know what will happen in 2024, but our work should start now,” she added, stressing that less than three years were left for the big battle. “If the doctor comes after death, then there is nothing that can be done. If treatment can be offered after diagnosis of the ailment, something can be done…. So, we cannot waste any time. If you can organise a meeting next week, on July 27 or 28, I can attend,” Mamata said. The chief minister was delivering virtually Trinamul’s July 21 Martyrs’ Day address that was beamed live across multiple locations in the country. Representatives from the Congress, Samajwadi Party, RJD, Shiromani Akali Dal, Shiv Sena, NCP, Aam Aadmi Party, DMK and the TRS attended the event online from Delhi. Sharad Pawar of the NCP and P. Chidambaram and Digvijaya Singh of the Congress were among those who reached the Constitution Club in the capital to participate in the event. “I want to tell all the leaders to go back and talk to their parties and plan on how to unite. I want to repeat, form a front,” Mamata said. Aware that the biggest challenge for any such front would be selecting the face of the alliance, Mamata said that her role would be limited to that of a worker and she would follow the instructions of others. “Forget self-interest. Save the country, save the states and the federal structure,” Mamata said in her address delivered in Bengali, Hindi and English, keeping in mind the audience from several parts of the country. The call for the front brought back memories of a similar idea she had floated from the Brigade Parade Grounds in January 2019 — a few months ahead of the general election in which Modi routed his rivals. But the content of Mamata’s speech on Wednesday made it clear that she did learn her lesson from the failed experiment she had tried two-and-a-half years ago. Unlike the 2019 attempt, when she got leaders of 23 national parties on a platform in Calcutta barely four months ahead of the polls, Mamata made it clear this time that a concerted and planned approach is indispensable. Mamata sought to debunk  the perceived invincibility of Modi and Amit Shah and gave a new twist to her signature poll slogan “khela hobe”. “One game has happened in the state and another game is afoot…. Khela will happen in all states until the BJP is removed from the country,” Mamata said, before declaring August 16 as “Khela Hobe Divas” in Bengal. Unlike other July 21 programmes — the most important event in Trinamul’s annual roster— Mamata hardly spoke about the political scenario in Bengal. The theme of Mamata’s 48-minute address was national politics and she took care to explain the BJP’s follies and the need for a consensus among the Opposition parties to take on the saffron camp in the next general election, scheduled in May 2024, to save the country. Sources close to the chief minister said that several senior Opposition leaders like Pawar and Sonia Gandhi had been prodding her since the outcome of the Bengal elections to play a role in bringing together the non-BJP parties so that a united fight can be put up in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “While Didi and the other leaders behind the initiative are aware of the enormity of the task, they are convinced that the time is right as the mood of the country seems to be changing because of the Modi government’s mishandling of the pandemic,” a source said. In her address, Mamata not only held the Modi government responsible for the death of over 4 lakh people across the country because of Covid-19 but also highlighted the Centre’s failure in making vaccines and oxygen available on time for people. “Your failure in handling Covid-19 has been monumental…. Instead of planning on how to tackle the second wave, you had become a daily passenger to Bengal during the (Assembly) elections. What did you get?” Mamata asked, hurling a direct question at Modi before urging him not to lecture the country any more with his “Maan ki Baat”. She criticised the Prime Minister for his recent praise of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his handling of the Covid situation in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Pegasus: Mamata points finger at Modi govt on spyware fiasco||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday called the spyware scandal “even bigger than” Watergate, described it as “Narendra Modir nabhishwash (last gasp)” and urged the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the issue and intervene. The Bengal chief minister had clearly been awaiting the July 21 dais to broach the subject, and by the end of her address it was apparent that she would optimally use the issue to corner the BJP. The Trinamul Congress chief began her virtual address at 2.14pm and it took her barely seven minutes to bring up Pegasus. “Our phone is totally tapped. Not only tapped, it is just like a recorder…. Pegasus. Dangerous, ferocious. They have forgotten how to allow people to live peacefully…. Their dictatorship is too much,” Mamata said. Displaying her unconventional but effective communication skills that break down complex topics into easily comprehensible capsules, Mamata showed the audience how she has taped up the cameras of her iPhone after the Pegasus-related revelations as no one is safe now. “I have done one thing, I am showing you. See, I have fully plastered this,” said Mamata, holding aloft her phone for all to see. “What does one do otherwise…? They capture everything through the camera, even if I am only making an audio call. Even if I am using FaceTime (a video-telephony product of Apple). Even if I am on a video call. That’s why I fully plastered the cameras,” added Mamata, ruing how she cannot freely talk to any leader from the non-BJP parties because of the snooping fears. “Yeh government of India ko bhi plaster lagana chahiye, nahi toh desh barbad ho jayega…. Keu kaukey bishwash korte parchhe na (This government should also be plastered up, otherwise the nation will be ruined…. Nobody is being able to trust anybody),” she said. The chief minister implied that even Modi might not be aware of every such activity. “Modiji, bura na maney, hum aapko personally criticise nahi kar rahe hain (Mr Modi, do not mind, I am not criticising you personally). Because I am not in the habit of doing such things…. But consider this, the amount of time you and Amit Shah spent together… although I don’t even know if you (Modi) knew any of this at all, whether it’s all done by Amit Shah only… I don’t know,” Mamata said. According to the Project Pegasus investigative reports by a media collective, among the potential targets of surveillance was the phone number of Abhishek Banerjee, Trinamul’s national general secretary. The phone of Prashant Kishor, the poll consultant closely involved with the Trinamul election battle, was found to have been hacked. Mamata herself had, on numerous occasions in the past couple of years, publicly alleged that she suspects her phone had been hacked by the BJP. At times, she had named Modi and Union home minister Shah as those responsible. “Instead of giving money to the poor, you (the BJP-led Centre) are spending lots of money for spy-giri. Spy. Spying, beating, killing, and talking too much, doing nothing,” she added. “You want to turn this into a surveillance state instead of a democratic state.” The chief minister asserted that a nation could not be run this way, before issuing a plea to the apex court for its intervention. “My humble regards to our honourable Supreme Court. Everybody has great respect for you. Can’t you take suo motu cognisance, Sirs? I appeal to my Supreme Court judges. Can’t you take suo motu cognisance when judges’ phones are tapped? All political parties’ phones are tapped, fully,” she said. “Even the central government… your (the BJP’s) ministers, their phones are also (hacked)? Spy-giri is on. Ministers’ phones, Pegasus dhukey gyachhey (has entered). Officers’ phones, Pegasus captured. All leaders’ phones, Pegasus captured. All judges’ phones… maximum judges’ phones… also captured,” she added. Addressing the judges of the Supreme Court, Mamata said: “Everything is recorded. Sirs, either with a suo motu case… please have mercy and save the people, the nation and its democracy. Or else have an SIT (special investigation team) set up, which will work under you, you will monitor it. If anybody can save democracy in India today, it is the judiciary… and the people of this nation.” The Trinamul chief accused the BJP of weakening the foundations of India’s democracy. “The BJP party… they bulldoze the democracy, they finish the federal structure, they have finished the democratic rights. Three main pillars in democracy, one is (the sanctity of) elections… two, media, and three is judiciary. Now, your Pegasus, captured the election process, captured the judiciary, captured the political party leaders, captured the media houses. Now, whatever you (the BJP) will say, every institution has to do it. Otherwise, you will blackmail them with Pegasus,” Mamata said. “You only misuse agencies, disturb the Opposition, kill people, enact black laws… but what the people need, about that, you never consult anybody. You never do. The lowest possible lows, you sank to. Despite that, you didn’t benefit. Bengal’s people rejected you…. The entire nation, even many parts of the world, were keenly watching,” she added, rubbing salt into the duopoly’s smarting wound. The Trinamul chief asked not only her party to launch mass movements but also every other non-BJP party across the nation. “I urge you, please take strong action, generate mass movements against this.” She reminded them of the Watergate scandal of the 1970s in the US and said: “This is even bigger than that. Do not let this pass, do not forget it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Turtles seized, one man held in Siliguri||The Bengal forest department on Wednesday seized 15 turtles from a bus and arrested one man who was allegedly carrying the animals for sale in Siliguri for the meat. The seizure and the arrest were made by the Sarugara range of the Baikunthapur forest division after receiving a tipoff. “The foresters had information that some turtles were being illegally transported to Siliguri in a bus that had departed Gangarampur (in South Dinajpur district). Accordingly, the bus was stopped at Matigara (on the outskirts of Siliguri) and the turtles were seized. The animals were kept in a sack,” assistant divisional forest officer Jayanta Mandal said. The animals are of three different species — Ganges softshell turtle, peacock softshell turtle and Indian softshell turtle. The peacock softshell turtle and the Indian softshell turtle are labelled as endangered in the red data book of threatened species published by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The foresters caught Bhaban Sarkar, a resident of Gangarampur, who was illegally carrying the turtles. “The initial probe has revealed that the turtles had been smuggled from Bihar to Gangarampur. The animals were then being taken to Siliguri and were supposed to be sold illegally for the meat,” an officer said. Sarkar was produced in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Siliguri and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Two held over extortion in Bimal Gurung’s name||Two Kalimpong residents were arrested on Tuesday night for allegedly extorting money in the name of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Guring from the head of a private education institution in Siliguri. A court here on Wednesday remanded Dipesh Trikhatri and Tara Pariyar in police custody for five days. The duo were arrested by the cyber police station of Siliguri Metropolitan Police following a complaint filed by the education institute at Dagapur here. Police sources said Trikhatri had made a phone call to the institute on July 8 and introduced himself as the private assistant of Gurung. “He asked for Rs 1 lakh for the party’s fund. The authorities of the institute believed him and the following day, they deposited the amount in a bank account that Trikhatri had mentioned. They again received a call on July 10 and were asked to pay Rs 2 lakh,” said a police officer. The second call made the institute authorities suspicious. They made some inquiries and found out that Gurung’s party hadn’t made any such fund demand. On July 12, a complaint was filed at the cyber police station. “We tracked down Trikhatri and found out that the bank account is in the name of Pariyar. Both were arrested from Kalimpong last night,” the officer said. Police sources said Trikhatri had been arrested in 2018 on a similar attempt. He had allegedly tried to extort money then in the name of Binay Tamang, who quit the Morcha last week. Reacting to the arrests, Gurung said in Darjeeling on Wednesday: “The arrested men have no connection with our party. Police should take appropriate action against them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu’s Martyrs’ Day counter laced with communal overtones||Leader of Opposition and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari’s speech at the saffron party’s Shaheed Shraddhanjali on Wednesday, a BJP event planned to counter Trinamul’s Martyrs’ Day, was peppered with communal overtones that laid bare the party’s strategy to stick to divisive politics in Bengal. “People who believe in the Sanatan (classical religion), who worship tulsi (plant) in their homes and blow conches, who celebrate Durga Puja’s Ashtami, who worship Lord Shiva...have been targeted in Bengal after May 2,” Suvendu said at the event held at BJP office in Calcutta’s Hastings to pay tributes to party supporters who died in the alleged post-poll violence. Apparently unable to digest the defeat of the Hindutva brigade in the Bengal polls, BJP leaders like Adhikari have been trying to build a communal narrative by suggesting BJP’s Hindu supporters were being persecuted by Trinamul’s Muslims workers. Adhikari on Wednesday said goons from “a particular community” were used to carry out attacks in front of an inactive police and administration. At one point in his speech, Adhikari said Trinamul’s coming to power for a third term had been “celebrated in Bangladesh”, apparently to hint that Muslim extremists in Bangladesh were ecstatic at Mamata’s victory. “We have to stop the attempts to turn Bengal into Bangladesh. We have to save the state from the Rohingyas,” Adhikari said. His speech made it clear that despite the poll drubbing, the BJP would continue to tread the path of communal politics in Bengal. At a recent state executive committee meeting of the party, the BJP had accepted a political resolution dubbing Trinamul as an anti-Hindu party. However, Adhikari’s speech on Wednesday didn’t go down well with some in his own party. Several BJP leaders told The Telegraph that his comments were uncalled for at a sombre event. “It is true that polarisation did work for us to an extent. The 2.28 crore people who voted for us primarily are Hindus. But today’s (Wednesday’s) event was not the stage for  a divisive cry,” a state BJP leader said. State BJP chief Ghosh took part in a sit-in demonstration with other party MPs in Delhi. Later, he attended the Calcutta event virtually from the party's Delhi headquarters and said 45 BJP workers died  in the post-poll violence. “The CM is saying all the murders happened before she took oath on May 5. What about the deaths that happened after that?... We have filed around 11,782 complaints,” he said. Criticising the Trinamul supremo’s address to her supporters, BJP's Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta tweeted: “Interesting @MamataOfficial (Mamata) has declared August 16 as “Khela hobe divas”. It is the day the Muslim League launched its Direct Action Day & began the Great Calcutta Killings in 1946. In today’s West Bengal, “Khela Hobe” has come to symbolise a wave of terror attacks on opponents.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid recovery rate in West Bengal now 98%||Bengal on Wednesday achieved a significant Covid-19 management landmark of reaching a 98 per cent recovery rate, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.32 per cent, as the state logged 981 recoveries, 869 new infections and six deaths. Wednesday was the 17th successive day of less than 1,000 new Covid-19 infections detected in Bengal. The state recorded a drop in its total of active cases for the 31st consecutive day by 118 to touch 12,391. Bengal now has 3.06 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. With Calcutta logging 68 new infections and North 24-Parganas 91, Wednesday was also the 14th consecutive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures while Malda, Murshidabad and Birbhum single-digit figures. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.6 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Of the six deaths, one each was reported from Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas and Hooghly. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state now has a total of over 15.2 lakh Covid-19 cases since the onset of the pandemic, including 14.9 lakh recoveries and 18,027 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyrs’ Day: I will be with you as a worker, Mamata tells Delhi guests||Leading lights of nine Opposition parties on Wednesday joined the Trinamul Congress in Delhi to observe the July 21 Martyrs’ Day that commemorates the victims of police firing in Calcutta in 1993. The Opposition leaders included Sharad Pawar and Supriya Sule of the NCP, P. Chidambaram and Digvijaya Singh of the Congress, Ram Gopal Yadav and Jaya Bachchan of the Samajwadi Party, Tiruchi Siva of the DMK, D. Keshava Rao of the TRS, Sanjay Singh of the AAP, Manoj Jha of the RJD, Priyanka Chaturvedi of the Shiv Sena and Sardar Balwinder Singh Bhunder of the Shiromani Akali Dal. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s speech from Calcutta was beamed on giant screens beyond Bengal, including in states like Punjab, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, New Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. This is the first time Opposition leaders from other states showed up for what is essentially a Trinamul event. They offered tributes to the martyrs. Mamata made it a point to refer to several Opposition leaders in her speech and insisted she would be a mere “worker” in the effort to forge an anti-BJP front. “Ek saath hoke gathbandhan taiyaar karein, aage barein, main aap logon ke saath ek hoke worker ke maafik ek saath larenge (Come together to form a united front. I will be with all of you in this fight as a worker),” the Trinamul leader said. Referring to the Pegasus controversy, Mamata said: “No, I cannot talk to Chidambaramji because my phone will be tapped. Sometimes, if I wish, I cannot talk to Sharad Pawarji. I cannot talk to, even, Delhi chief minister (Arvind Kejriwal). I cannot talk to Shiv Sena chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray of Maharashtra). I cannot talk to Andhra Pradesh chief minister (Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy). I cannot talk to Odisha chief minister (Naveen Patnaik). Why? What Pegasus?” Mamata is scheduled to visit Delhi soon. Although Mamata makes it a practice to visit Delhi when Parliament is in session, this time she comes with the additional aura of the convincing victory in the Assembly elections. In Delhi, the speech was shown on a giant screen put up at the Constitution Club. Also in attendance were Trinamul MPs who are in Delhi for the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. The party also relaunched its mouthpiece, Jago Bangla, with Mamata’s new slogan: “Ebar Shopoth, Cholo Dilli (New Pledge, Chalo Delhi).” Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyrs’ Day: Trinamul Tripura chief, 80 others held for allegedly violating Covid restrictions||Trinamul supporters observed Martyrs’ Day across BJP-ruled Tripura on Wednesday, despite “Covid restrictions and administrative hurdles” leading to the preventive detention of its state unit president Ashish Lal Singh and supporters under Kailashahar police station in Unakoti district. Singh told this paper after his release that he was taken into custody soon after hoisting the party flag, around 11.30am, and released around 4.30pm, along with 80 party workers, for allegedly violating Covid-19 restrictions. Mamata Banerjee condemned the alleged harassment of party workers in BJP-ruled states on Martyrs’ Day. “I am aware that in Tripura, in other states… our party was not allowed to conduct the programme…. Only BJP will speak, nobody else will speak? Is this the ethos of our democracy?” she asked. According to Singh, the day was observed by offering floral tributes to the martyrs and hoisting the party flag in 54 of Tripura’s 60 Assembly seats despite alleged attempts by the BJP-led administration to disrupt the events on the pretext of Covid-19 curbs. Trinamul, in a first this year, streamed live Mamata’s Martyrs’ Day message on giant screens  at venues spread across Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Gujarat. But in Tripura, at least, many Trinamul supporters and the public were deprived of hearing the speech from the event venues, alleged Singh. “We installed five giant screens in as many places, two in state capital Agartala and one each in North District, Gomati and Dhalai districts, at a cost of Rs 25,000, but the vendor returned the advance,” said Singh, who said he was appointed state president of the party in December, 2017. Not to give up, the Dharmanagar party unit in North District set up a giant screen inside their office compound around 2pm. “Our Dharmanagar district leaders continued playing the Bengal chief minister’s recorded speech till late in the evening,” Singh said, alleging that BJP activists had damaged 10 bikes and an auto-rickshaw, belonging to Trinamul supporters, in Unakoti district on Tuesday night. Unakoti police officers said Singh and 35 others were detained as they had not taken permission from the administration to host the event, a must during the pandemic. Trinamul supporters have become active in Tripura after the party’s victory in Bengal. Recently, a song in Bengali, “Tripura koitase, Mamata-di aaitase (Tripura is saying, Mamata-di is coming)"”by singer Kamalika Chakraborty went viral in the state, capturing the sudden change in mood in favour of Trinamul, which also saw some BJP and CPM members joining the party. Trinamul, which lost its six MLAs to the BJP before the 2018 Assembly election in Tripura, sees an opportunity in the Bengali-majority Northeast state where both the Congress and the Left are struggling to stay afloat. “There is a wave. We will definitely win the 2023 polls here, because of BJP-IPFT’s misrule ” claimed Singh. The BJP-IPFT combine won the 2018 polls, ending the Left’s 25-year reign, but it has been tough sailing for the Biplab Deb government since. In other BJP-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Gujarat too, Trinamul alleged administrative harassment. Trinamul planned to hold 25 programmes to show the event live in Uttar Pradesh, but not a single one was allowed in the open, as the local administration refused permission. Trinamul leaders had to organise the event inside their local offices. “We had all arrangements ready to set up a stage roadside or outside our party offices to reach out to the people of Lucknow and other places in Uttar Pradesh. Interestingly, we were not given permission to hold our open programmes here on the grounds of Covid-19 safety protocols. The Yogi Adityanath government is afraid to air the voice of Mamata Banerjee,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Trinamul’s national spokesperson, from Lucknow. Other leaders said the same happened in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, where many flexes put up to campaign for the virtual show were removed and the local administration stopped to broadcast at many places. Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee tweeted the party’s condemnation of such incidents. “We strongly condemn the attack on @AITCofficial supporters in @BJP4India ruled states. We will NOT be cowed down by such intimidation tactics!” posted the party’s No. 2. “On #ShahidDibas let me reiterate that TRINAMOOL will not budge an inch in its fight against the oppressive forces. COME WHAT MAY!” he added in his post on the microblogging site. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Visitors from Sikkim face riders||The administrations of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts, which share borders with Sikkim, have issued separate notifications imposing conditions on the entry of people from the neighbouring Himalayan state. The restrictions, to kick in from Thursday, come close on the heels of the Sikkim government announcing that 97 patients in the neighbouring state had been detected with the Delta variant of the coronavirus. The notifications issued by the district magistrates state that people, including drivers and helpers of vehicles, can enter Kalimpong and Darjeeling districts through border points at Rangpo and Melli from Sikkim only if they have a double-vaccination certificate or the negative report of an RTPCR test done within 72 of their travel or a similar report of a rapid antigen test (RAT) within 48 hours, said an official of the Darjeeling district administration. A few days back, the Sikkim government imposed similar restrictions for tourists, allowing the entry of fully vaccinated people only. In case of a family where some members are fully vaccinated but others are aged below 18 years or have got only the first dose, they can enter Sikkim with a negative report of an RTPCR test not older than 72 hours. The Bengal government had imposed similar restrictions at the interstate border of Assam a recently  amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the Northeast. Those associated with the tourism industry have welcomed the decision but pointed out that the administrations of both Darjeeling and Kalimpong need to clarify rules for entry of tourists from within Bengal itself. They pointed out that in some places of Bengal like Digha, Santiniketan and western Dooars (under Jalpaiguri district), local administrative notifications for tourists mandate an RTPCR negative report or vaccination certificate before hotel check-in. No such notification has come from  Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Alipurduar.  “A specific notification will empower hotel and resort owners to ask their guests for vaccination or test report documents,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyrs’ Day: Two dead, three injured as TMC camps clash over venue ||A youth and an elderly woman were killed during a clash on Wednesday allegedly between two Trinamul factions in North 24-Parganas over the venue for the Martyrs’ Day virtual event. Trinamul supporters Laxmi Bala, 75, and Sanjib Jana, 35, at Mohonpur village were rushed to nearby Haroa rural hospital, where doctors declared them dead. Three others were critically injured. Party insiders claimed the incident was the fallout of a feud between two factions led by Trinamul leaders Tapan Roy and Jaggeswar Pramanik. Pramanik, the local area president of the party, allegedly involved in a power struggle with Roy over  the Mohonpur gram panchayat. Youth wing leader Roy is the observer of local panchayat committee. Police and local sources said the incident occurred at about 2.30pm when goons allegedly linked with Pramanik opened fire at close aides of Roy who were returning home after attending the party event. The rivals retaliated with bombs. Roy alleged the bullets were fired from the home of Changramari village Trinamul booth president Bhaskar Das. He added Laxmi Bala, was fatally injured as she got trapped in the crosshairs of the clash, fell down and was trampled on. Jana got a gunshot wound. Insiders claimed that earlier this week, Pramanik objected to the way Roy planned the July 21 event at Mohonpur, but did not get much support and hence attacked his rivals on Wednesday. Pramanik dismissed the allegations. “A large police force has also been deployed in the area and 18 goons involved in the clash have been arrested,” said Joby Thomas K, superintendent of Basirhat police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyrs’ Day: Mamata gives morale boost to TMC workers for 2024 polls||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Martyrs’ Day call on Wednesday to form a front to counter the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls turned out to be a tonic for Trinamul Congress leaders and workers in Bengal districts as they felt the lack of such an exhortation was one of the reasons for the saffron camp’s victory in 18 Lok Sabha seats in the state in 2019. Mamata asked her party to prepare for the 2024 fight against the BJP and advised Trinamul workers to give priority to women, youths and students as they had contributed greatly to the victory in the Assembly polls. “We have to make a better Trinamul (unnototoro Trinamul )... I pay my respect towards women, youths and my students who played a great role to bring us to power for the third time. We need to make ourselves better by prioritising them,” Mamata said. Trinamul insiders said before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Mamata had called for a greater alliance by organising a mega rally at Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta, but this time, she has focussed on a better organisation. “In 2019, we were asked to go for an all-out drive in January and it was too late to counter the BJP. Now the call has come early and it will help us plan properly. Now, we can set our target for 2024. The call is stronger this time because the Assembly poll victory has given her the confidence that she can defeat Narendra Modi,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Analysing Mamata’s speech, political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty said: “Mamata’s early call will help Trinamul exploit the anti-Modi government sentiment on the ground on issues like vaccine shortage and Covid-19 mismanagement.” Trinamul leaders in districts like Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and Hooghly, where the BJP had performed well in 2019 but failed to repeat the feat in the Assembly polls, said the party supremo’s guidelines to improve organisational strength were being seen as a critical input. “The Assembly polls in 2021 under the chief minister’s leadership taught us a lot. We were behind in all Assembly segments but one in 2019, but this year, we won three seats in the district. Going by her advice, we will launch drives to counter the BJP on issues like hike in the prices of fuel, cooking gas and others,” said Nabendu Mahali, a Trinamul spokesperson in Purulia. Trinamul leaders also acknowledged that the defeat in the Assembly polls had broken the backbone of the BJP to a great extent and was evident in the trend of supporters and local leaders of the saffron camp switching sides. Even on Martyrs’ Day, the trend to desert the BJP and join Trinamul continued at several places in Bengal. On Wednesday, a group of BJP leaders and workers in Jhargram, Bankura and Purulia joined Trinamul. Asked about the success of Wednesday’s virtual event, Trinamul’s national spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said: “We had set a target to reach out to one crore people through our Martyrs’ Day programme this year. According to our report, we have crossed the number. Apart from those present at viewing sites, an uncountable number of people watched Mamata’s Banerjee’s speech on social media.” Trinamul leaders in the districts said to adhere to Covid norms, they had to request a large number of people to leave venues. Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal said the event was held at no less than 3,800 booths in the south Bengal district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
