23-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC condemns suspension of Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen||The Trinamul Congress on Friday condemned the suspension of its Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen, alleging that the order was "malicious and arbitrary". Sen was on Friday suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the remaining period of the Monsoon session for snatching and tearing the statement of IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on the Pegasus row, as Upper House Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu dubbed Sen's action as an "assault on the country's parliamentary democracy". "We consider Sen's suspension as malicious and arbitrary. We condemn it. The order was without any justification and has no provision in law," TMC RS member and party's chief whip Sukhendu Shekhar Ray said in a press conference. Referring to the recent ruckus in Parliament, the TMC leader alleged that some BJP leaders belong to the same group that was responsible for "killings in Gujarat". "Why was a BJP leader denied entry into the US? In West Bengal too, they brought anti-social elements. A party which indulges in violence from day one and has a history of butchering people with an attitude of might should not lecture others," he said. The TMC MP, however, did not name anyone. "They will suspend us and the people will suspend them," Ray said. He further alleged that Union minister Hardeep Puri was abusive towards Sen, a charge denied by the minister. Derek O'Brien said his party will soon provide evidence that the minister heckled Sen. "After the cameras went off yesterday, certain incidents took place inside the Rajya Sabha. If Sukhendu Shekhar Ray or any TMC MP tells you what happened, you might think they are biased. "Over the next few days, we will convene a press conference where we will give you non-TMC witnesses to the incident, he claimed. Meanwhile, a party leader said TMC's Mahua Moitra has given a privilege notice against IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw over the Pegasus issue, alleging that the minister had lied to the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata made TMC parliamentary party's chairperson||TMC MPs have unanimously chosen party supremo Mamata Banerjee, who is also the chief minister of Bengal, as the chairperson of its parliamentary party. Announcing this at a press conference in Delhi, Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien said she has been the guiding force behind the TMC parliamentary party for a long time. "We are just formalising a reality. Our chairperson is a seven-time Member of Parliament. She has the vision to guide the parliamentary party. She has the experience and insight. She was anyway guiding us," he said. The decision has been taken both at a conceptual and tactical level, the Trinamul Congress (TMC) leader said. "She has been a call away always. We feel more empowered," O'Brien said. He also said that all TMC MPs unanimously chose Mamata as their leader. Mamata is not a member of parliament. CM to scan replies Amid reports that her government's departments do not send answers to parliamentary questions on time, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has decided to scan and approve all such replies filed by additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries among others before they are submitted, a senior official said. Chief Secretary HK Dwivedi, in a message, has directed the secretaries to send him the replies, which then would be forwarded to the CM for a final nod, the official said on Friday. "It has come to the government's notice that replies to the parliamentary questions are not always processed in time. Henceforth, the additional chief secretaries, joint secretaries, secretaries have been asked to submit their replies to the chief secretary. "He will then forward them to the competent authority, that is the chief minister, for approval," he stated. Meanwhile, a retired IAS officer, who had served as the chief secretary of the state, told PTI that it is "possibly the first time a chief minister will be going through the replies of ACS or other secretaries meant to be submitted to Parliament. This can also be a politically-driven decision". According to another former bureaucrat, the move was an "unprecedented" one. "In my 29 years of service, I have not come across such a move. This has never been the practice so far... Quite unusual, I must say," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 793 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||Bengal on Thursday logged 966 Covid-19 recoveries, 793 new infections and 13 deaths, recording a drop in its total number of active cases for the 32nd day on the trot. The state’s total active cases fell by 186 to 12,205 on Thursday, which was also the 18th straight day of less than 1,000 new infections in a day detected since the second wave. Bengal’s recovery rate is currently at its all-time high of 98.01 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.33. Calcutta logged 57 new cases and four deaths. “The next important milestones we have set our sights on are a recovery rate of over 98.5 and fewer than 10,000 active cases,” said a minister. With Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts worst hit in the second wave, logging 57 and 92 new infections, Thursday was also the 15th consecutive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new cases. Twenty-one districts reported double-digit figures while Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.81 per cent on Thursday. Of the 13 deaths, four were reported from Calcutta and three from North 24-Parganas. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday, while Jalapiguri, Nadia, East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.21 lakh Covid-19 cases in all since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.9 1 lakh recoveries and 18,040 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Crackdown on Covid rule flout at tourist spots in Bengal||Administrations in several districts across the state are keeping a close watch on tourists and hotels and even cracking the whip on those violating directives that mandate carrying RT-PCR negative reports or complete vaccination certificates while visiting tourist spots. Hoteliers in some districts have been told to maintain separate registers for reports and certificates. Officials at tourist places like Digha, Santiniketan and Purulia have directed hoteliers not to allow anyone to check in if they do not have a document to certify complete vaccination or report of a negative RT-PCR test done 72 hours prior to the journey. The administration in East Midnapore’s popular sea resort Digha has been cracking the whip on tourists arriving without proper documents and went to the extent of sealing a hotel for not adhering to the directive. The administration has also sent back thousands of tourists over the past few days for not possessing the necessary documents. The strict action has ruffled the feathers of hoteliers in Digha as around 10 per cent of the 600-odd hotels in Digha and Shankarpur had to be shut down in the past few days because of low footfall. “People are opting for a day tour instead of staying at our hotels to avoid hazards over protocol. This is hitting us hard financially,” said Bipradas Chakraborty, the joint secretary of the Digha-Shankarpur Hoteliers’ Association. In Bolpur, senior police officers headed by additional superintendent of police Surajit Kumar Dey held a meeting with hoteliers where he directed them to maintain a separate registrar to write down Covid-related information and documents of tourists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Dainik Bhaskar raids a dangerous game of autocracy: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday mounted a scathing offensive on the BJP over the income tax raids in Dainik Bhaskar offices, calling it an attack on free press before expressing her solidarity with the media organisation and the journalist fraternity at large. The Bengal chief minister, who issued a stern statement on Twitter against the IT raids earlier in the day, broached the subject herself at a news conference in the afternoon. “Today, what has been happening with Dainik Bhaskar since the morning, the way journalists and others in the media house are being bulldozed in the name of income tax raids, I totally condemn this…. Keep fighting, the whole nation is with you,” said Mamata. Dainik Bhaskar is a Hindi daily newspaper, ranked among the top dailies in the world in terms of circulation. “When the Parliament is in session and such a big scandal is unearthed, it is the duty of the Prime Minister, the Union home minister, to stand on the floor of the House and give a statement, to give information to the countrymen. Instead of doing so, they are now bulldozing the people who are raising their voice. Dainik Bhaskar, for instance…. A dangerous game of autocracy,” Mamata said. The Trinamul Congress chief, who had rained fire on the BJP and its government at the Centre over the Pegasus controversy on Wednesday, accused the saffron camp on Thursday of being shameless. “Two-three days ago, the Pegasus revelations… and today, they went to the Dainik Bhaskar offices. The reason? They (Dainik Bhaskar) had been reporting boldly, fearlessly… when the Uttar Pradesh government was throwing countless bodies (of Covid-19 victims) into the Ganga, they reported it first. They were also very critical of the Pegasus issue,” she said, urging everybody to join forces against such acts, to close the ranks against the BJP in good time. The chief minister once again showed how she has taped up the cameras of her iPhone after the Pegasus-related revelations as no one was safe now. Holding aloft her phone for all to see, she said: “This phone, the plaster… their mouths should be plastered, those doing it. This is my symbolic protest.” “Of what use are these phones now? Will people get justice?” she asked, going on to reiterate how the conversations in a key strategy meeting of her party — comprising herself, poll consultant Prashant Kishor, and senior leaders Subrata Bakshi and Abhishek Banerjee — before the Assembly election had allegedly been recorded through the Pegasus spyware on Kishor’s phone. “What is the point of keeping the phone anymore anyway? It should either be put into the freezer — we use it for work, don’t we — so that it goes permanently to sleep in the cold. Or get rid of it forever, perform the last rites of the phone,” she said. “Can the world run like this, or should it? If people’s voices are silenced, what is left to live with?” she asked. Mamata said if all fundamentals of democracy were weakened, there would be nothing left of it. “Without a government, nobody can purchase these types of instruments from Israel. The government of India purchased this. To capture the democratic rights of the people, all their rights… even judges, who are giving justice to the people.” She once again asserted that the alleged Pegasus scandal was bigger than the Watergate scandal in the US, involving the administration of President Richard Nixon from 1972 to 1974, which led to his resignation. “The Pegasus scandal is larger than the Watergate scandal, more than a Super-Super-Super Emergency…. Such Hitler-esque methods of ruling by fear, how long can this possibly go on?” she asked. “The media is scared and intimidated. They (BJP) have captured the judiciary with this (hacking). Leaders of political parties not allowed to speak. Nobody is allowed to speak. Every impartial institution in this nation has been politicised. Every agency has been turned into a variant of Pegasus. A to Z, various kinds of Pegasus have been created,” she added. “They don’t even trust their own officers, their own ministers. Even many in the RSS had their phones hacked.” In a tweet earlier in the day, Mamata said: “The attack on journalists & media houses is yet another BRUTAL attempt to stifle democracy. #DainikBhaskar bravely reported the way @narendramodi ji mishandled the entire #COVID crisis and led the country to its most horrifying days amid a raging pandemic. (1/2).” She added: “I strongly condemn this vindictive act that aims to suppress voices that bring out the TRUTH. It's a grave violation that undermines the very principles of democracy. Urging everyone in the Media to stay strong. Together we shall never let the autocratic forces succeed! (2/2).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal centralises auction of sand quarries amid complaints||The Bengal government on Thursday decided to put in place a centralised system for the auction of sand quarries amid complaints that local politicians were controlling the auction system, hurting the state’s interest. “The cabinet approved a new sand mining policy. Under the new system, auction of sand quarries will be done by the West Bengal Mineral Development and Trading Corporation (that functions under the industry department) instead of district magistrates,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee after a cabinet meeting at Nabanna. So far, districts controlled the sand auction process. “Some goons are lifting sand, stones and coal illegally. Even if sand quarries are auctioned for five years, complaints are coming up that areas outside the auctioned area are dug, leaving an impact on the environment,” Mamata said. An insider explained the problems. “As sand in excess of what’s permitted is lifted, the state loses revenue. The illegal digging is impacting river embankments. Moreover, battles over the spoils from the sand quarries have led to intra-party clashes causing embarrassment for the ruling party,” said a bureaucrat. The process will now be monitored by the chief secretary and the home secretary. Sources explained how local powerful leaders were currently controlling the sand trade in the districts. "The auction is done by the DMs and the leaders often prevent businessmen from outside from taking part in the auction. They try to push traders close to them to secure the deal through auction and control the entire mining process,” said a source. “As they (the leaders) are very powerful, the district authorities often are helpless.” Officials said that with centralised auction, interested businessmen from anywhere could take part in the process and that would generate more revenue for the state. “Local leaders can wield influence on district authorities but not on the chief secretary and home secretary,” added a source. Sources also said this would help the ruling party ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “As the wings of the local leaders will be clipped, intra party fighting over the spoils of mining would reduce. This could give an edge to the ruling party ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha polls as it would like to win maximum number of seats in the 2024 polls to oust the BJP from Delhi," said another source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Both Dilip and Suvendu post Peary Chand Mitra's wrong photograph||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and the party’s Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari, paying their respects on Thursday on social media to the pioneer of Bengali novels Peary Chand Mitra on his 207th birth anniversary, posted the picture of acclaimed fantasy-fiction author Dakshinaranjan Mitra Majumdar instead. The same mistake by the duo who have hardly seen eye to eye since Adhikari’s star rise in the party became a talking point. “Finally, Dilipda and Suvendu are on the same page...They made the same mistake,” said a BJP insider. “I pay my tributes to the first novelist of Bengali literature, Peary Chand Mitra, on his birthday,” Ghosh wrote on his Facebook page. Adhikari tweeted: “My tributes to the author who introduced Bengali prose. Famously known by his pseudo name; Tekchand Thakur, fondly remembering Peary Chand Mitra on his birth anniversary.” Netizens commented that the posts had  Dakshinaranjan Mitra Majumdar’s picture, which was later removed. This joins the list of BJP blunders such as Union home minister garlanding a tribal statue and calling it that of  freedom fighter Birsa Munda, BJP national party chief J.P. Nadda referring to Swami Vivekananda as Vivekananda Thakur, Ghosh crediting Iswarchandra Vidyasagar with penning Sahaj Paath, and the Bengal BJP’s Twitter handle posting Visva-Bharati as Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace and attributing the statement to Nadda. Ghosh told this paper that it was done from the office and did not come to his notice. “It was an uncommon picture,” he added. Adhikari did not take calls from this paper. Bengal BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya took this paper’s call but refused to comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata announces women’s cash scheme launch on September 1||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said Lakshmir Bhandar, a scheme she had promised the women of Bengal ahead of Assembly polls, would be launched on September 1, her announcement marking the formal start of one of the state’s biggest direct benefit transfer schemes. “We had promised the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme ahead of the elections. The beneficiaries will start getting money under the scheme from September 1,” said the chief minister after a cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Thursday. Under the scheme, women aged between 25 and 60 years from families under general castes would get Rs 500 and women from SC and ST families Rs 1,000 a month. Only working women with jobs of a permanent nature and pensioners would be exempt. The state government has primarily estimated 1.6 crore beneficiaries. A sum of Rs 12,000 crore would be spent for the project annually. “We will launch the Duare Sarkar programme from August 16 and it will continue till September 15. All eligible beneficiaries for Lakshmir Bhandar scheme can register their names under it through Duare Sarkar camps,” Mamata said. Bureaucrats contacted by this paper said the scheme was “unique” but also costly for a state with strained finances. “In a situation when income opportunities for a large section of the rural populace have shrunk in the past one-and-a-half years, the money will definitely boost the rural economy. Direct cash benefit schemes always create more demand in rural areas. The MGNREGS has already given a boost to the economy even in remote areas,” said a source. Other officials, however, expressed scepticism on whether the state government would manage to strike a balance between development and welfare schemes, considering the state's strained financial condition amid the ongoing pandemic. “The scheme (Lakshmir Bhandar) will require Rs 12,000 crore a year, equivalent to annual budgets of three large departments--PWD, PHE and irrigation. I hope development projects don’t take a backseat because of this scheme,” said a bureaucrat. Departments such as PWD, PHE and irrigation have been barred from taking up new projects worth over Rs 1.5 crore. In case of other departments, schemes worth over Rs 30 lakh were not being allowed, said a senior official. However, sources in Nabanna said they expect the state’s revenue generation to go up from August with Covid curbs getting eased. “It is expected that once we start generating our own revenue of Rs 4,500 crore every month, we will be able to shoulder the burden to some extent. If the Centre clears the backlog of nearly Rs 50,000 crore under various schemes, the state will not face any major problem,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Police arrest 22 for intra-Trinamul clash on Martyrs' Day||Police on Thursday arrested 22 persons in connection with the armed clash between two rival factions of Trinamul Congress that left two persons, including an elderly woman, dead and six critically injured at Haroa in North 24-Parganas on Wednesday. Police began a murder case against 31 persons on the basis of two separate complaints lodged by the victims’ family members with Haroa police. Prime accused and Trinamul’s local area committee president Jaggeshwar Pramanik is absconding. Those arrested were produced before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Basirhat and sent to 10 days of police custody. The incident has come as a major embarrassment to Trinamul as it happened on Martyrs' Day and goes against chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s call to Trinamul workers to work together in public interest. Party insiders claimed the incident was a fallout of a feud between warring factions led by Trinamul youth wing leader Tapan Roy and Pramanik over the control of Mohonpur gram panchayat. “We can't accept such barbaric acts. The party does not support this. We have categorically told the police to nab the culprits,” said district chief of Trinamul’s North 24-Parganas unit Jyotipriya Mullick. Basirhat police district SP Joby Thomas K. said: “Most of the accused have been arrested. We are in search of the rest. A big police team with combat force personnel has been deployed in the area.” Trinamul supporter Laxmi Bala, 75, was killed when she fell down while trying to flee from the spot and got trampled upon. Sanjib Jana, 35, died on the spot when a bullet hit him. Among the six critically injured persons, three had suffered bullet injuries and are still fighting for their lives at RG Kar Medical College Hospital in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Kalimpong Trinamul functionary files written complaints with top leaders against Shanta Chhetri||A senior Kalimpong Trinamul functionary, considered a flag-bearer of the party in the district, has filed written complaints with top leaders, including party supremo Mamata Banerjee, against Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri. Trinamul leader Chawang Bhutia has accused Chhetri, who is also the party’s district president in Kalimpong, of nepotism and corruption. “She (Chhetri) is from Kurseong and is an outsider in our district. Ever since she has been made the district president, she is running the party on her own and never consults others who are with Trinamul for almost a decade now. During the past few months, she made some changes in important posts and has such people who are new and lack mass support,” Bhutia, who is in Calcutta currently, said over phone. According to Bhutia, in 2012, he had opened the Kalimpong unit of Trinamul (it was not a separate district then) and was its president. In 2014, he was the president of the Trinamul (hill) committee. Party insiders said Bhutia and Chhetri had differences ever since the latter was made the party president of Kalimpong district. “But things took an ugly turn recently, as Chhetri removed him from the post of the district Youth Trinamul president. Bhutia has been claiming that his removal was made without the consent of state leaders,” said a party leader. Bhutia, who sent letters to party supremo Mamata Banerjee, party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and to Trinamul leaders Subrata Bakshi and Aroop Biswas, said Chhetri has no authority to remove him. “She can’t make such a decision as I am the founder of Trinamul’s branch committee and have struggled for years against the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. We also have information that she has indulged in corruption and furnished all details to the state leaders,” said the disgruntled Trinamul leader. The new youth Trinamul president of Kalimpong, Bhutia said, joined the party only a year ago. “All other leaders of the youth wing, who put efforts to build the party's base in Kalimpong, are against this decision,” he said. Chhetri, when contacted, was brief in her reaction. “I have been appointed as Trinamul head in Kalimpong by top leaders of the party. Whatever changes I made in the district were with consent from appropriate quarters.  I prefer not to comment on some other issues that the Trinamul leader (Bhutia) has raised,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Shock whiff in jumbo death in Jalpaiguri ||A wild tusker was found dead at Sholodanga village near the Bodaganj forest range of Baikunthapur forest division in Jalpaiguri on Thursday. After preliminary probe, the foresters have opined that it was a normal death. “It seems that the elephant died of natural causes. We can confirm the cause of death only after an autopsy,” said Hari Krishnan, the divisional forest officer of Baikunthapur. However, a section of locals suspect that the jumbo might have got electrocuted as electric wires were found dangling near the spot. A section of villagers said some locals had been laying power cables in an illegal manner in their fields and plantations to thwart wild boars and elephants from entering the hamlet. “Some electric wires were found dangling from a jackfruit tree near the spot where the jumbo carcass was spotted. We believe the foresters will find out whether the animal has died of electrocution,” said Parimal Roy, a villager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC allows Bengal govt to file affidavit on NHRC report||Calcutta High Court on Thursday allowed the Bengal government to file an affidavit against a report submitted by a committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission on violence following the counting of votes on May 2. When the case came up for hearing before a five-judge bench of the high court on Thursday, advocate-general Kishore Datta said the state government wanted to file an affidavit against the NHRC panel’s report, which the court granted. The bench allowed the government time till Monday for filing the affidavit and fixed July 28 for hearing the case again. In response to an earlier order by the court, the NHRC chairman had constituted an eight-member committee to visit the houses of alleged post-poll violence victims. In the report submitted by the panel to the court, the government was accused of inaction and some Trinamul leaders, including a minister, were blamed for the violence. The government and Trinamul dismissed the allegations and said the report was politically motivated. Reacting to the report, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said: “They (BJP) have no shame. The mother of a thief shouts the most…. “Post-poll violence”, kichhu hoyni ekhaney (nothing happened here)! A handful of sporadic incidents, under the Election Commission of India… pre-poll, not post-poll. I am not going to say anything as the case is sub judice. Let the court decide.” Seeking to refute charges of the post-poll violence, Mamata added: “The law and order machinery had been under the commission till May 3. On May 4, the governor gave me as a caretaker the control, but I had no police at my disposal. Because everything had been changed by the commission, from the blocks to the districts. On May 5, I took the oath in the morning, after that, I undertook a total change of the set-up of the police and civil administration across the state, which could control all of Bengal.” During the hearing on Thursday, Priyanka Tibrewal, the counsel appearing for petitioners seeking a CBI probe into the post-poll violence cases, said: “My clients have sought CBI investigation into each incident of violence. After hearing the matter on July 28, the bench could decide whether the cases would be handed over to the central investigating agency.” Presiding judge of the division bench, Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, said alleged rape cases would not be scanned by the court as the names of the victims could not be made public. These cases would be directly handed over for probe to the investigating agency that the court would decide on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||New principal for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Bankura||The school managing committee of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya suspended its principal Kamar Kumar Rajoria and replaced him with the principal of another central school on Wednesday. J.K. Mahapatra, the principal of JNV in Durgapur, has been given the additional charge to run the school. Rajoria had been arrested in connection with a child trafficking case. “The principal has been under temporary suspension and a police probe is on. So, the principal has been replaced by another person. The principal of JNV Durgapur will be in additional charge of the school shortly,” said K Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate and deputy commissioner of the JNV Bankura’s school management committee. Sources said the district had already sent a complete report to the state government on the incident of child trafficking, which would be sent to the Union ministry of education. Aiyar said they had received a directive from the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights to continue campaigns in other schools of Bankura against child trafficking. The police had arrested Rajoria and eight others and rescued five children, including three girls, who were allegedly being trafficked. The police said the woman, who claimed to be the mother of the five children, had sold the babies for around Rs 2 lakh. Senior police officers said they suspected the existence of a child trafficking racket in the incident. “We will conduct a vigil on the immovable properties of the arrested people. We will take details of call records to investigate whether the racket is connected beyond the state,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura police chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratory set up on experimental basis at super specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri||A Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) has come up on an experimental basis at the super specialty hospital here. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal, said the first batch of eight swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients were collected at the new lab. “The swab samples and RT-PCR reports have been sent to the regional centre of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at Bhubaneswar for verification. After we receive an approval from the ICMR, RTPCR will be carried out at the lab here and reports will also be issued from the facility. We are expecting the approval within the next two-three days,” Roy added. At least 800 samples can be tested in a day at the laboratory in Jalpaiguri. Until now, samples from the district were sent to the NBMCH and it would take at least two days to get the reports. Once the new VRDL becomes operational, the load on the laboratory at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) – the oldest such lab in north Bengal – would considerably reduce, said the health official. “In due course, the number of tests can be increased. We are all apprehensive of a third wave of the pandemic when there might be a spike in Covid cases. At that time, this lab would largely help us for an early diagnosis of samples,” the officer on special duty added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Tea garden employees robbed of Rs 26 lakh at gunpoint near Siliguri||A group of armed burglars held three employees of a tea estate at gunpoint on the outskirts of Siliguri on Thursday afternoon and decamped with around Rs 26 lakh that was to be disbursed as wages among workers. Sources said three employees of the Thanjhora tea estate located in Kharibari block of Siliguri subdivision had drawn the cash from a bank in Siliguri. “The trio were intercepted by the miscreants while returning to the garden with the cash. The amount was supposed to be paid as wages to the tea workers,” said a source. Sumit Ghosh, secretary of north Bengal branch of Tea Association of India (TAI), said: “An SUV intercepted the vehicle ferrying the trio to the estate at a locality under Kharibari police station of Darjeeling district. A man, who was donning a fatigue and carrying a firearm, came out of it and asked the driver to get down and fired blanks. Meanwhile, another four-five youths on bikes reached the spot. They held the garden employees and the driver at gunpoint and decamped with the cash that was in a trunk.” Thanjhora tea estate is a member-garden of the association. In recent years, this is the first such incident of cash loot that has been reported from the Terai tea belt. “The incident has left us worried. Managers from a number of other gardens have called us expressing concern as in most tea estates wages are disbursed in cash,” Ghosh said. Later in the evening, the authorities of Thanjhora tea estate visited Kharibari police station and spoke with senior police officers. The police have started an investigation into the incident and launched search to nab the burglars, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Two Trinamul women’s wing members attacked in Cooch Behar, finger at BJP||Suchismita Deb Sharma, the district president of Trinamul women’s wing, and her party colleague Parbati Chanda were beaten up by a group of suspected BJP supporters on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town on Thursday. Suchismita and Parbati have suffered serious injuries and are being treated at the MJN Medical College & Hospital. Some people have been detained for interrogation. BJP leaders, however, have denied the charges. Around 10am, Suchismita, along with some party supporters, went to Panigram, a village near Ghughumari close to the district headquarters, after getting information that on Wednesday, which was the Trinamul’s Martyrs’ Day event, BJP supporters had allegedly resorted to violence. “When I reached the place, a group of BJP supporters assembled and started attacking us. When they started beating some of our women supporters, I intervened and they attacked me. I suffered injuries in my head and right hand. The police should take immediate steps and arrest all those involved in the incident,” Suchismita, also a member of the Zilla Parishad, said. “Since 2019 (Lok Sabha elections, in which BJP won in Cooch Behar), BJP workers have unleashed a reign of terror here and do not allow us to hold party functions. Yesterday (Tuesday) too, they lobbed bombs and ransacked homes of our workers,” she added. The news of the attack spread across the district, prompting Trinamul supporters to block roads in a number of locations in protest. A delegation of Trinamul leaders have filed a complaint with Kotwali police. Police from Kotwali police station also pacified the protesters at the roadblocks. Suchismita and Parbati were brought to the medical college and hospital. Later, Malati Rava, the district BJP president, went to the hospital and met Suchismita to enquire about her health. Rava, however, brushed aside the assault charges. “It is not BJP but some Trinamul workers who indulge in violence at Panigram regularly. Many supporters of our party have been attacked and their houses ransacked. Whatever happened today is the fallout of inner differences among Trinamul lobbies,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Youth hacked to death in tea garden in Alipurduar district||A 35-year-old man was hacked to death by unidentified persons in a tea garden in the Madarihat-Birpara block of Alipurduar district on Thursday morning. Senior police officers have visited the spot and are in search of the attackers who escaped after the crime. A police picket has been raised in the area. According to police sources, Boke Bhai Lama, the victim, was a resident of Lankapara tea estate. He was associated with the transportation of dolomite and other minor minerals from different locations. When Lama came out of his house in the garden around 11am, five men intercepted him. They were carrying sharp weapons and hacked him several times. When the businessman collapsed, the attackers fled. Sunity Tamang, his wife, raised an alert and soon, tea workers and their families arrived. The victim was the brother-in-law of Sanjay Lama, the Trinamul Congress president of Madarihat-Birpara block. “We have no idea why he was attacked. The police should arrest all the accused,” said Sanjay. The Lankapara plantation has been closed for years. Kuntal Banerjee, the additional superintendent of police of Jaigaon, said: “We suspect the deceased man had a business-related dispute with some others. His wife has filed a complaint with us and named all the five persons. We are in search of them.” Youth murdered Yarul Sheikh, 20, a resident of Uttar Lakkhipur village under Englishbazar police station of Malda, was stabbed to death by a group of youths on Wednesday. Sources said Sheikh had been to a market at Nagrai with some friends to attend a fair that was organised on the occasion of IdulZoha. At the fair, he had an altercation with some youths, one of whom took out a dagger and attacked him. Sheikh died on the way to Malda Medical College and Hospital. Police said all the five accused youths had been identified and searches were on to round them up. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
