24-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul nominates Jawhar Sircar for Rajya Sabha bypolls||The Trinamul Congress on Saturday nominated former bureaucrat Jawhar Sircar as its candidate for the upcoming Rajya Sabha by-election in the state. The Election Commission had on July 16 said that bypoll to the Rajya Sabha seat from Bengal vacated by Dinesh Trivedi earlier this year will be held on August 9. "We are delighted to nominate Jawhar Sircar in the Upper House of Parliament," a party statement said. Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service and was also the former CEO of Prasar Bharati, the ruling party in the state said. "His contribution to the public service shall help us serve our country even better," it said. Reacting to his nomination, Sircar said, "I was a bureaucrat. I am not a political person but I would work for development of the people and raise the issues concerning the masses in parliament," he said. The bypoll to the Rajya Sabha seat from the state will be held if the opposition BJP fields its candidate for the same, otherwise, the TMC candidate will be declared elected unopposed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Kailash Vijayvargiya reappears in front of BJP leaders for the first time after Assembly polls||Several Bengal BJP leaders were up for a “shock” on Friday afternoon when the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya reappeared in front of them for the first time after the Assembly polls and conducted a virtual meeting rolling out a set of instructions for them to follow in the coming days. As Vijayvargiya, who helmed the party’s poll strategy in Bengal, had not been seen in Calcutta since the election results were out on May 2, a significant majority of the state leaders were under the impression that he would be removed for the poor show at the hustings. “We were awaiting the good news of his removal as the Bengal minder... But he reappeared and even gave us lectures on things to do,” said a state BJP functionary. “It’s shocking for most of us,” added the source. Vijayvargiya , one of the four national general secretaries of the party, had became the Bengal minder in July 2015. State leaders think he created the wrong impression that the BJP would bag more than 200 seats in the polls. Many believe his emphasis on inorganic growth of the BJP in the state was one of the reasons behind the entry of turncoats of all hues in the saffron party over the last couple of years. The strategy adopted by Vijayvargiya, multiple party sources said, not only pushed the BJP’s oldtimers on the back foot but also created a negative image of the BJP that cost it dear in the recent Assembly polls. “The fact that everyone, from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to home minister Amit Shah, believed that the party was about to get 200plus seats in the Assembly polls was based on his assessment... By making an irrational assessment, he created a bubble that finally burst,” said a BJP’s central leader while adding that he was also expecting Vijayvargiya’s exit. Since the election results came out on May 2, the factionridden Bengal unit of the BJP was unanimous only on one point as a majority of the state leaders wanted a change in the post of Bengal minder. Posters demanding his removal had appeared in several parts of Calcutta last month. The state unit’s wish, however, seems to be swatted away one more time as party sources suggested that Vijayvargiya as was likely to continue for the time being. “The central leaders know that there are reservations about Kailashji and that's why none of the state leaders were told about this meeting before... Everyone was informed that an important meeting with central leaders would be held and so all other programmes were cancelled. When people logged in, they were shocked as Kailashji was the main speaker,” said a state BJP vicepresident. The fact that the leaders were apprehensive about the reaction from the state leaders became clear as all other participants — except Vijayvargiya himself, his deputy Arvind Menon, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and state unit’s general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty — were kept in mute mode. A state leader told this correspondent that Vijayvargiya, in his address, didn’t mention the party’s poll debacle, the exit of his closest aide Mukul Roy — former defacto Trinamul number 2 who had joined BJP in 2017 and went back to his old political fold after becoming a BJP MLA — or the general mood of discontent in the party. “His address was as if nothing had happened and no one liked it,” said a source. Vijayvargiya, a source said, instructed the leaders to observe Guru Purnima on Saturday besides telling the state leaders to prepare properly so that the four MPs from Bengal, who have been given ministerial berths in the union government, are given a befitting welcome when they return from Delhi. “We will now have to felicitate these ministers on Kailshiji’s behest…We have also been asked to visit vaccination centres and tell people what a great job the PM is doing by providing free vaccines,” a source present at the meeting said. “ State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu who was present at the meeting said: “Our national president JP Nadda met all state minders, chiefs and other functionaries on Thursday evening. He had given certain instructions which Kailashji passed onto us on Friday.” The last time Vijayvargiya appeared in front of the state leaders — though he didn’t speak — was on June 29 when the state unit’s executive committee meeting was held. He was seen sitting beside Nadda at Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Unsuccessful HS candidates gherao school heads, ransack campuses ||Thousands of unsuccessful Higher Secondary candidates, along with their guardians, assaulted and gheraoed school heads, ransacked campuses and blocked roads at several places in Bengal with a demand to announce them qualified in this year’s examination. The unsuccessful examinees were accompanied by a few others who claimed to have received lower marks compared to what they expected. The West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education on Thursday announced that 97.69 per cent of around eight lakh candidates had passed Class XII this year. Sources said around 20,000 students among those who appeared for the exams had failed. The agitation took place on a day when schools were asked to distribute mark-sheets. The Class XII exams couldn’t be held this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The council prepared the results by giving 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to the performance in the Class XI annual exams. The combined score was added to the marks obtained in the 30-mark practical or 20-mark project paper to arrive at the final score. “It is very unfortunate that heads of hundreds of high schools across the state were not only gheraoed but manhandled by students when teachers had no role to play in the results. We have requested the higher secondary council to take examinations for those who have failed immediately. We fear about the security of our colleagues,” said Chandan Maiti, an office-bearer of the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses. At Tiljala Girls’ High School in Calcutta, students, along with their guardians, ransacked CCTV cameras and furniture. The headmistress, Avinanda Ghosh, was not spared either. “Out of 152 candidates from my school, 56 have failed. Those students came and ransacked the schools and beat me up. I was forced to inform police about the vandalism,” said Ghosh. Headmasters of various high schools in South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly were physically assaulted or held back in school till late on Friday evening. Nivedita Nag, the headmistress of Ushangini Girls’ High School in Chandernagore, was gheroaed by unsuccessful examinees for several hours. “I am really helpless as we have nothing to do with the result. I requested the students to give a written memorandum to me but they refused,” said Nag. Nag added that 23 of 157 examinees at the school had failed this year. Rampurhat Girls’ High School students, who failed to clear the exam, also gheraoed the headmistress and accused teachers of providing average marks to them. Similar agitation was reported from South 24-Parganas, Nadia, North Dinajpur and Jalpaiguri. In districts like Nadia and North Dinajpur, students blocked roads demanding that they be declared passed as no examination had been conducted. In North Dinajpur, over 70 girls of Chopra Girls’ High School walked up to NH 27 — the principal highway that connects vast areas of north Bengal and the entire northeast with the rest of the country — and staged a road blockade.“We didn’t appear in the exams and yet we failed. How can it happen? Also, all of us are Class XII students which means, we had passed in the final exams of Class XI. If the marks have been allotted as per the results of Class XI exams, how can we fail? We want the higher secondary council to reassess our results,” said a student. A headmaster said as there was 100 per cent pass in the Madhyamik this year, many higher secondary examinees were expecting a similar result. “When some students failed, they couldn’t accept the results. Besides, many schools had turned into quarantine centres last year and students couldn’t write Class XI exams. It seems those students failed in Class XII,” said the headmaster. A senior official of the Council of Higher Secondary Education said the students had been allotted marks on the basis of a system we had worked out. “If the government asks us to conduct tests for those students who failed, we are ready for it,” said the official. The 69 unsuccessful students of Santipur Bagh Anchra High School in Nadia, along with their guardians, blocked a local road for two hours with a similar demand. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri and Avijit Sinha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 842 new infections and 16 deaths||Bengal on Friday logged 942 Covid-19 recoveries, 842 infections and 16 deaths, recording a drop in its total of active cases for the 33rd consecutive day. The total of active cases fell by 116 to 12,089 on Friday, the 19th successive day of less than a thousand new infections detected since the onset of the second wave. Bengal now has a total of over 15.22 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was detected in March last year. It includes nearly 14.92 lakh recoveries and 18,056 deaths. The recovery rate is currently at the state’s all-time high of 98.02 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.32. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.72 per cent on Friday. With Calcutta logging 57 new infections and North 24-Parganas 87, Friday was the 16th consecutive day since the second wave struck, when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures of new infections in a day, while North and South Dinajpurs, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Of the 16 deaths, none was reported from the city, and three from North 24-Parganas. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while Jalapiguri, Malda and Howrah logged just one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Primary school teacher takes up initiative to get pregnant women vaccinated||A primary school teacher in West Burdwan’s Jamuria has taken up the initiative to get pregnant women and lactating mothers, most of whom are tribals, vaccinated as part of his “responsibility” towards society. Three months ago, Deep Narayan Nayak, popularly known as “Rastar Master (Master of Streets),” conducted a survey at villages around Tilka Maji Primary School where he teaches and found that most villagers were yet to take Covid vaccines. He also found that they did not even apply for vaccination. “The villagers have a notion that people are dying after vaccinations and so they were reluctant. I counselled them, informing them about the danger of a possible third wave of Covid and convinced them to take the vaccine. Being a teacher of the local school, I have a positive influence on them and I exploited that,” said Nayak. While he registered the names of 719 pregnant women and lactating mothers in the Cowin app, Nayak contacted the local government health centre for the vaccination drive. The Centre and state government have taken up an initiative to vaccinate pregnant women and lactating mothers on a priority basis. “I applied on the Cowin app on behalf of them with documents two months ago,” said Nayak. The vaccination programme started from July 20 and on the first day 100 women from half a dozen villages were vaccinated at Akhalpur Health Centre in Jamuria. Nayak hired a bus to carry the women to the health centre and drop them back home. “I have bought them food and paracetamol tablets it they if required to treat post-vaccination effects. I am monitoring their health,” he said. “We thought that if somebody takes the vaccine they will die immediately. Rastar Master convinced us and we are thankful to him for saving our lives,” said Puja Hansda, one of the women who was vaccinated on Wednesday. Rest of the pregnant women and lactating mothers will be vaccinated in phases. “Many of the women are mothers of my students. I will take a similar initiative once vaccines for minors arrive,” he said. Nayak became to be known as “Raster Master” after he started taking informal classes under trees or on the streets since last year to beat the prolonged lockdown. He used to take classes so the students do not drop the habit of going to school and studying. He serves them books, copies and tiffin to his students. He uses his salary to meet the expenses. “I have been getting salaries without working since last year and so it is my duty to do something for the society. I am thankful to the doctors and nurses at the health centre,” said Nayak. Block medical officer of health Abinash Beshra said the initiative was good. “The teacher approached us for his initiative and we too cooperated with him. It is a good initiative,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Bankura child trafficking case: CID takes over probe||CID on Friday took over the Bankura child trafficking case in which the principal of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya has been arrested. Police officers said after nine persons were arrested and five children were rescued from the custody of the accused principal and one of  her female colleagues, the state government wanted to have a deeper probe of the incident. “The CID had taken over the case. They will do further investigation,” said Bankura police Chief Dhritiman Sarkar. On Friday, a five-member team of the CID headed by an inspector reached Bankura police station and formally took over charge of the  case. The CID sleuths interrogated five persons, including the principal of central school Kamal Kumar Rajoria, for several hours on Friday to know details about the children. Bankura police on Sunday night arrested Rajoria and seven others, including a female colleague of the principal and her banker husband, for their connection with a child racket. The principal was replaced on Thursday. Police sources said, one of the arrested persons, who worked as a middleman to sell the children, had recently bought a plot and was preparing to construct a new house. “We will take details of properties of the accused to know whether there were more children who have already been trafficked” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Tea garden robbery bares banking woes||The robbery of Rs 26 lakh meant for disbursal of wages in a tea garden on Thursday brought to fore the pathetic state of banking infrastructure in Bengal’s brew belt. A gang of robbers in an SUV and on bikes stopped some employees of the Thanjhora tea estate, opened fire in air and snatched away Rs 26 lakh from them on Thursday afternoon. The garden is in the Kharibari block of the Siliguri subdivision. A customer service point (CSP) of the State Bank of India had been opened in Thanjhora in September last year. “It might sound surprising that despite having a CSP, we have to disburse the wages in cash. The primary reason is that the CSP cannot collect and disburse such a huge amount at one go. On the other hand, the workers are reluctant to visit the nearest bank and withdraw their wages. The term ‘cashless payment’ sounds good but in reality, the situation is far different,” said Amit Roy, the manager of Thanjhora. Following the Narendra Modi government’s demonetisation exercise, some initiatives were taken to develop banking infrastructure in tea gardens, most of which are at remote locations. “Yesterday’s robbery again underscored the need to switch over to the digital payment mode in tea gardens. But there has to be a proper infrastructure. We are ready to extend all possible cooperation to the banks,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary |general, Tea Association of India. He said tea companies had to bear the risk of carrying lakhs of rupees in cash to gardens through deserted routes on one hand. On the other hand, Bhattacharjee said, they have to incur the additional expenditure of two per cent cess which the Centre levies on annual cash drawings of Rs 1 crore and above. A senior trade union leader pointed out that the Modi government might consistently advocate a cashless payment system but in Bengal’s tea belt, no major move was made to make it a reality. “There are many tea estates, both in the hills and the foothills, from where the nearest bank is 10 to 15 kilometres away. This means a worker will have to lose a day’s wage if he goes to the bank to draw the cash. Unless there is a proper banking facility in the garden, the concept of cashless payment cannot be implemented in the industry,” the trade union leader said. Police visited the Thanjhora garden on Friday and spoke to the employees who were carrying the cash. They also examined the SUV in which the employees were travelling. The police, sources said, set up checkpoints in at least five locations of Kharibari and adjoining areas and are working on some leads. “We believe the investigation is in progress in the right direction,” said Santosh Nimbalkar, the superintendent of police, Darjeeling. Additional reporting by Vivek Chhetri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Rift within Trinamul Congress widens in Kalimpong district||The rift within the Trinamul Congress widened in Kalimpong district as MP and district party president Shanta Chhetri on Friday came down heavily on her colleague Chawang Bhutia who had accused the legislator of running the organisation without consultations. Without naming Bhutia who had recently filed written complaints with the party’s central leadership against her, the MP said if anybody had brought any charges against her, he would have to prove them or face consequences. “When somebody has questioned my integrity and decades of service to people, it can’t be ignored. He will have to prove it or I will have no other option than to take legal steps,” said Chhetri. The senior Trinamul leader, who has been in politics for three decades, claimed that nobody had ever raised any such allegation against her so far. “I don’t want to indulge in the dirty games of some people, who have taken party posts as their personal property. Everybody has to follow the discipline of the party, as its posts can be acquired by dedication, hard work and discipline. It is the party that reserves the right to appoint the best person for that post without pride or prejudice. All appointments took place based on majority opinion at party meetings,” the Trinamul MP said. A few days ago, Bhutia, who claims to be one of the first torchbearers of Mamata Banerjee’s party in Kalimpong, had approached some senior party leaders in Calcutta. “The MP is running the party according to her whims and without the consent of state leaders,” he had said. On Friday, Bhutia could not be contacted. A number of phone calls made to him went unanswered. Some other Trinamul leaders of Kalimpong also came out in support of Chhetri. They said last month, committees of three organisational blocks in Kalimpong had passed resolutions that said the district youth president (Bhutia was in the post then) should be removed. “It was then that the reshuffle was done. He could not accept the decision of his removal and hence, he is raising some baseless charges against the MP,” said Suman Gurung, the district coordinator of Trinamul in Kalimpong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP scan on John Barla land grab charge  ||The Bengal leadership of the BJP has started collecting details of the plots on which party MP and Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla built a house and is constructing a commercial complex. BJP insiders said senior state leaders had met and spoken to their colleagues in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts to collect the details and gauge the political ramifications which the party might face in the region. Although Barla is the MP of Alipurduar, he hails from Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat in Jalpaiguri district. The MP is accused of building a house on the tea garden’s land that was leased out to the company (that runs the estate) and encroaching on a plot of the state public works department at Chamurchi More in Banarhat and constructing a multistoried building there. The Jalpaiguri district administration had conducted a probe last week and found out that Barla does not own either of the plots. “Trinamul leaders, who had brought the issue to the administration’s notice, have been flagging the issue time and again. We are feeling awkward as we know the truth. That is why, we feel, the state leaders wanted to know the details of the issue from district leaders,” said a BJP leader in Jalpaiguri. On Thursday, some of them held a meeting with Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP president. The state leaders have also spoken to BJP officebearers in Alipurduar over the phone, said sources. Although Goswami declined comments, the BJP insiders said the state leaders wanted to know how party supporters and people in general across the Dooars – both in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar – were reacting to the charges against Barla. The state leaders, the sources said, are also likely to forward their findings in the form of a report to the central leadership in Delhi. “BJP functionaries in Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri have been asked to refrain from commenting on the issue in public. The party will also consult with legal experts,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Youth killed at Malda village||A youth was hacked to death by a group of miscreants for protesting against eve-teasing at Krishnarajtola village in Malda district early on Friday. Family members of the 28-year-old victim Indrajit Ghosh said he had recently protested against Jadav Mandal and his associates who used to disturb women and pass lewd remarks at them in the locality. Alok Rajoria, district police chief, said two persons had been arrested in connection with the murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||West Bengal||NFR plans to introduce vistadome coaches for Dooars in August||Tourists visiting north Bengal may find yet another reason to travel to the Dooars during the upcoming Durga Puja season as the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) is all set to introduce vistadome coaches from next month that will run along the Siliguri and Alipurduar route. “We intend to introduce vistadome coaches along the Siliguri-Alipurduar Junction route that moves through the Dooars from August this year. On Friday, a meeting was held with stakeholders of the tourism industry in north Bengal where proposals were sought from them on this new service. They have come up with some suggestions which will be discussed with senior railway officials,” said an official of the NFR. Samrat Sanyal, general secretary of the Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network (HHTDN),  proposed to launch that the new service  on Independence Day. “Initially, the railways had proposed Rs 755  as fare for the entire route (around 200 kilometres), while Rs 470 for a shorter route (from Siliguri to Malbazar),” said Sanyal. Debasis Maitra, the president of Eastern Himalayan Travel & Tour Operators Association (EHTTOA), has welcomed the initiative. “The railway authorities should see that people taking a ride in the vistadome coaches are provided with all necessary amenities. Also, newer options like selfie zones, halt points from where photos of the varying landscape can be clicked be explored to provide additional entertainment to tourists during travel,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Covaxin crunch forces halt to second dose in Bengal||The process to vaccinate people awaiting their second jab of Covaxin had to be halted in a majority of Bengal districts, including Calcutta, on Friday because of shortage of supply of the indigenous vaccine from the Centre. Sources in the health department said there were around three lakh people who were waiting for the second dose of Covaxin having completed the mandatory 28 days after the first dose. “As per report on Friday, two lakh people are waiting for the second dose and have crossed 42 days after their first dose. As per norms, the second dose of Covaxin will be given after 28 days of the first dose,” said a senior health official adding that there are nearly one lakh persons who have crossed the mandatory four weeks after the first dose. Sources said, as of Friday the central vaccine store at Bagbazar in Calcutta had only 5,000 doses of Covaxin. State health officials said the scarcity had developed over the past two months as the Centre did not supply adequate amounts of Covaxin during this period even after several requisitions from the state government. “We have no supply of Covaxin and had received only 40,000 Covaxin doses from the Centre yesterday (Thursday). Now most of the districts and health centres in Calcutta have no stock of Covaxin,” said a senior health official. Health officials in various districts said they had on average 8,000-10,000 persons who need to be vaccinated with a second dose of Covaxin. With a large number of people turning up at the health centres every day, officials fear that it might lead to a law and order situation. Sources said people in several districts staged demonstrations outside health centres on Friday and accused health officials of being responsible for the shortage of Covaxin. “People who are awaiting their second dose of Covaxin doses are visiting vaccination centres and getting involved in heating exchanges with our employees. We can understand their need but we have no option because of shortage of vaccines,” said a senior health official in East Burdwan. Chief medical officer of health, East Burdwan, Pranab Roy said the people were being told about the shortage of Covaxin. In Birbhum, there are around 8,000 people who are waiting for a second dose of Covaxin and the district had only 2,000 doses till Thursday. “The 2,000 doses of Covaxin had been distributed among all block and sub-divisional vaccination centres. Now we have to wait for the next supply,” said Jayanta Sukul, a deputy chief medical officer in Birbhum. In view of the shortage of vaccines, health officials in the districts have been told by the state government to halt the first dose of vaccination with Covaxin. “In view of the shortage in supply of the vaccine, we have already asked our employees not to administer Covaxin as the first shot,” said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Irrigation department plans to regularise encroached land ||The irrigation department will soon go on a drive to identify its land parcels which were encroached upon in the past few years and regularise the construction on those plots as part of an attempt to generate funds for the cash-strapped government, said a source at Nabanna. The government plans to lease out the plots to the encroachers for 99 years and generate up to Rs 600 crore. “It has been found out that many of the plots owned by the irrigation department were encroached upon. The department will identify the plots and regularise the construction on such land. The initiative will fetch money for the struggling state coffers,” said a senior government official. According to sources, a preliminary survey has revealed that several commercial structures have been erected on the irrigation department’s land in Calcutta and its surroundings. If these construction or the ongoing activities on the plots are regularised, the state can earn more than Rs 600 crore right at the moment, a preliminary estimate has suggested. “We have found that marriage halls and even portions of hotels, warehouses and other commercial establishments have been set up on the department’s land. A detailed survey is being carried out across the state to find out the plots that have been encroached upon illegally. Preliminary reports suggest valuable plots are being used commercially in the city and its outskirts,” said a senior official of the department. The sources said it had initially been planned to take over such plots by removing the encroachments. But later on, it was decided that the plots would be given on long term lease to those who had encroached upon. “The decision was changed after it was found out that demolishing the structures is a costly exercise and the department would hardly be able to make proper use of the plots. So, regularising the encroachments would be a better idea as it would fetch money and wouldn’t do away with jobs that were created on the plots,” said a source.After identifying the plots which are being used illegally, the irrigation department will send files to the land and land reforms department to regularise the plots in favour of the encroachers. “The encroachers will be offered 99 years of lease for the plots they were using illegally. It is expected that all of them would agree to take the long-term lease as it would legalise their business,” said another official. In the case of 99 years of lease, the encroachers would have to pay 95 per cent of the current market price of the land as “salami” and they would be required to pay an annual rental of 0.3 per cent of the land’s valuation. “As valuable plots in Calcutta and its suburbs are being used commercially, the government might generate a sum of more than Rs 600 crore from the salami itself. The encroachers would be eligible to apply for bank loans against the plots also,” said a source. A section of the officials said the state government’s initiative clearly hinted that Nabanna was in a mood to utilise all possible resources to generate funds in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Recently, the state government has decided to sell off or lease out 1,000 acres of land of the DPL in Durgapur. “Now, it appears all other departments would look for their unused plots and try to generate funds from such land. This is a good initiative given the fact the state government is facing trouble to meet the huge expenditure under the welfare schemes,” said a bureaucrat. The move, however, would not be that easy as many of the structures have come up by filling up of waterbodies. “In such cases, we cannot grant lease to the encroachers until they create alternative waterbodies,” said a land and land reforms official. Irrigation department officials said they were waiting for the detailed list of encroached plots. “Once it comes up, it would be sent to Nabanna as the top brass of the government would take a final call on this,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri: Rapid antigen tests for tourists amid Covid||The Jalpaiguri district administration has started conducting rapid antigen tests on tourists at different transit points. The tests, however, would be carried out only on those who didn’t receive the second dose of their Covid-19 vaccine or are not carrying RT-PCR negative test report issued within 48 hours before their travel. For the past few days, those associated with the tourism industry in the district have been urging the administration to introduce rapid antigen tests for the convenience of tourists as well as those who serve in the industry. Accordingly, Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate, issued a notification on Thursday, mentioning that the administration will create facilities for such rapid tests at entry points like New Mal station, the local bus stand in Malbazar, couple of locations in Matialli block (the entry point to Gorumara National Park and Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary), at some locations in Maynaguri, in New Jalpaiguri and Jalpaiguri Road stations and also at the local bus stand in Jalpaiguri town. On Friday, samples of 16 tourists, who reached the New Mal station in different trains, were checked. The health workers present at the station issued negative certificates to them after which, they headed for the accommodations where they will stay during their trip. Rajen Pradhan, who is associated with tourism in Malbazar, said it is an effective initiative that will help the tourism industry. He pointed that on one hand, it would prevent unrestrained entry of tourists and simultaneously, it will not discourage tourists who are not fully vaccinated or do not have a RT-PCR negative report, from travelling to north Bengal. “If anybody is tested positive in the rapid test, he will be quarantined,” he said. “On the other hand, such screening of tourists will largely also ensure that all those associated with the sector, right from the staff at hotels and resorts, drivers, guides and others, do not get infected from a tourist.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
