25-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata wants to meet Modi to beg for funds, says Dilip Ghosh||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday claimed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, having ‘misused’ central resources, now wants to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi ‘to beg for funds with folded hands’. His remark, however, drew flak of the ruling party, which said that Ghosh should be having a "better understanding of the federal system", under which a head of the state can always meet the PM. Ghosh, while talking to reporters, also alleged that TMC members have siphoned off money from state coffers and left it near-empty. "She has misused the funds that were allocated by the Centre and now she wants to meet the PM to ask for more with folded hands as the state has gone virtually bankrupt," the senior BJP leader said when asked about Banerjee's slated visit to the national capital. West Bengal is facing a financial crisis due to large-scale corruption on the part of the Mamata Banerjee government, Ghosh maintained. Given the financial situation in the state, and the rising factionalism within the TMC camp, Didi has realised that she won't be able to run the state well ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha polls, he added. Expressing shock over the state BJP president's assertions, TMC state spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said he is known for such ignorant comments. "Does he understand about the federal set up where the head of a state can always meet the PM? Dilipda should check facts... Bengal has mopped up more revenue under the TMC rule than in the past, he noted. Echoing him, state minister and TMC MLA Chandrima Bhattacharya sought to know if the CM has whispered into the ears of the BJP leader the purpose of her visit . Banerjee had told reporters on Friday that the prime minister has granted her time for a meeting during her scheduled Delhi visit in the last week of July, but did not specify the date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Data operator arrested for stealing Kanyashree cash||Police have arrested an outsourced computer operator of a school in South 24-Parganas for allegedly stealing Rs 8 lakh meant for Kanyashree beneficiaries. The accused, Sandip Roy, allegedly replaced the bank account numbers of the Kanyashree beneficiaries with those of his relatives while uploading personal data on the portal of the state government’s flagship scheme for girl students. Police said Sandip, who is attached to Shyamsundar Balika Vidyalaya in Joynagar, and his father Anup Roy were arrested from their residence on Friday night on the basis of a complaint lodged by the school authorities with Joynagar police. The Bengal government launched Kanyashree in 2013 in a bid to keep girls in school and prevent child marriage. Under it, girl students aged between 13 and 18 get a scholarship of Rs 1,000 every year and a one-time grant of Rs 25,000 when they turn 18. Sandip’s alleged foul play came to light after some Kanyashree beneficiaries of the school recently apprised school authorities that the cash benefit under the scheme had not been credited to their bank accounts. A probe by school authorities revealed that the bank account numbers of these students did not match with the ones registered on the Kanyashree portal. The probe revealed that the erroneous entries of beneficiary bank account numbers were made between 2017 and 2020. This made school authorities suspicious of Sandip. “It became clear to us that Sandip had a role behind the errors. An inquiry with the banks revealed that the accounts are actually linked with Sandip’s relatives. It became obvious that Sandip had deliberately replaced the bank account numbers of the students with those of his kin to fraudulently get the money,” said Swagata Mandal, headmistress of the school. “Being the computer operator Sandip handled all financial data and uploaded it to the portals. It was not a case of error but deliberate fraud to steal the money meant for beneficiaries,” she further added. Basana Laskar, a beneficiary of Kanyashree, said she was among those girls who had recently made an appeal to the school to check why the money did not reach her bank account. “I have been told that the benefit had been credited to a different account tagged against my name,” she said. An officer of Joynagar police station said that during preliminary interrogation Sandip had confessed that he had changed the bank account numbers with the help of his father. “As his father was an accomplice in the fraud, we have arrested both,” the policeman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Council glare on ‘issues’ after higher secondary protests ||The Bengal higher secondary council on Saturday asked heads of high schools to bring to its notice issues linked to grievances of students against the higher secondary results that have triggered a backlash. The president of the higher secondary council, Mahua Das, issued a media statement that promised to look into the complaints with “due seriousness”. “Some papers and TV channels have carried stories about unsuccessful students expressing their grievances. Today the council discussed the issue with the heads of the institutions. The heads of the institutions are being requested to bring to the notice of the council issues pertaining to the grievances among the students. The council will look into the complaints with due seriousness, keeping in mind the future of the students,” the statement  said. Violent protests by unsuccessful students were reported since Friday. Around 20,000 out of 819,202 examinees did not pass HS. Das was called by chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to Nabanna on Saturday evening. She issued the statement shortly after the meeting.  “The chief secretary wanted to know the process based on which the results were prepared and reasons behind the protests,” said a source. Amid the pandemic, the HS exams were not held and the council relied on an aggregate system to grade students. The pass percentage was 97.69. But the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses called the HS grading system based on Class X and XI marks “faulty”.  The government last year promoted all students of Class XI to XII, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Binay accuses Anit of making personal attacks on him to influence supporters||Binay Tamang on Saturday accused Anit Thapa, his former colleague and a prominent leader in the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction that Tamang formed in 2017, of making personal attacks on him to influence supporters. A message from the former president of the Morcha faction on his Facebook page, which was also circulated on the Facebook pages of his supporters, stated that Thapa and his aides were telling the masses that Tamang has “lost his mind” and has gone into “depression”. “This is my special request to Anit Thapa bhai and his supporters,” stated Tamang adding that he was completely of sound mind when he tendered his resignation from the party and also that Thapa should not stoop so low as to engage in false personal allegations, some involving his family. Tamang resigned as the president and primary member of the Morcha faction on July 15. “Please don’t not tell people that I have lost my mind and that I have gone into depression,” wrote Tamang, inviting Thapa’s supporters to visit villagers at Dali, his native place, to find out the truth. “After resigning, I have been lying low but I have never imagined that one would stoop so low politically just to draw supporters,” said Tamang. Tamang’s Facebook post was a matter of much talk in the hills given the personal nature of the revelations put out on social media. After Thapa took charge of Morcha the very next day after Tamang put in his papers, most of the leaders in the Tamang faction decided to remain with Thapa. Some, however, also resigned to join the rival Morcha faction headed by Bimal Gurung. Thapa said: “In every speech that I have delivered after taking charge (of the new faction) I have reiterated that I still have utmost respect for Binay daju. I don’t want to comment further given the topics that have been raised in the post,” said Thapa. Sources said Thapa is likely to station himself in Darjeeling for a long period from Sunday. Thapa is a native of Kurseong but has decided to move his camp to Darjeeling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader's body found hanging from tree in Bihar||The body of a Trinamul leader from Malda’s Harishchandrapur subdivision, Anisur Rehman, 59, was found hanging from a tree in a bordering district of Bihar on Friday. Rehman, also a brick kiln owner, was missing for six days.His family and local party leaders alleged murder. Police, awaiting his autopsy report, said they will probe all angles. On Friday, police got information about his body hanging near railway tracks of  Katihar district of Bihar, some 10km from his home. In South Dinajpur’s Hamjapur. seven Trinamul workers got injured in an intra-party clash on Friday night. All  are admitted to the super specialty hospital in Gangarampur police station. The warring factions led by Yakub Ali Khan and Liaquat Ali follow Trinamul district president Gautam Deb and state minister and former district president Biplab Mitra. Police have brought the situation under control. Both sides have blamed the other for the attack. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Bolpur civic body deputes duo to herd stray cattle off roads||Municipality authorities in Bolpur are literally taking bulls and cows by the horn on roads. Civic authorities have hired two persons to go out and rein in stray cows from local thoroughfares after a string of minor accidents thanks to bovine loiterers in the area. The cows, who have rightful owners and are supposed to be tied or contained, are reportedly “detained” by the two catchers and kept at a cowshed in Kashipur, Bolpur, for 10 days or till the time they are claimed by their owners. “The fine will be Rs 3,000 each. We have already detained nine cows so far,” said a cow catcher. “There are at least 300 more in the area roaming aimlessly and grazing on non-pastoral land. They also get into fights on the street, which is dangerous for bikes,” said Parna Ghosh, the chairperson of the board of administrators of Bolpur municipality, explaining the move to depute catchers was prompted by a series of minor accidents reported by two-wheelers. “But we don’t know what to do with cows whose owners are not traced.” The problem with stray cows is not new here. Sources said at least 300 stray cows are seen regularly on Visva-Bharati campus and on roads of Santiniketan adjacent to the Pous Mela grounds. In July 2012, Visva-Bharati had gone for a public awareness campaign asking owners of the animals to take them back from the campus. “We made several fences to stop cows from entering campus. The only open ground was the Pous Mela ground where a boundary wall was also put up,” said a varsity official. Municipality sources said that the number of cows seemed to be increasing by the day and most grazed by day and took rest on the roads at night. “Earlier, the Pous Mela ground was open and the cows used to stay at night there. Now with the boundary wall put up, most animals have taken shelter on the road. It is now a daily routine to receive complaints regarding the cows,” said an official in Bolpur municipality, adding cows also grazed on roads inside the campus. Civic body authorities said cow catchers have been asked to try trapping the cows in groups of at least five.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Higher secondary topper Rumana Sultana now face of Kanyashree||Higher secondary topper Rumana Sultana, 18, is now the Murshidabad brand ambassador of Kanyashree, making her the first official face of the state government’s flagship scheme to encourage the education of girls. The science student from Kandi’s Raja Manindrachandra Girls’ High School, who scored 499 out of 500, is the daughter of teachers Rabiul Alam and Sultana Parveen. District officials said Rumana will appear in Kanyashree promotions and tour schools with inspirational speeches for students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Plan to open new North Bengal Medical College & Hospital building by 2022||A meeting of health officials was held at the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital (NBMCH) on Saturday to expedite construction work of the super-speciality building and make it operational by next year. The construction work of the block — a project approved under Pradhan Mantri Swastya Sathi Yojana with an initial fund of Rs 150 crore — was started in 2015. Once the building is functional, it would help a number of departments to augment their infrastructure and provide better treatment facilities “Today (Saturday), we held a meeting with state PWD officials and representatives of Hospital Services Consultancy Corporation Limited — the agency that has been assigned with the project. We have a target to finish the civil and allied works by March 2022. Once these works are done, we will initiate the process of installing medical equipment and develop ICUs and other facilities at the building,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal. The six-storied building will house different departments, including OPDs. As of now, around 80 per cent of the civil work has been done. “We hope that power connectivity and water supply will be provided by the concerned state department in another month’s time,” Roy said. In north Bengal, the NBMCH located on the outskirts of Siliguri is the largest state-run referral hospital. Apart from the region, the facility caters to patients from Bihar, Sikkim, Assam and also Nepal. According to  sources, the new block will have laboratories and testing units like CT scan, MRI, X-ray and a minor operation theatre on the ground floor. “On the first floor, it will have 21 outpatient departments (OPDs) and a 10-bedded intensive care unit (ICU). The second floor will have a 20-bed neurology ward, 22-bed neurosurgery ward, 20-bed for plastic surgery ward and a treatment room for Cardiothoracic Vascular Surgery Department (CTVS),” said an official. “The third floor will have a 22-bedded paediatric surgery ward, a cardiology ward with 20 beds, a dialysis unit with 15 beds and a nephrology ward with 52 beds. The fourth floor will house operation theatres, doctors’ rooms and another intensive care unit,” the official added. S K Bhatnagar, a representative of HSSC Limited, said they are all set to meet the target. “If issues like water and power supplies are addressed, we feel the construction work and some ancillary facilities will be ready in another seven-eight months’ time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
