26-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata​ reaches Delhi, expected to meet opposition leaders||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee reached New Delhi on Monday amid speculation about her attempt to unite the opposition ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. For the first time since her election victory in Bengal, Banerjee is expected to meet with various opposition leaders over the next three days in Delhi. She is also likely to meet prime minister Narendra Modi on Friday besides also meeting president Ram Nath Kovind during her stay. This will be her first meeting with Modi since their tense encounter in Bengal when the chief minister skipped the PM’s cyclone review meeting in May. Banerjee’s meetings are of great significance in the opposition's attempts to take on the BJP in the 2024 elections. According to sources, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has invited Banerjee to tea, but no date has been confirmed. Dismissing reports that Banerjee was planning to host a tea for opposition leaders, a Trinamool Congress leader said she is likely to have one-on-one chats with them. Banerjee was last week named leader of the Trinamool parliamentary party though she is not an MP; the new role signals her readiness to play a larger role in national politics beyond Bengal. In a virtual speech on July 21 to an audience that included Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Congress leader P Chidambaram, Banerjee appealed for unity. She said people would not forgive the opposition parties if they did not bury their differences and unite against the BJP. Others present at that online meet were DMK’s Tiruchi Siva, Telangana Rashtra Samiti leader Keshav Rao, RJD leader Manoj Jha, Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi, Samajwadi Party’s Ram Gopal Yadav and Jaya Bachchan, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)'s Sanjay Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal's Balwinder Singh Bunder. Banerjee is also likely to go to Parliament, where the monsoon session has been marked by disruptions over the Pegasus “snooping scandal” besides other flashpoints. Banerjee on Monday announced the country’s first judicial inquiry headed by former judges into the Pegasus case, in which several opposition leaders, journalists and others have been revealed as potential targets of Israeli company NSO's Pegasus spyware, which is sold only to governments. The chief minister’s nephew and Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee is among those named as potential targets from a leaked database of NSO. She said several other Bengal leaders were targeted. The Congress recently tweeted on Mr Banerjee being targeted with the phone snoop spyware. Trinamool MP Derek O'Brien retweeted that with the comment “khela hobe” — the Trinamool’s wildly popular assembly election anthem that means ‘game on’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Pegasus : Protesting Congress workers arrested in Calcutta||Congress supporters today protested outside the Raj Bhavan in Calcutta, West Bengal, against the Pegasus row. Armed with placards and shouting slogans against the alleged tapping of phones of political leaders, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, the party's supporters gathered in front of the north gate of the sprawling Raj Bhavan complex. The police arrested some of the protesters and took them to the central lock-up at the Kolkata Police headquarters at Lalbazar, an official said. "We will continue our protests till we see the end of it," Congress leader Ashutosh Chatterjee said as he was whisked away in a prison van. Mr Chatterjee and other Congress members shouted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP government at the centre over the Pegasus issue. Congress supporters had protested in front of the Raj Bhavan on the same issue on July 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC seeks details of vaccine supply, inoculation in WB||The Calcutta High Court on Monday directed the West Bengal and central governments to provide details of Covid vaccine supply and inoculation of people in the state. Hearing a clutch of PILs with regard to adherence to COVID protocols in the state, a division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice R Bharadwaj also advised the state government to think of ways to ameliorate the woes faced by people, specially the aged, in getting vaccinated. The bench directed the union government to provide details of vaccine supply to West Bengal as well as to other states. It also asked the state to provide details by next week of the people vaccinated in the state so far and the brands used to do so and their numbers and also the stock of vaccines with it. It also asked the West Bengal government to inform it on the number of people who suffered illness following vaccination. The bench passed the directions on a number of PILs with regard to coronavirus vaccination and adherence to restrictions imposed by the government to deal with the disease. The PILs will be taken up for hearing again on August 5, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Congress protests outside Raj Bhavan in Calcutta, many held||Congress supporters on Monday protested outside the Raj Bhavan in Kolkata over the snooping row. Armed with placards and shouting slogans against the alleged tapping of phones of political leaders, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, the party's supporters gathered in front of the north gate of the sprawling Raj Bhavan complex. Police detained some of the protesters and took them to the central lock-up at the Kolkata Police headquarters at Lalbazar, an official said. "We will continue our protests till we see the end of it," Congress leader Ashutosh Chatterjee said as he was whisked away in a prison van. Chatterjee and other Congress members shouted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP government at the Centre over the Pegasus issue, which has rocked national politics since last week. Congress supporters protested in front of the Raj Bhavan on the same issue on July 22 as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Why Sonia is Mamata's first stop in Delhi ||The one appointment that could make the Delhi trip of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee a success is yet to be firmed up, and although her inner circle has been told that UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi has invited her for tea, there is no confirmation on the meeting from the Congress as yet. Mamata is expected to be in Delhi till Friday. On Tuesday, she will be at the Central Hall of Parliament meeting MPs from other states,  mostly from the Opposition and a few from the treasury benches with whom she had worked during her stints with the National Democratic Alliance. “On Wednesday, Didi has called a meeting of all MPs from both Houses,” said a Trinamul source. A meeting with  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been scheduled for Thursday. While Mamata maintains that it is a courtesy call, Trinamul sources said the chief minister would convey the urgency to hold the by-election for the Bhowanipore seat. In the Assembly elections, Mamata had switched over to Nandigram from where she lost to  BJP nominee and now leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assemgly Suvendu Adhikary. Mamata, though, has been chosen as the leader of the House, but she is not  a member of the legislative Assembly at present. The last time when Mamata came face-to-face with Modi was soon after the cyclone Yaas. The  casualty of that meeting was then chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. “The by-election has to be held before November or else there will be a constitutional crisis. While Rajya Sabha elections have  been announced, the EC is mum on the Bhowanipore bypoll under pressure from the BJP,” said a Trinamul leader. Mamata has already made clear her intentions for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,  and her path to a more constructive role in national politics will need the blessings of the UPA chairperson. A senior Congress leader said it was difficult for any party to commit itself to a coalition demands at this stage. “Without power, it is difficult to sustain a front for a long time. The UPA exists on paper now. Maybe in early 2024 there will be some noise over it. Though it will depend entirely on the position the Opposition parties will be in towards the end of 2023,” the Congress leader said. Mamata, however, would like to push for an early referendum from within the parties opposed to the BJP to develop a consensus, as it will give her time to manoeuvre in Bengal, either entirely on her own as she did in 2019 or by throwing tidbits to the Congress, which is a weaker force in the state. “It is convention that the leader of the biggest party leads the alliance. Congress is still the biggest party in the UPA,” said a Congress leader. “Her victory in the Assembly elections have raised her stature but whether  that be enough to propel her for the biggest role is not yet clear.” In the elections that have been held till date since the BJP came to power, the local requirements of each state have helped create a political formation. Like in Maharashtra, the Maha Vikas Agadhi came into being in a post-result scenario.  In Tamil Nadu, the DMK was backed by  parties that included Congress and the Left. Unlike  parties like the DMK and the Shiv Sena, the Trinamul Congress has not displayed any accommodative bent of mind. Rather it has actively poached leaders from both the Left and the Congress, weakening the Opposition space in the state and leaving the field entirely to the BJP. “Mamata could become the convenor but then she would have to sit outside the ring. She also has to be in the fray. Now it is too early to say whether she will be acceptable to the other parties. Conversely, she may not be open to work with or under a younger leader from the Congress. This visit is for her to test the waters,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt forms panel to probe into Pegasus scandal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said her government has formed a two-member inquiry commission to look into allegations of snooping on politicians, officials and journalists using Israeli spyware Pegasus. The decision to form a panel, with retired judges as its members, was taken at a special cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister during the day. "We thought the Centre would form an inquiry commission or a court-monitored probe would be ordered to look into this phone-hacking incident. But the Centre is sitting idle... So we decided to form a commission on inquiry' to look into the matter," she said at a press conference here. The two-member commission will be headed by former Calcutta High court Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya. Former Supreme Court judge Madan Bhimrao Lokur is its other member. "Names of people from West Bengal have figured on the Pegasus target list. The Centre is trying to snoop on everyone. The commission will find out details about this illegal hacking," the CM added. A massive political row erupted in the country and other parts of the globe after media reports claimed that the Pegasus spyware was used to infiltrate phones and conduct surveillance on political leaders, government officials and journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||50 houses damaged in erosion of Ganga river bank in Malda  ||Around 50 houses were gobbled up by the Ganga in a 12-hour period since Saturday night because of the erosion of the left bank at Baishnabnagar in Malda district. Hundreds of residents have started shifting to safer places since Sunday morning as the river is gulping chunks of land every hour. After repeated alerts from the state irrigation department, the Farakka Barrage Project (FBP) Authority has started anti-erosion works at Baishnabnagar that comes under the Kaliachak 3 block. Sources said the Ganga had started eroding land in the Bhimagram-Hatkhola area of Baishnabnagar on Saturday night. “Most of us were asleep or were about to go to bed when we heard the sound of chunks of land falling into the river. When we rushed out, we found the river steadily advancing into our village. We started shifting our belongings to safer places and gradually, the erosion took a severe turn. By this morning, as many as 50 houses were washed away by the river as we stood helplessly,” said Rajib Sheikh, a local Trinamul leader. Sources said the Ganga had devoured five houses on June 26 and another 35 homes on July 7. “But the erosion that we have been witnessing since Saturday late evening is appalling. On house after another was collapsing into the river. Almost 100 houses were swallowed by the Ganga this year alone,” said Ziaul Haque, a school teacher. The families which have turned homeless overnight are staying at the local primary school. The block administration has provided them with relief, said the sources. The FBP Authority, a central government organisation, has the responsibility to carry out anti-erosion works along a long stretch of the left bank of the Ganga, including at Baishnabnagar. A few days ago, a team of the authority officials had visited the erosion-prone areas and they would take up the task on war footing, said the sources. “We are battling the erosion. The victims have been accommodated at safer places and provided with relief. We have come to know that the FBP authorities have completed the tender process of anti-erosion work and the project is expected to start soon,” |said Mamun Akhtar, the Kaliachak 3 block development officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 806 more cases and nine deaths||Bengal on Sunday completed three consecutive weeks or 21 uninterrupted days of less than 1,000 new Covid-19 cases being detected every day in a further indication that the state had gone past even the residual impact of the devastating long spell of spike ushered in with the eight-phase Assembly elections. The state logged 806 infections, nine deaths and 892 recoveries on Sunday, recording a drop in total active cases for the 35th consecutive day. The total of active cases fell by 95 to 11,796 on Sunday. “These are small, yet significant landmarks that we happily acknowledge – without leaving any room for complacency – as we go along, making progress every day,” said a minister. The recovery rate is currently at the state’s all-time high of 98.04 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.32. _“We have covered a lot of ground, achieving a lot of success in fighting the second wave, over the past couple of months,” said the minister. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.61 per cent on Sunday. With Calcutta logging 55 infections and North 24-Parganas 87, Sunday was also the 18th consecutive day since the second wave struck, when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figures of new cases. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures of new infections, while North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Birbhum recorded single-digit figures. Of the nine deaths, one each was reported from the city, North 24-Parganas, East Burdwan and Darjeeling. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Till now, Bengal has reported over 15.23 lakh Covid cases. The total includes nearly 14.94 lakh recoveries and 18,073 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Two persons held over theft of dyke safety sheet in South 24-Parganas||Two persons were arrested from the Sagar area of South 24-Parganas on Saturday for alleged theft of geo-synthetic textile sheets which are used by the state’s irrigation department to protect the vulnerable earthen dykes from being washed away in heavy rain and high tides. Subhajit Sardar and Uttam Sardar were produced in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Kakdwip on Sunday and remanded in judicial custody for 10 days Concerned over the increasing theft of geo-synthetic textile sheets, the irrigation department had lodged separate complaints at the Sagar and Ganga Sagar police stations. The Sunderbans district police conducted raids in various areas, arrested two persons and recovered about 50 square meters of the sheets. Irrigation department sources said at least 600 square meters of the geo-synthetic textile sheets had been stolen, rendering the embankments vulnerable once again. The sheets cost around Rs 255 per square meter, said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Govt officials to organise at least 300 plantation drives in South 24-Parganas ||South 24-Parganas district administration officials will on Monday observe the International Day for the Conservation of the Mangrove Ecosystem by organising at least 300 plantation drives, all of which will have the participation of local residents. Another highlight of the event, sources said, will be acknowledging the prominent role played by women in the last decade in bringing mangrove plantation to the fore of nature conservation in the district. Two major cyclones battered the district in the past one-and-a-half years with residents saying the only saving grace was the pre-existing mangrove cover. “The chief minister has asked for 15 crore mangrove saplings to be planted across three coastal districts this year. In South 24-Parganas itself, more than 1 lakh women are being employed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act, under which mangrove plantation is sanctioned,” said an official. A total of 4,652 hectares of land has reportedly been earmarked for the plantation of a total of 7.24 crore saplings this year. Sources said the drive would span around 800km of coastline. Last year, five crore saplings were planted at the directive of the chief minister. Sumitra Paira is a resident of Gosaba who has been involved in planting mangrove saplings for the past two years. “Earlier, I used to earn Rs 3,000 a year doing this work. Now I am earning ten-fold,” she said. “This income has brought about a huge change in my family’s life. My husband had lost most of his fishing income since last year following the first lockdown,” she added. Paira is part of a team of 60 women hired by district officials to do the MGNREGA work. Incidentally, the shift for women’s employment towards plantation work in this district is fore-grounded by the lack of major industry in the area, combined with its mainstay economic activities of fishing. “After Yaas, we realised that we can protect the embankments only thorugh intense plantation of mangrove saplings which would also protect the livelihood. We have involved one lakh women in this scheme to plant crores of mangroves to empower them. There will be around 10 lakh new mandays created through the drive and it would be a great gift for the rural families in our district,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24 Parganas district magistrate. “As July 26 is the International Day for the Conservation of the Mangrove Ecosystem, we are celebrating it in a grand way. One lakh women will plant saplings and seedlings of mangroves in hundreds of places in our district,” added the district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Four migrant labourers from Murshidabad die in Mumbai mishap||Four migrant labourers from Murshidabad were killed when a service elevator failed and crashed at a construction site in Mumbai’s Hanumangali on Saturday. A fifth person from Maharashtra also died and four workers were injured. Sources said the incident occurred in Hanumangali, where the construction of a new building had reached the 16th story and was still in progress. The deceased were Bharatpur residents Abhinab Das, 35, Bharat Mondal, 30, and Lakshman Mondal, 45. Khargram resident Chinmay Konai was also among the deceased as was a youth from Maharashtra. Except for Chinmay, the three other youths hailed from the same village, Gadda, and were friends. “The youths had come back home during the migrant saga in March 2020 and were at home without work until November that year. They were all supposed to come home in a few months for Durga Puja,” said Anil Mondal, Bharat’s father, breaking down in tears. Sources said around 6 lakh migrant workers from Murshidabad work in Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat, mostly as construction workers. The district is the largest reserve of migrant workers from the state, ahead of Malda, with over 4 lakh such workers. Police sources in Murshidabad said families in Gadda had received the news over phone by Saturday evening, barely an hour after the incident reportedly occurred at 5pm. “We too were first informed through the media. We confirmed the news later by calling our Mumbai counterparts,” said district magistrate Sharad Dwivedi. “We have informed the disaster management department, but we are still unclear as to when the youths’ bodies will be sent home,” he added. Post-mortems were reportedly completed at a Mumbai hospital by noon on Sunday. “We will try to bring the bodies home by Monday night for the families,” said a source in Kandi police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader Tilak Chand Roka joins Anit Thapa-headed faction of GJM||Tilak Chand Roka, a well-known face in Darjeeling politics who had joined the BJP early this year, switched sides to the Anit Thapa-headed faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha on Sunday and asserted that the hills had given “everything possible” to the saffron party and it was time for the BJP to honour its commitment. Roka’s statement comes close on the heels of a similar remark by Ajoy Edwards, a leader of the GNLF which is an ally of the BJP. “The party even handed over the Darjeeling (Assembly) seat to them. It is time for the BJP to deliver and even Darjeeling MP Raju Bista is aware of the deliverance quotient,” Edwards had said. These developments in the hills suggest that the BJP which is half way into the current Lok Sabha’s five-year tenure is now slowly being pressured by hill politicians and even its allies to deliver on their promises. The BJP had in its 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto promised a “permanent political solution” for the region and tribal status for 11 hill communities. Edwards had also noted that the BJP had talked about “minimum wages” for tea garden workers before the Lok Sabha elections. Roka, a former elected Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Sabha member and also an advisor to the tea garden trade union of Bimal Gurung’s Morcha, on Sunday said that he had decided to support the BJP before the Lok Sabha elections “as it was the need of the hour and to prove the hill people’s support to the BJP”. “We, the people from the hills, Terai and the Dooars, have done whatever we could. We have elected the BJP leader and taken our issue to Parliament by exercising our franchise. It is now the responsibility of the BJP to deliver on its commitments,” said Roka in Darjeeling soon after joining the Morcha faction. The hill people have elected BJP leaders to Parliament since 2009. In fact, Darjeeling also elected a BJP MLA in 2019 and 2021 while BJP candidate from Kurseong, B.P. Bajgain, won from Kurseong this year. Despite the BJP garnering the major chunk of the vote share in the hills, many are upset that the party has not delivered anything concrete vis-à-vis the two demands mentioned for the region in the manifesto. “The BJP has to deliver,” said Roka. Even Edwards had said that if the BJP failed to deliver, the GNLF would be compelled to look otherwise. Edwards, however, sounded hopeful that the BJP would live up to its commitment. Kalyan Dewan, president, BJP (hills) did not answer calls to his phone. Anit Thapa reached Darjeeling where he plans to camp to strengthen the party. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha, challenged Thapa to float a new party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Tea garden employees in north Bengal to observe cease work for immediate revision of salaries||The staff and sub-staff serving in the tea gardens of north Bengal have decided to observe ceasework for five hours each from August 2 to 4 for immediate revision of their salaries. They had observed a ceasework of three-and-a-half hours on Saturday under the banner of the West Bengal Tea Employees’ Association. Those employees number around 10,000 in north Bengal. The next month’s ceasework will be from 7am to 12pm. “If tea planters do not pay heed to our demand, we will observe ceasework during these three days. Since 2014, there hasn’t been any proper revision of our salaries,” said Partha Lahiri, the general secretary of the Association. But the planters are reluctant to raise the staff’s salaries. It was since last September that the employees have launched the movement on the issue of salary revision. “At that time, representatives of tea planters’ associations had told us to refrain from movement because the negotiation on bonus was going on. We were told that they would hold talks with us on the issue but till date, it has remained unaddressed,” he added. The planters however, pointed out that in January this year, all these employees have been provided with an interim hike of 15 per cent, at the same time when the wages of workers were also revised. The employees, however, are not ready to buy the theory. “Earlier, our salaries were fixed through agreements which would remain effective for three years. This means, we have missed two such revisions as two agreements were supposed to be signed in the past six years, that is, since 2014. There had been an interim hike, but if we consider the earlier rates of revision, a sub-staff is losing around 4,500 rupees in each month while a staff is bearing a minimum loss of 7,000 rupees per month as per our estimation,” said a representative of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Local people attack police team, torch vehicle in Raiganj ||A police team was attacked and their vehicle torched at a village near here on Saturday night when they went there to rescue a youth who had been apprehended and beaten up by local people who suspected him to be a thief. An assistant sub-inspector of police was injured in the attack and is under treatment at Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital. Reinforcements went to Bhatol village and brought the situation under control. The police have arrested nine persons. Sources said some residents of Bhatol had intercepted Mohammad Mustakim at Amtala More and accused him of stealing cellphones. “The villagers started roughing him up. Law enforcers from the police outpost at Bhatol that is under Raiganj police station arrived and rescued the youth. But some in the mob demanded that Mustakim be handed over to them. The mob attacked the police with bricks, stones and sticks. The villagers ransacked a police vehicle and set it on fire. Mustakim’s motorcycle was also burned down,” said a source. Additional forces led by Suraj Thapa, the inspector-in-charge of Raiganj police station, went to the village and dispersed the attackers. The injured ASI, Chanchal Singha, was taken to the hospital. The police conducted raids at Bhatol and arrested nine persons, including two minors. “A police picket has been raised at the village to keep the situation under control. We ordered a probe into the attack,” said a senior police officer. All the nine arrested persons were produced in the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Raiganj on Sunday. The court sent the minors to a government home. Of the remaining seven, two were remanded in police custody for five days and five in judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
26-07-2021||West Bengal||‘Mangrove Man’ builds shield against cyclones in Sunderbans||Umashankar Mandal, 40, hails from a remote island in the Sunderbans and is a geography teacher at a Murshidabad high school. Over the past decade, he earned the moniker of “Mangrove Man” for the12-year-long tree plantation drive he started in the area following the devastation caused by Cyclone Aila in 2009. Mandal, residents of the area admiringly say, has planted over 6.5 lakh saplings with help of 135 associates on the embankments of the rivers of two islands, Gosaba and Satjelia. Local residents say they have grown to consider the tree cover as a “shield” for their lives, that was proved true during Cyclone Amphan last year and Cyclone Yaas this year. “Aila gave us a lesson. I can’t forget it. It was May 25, 2009 when I, along with a few friends, placed ourselves behind the breached embankment to save our village from being flooded. But we failed to save the homes and properties as the river water was mightier than our efforts. My mud house collapsed and almost all the villagers became homeless, which led me to think about a permanent solution. As a student of geography, I began to be sure that mangrove plantation was the one and only remedy,” said Mandal. Villagers speculate that even recent initiatives by the state government, especially those by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in undertaking large-scale mangrove plantation drives on the Sunderbans embankments is a nod for the good work initiated by Mandal a decade ago. Following Cyclone Amphan in 2020, Mamata Banerjee had directed the South 24-Parganas district administration to plant five crore mangrove saplings. After Cyclone Yaas, the state government had undertaken a plan to plant 15 crore mangrove trees to maintain the ecosystem of the Sunderbans. “Embankments were breached at hundreds of points because of the rise in water levels during Yaas. Several areas were washed away as saline water had entered the villages after breaching the embankments. We did not suffer from such a large crisis during Yaas. We were saved as the saplings we planted 10 years ago had become a dense mangrove forest along with our river embankment,” said Kumaresh Mandal, a villager from Lahiripur area of Gosaba. Bankim Hazra, Sunderbans affairs minister, said that Mandal had been working silently with help of villagers for the past 12 years and that Hazra’s department was planning to felicitate him sometime this year for his extraordinary work. “I came to know about the geography teacher and his initiative a few months ago. I have not personally met him but have heard from local district officials about his initiative. Our government has taken a large scale drive to plant mangroves under the leadership of our chief minister Mamata Banerjee. I have a plan to felicitate the youth for his work,” said Hazra, the minister. According to Mandal, a lack of awareness had caused mangroves to be cut off, combined with absence of administrative care and attention towards these natural barriers on the islands in South 24-Parganas. The journey he started was not easy. In 2009, Mandal took out a personal loan of Rs 3 lakh to hire staff for the plantation. “Primarily, I was alone in starting the initiative. I used to collect the seeds of mangrove trees floating in the river by boat. Then, I used to plant them along the embankments. If I planted a hundred saplings, not more than 50 percent could survive,” said Mandal, the geography teacher of Jangipur High School in Murshidabad. Recently, he had set up a platform namely ‘Purbasha’ to bring more people under the umbrella of the plantation drive. The solo campaign of Mandal has now become a team effort after local residents began realising the importance of his work within a few years. “It was like a movement. People from different villages started raising questions as to why they would provide free labour to plant the trees. It was my luck that a few of my friends and relatives joined me in the drive and convinced the villagers,” he said. Mandal said he, along with his team members, work for three months from August to collect the seeds of mangrove trees and plant saplings throughout the year. “I am happy as we were able to save our areas from back to back cyclones — Bulbul, Amphan and Yaas. Yaas is an important example as the shield of mangroves that we built helped us save our embankments,” added the teacher. Mandal can’t pay salaries to people who work in the plantation drives but he provides clothes, books and food to the children of families who work in his drive through crowdfunding. “I am happy as many people, and my friends, now fund me to continue my drive. I am happy that a large number of people, mostly women, are with us,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
26-07-2021||West Bengal||National body of small tea growers for Rs 25 as base price||A national body of small tea growers has written to Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal, requesting him to announce a minimum support price of Rs 25 per one kilogram of tea leaves produced by them. The Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista) said there was a steady decline in the tealeaf price in the past few weeks in Assam and Bengal. “We are nowadays selling one kilogram of tea leaves in the range of Rs 15 to Rs 18 whereas the minimum cost of production is Rs 19 per kilogram. Most small tea growers run families out of the earnings they make by selling tea leaves. If the price continues to remain below the cost of production, we doubt how long they would be able to sustain the loss,” Cista president Bijoygopal Chakraborty said. India has altogether around 2.5 lakh small tea growers who contribute around 51 per cent of the total production in the country. Anyone who owns not more than 25 acres of tea plantation is classified as a small grower. Assam has around 1.3 lakh small tea growers and Bengal has close to 50,000. The small tea sector emerged in the past two decades. While small tea plantations mushroomed on one hand, bought leaf factories or BLFs came up on the other hand. The BLFs buy the leaves from the growers and process them. “The Tea Board of India had earlier taken some initiatives to ensure that the growers got a fair price. But most of the factories do not adhere to the regulations framed by the board. Hence, we have requested the Union commerce and industry minister to declare a minimum support price of Rs 25 for the tea leaves produced by small growers,” the Cista president said. In another development, the Tea Board has come up with a circular, mentioning that a section of tea manufacturers is violating the Tea Marketing Control Order of 2003. According to the order, all the tea manufacturers will have to sell at least 50 per cent of their annual production through auctions. “The board went through the figures at auction centres spread across the country and found out that there were a number of gardens which were violating the order. While several estates are routing less amounts of tea through auctions, some others are not sending the brew for auction at all,” said a source in the Tea Board. “If the tea gardens do not adhere to the order, the board will take actions,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
