27-07-2021||West Bengal||Forced to take part in pornographic shoot: Bengal women||An FIR has been registered based on complaints by two women who alleged that they were forced to "take part in a pornographic shoot" and the video was circulated on the Internet, a senior police officer said here today. One of the women said that her video has been uploaded on several websites and apps, some of which are apparently associated with businessman Raj Kundra and his venture, the officer maintained. Raj Kundra, husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was recently arrested in Mumbai for his alleged involvement with an adult film racket. The complainants said that they had come across a notice seeking models for a photo shoot on Facebook, and got in touch with the advertisers, who then forced them to take part in a pornographic shoot. "The photo shoot reportedly took place sometime in January inside a studio near Ballygunge railway station. The women, one from Asansol and the other from Calcutta, said they did not want to take part in the shoot after getting to know all details, but the organisers did not listen to their pleas," the officer stated. Both of them, in their complaint at New Town police station, said they were paid Rs.3,500 each and that the organisers had given assurances that the videos would not be circulated on the web. The two women have shared links to the websites, where their videos have been uploaded, the officer said, adding that a probe has been initiated in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
27-07-2021||West Bengal||NHRC officials probing post-poll violence has ties with BJP, alleges Bengal||The TMC government in Bengal has alleged in an affidavit filed before the Calcutta High Court that the NHRC committee which probed incidents of post-poll violence in the state was fraught with bias against the ruling dispensation . The affidavit, submitted to the court on Monday, also claimed that members of the panel share close ties with BJP leaders. Criticising the Mamata Banerjee government, the NHRC panel, in its report placed before the high court recently, has underscored that the situation in the state is a manifestation of law of ruler instead of rule of law". It recommended CBI probe into grievous offences like murder and rape . Contradicting the findings of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) panel which was set up by its chairman on the order of the court -- the affidavit submitted by the TMC government said, members of the committee "have close association with the Bharatiya Janata Party and/or the central government". "The formation of the committee and the purported field teams are fraught with bias against the ruling dispensation in the state of West Bengal. "It will be evident that the committee has been deliberately constituted to spearhead a witch hunt against the entire state machinery in West Bengal," the affidavit maintained. The matter is scheduled to be taken up for hearing on Wednesday by a five-judge bench of the high court, presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal. The state government, in its affidavit, has further claimed that the "NHRC "chairperson has abused the process of this honourable court and appointed only those members who are interested in conducting a hatchet job against a democratically elected government." It said that such members who have an "inherent bias" against the ruling dispensation were chosen and accordingly "predisposed to give a negative report" on the law-and-order situation. Under such circumstances, the credibility of the panel to investigate in an "unbiased and neutral manner" is questionable, the state government pointed out. It noted that the committee head, Rajiv Jain, had served as the director of the Intelligence Bureau under the incumbent BJP government. He was the subsidiary Intelligence Bureau chief in Ahmedabad from 2005 to 2008, when "Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat and Amit Shah a minister", the affidavit explained. It said that another member Atif Rasheed, a former president of ABVP students' union in Satyawati College, had contested the Delhi Municipal elections in 2021 on a BJP ticket. Contending that the state government was not given an opportunity to be heard, the affidavit said the "report ought not to be considered by this honourable court." Denying the allegation that the entire state machinery in West Bengal is responsible for post-poll violence, it submitted that the "police and all other competent officers of the State of West Bengal have taken all steps to prevent any violence after the declaration of results for the West Bengal State Legislative Assembly on May 2". Several PILs filed before the high court claimed that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes, and property was destroyed in pockets of Bengal, following the announcement of assembly poll results. Maintaining that the acts of violence resulted in disruption of life and livelihood of thousands of people, the NHRC committee report said "the local police has been grossly derelict, if not complicit, in this violence". "The spate of violence shows a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus. Moreover, this violence also attacked some pillars of democracy including rule of law, political pluralism and free, fair and secure polling," the report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Two youths fall into Jaldhaka river while taking pictures in Kalimpong, one body found||Police have found the body of one of the two youths who fell into the raging Jaldhaka river at Jhalong in Kalimpong district while clicking pictures on Sunday. Police said Sajal Ghosh, 42, and his friend Aliful Islam, both residents of Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri district, were on a day’s trip to Jhalong and Bindu in neighbouring Kalimpong district. “Preliminary probe revealed that one of them slipped and fell into the river while clicking pictures with his cell phone. He had climbed on a boulder that was perched on the river bed. Seeing his friend drowning, the other one jumped to save him,” said an officer. On Sunday, a team from the Sashastra Seema Bal and police initiated search but could not find the duo. Their bike was recovered from the site. On Monday as searches resumed, Sajal’s body was found. Aliful is still missing. “Searches are on to find Aliful,” said S. Agarwala, a representative of Jaldhaka Offbeat Tourism Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 657 active cases, 12 deaths||Bengal on Monday logged 22 straight days of less than 1,000 new Covid-19 infections detected in a day since the pandemic’s second wave, with 657 new cases, 875 recoveries and 12 deaths. The state also recorded a drop in its total number of active cases for the 36th consecutive day, by 230 to 11,566 now. Bengal’s recovery rate is at the state’s all-time high of 98.05 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.34. Daily positive confirmation rate of Covid-19 cases in Bengal, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.04 per cent on Monday. Calcutta logged 46 new infections and two deaths. North 24-Parganas logged 84 new cases and three deaths. Monday was also the 19th consecutive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday, while Jalpaiguri, Malda, Nadia, Bankura and Hooghly reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.24 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 14.95 lakh recoveries and 18,085 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
27-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP youth wing vice-president dies after brawl with party members in Calcutta BJP office||A vice-president of the BJP’s youth wing in Bengal died after he took ill following an alleged brawl with his colleagues at the end of a party meeting in Calcutta on Monday. Raju Sarkar, aged around 40, died while he was being taken to a private nursing home in Calcutta. Sources said there was a meeting of the Yuva Morcha’s Calcutta zone at the BJP office in Hastings, Calcutta, on Monday. “Sarkar looked alright during the meeting. After the meeting was over, he had a quarrel with a few Yuva Morcha leaders, which soon descended into a brawl. We brought him downstairs and it was then that he complained of chest pain. We took Sarkar to SSKM hospital and from there to a private nursing home. He passed away while on way to the nursing home,” said a Yuva Morcha source. Another source said there was no bed vacant at the SSKM hospital. The deceased was known to be a close associate of Saumitra Khan, the state Yuva Morcha chief and Bishnupur MP. Sarkar had switched to the BJP in 2017. His switch came after the former de facto number two in Trinamul, Mukul Roy, had joined the BJP. Sarkar had recently resigned from his post through a message on the official WhatsApp group of the Yuva Morcha. However, Khan refused to accept the resignation and Sarkar continued in the post. BJP insiders said Sarkar had always been in the old-timers’ bad books as he was a Trinamul turncoat. There was unrest in the Yuva Morcha over the recent appointment of a state secretary, which Sarkar was said to have facilitated. “He was always very close to Mukulda. After Mukulda returned to Trinamul, there was a buzz that Sarkar was spying on us for him. So, many members, including one of our general secretaries, were very sceptical of him,” a Yuva Morcha leader said. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “This is very unfortunate. He was such a lively boy... However, I’m unaware of any brawl.” An officer of Hastings police station said: “We have heard about Sarkar’s death. But no one has lodged any complaint.” Additional reporting by Monalisa Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
27-07-2021||West Bengal||No proposal received for inclusion of Gorkhas in Scheduled Tribe list by Assam govt: Centre ||The BJP-led government at the Centre has revealed that Assam, a BJP-ruled state, has not recommended the inclusion of Gorkhas in the Scheduled Tribe list, although the saffron party has used this promise to garner votes from the Gorkhas across the country. Renuka Singh Saruta, Union minister of state for tribal affairs, in a reply to a question posed by Congress MP from Assam Gaurav Gogoi in Parliament on Monday, stated that the ministry of tribal affairs had not received any proposal from the Assam government for the inclusion of “Gorkha” community in the Scheduled Tribe list of Assam. Gogoi had sought information on whether the Assam government had sent a recommendation for granting tribal status to Gorkhas, and if yes, its details and the status of the proposal. The population of the Gorkha community in India is the highest in Assam followed by Bengal and Sikkim. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the secretary-general of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Anit Thapa faction), said the Union minister’s reply exposed the BJP. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised tribal status for 11 Gorkha communities, the Union home minister came to Darjeeling and raised the hopes of people, but their own government in Assam has not yet recommended tribal status for Gorkhas,” said Pokhrel. “Today’s reply clearly suggests how serious the BJP is about the demand of our community. However, how far can they go only with lip service,” he added. While there is a demand for the inclusion of 11 Gorkha communities in the ST list in Bengal and Sikkim, the demand is for more Gorkha communities in Assam as the communities such as Tamang and Subba, which have been recognised as ST in Bengal and Sikkim, have not been recognised in Assam. Against this background, recommendation from the Assam government is deemed important. Bengal and Sikkim have, however, sent their recommendations many years ago. However, various RTI replies in the past have suggested that the office of the Registrar General of India, which is under the Union home ministry, had not warmed up to the idea of granting tribal status to the Gorkha community. According to the laid down modalities, a state government concerned has to put forward the demand along with the report of the ethnography survey to the Registrar General of India (RGI). After a favourable response from the RGI, the matter is then sent to National Commission for Scheduled Tribes and after being vetted by the law ministry, a bill is prepared by the tribal ministry for cabinet approval. Following the approval, the bill is placed in Parliament. Even though RTIs have earlier suggested that the matter has not moved beyond the RGI office, BJP leaders have continued to raise hopes of ST status among the community members since the 2014 elections. In between these seven years, the Centre also formed three committees to examine the demand. The demand was also listed in the BJP’s 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Calcutta High Court asks Centre for vaccine details||Calcutta High Court on Monday asked the Centre to inform it how many vaccines it had sent to Bengal till date, specifying how many of them were Covishield and Covaxin doses. The division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj asked the Centre to file an affidavit with the details of the vaccine doses sent to Bengal on August 5 when the case would be taken up again. During the hearing of a number of public interest litigations, the court directed additional solicitor-general Y.J. Dastoor to ask the Centre to file the affidavit. The PILs were moved with various allegations. Some petitioners contended that vaccines were not available at municipal offices or hospitals and most people did not have money to take the jabs at private health establishments. A petitioner claimed a large number of people were not getting vaccines after standing for a long time in queues. The state authorities have been saying that the Centre is not sending adequate number of vaccines. In one of the petitions, it has been claimed that the Centre has been “discriminatory” in its attitude towards Bengal and has not been sending vaccines according to the need. The acting chief justice then asked the advocate-general if the state government was taking special care for senior citizens and why old people had to stand in queues for a long time. Bengal has so far administered over 2.73 crore vaccines — approximately 27.3 per cent of its population — and they include around 81.25 lakh second doses (over 8.12 per cent of the population). The national average at the moment is 25.6 per cent for at least one dose administered and 7 per cent for two doses. In terms of fully vaccinated people, Bengal is second in the nation after Maharashtra (98.9 lakh). Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has repeatedly been alleging that the BJP-led Centre has been meting out step-motherly treatment to Bengal with regard to sending vaccines. Despite vaccine wastage being “very low” (around 7 per cent) in the state, she said, not enough people have been vaccinated here only because the four crore doses sought — in total — by now have not been given. The Trinamul Congress chief has been saying that the state government bought 18 lakh doses worth Rs 59 crore on its own before the Centre decided to take full responsibility of sending vaccines to the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans health workers armed with Covid kits||A voluntary organisation in the Sunderbans is equipping rural women to conduct basic health scans with instruments such as thermal guns and pulse oximeters to detect symptoms of Covid-19 faster. “We have observed that people in rural areas like the Sunderbans often ignore symptoms and invite bigger problems by delaying medication. This has become more evident during the pandemic as many people have either died or suffered enormously owing to delay in detection,” said Subhasis Mondal, who is the secretary of Maa Saroda Women & Rural Welfare Society, the non-government organisation that works for the socio-economic empowerment of women in the Sunderbans and adjacent areas of North 24-Parganas. Last Wednesday, women of 20 self-help groups and 10 Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers and auxiliary nurses-cum-midwives (ANM) active in Hingalganj and Hasnabad blocks of the Sunderbans under Basirhat subdivision in North 24-Parganas, received medical equipment with financial support of an industrial gas production company, Linde Global Support Services Private Limited. The initiative is aimed at bridging the gap between the detection of diseases and start of medication and start of medication which often gets delayed and results in deaths in the remote areas of the Sunderbans. A member of the society explained the ground realities. “ There are two reasons for the delay (in diagnosis and medication). First, the unavailability of basic health scanning devices like pulse oximeter, thermal gun or thermometer with Asha workers. Second, the reluctance of people to visit rural health centres because of the distance. Our objective is to take the scanning initiative to the people by engaging women of self-help groups.” Dipti Das Karmakar, 48, a self-help group leader in the Bispur area of Hasnabad, said Covid had been an “eye-opener”. “Many people died of Covid only because they ignored the symptoms in the initial stages. In some cases, patients died before the required medication could begin. Now equipped with a thermal gun, pulse oximeter and a kit we can change this situation,” she said. Asha worker Anima Das said: “It is a big support for us and for the people here. The only time we were provided these devices was for election day duty.” Asked about remuneration, an official of the society said the daily allowance of workers is care of. “It is in the range of Rs 150 per day per person,” he added. The local administration is being kept in the loop. A regular health update is being sent to the block development officer and the block medical health officer every day, said Mondal. He added their organisation would pay for the blood tests of villagers if required. A senior manager of the gas company, Susanta Mohanty, said that with this initiative, they aimed to create health awareness “so that people turn up to get health check-ups done on time”. A senior health official of North 24-Parganas administration welcomed this corporate help. “The government has certain limitations despite its commitment to people’s welfare. If more such organisations come up to extend support to the government, the gap in rural healthcare can be easily bridged,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Landowners seek action against land-grab instances in Bolpur and Santiniketan||Over a hundred landowners in Bolpur and Santiniketan have formed a committee and submitted a memorandum to the local land revenue office demanding action against the alleged growing instances of land-grab through fake deeds. Residents on behalf of the Surul Land Protection Committee sent a copy of the memorandum to the Nabanna top brass, including the office of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, to seek their intervention. Sources said the land mafia were forging old deeds to sell land even as original owners remained in the dark. Another source said that once land is sold to a person with fake documents, the same land is quickly sold again and again to other clients to create a chain of owners so that tracing the original fraud gets difficult. “Landowners come to know about this fraud when new owners come to take possession of the land,” said a source. “A property belonging to my family in Santiniketan worth around Rs 85 lakh has been recorded in the names of strangers with the help of forged property deeds. The practice has taken a serious turn in Santiniketan as at least 50 landowners faced the problem with the land mafia attempting to forge their documents too,” said Debasish Sarkar, a professor of agricultural economics in Visva-Bharati. The headmaster of Bolpur High School Supriya Sadhu recounted his experience of his four bighas being “fraudulently” recorded in the names of strangers without his knowledge. “This happened three years ago. I am fighting to get my land back and the accused person who forged my deed has been arrested. Such cases are increasing,” said Sadhu. Birbhum district magistrate Bidhan Ray said he had asked the additional district magistrate (land) to take up the issue and submit a complete report regarding the allegations of malpractices. “We will not spare anyone involved in such illegal activities. I have already asked my senior officials to submit a detailed report and we will take stern action,” said Ray. Sources said activities of land mafia were increasing in Santiniketan and Bolpur after the price of land here shot up. “The activities of land mafia have increased over the past 10 years and now it is beyond control as Santiniketan and Bolpur have become a hub of several housing projects. Land that used to be sold for Rs 50,000 per cottah a decade ago is now priced at around Rs 4-5 lakh a cottah. The activities of land mafia must be curbed or else legitimate landowners will suffer,” said a source in the land department. Sanjoy Roy, the block land and land reforms officer of Bolpur, said the local residents had provided instances of at least 60 such attempts to change records by using forge deeds. “We always send letters to owners before we change the names in the land record through mutation. We will conduct a probe with each attempt to find the culprits who are attempting to change the record with false documents,” Roy said. A government official said that the market value of these 60 properties was around Rs 100 crore. According to the government directive, if any such case of property fraud was found, the land department should immediately lodge a police complaint against the person who had appealed for getting the property transferred in his or her name. “We got three specific complaints since February this year. We have sent the copy of the deeds to the sub-registrar's office to know if such deeds existed. Once we get the report, action will be taken,” Roy added. Sources in the district administration said land of tribal people were also being sold off via forgeries. “Allegations of such practices are prominent in pockets of Santiniketan like Prantik, Surul, Goalpara and Taltore areas,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Girl injured in explosion in North Dinajpur, BJP and TMC blame each other||A three-year-old girl suffered serious injuries when a crude bomb exploded in front of a BJP worker’s house at Indran village in North Dinajpur district on Monday afternoon. Police said Purnima Saha was playing near Kalyan Das’s home with some children when a bomb went off. “Locals rushed her to Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital. She is reported to be in critical condition,” said a police officer. Villagers said they had no inkling as to who kept the bombs in front of Das’s house. Both BJP and Trinamul leaders raised fingers at each other following the explosion. Arindam Sarkar, a district Trinamul leader, alleged that BJP workers had stored crude bombs in their houses ahead of the Assembly polls. Basudeb Sarkar, BJP chief of North Dinajpur, however, rejected the charges. “Trinamul supporters had planted the bombs in front Das’s house.” The police said they were gathering information. “Some policemen have been deployed in the area,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Govt bid to placate unsuccessful higher secondary examinees||The top brass of the Bengal government has decided to depute officials to speak to unsuccessful higher secondary examinees across the state and assure them that their grievances will be addressed by July 30 following a realisation that if the students continue with their agitation, it will send a wrong message about the entire evaluation process. “Top government officials had to intervene as the agitation continued even today (Monday) despite several initiatives by the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education. The prolonged agitation would raise questions over the evaluation process, which would ultimately leave all eight lakh examinees in trouble in the future,” said a senior government official. District magistrates have been asked to send senior officials like SDOs, BDOs or inspectors of the schools to the spots where the unsuccessful examinees have been agitating with a demand that they be declared as qualified. “The officials would talk to the agitating students and hear their grievances. The officers would also assure the students that the council would address their grievances by July 30,” said an official. The message was sent to the district magistrates by the education secretary, Manish Jain, as instructed by chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi. About 18,000 students didn’t pass out of Class XII this year. The list of the schools where a number of unsuccessful students are registered would be shared with the district authorities. All the schools with unsuccessful examinees were asked to contact the council on July 29. The aggrieved students have been asked to contact their school heads the next day to know the status of the review. The chairperson of the higher education council, Mahua Das, issued a statement on Monday evening, saying that the council was aware of the agitation by the HS examinees. “This is a clear signal that the council is eager to solve the issue at the earliest. The steps were initiated after the chief secretary held a meeting with the chairperson of the council on Saturday and instructed her to initiate steps to stop the agitation,” said a source. “According to the results available with the council, about 18,000 students were unsuccessful. But the agitation across the state is creating an impression that many more students were unsuccessful. So, steps are needed to ensure that no wrong message is sent against the entire system,” added the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Mumbai police arrest two persons in Siliguri for duping businessman of Rs 2 crore ||A team of Mumbai police along with Siliguri Metropolitan Police raided a hotel on Bidhan Road and arrested two persons on Sunday night for allegedly duping Rs 2 crore from a Mumbai resident. The duo have been identified as Ashwin Patel from Gujarat’s Surat, and Ram Kumar from Rajasthan, both in their late 40s. Sudharshan Patel, an assistant inspector of police posted at Lokmanya Tilak Marg police station in Mumbai, who reached Siliguri with a team in search of the duo, said that on July 19 this year, they had received a fraud complaint from a Mumbai resident. “These two persons, along with six others whom we have already arrested, had opened an office in Mumbai and had been promising higher returns on investments. Around mid-July, the complainant paid them Rs 2 crore in cash and was told to get documents after four hours. But when he went there, he found the office closed. He kept going to the office for the next four days or so, but it stayed closed. On July 19, he informed us. On probing the case, we arrested six persons but these two managed to escape to Calcutta and then Siliguri,” the police officer said. He added that the police were tracking the cell phones of Ashwin and Ram Kumar, which is how they were traced. Accordingly, the Mumbai police team reached Siliguri and contacted officers of Siliguri police station and Panitanki police outpost under Siliguri police station. Then, the hotel raid was planned and the duo nabbed. On Monday, both were produced at a local court. The Mumbai police team filed a petition seeking transit remand for both, court sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Pegasus row: BJP lashes out at Bengal govt for setting up inquiry commission ||The BJP lashed out at the Bengal government for setting up a commission of inquiry into the Pegasus snooping controversy, but a section of functionaries said privately that the issue had embarrassed the party and it should have welcomed the judicial probe. “Why are we even surprised that Mamata Banerjee has constituted a judicial commission to investigate bogus “Pegasus Project”? Her priorities have always been warped,” tweeted BJP’s national IT chief and cominder for Bengal, Amit Malviya. “If only she had shown such alacrity to probe postpoll violence and investigate several Covid scams in Bengal!” Malviya added. Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari retweeted Malviya’s post. Immediately after Malviya, BJP’s Asansol South MLA and chief of the state women’s wing, Agnimitra Paul, took to Twitter and alleged that the state government had spent “Rs 32.53 crore for the past six years on 13 commissions of inquiry” for political purposes and the Pegasus probe would be no different. However, several state BJP office-bearers admitted off the record that the surveillance allegation was an embarrassment for the party nationally as well as at the state level. Some of these leaders went to the extent of saying that Mamata Banerjee’s decision to initiate a formal probe into the snooping of phones through Pegasus spyware was a masterstroke. “The best thing for the party would have been to laud the commission and let it be. The fact that our leaders are going all out against the CM shows that there must be something wrong,” a state BJP functionary said. One BJP leader also appreciated Mamata for the time she chose to announce the commission. “She made the announcement just before her departure for Delhi. This will obviously be talked about nationally,” this leader said. “Our leaders could have been a bit more sensitive while reacting to it.” The chief spokesperson of the state BJP, Samik Bhattacharya, tried to turn the tables on Trinamul during a news conference. Bhattacharya said it was alleged that the Bengal government snooped on the telephones of its own ministers, officers and journalists. Thus, its role in the Pegasus issue must also be probed, he added. “Didn’t a certain police commissioner go to Israel in the past ten years? Did he not hold meetings with their representatives? Don’t the STF and CID use softwares like Pegasus? These questions must be asked,” Bhattacharya said. He added that former state BJP chief Rahul Sinha and Mukul Roy, the former de facto Trinamul number two who had joined the BJP in 2017 and went back to his former party after the recent Assembly polls, had also complained of being snooped on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
