28-07-2021||India||Trinamul MPs ‘declare’ Mamata as Opposition leader for 2024 elections||Around 30 MPs of the Trinamul Congress called out in one voice to anoint Mamata Banerjee as the leader of the Opposition for the 2024 general elections in Delhi on Wednesday, Day Two of her visit to the national capital in preparation for the Lok Sabha elections of 2024. "She will lead the battle for 2024 against the BJP. We want to see her as prime minister. All of us told her so," said Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee after a meeting held at the New Delhi residence of the party's Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Shekhar Roy. Chatting with reporters after the meeting, Mamata said, "I am not a political astrologer. The leadership issue depends on the situation, structure and system in place. It is not that everybody can take the lead. When the matter is discussed, we can work together." "When Narendra Modi contests the next poll it will be him against the whole country," Mamata said Mamata's idea behind pitching for the 2024 polls from now is to keep up the momentum she has gained from this summer's assembly polls which she won decisively to stop the BJP on its tracks. But she is not the only chief minister to successfully thwart the BJP's regional ambitions. In Pinarayi Vijayan's Kerala, the BJP could not win a single seat. In Tamil Nadu, the MK Stalin- led alliance that includes the Congress and the Left also defeated the BJP. As of now though neither Vijayan nor Stalin have made any national noises. "It is too early to commit on a united front with poll projections from now. This has never been done," said a Congress MP. In fact, during the second term of the UPA when it was becoming clear that the BJP would mount an offensive on the Congress with a concerted campaign, the saffron combine had not rushed in to project a prime ministerial face. It was only in September 2013 did it declare Narendra Modi as its prime ministerial nominee. Trinamul's political fortunes may be on the upswing, but it is unlikely to stay so till 2024. A test of its strength would be in the form of Bengal's civic polls. In some instances like Calcutta Municipal Corporation, elections should have been held in 2020 but got delayed due to the Covid pandemic. But Mamata cannot use the Covid shield to delay the civic polls indefinitely. Memories of the 2018 panchayat polls when Opposition parties were not allowed to file nominations are not yet distant. Mamata felt the backlash in 2019. Local Trinamul leaders have already started threatening Opposition workers against filing nominations for the panchayat polls due two years from now. Having got herself declared as the chairperson of the Trinamul's parliamentary party, Mamata's visits to Delhi are likely to be more frequent in the coming months to keep reinforcing her claim as the most credible face against Modi. Even if she manages to stitch an alliance with the Congress in Bengal, it is unlikely to leave more than two seats for the grand old party. Without spelling out a seat-sharing formula, simply announcing a PM face will not help create an Opposition front. Since the 2019 polls, most of the major Opposition parties have been jointly signing statements against the Modi government. These had signatures of leaders from both the Left and Trinamul. That does not necessarily translate into an electoral adjusdtment. Mamata's message to her party workers was to concentrate on proceedings within the House. Mamata warned the MPs against meeting BJP ministers individually and without permission from the leadership. "Some months ago, Dibyendu Adhikary went to meet Modi. There is a feeling some people could strike deals especially before polls," said a Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
28-07-2021||India||Calcutta HC permits Bengal govt to file supplementary affidavit on post-poll violence ||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday granted the Bengal government time to file supplementary affidavits by July 31 in connection with an NHRC inquiry committee report on alleged post-poll violence in the state. A five-judge bench, presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, directed that the matter will be taken up for hearing again on August 2. The high court granted the state government time to file the supplementary affidavits following a prayer by it. The DNA report of deceased BJP labour wing leader Avijit Sarkar was also submitted by the additional solicitor general before the bench, which was hearing PILs claiming assault on people, forcing them to flee homes and destruction of property due to violence following the Assembly elections. The court had directed a DNA matching of Sarkar with his brother for identification. A second autopsy had earlier been carried out at the Command Hospital here on an order by the bench. The NHRC committee, set up by its chairman on a direction by the court, had made scathing comments on the law and order situation in Bengal in its final report submitted before it on July 13. The state government, in an affidavit submitted on Monday, denied the findings of the report and alleged that it is politically motivated and aimed at maligning the Mamata Banerjee dispensation. The 95-page affidavit placed by state home secretary B.P. Gopalika described as “sweeping homilies, absurd and false” the report of the NHRC committee, which the chief minister had called “a great liar”. The report, which the BJP has gone to town with since, had named several current and former lawmakers of the Trinamul Congress, including a senior minister, in its list of 123 “notorious criminals/goons”. The state government’s affidavit countered every point and allegation in the report of the eight-member committee to convince the five-judge bench of the high court that the report was biased and based on the false allegations that the state’s BJP leaders had been levelling against the ruling party after their miserable defeat in the Assembly elections. The affidavit tried to prove that at least three on the eight-member committee were well connected with the BJP. The affidavit claimed that the committee did not have the power to make recommendations in its report for the state administration to implement them. In its long list of recommendations, the committee endorsed most of the demands being made so far by the BJP, such as probes by the CBI, trials outside Bengal, a witness protection scheme, ex-gratia payments, compensation for alleged damages, static pickets of central forces, and action against “delinquent” government servants. The affidavit claimed that the so-called recommendations were invalid and illegal, and countered every allegation with references, stating police action already taken with regard to the complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
28-07-2021||West Bengal||Jangipur police to prevent children from bathing in local rivers to avert any untoward incident||Police in Jangipur have decided to prevent children from bathing in local rivers until the monsoon recedes in September to avert any untoward incident. Y. Raghuvamshi, the police chief of Jangipur in Murshidabad district, on Wednesday will lead a team that will make public announcements across the town prohibiting children under the age of 15 to bathe in the rivers. The decision has been taken after two boys Ansarul Sheikh, 12 and Raju Sheikh, 12, drowned in the Ganga near Farakka while bathing on Tuesday morning, marking the fifth such incident since June and raising the fatality count to eight. “The Jangipur police district will be cautioned that starting tomorrow (Wednesday) until September, children below the age of 15 will not be allowed into rivers for bathing. They often bathe along with adults, but not knowing how to swim are prone to drowning as in today's unfortunate incident," said police superintendent Y. Raghuvamshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
28-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief secretary asks district magistrates to find more sand mining areas ||Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi has asked district magistrates to explore new areas from where sand could be mined, an instruction which is a clear attempt to generate more revenue at a time when state coffers are struggling in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Dwivedi gave the directive to the DMs during a video conference on Tuesday. “The chief secretary informed the DMs about the new sand mining policy the state cabinet had recently approved. The chief secretary also asked the DMs to explore new areas from where sand could be mined,” said a source. According to sources, the state government is trying to generate more revenues without levying new taxes on common people as the state exchequer is struggling in the backdrop of the pandemic and the recent launch of a series of new welfare schemes. “Scheme like Lakshmir Bhandar would require a sum of Rs 12,000 crore. The enhanced Krishak Bandhu Scheme would also require an additional amount of Rs 2,000 crore every year. The state is trying to find out new areas to enhance more revenue,” said a source. A senior bureaucrat said mining more sand would bring more revenue to the state exchequer as a sand mine usually fetches more than Rs 1 crore annually. Right now, the state auctions off about 250 sand mines across the state. “If the state can add 100 more mines to the list, it would bring about Rs 100 crore to the state exchequer. This is possible as sand is in high demand because of construction activities in the state. The state itself spends about Rs 30,000 crore a year in terms of infrastructure development,” said a bureaucrat. Sources said that demand for sand had decreased of late after the real estate sector was facing a slump because of the pandemic. “But the process to find out new sand mines could be termed as an effort for the future when the demand for sand would increase,” said a source. Dwivedi also explained to the DMs that henceforth, the auction of sand mines would be done centrally. The sources in the state secretariat said creating more mines could create more trouble for the state administration. “Often intra-party fights are reported from districts over the spoils of sand mines. Now, the job of the administration would be more tough as they have to rein in the powerful local leaders of the ruling party once new mines are auctioned off,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
28-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Darjeeling and Kalimpong report first confirmed cases of Delta variant ||Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts on Tuesday reported the first confirmed cases of the Delta variant of novel coronavirus. Five Covid-19 positive samples, sent for genome sequencing earlier this month to Kalyani's National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, were found to be of the Delta variant. Two samples tested positive for the UK strain of Covid-19 from Darjeeling and Kalimpong, said health department sources. Experts said that treatment of those infected by the Delta variant was the same but contamination rate was higher. It has been declared as a Variant of Concern (VOC) by the World Health Organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
28-07-2021||West Bengal||Fake Aadhaar card racket busted in Alipurduar, five persons arrested||Five persons were arrested from Nimti Jhora tea estate for allegedly running a fake Aadhaar card racket in Alipurduar on Monday evening. Sources said two laptops, a camera, one scanner and some Aadhaar cards which appear to be fake have been seized from them. The arrested quintet have been identified as Ashim Sarkar and Swapan Sarkar from Alipurduar, Somen Bag and Ujjwal Sarkar from North 24-Parganas and Sanjay Oraon, the inhabitant of the tea estate. “It seems that they have cheated a number of people. Our officers are probing the case and gathering more information,” said Kuntal Banerjee, the additional police chief of Jaigaon. During the past few weeks, those dwelling in Dooars tea estates without Aadhaar are desperately scouting for options to get the cards as the state has made it mandatory to link Aadhaar with ration cards. Also, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation has made it mandatory to link Aadhaar with PF accounts. “It seems that a section of people are trying to explore this opportunity and rackets have become active in the tea belt,” said a police officer. On Tuesday, the quartet were produced at a local court and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
28-07-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling politics descends into drama of absurdity||From exchanging political and moral science books to ploughing rice fields, politicians in the Darjeeling hills are performing well in the theatre of absurdity before a bemused public. On July 1, S.P. Sharma, the general secretary of the Akhil Bhartiya Gorkha League (Bharati Tamang faction) — the hills’ oldest political party is now divided into three factions, started demanding the resignation of Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista alleging that people had lost faith in him as the legislator had done precious little to take forward the political demand (of a separate state) forward. Bista shot back at Sharma armed with figures of the recently concluded Bengal Assembly elections. “People whose vote share was less than Nota do not have the right to seek my resignation,” said Bista. In the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong, a total of 7,009 votes were cast in favour of Nota. The three candidates of Sharma’s party had cumulatively polled 4,939 votes. Bista’s charge on Sharma opened doors for new theatrics. Sharma and his party colleagues left a book on “political science” at Bista’s residence in Darjeeling recently so that Bista could read and understand that in “democracy, anyone can raise questions”. Darjeeling BJP MLA Neeraj Zimba then came to Bista’s defence. Zimba, who had last week circulated video of himself ploughing a rice field at Bungkulong — a village in Mirik but one that does not fall under his Darjeeling constituency — purportedly to help a poor farming family, announced his decision to send a “moral science” book to Sharma. “He (Sharma) is an agent of the state government. He has no political morality. I will send him a book on moral science soon,” Zimba said on Friday and used many words that some described as “racist”. Sharma did not take things lying low. The ABGL leader immediately issued a video providing the “two-in-one” MLA with a list of BJP politicians who needed to read moral science books. The “two-in-one” reference was for Zimba, a GNLF leader who was elected on a BJP ticket. Leaders who Sharma thought needed Zimba’s moral science book were Raju Bista for allegedly lying on Gorkhaland, GNLF leader Ajoy Edwards for not accepting Zimba’s candidature, Pratap Khati from the rival ABGL faction for stating that Scheduled Tribe status would be granted to 11 Gorkha communities by the Centre “one fine morning”. “Zimba should also read a fat book on moral science as he, too, has lied on numerous occasions. He should also send a book to B.P. Bajgain (Kurseong BJP MLA) for changing his stance on Gorkhaland issue and also to Sandeep Limbu (GNLF leader) for making false statements,” added Sharma. In between Bista-Sharma-Zimba episodes, the hills also witnessed Binay Tamang quitting his own faction in the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Bimal Gurung, who heads the other Morcha faction, also wept when Tamang decided to hand over the party flag to the former. “Politically, it has been an entertaining month so far,” quipped a local resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
28-07-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati University authorities can’t force employees to donate: Calcutta High Court||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday held that university authorities had the right to donate funds for relief but not the power to forcibly collect funds from  employees. Justice Amrita Sinha of Calcutta High Court made this observation while hearing a petition filed by Visva-Bharati teachers who had challenged the legality of varsity vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty’s decision to deduct a day’s salary of teachers without their consent and sent the money to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for Amphan aid. Justice Sinha, however, said as teachers had moved court challenging the VC’s decision about a year after the incident and the money collected had been spent, no order to varsity authorities to reimburse the sum. could be issued. In her final observation, the judge said: “…The University can always adopt ways and means to provide relief to those in need. It is not necessary that force has to be applied to reach the goal. Applying force is sharply contrary to the Rabindrik culture (the culture of Rabindranath Tagore) and tradition which Gurudev (Tagore) symbolises.” On May 29 last year, the VC had issued a notice that by virtue of the power vested in him, he had decided to deduct a day's salary of teachers and send it to the CM Relief Fund for Amphan aid. Challenging its validity, professors Sudipta Bhattacharya and others moved high court earlier this month saying no deduction could be made without employees’ consent. On Tuesday, Justice Sinha disposed of the petition. The counsel for teachers argued there was no provision in the Visva-Bharati Act, 1951, that granted powers of unilateral action on the university to deduct money from employees. Office-bearers of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association said they would move the high court’s division bench soon to seek an adjustment of the deducted salary from the account of the VC. “We welcome the court order but want responsibility fixed on the VC as our salary was deducted by authorities at his directive,” said a member of the teachers’ association. Officiating public relations officer of Visva-Bharati, Anirban Sircar, who is authorised to speak to the media, did not respond to calls or a text from this paper. Lawyers divided Lawyers of Calcutta High Court are divided over the decision to boycott the courtroom of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal for his alleged “unethical activities”. On Tuesday, lawyers including Arunava Ghosh and Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya attended a meeting convened by Bar Association assistant secretary Ritzu Ghosal and took a resolution to boycott the court of Justice Bindal. In another meeting called by Bar Association secretary Dhiraj Trivedi, lawyers including association vice-president Ajoy Dubey passed a resolution declaring the earlier meeting as “invalid” and decided to keep attending Justice Bindal’s court. Tussle between lawyers and the acting chief justice started after the latter on May 17 had taken up the CBI’s prayer regarding the arrest of four leaders accused in the Narada case instead of sending it to a single judge bench. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
28-07-2021||West Bengal||State govt asks Birbhum land department for action-taken report on land-grab through fake deeds ||The state government on Tuesday asked the Birbhum land department for an action-taken report on allegations of land-grab through fake deeds, a day after over 100 landowners demonstrated in front of the Bolpur land revenue office against the allegedly growing number of such cases in and around Santiniketan. “The additional district magistrate in charge of land has been asked to send the action-taken report following action against those who changed the land records or attempted to change them. In all those cases, police complaints would be filed,” said a senior Nabanna official. On Monday, landowners submitted at least 50 such instances where ownership in land records was either changed or an attempt was made to do so. After Tuesday’s directive from Nabanna, district land department officials ordered the verification of every instance, to ascertain if the deeds were, indeed, forged. “We will check every complaint separately, and will lodge a police complaint shortly against those who submitted forged deeds,” said Subhrojyoti Ghosh, the additional district magistrate (land) in Birbhum. Birbhum district magistrate Bidhan Chandra Ray held a special meeting on Monday evening with Ghosh and directed to take the issue seriously. “Action will be taken very soon,” said Ray. Sources said according to the government rule, the landowners should be informed by the land department before the records are changed. However, those whose land records have allegedly been changed in the past three years said they did not get any intimation from the department. According to a senior land department official, earlier, a letter through a registered post used to be sent to the landowners before change of the records. Now, the government issues the letter online and a hard copy is sent via post to the landowners. “Ownership of our four bighas of land was changed in 2018, but I did not receive any such letter. It is very strange that the record was changed keeping the owner in the dark. Although the person who forged my land document was arrested, rectification of the change has not been done yet,” said Supriyo Sadhu, the headmaster of the Bolpur High School, an alleged victim. Postal department sources said in many cases they found such registered letters are sent to false addresses and wrong pin codes. “We take the booking as per pin codes, not by names or addresses. If someone changes even a single digit of the pin code, our postmen can’t find it,” said a postal department official. Landowners who lodged complaints against the “land mafia” said most of the owners are government employees or farmers while others live outside the state or even abroad. “Is it possible to track the property records every day by logging on to the website of the land department? There is a racket doing this (forging land deeds) through a channel that the government can’t ignore. We will have another meeting to decide our next step against these illegal activities,” said a resident of Bolpur who said he “caught an alleged attempt” to change his land records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
28-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress leaders ‘kidnap at gunpoint’ 11 panchayat colleagues in Malda ||Eleven elected Trinamul members of Daulatnagar panchayat, under Harischandrapur-II block of Malda, were on Tuesday morning allegedly abducted by two party leaders, including panchayat head Najibur Rahman, when they came to the BDO’s office to table a no-confidence against Najibur. Twelve members, including two women, were apparently held at gunpoint while they were heading towards the BDO’s chamber for official formalities to apply for a no-confidence motion. One of the women managed to flee and she somehow reached home. The whereabouts of the rest 11 members, including the other woman, are still not known. As the news of this bizarre incident spread, hundreds of Trinamul supporters assembled in the area and blocked a road to demonstrate, alleging that Najibur and Ashraful Haque, the husband of the sabhapati (chief) of the Trinamul-run Harishchandrapur-II panchayat samiti of Daulatnagar panchayat, where Trinamul is in power, had abducted the panchayat members at gunpoint. With the roadblock continuing for hours, a police contingent led by Sanjay Biswas, the inspector in charge of Harischandrapur police station rushed to the spot. It took over two-and-a-half hours for the police to persuade Trinamul workers, who were demanding immediate release of the abducted members, to lift the roadblock. Protesters said that for the past few months, corruption charges were being levelled against Najibur. “As a result, 12 other members of our party at the rural body decided to table a no-confidence motion against him so that he could be removed,” said Rajendra Ghosh, a local Trinamul leader. Altogether, there are 20 seats at the panchayat. In 2018, Trinamul won 18 seats and bagged the panchayat. “These 12 members had submitted a letter to the BDO citing they wanted to table the no-confidence motion. On Tuesday, the BDO asked all of them to personally come to him so that their signatures could be verified. As they reached near the BDO office around 9am, Najibur and Ashraful along with other hooligans held them at gunpoint and forced to get into vehicles. Then they were whisked away,” Rajamul Haque, another protester, said. BDO Bijay Giri, when asked about the event, conceded that the panchayat members had been abducted by some “miscreants” from near his office. “We have reported the incident to the district administrations and also to the police. CCTV footage of my office and adjoining areas will be checked to find out the abductors,” said Giri. The police, sources said, are trying to trace the abducted members. “Our investigations have started. We are also trying to identify the abductors,” said a police officer. At the time of filing this report, none of the hostages had been released. Repeated calls by this paper to the cell phones of Najibur and Ashraful also failed to elicit a response. Their whereabouts are also not known. The incident left district Trinamul leaders red-faced. “Our party does not approve of such activities. The incident is being viewed very seriously by the district leadership and leaders of the block have been asked to submit a confidential report on the entire issue,” said Dulal Sarkar, a senior party leader in Malda. Gobinda Chandra Mandal, the district BJP chief, called the incident a blatant instance of acute infighting within Trinamul. “It is the fallout of a tussle between two corrupt factions of Trinamul. Both sides want to make illegal earnings by using their position as elected representatives,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
28-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 662 new cases, 10 deaths ||Bengal on Tuesday logged 662 Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths and 838 recoveries as the state completed 23 consecutive days of logging less than 1,000 infections. The total of active cases fell by 186 to 11,380 on Tuesday. With Calcutta logging 54 infections and North 24-Parganas 81, Tuesday was also the 20th consecutive day since the second wave struck when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. The recovery rate in the state is currently at an all-time high of 98.07 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.36. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day. Kalimpong, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.54 per cent on Tuesday. Sixteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths on Tuesday, while Darjeeling, Nadia, East Midnapore, East Burdwan and West Burdwan, and Hooghly reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal has till now recorded nearly 15.25 lakh Covid-19 cases. The total includes over 14.95 lakh recoveries and 18,095 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
28-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government files affidavit before Calcutta High Court to counter NHRC ||The Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday filed a 95-page affidavit before Calcutta High Court, taking exception to the report submitted by a National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) probe committee to the court on alleged post-poll results violence in Bengal. The affidavit placed by state home secretary B.P. Gopalika described as “sweeping homilies, absurd and false” the report of the NHRC committee, which the chief minister had called “a great liar”. The report, which the BJP has gone to town with since, had named several current and former lawmakers of the Trinamul Congress, including a senior minister, in its list of 123 “notorious criminals/goons”. The state government’s affidavit countered every point and allegation in the report of the eight-member committee to convince the five-judge bench of the high court that the report was biased and based on the false allegations that the state’s BJP leaders had been levelling against the ruling party after their miserable defeat in the Assembly elections. In the report, the committee had made several remarks in virtual echo of the BJP, describing the Bengal situation as “a manifestation of “law of ruler”, instead of “rule of law”, and calling the alleged violence “retributive”, perpetrated by the ruling party against supporters of “the main Opposition party”. Gopalika’s affidavit mentioned much of what the chief minister had repeatedly been saying. Mamata Banerjee had been saying the violence had taken place before the results when the law and order machinery was under the Election Commission of India. On May 4, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar gave her control as a caretaker, but she had no real control on the police administration. On May 5, after her swearing-in, Mamata undertook a total change of the set-up of the police and civil administration for effective control of the law and order, undoing the alleged damage of sweeping changes made by the commission. Mamata said on July 22 that her government would respond to every point raised in the report, pointing out that a key part of the committee — a member of the NHRC — instrumental in filing it had a prominent BJP background. The affidavit tried to prove that at least three on the eight-member committee were well connected with the BJP. The affidavit claimed that the committee did not have the power to make recommendations in its report for the state administration to implement them. “I state that the committee has no power to recommend any course of action, as has been done in the report,” asserted Gopalika in the affidavit, citing the order the larger bench had issued on June 18. In its long list of recommendations, the committee endorsed most of the demands being made so far by the BJP, such as probes by the CBI, trials outside Bengal, a witness protection scheme, ex-gratia payments, compensation for alleged damages, static pickets of central forces, and action against “delinquent” government servants. The affidavit claimed that the so-called recommendations were invalid and illegal, and countered every allegation with references, stating police action already taken with regard to the complaints. The matter will come up for court’s scanning on Wednesday when the lawyers of both the sides will argue their cases. PIL against Mukul post Ambika Roy, a BJP MLA from Nadia’s Kalyani, on Tuesday filed a public interest litigation in Calcutta High Court demanding removal of Mukul Roy from his post of chairman of public accounts committee in the Assembly. Roy, who won from Nadia’s Krishnanagar seat with a BJP ticket, joined Trinamul after the results were out. BJP protested against Roy’s nomination as the chairman of the PAC in the Assembly and accused Trinamul of taking control of the post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
