29-07-2021||West Bengal||Rain owing to low pressure over Bangladesh, Bengal affects normal life in city||Heavy overnight rain owing to a well-marked low pressure over Bangladesh and West Bengal affected normal life in the city and some southern districts in the state on Thursday, inundating low-lying areas. The weatherman has forecast heavy to very heavy rain in Calcutta till Friday morning. Some thoroughfares and low-lying areas of the city were inundated due to continuous rain since Wednesday evening. The Met department has predicted heavy to very heavy rain with an extremely heavy downpour at some places in south Bengal districts till Friday, owing to the well-marked low-pressure area that is likely to move westwards across West Bengal, Jharkhand, and Bihar. Continuous rain caused the mud under the tracks to slide at Kharagpur yard of South Eastern Railway, slightly affecting the movement of goods trains, an official said. Rainwater flowing above the rails was reported from Haldia and Tikiapara yard in West Bengal, and at Bhadrak in Odisha, SER spokesperson Niraj Kumar said. "Passenger train movement was not affected owing to these incidents," Kumar told PTI. He said that restoration work was going on at Kharagpur in the presence of senior officers of SER. Kharagpur town received the maximum rainfall in the last 24 hours till 8.30 am on Thursday at 260 mm, followed by Medinipur (230 mm), the headquarters of Paschim Medinipur district. The port town of Haldia in Purba Medinipur received 216 mm rain, while Canning in South 24 Parganas got 186 mm rain during the same period, the Met department said. Calcutta recorded 76 mm rainfall during the period while adjoining Salt Lake received 50 mm. The weatherman predicted heavy to very heavy rain with an extremely heavy downpour at some places in North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur, Paschim Medinipur, Jhargram, and Howrah districts till Friday morning. Heavy to very heavy rain will also occur at Hooghly, Bankura, Purulia, Purba, and Paschim Bardhaman till Friday, it said. Purulia district in the western part of the state is likely to receive heavy to very heavy rain till Saturday morning. Heavy rain will continue in North and South 24 Parganas, Bankura, Paschim Bardhaman, and Paschim Medinipur districts till Saturday morning, the Met office said. The heavy downpour may cause a rise in water levels of rivers, and waterlogging of low-lying areas in the southern districts of the state, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal extends Covid curbs till August 15, allows govt programmes||Keeping in mind the warning of experts about a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Bengal government on Thursday extended the existing restrictions till August 15, but also announced certain relaxations. The administration allowed government programmes at indoor facilities with 50 per cent seating capacity, according to an order. Buses, taxis, autorickshaws have been permitted to operate with 50 per cent capacity. Offices, both government and private, are also allowed to function with half the manpower, it said The restrictions, imposed on May 16, were last extended till July 30. All the district administrations were asked to ensure strict compliance of directives related to wearing of masks and social distancing. "Any violation of the restriction measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and relevant sections of the IPC," the order stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Column of wind on river Hooghly ||Residents of Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas saw a giant column of wind on river Hooghly on Wednesday evening. Eyewitnesses said the column seemed to “roam” on the river surface for around five minutes before it vanished. Eyewitness Rejaul Mallik said it created panic when it seemed like it was approaching the embankment. “I saw it around 4.45pm and it was gone within five minutes,” said Mallik. “I’d never seen such a thing earlier.” On June 10, residents of Sagar island found a similar column of wind on river Hooghly. G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta, said that such cylindrical wind columns happen owing to low pressure. “We call such system  a waterspout. Such a cylindrical system occurs during low pressure and usually ends up in the river. It may have impact if it hits the land as a cyclone,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Distress alert device a must on boats: Bengal government||The Bengal government has made it mandatory for boats and trawlers out for deep-sea fishing to install distress alert transmitters (DATs) so that the vessel operators can alert Chennai’s Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (MRCC) in case of an emergency. The state government had issued a similar order in 2011 and provided the device to around 2,400 fishing boats. But the increasing trend of fishing boat capsizing in the Bay of Bengal prompted the state government to make mandatory the installation of the device in boats at the earliest. There are around 10,000 boats registered in South 24-Parganas district. Sources in the Indian Coast Guard said that the DAT was a satellite-based alert transmitter to be used in distress situations like capsize, fire, medical emergency and drowning. In case of emergency, the fishing boat transmits a short message about its location and type of emergency to the MRCC, which in turn alerts the Coast Guard personnel. The decision for mandatory installation of all registered boats was adopted during a meeting between the fisheries department and members of the Fishermen Welfare Association at the South 24-Parganas district magistrate’s office in Alipore on Wednesday. State fisheries minister Akhil Giri and officials of the Coast Guard and the disaster management department attended the meeting. that was held on a day a boat capsized  on the Bay of Bengal close to the Bangladesh border. Sources in the fisheries department said a boat named ‘Tarama’ from Kakdwip sank in the sea owing to a breach on its floor. All the 15 fishermen on the boat were rescued by boats sailing nearby. Earlier on July 14, in a similar boat capsize around 25km away from the Frazerganj coastal line, 14 fishermen who were trapped inside the bottom cabin died. Speaking to The Telegraph, state fisheries minister Akhil Giri said: “We do not want such accidents any more. The decision for mandatory installation of the DAT system is a step to prevent such accidents.” At the meeting, it was decided that the state government would soon select a modern DAT device and advise boat owners to install it in their vessels at their own cost. “We will select the appropriate device and ask boat owners to install it. We are hopeful that a boat owner who spends over Rs 50 lakh on a fishing boat can afford to install a device that costs around Rs 15,000 for safety,” minister Giri told The Telegraph. He added that he would soon hold a meeting with fisheries department official to frame a timeline to implement it. Bijan Maity, joint secretary of West Bengal United Fishermen’s Association said: “It is a good initiative. This decision was earlier taken but a casual approach in its implementation left the situation unchanged. We have appealed to the minister to ensure that the decision does not remain only on paper.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Tripura BJP fears losing the next Assembly elections: Trinamul ||The alleged “house arrest” of poll consultant Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team members in a hotel by the BJP-led Tripura government only reflects its fear of losing the next Assembly elections, a three-member Trinamul delegation said in Agartala on Wednesday. The Trinamul delegation  that reached Agartala on Wednesday morning, to assess the political situation, comprised Bengal ministers Moloy Ghatak and Bratya Basu and former MP Ritabrata Banerjee. “The I-PAC members only came to conduct a survey. They had Covid-19 (negative) test reports but still were detained and FIRs were filed against them. This only reflected the fear of the ruling BJP of losing the next election,” Basu said. Seventeen I-PAC members had reached Agartala on July 17 and five on July 20. Tripura government sources said all the 22 I-PAC members had tested negative and they now to free to move around. They were tested for Covid-19 on Sunday night and were told to stay put in their hotel rooms till test results came in. Tripura government officials also denied detaining the I-PAC members or filing any FIR against them. Trinamul, which does not have any MLA in the 60-member Tripura assembly, is trying to create a space for itself by exploiting the “anti-incumbency” factor against the ruling BJP-IPFT combine, which had comprehensively won the 2018 Assembly polls to end the Left Front’s 25-year reign. Former MP Banerjee said Bengal chief minister and Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee would be the “face of the Opposition political parties” under whose leadership the BJP would be dethroned both in Tripura and Delhi.“The BJP will lose Tripura in 2023 and the country in 2024 by united political forces,” Banerjee said. The delegation also said they would name a state committee for Tripura and Trinamul national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee would visit the state soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Police attacked, NH12 blocked over teacher arrests in North Dinajpur||Nearly 60 people, including some local Trinamul leaders in Karandighi, North Dinajpur, protested the arrest of two teachers accused of stealing funds, by blocking NH12 on Tuesday night and attacking a police station early on Wednesday. Nine policemen were injured. Nine protesters were arrested for attacking policemen and for blocking a national highway, the district police chief said. The protesters had been demanding the release of two teachers of state-aided high schools, arrested on Tuesday afternoon, for siphoning money given by the state government as scholarships to physically challenged and minority community students. The arrests of Sakir Ali, a computer teacher of Raghabpur High School, and Ehsaan Ali, a contract teacher of Sabdhan High school, galvanised people to gather in front of the police station, demanding the duo’s release. “When this protest did not work, the demonstrators, some of whom were intoxicated, blocked NH12 near the police station at midnight. This continued till 4am on Wednesday. Suddenly, protesters armed with bricks, stones and sticks attacked the police station,” said Sumit Kumar, the North Dinajpur SP. Nine policemen, including the inspector-in-charge, were injured. The policemen chased the attackers with batons who fled. The highway was cleared. Among those arrested include Badiruddin, the pradhan of Trinamul-run Lahutara panchayat in Karandighi block. It has been also found that two Trinamul leaders of the block, including a youth leader, led the protests and the attack, said sources. The incident left district Trinamul leaders in an awkward position. “We have come to know some Trinamul workers were present at the protest in front of the police station. But we have to find out if they were involved in the attack,” said Kanaialal Agarwala, the district Trinamul president. Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the BJP in Raiganj, highlighted the incident. “A group of Trinamul leaders in Karandighi have taken the law in their own hands and attacked the police. It was done to hide the scam in which many of these leaders are involved.” The teacher duo and the other nine were produced at a local court in Islampur. The court has sent the teachers to police custody for 12 days and nine protesters to judicial custody for nine days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Eleven Trinamul members freed, three  ‘captors’ held in Malda||Police rescued all 11 abducted Trinamul members of Daulatnagar panchayat under Harishchandrapur-II block of the district — two late on Tuesday night from the area and nine early on Wednesday from near the Bihar interstate border. The nine were being taken in vehicles towards neighbouring Bihar. “Our officers could intercept them near the interstate border,” a senior police officer said. “All panchayat members have been rescued. Three persons (with the members in vehicles) have been arrested and a probe is on,” he added, but was tight-lipped when asked if weapons were found on the three. On Tuesday, 11 members were allegedly abducted by a group of people, including the Trinamul pradhan of the panchayat Najibur Rahman and another Trinamul leader, Ashraful Haque, who is the husband of the sabhapati (chief) of Harishchandrapur-II panchayat samiti. One more member could escape. “We were on way to the BDO office for the verification of our signatures that we had put on an application to seek the removal of the pradhan (Najibur) through a no-confidence motion. We did not know we’d have to face such consequences,” said Abdul Gaffar, one of the rescued members. After the incident, Trinamul supporters had resorted to protests, demanding the police rescue the abducted members and arrest the culprits. Later in the day, BDO Bijay Giri filed a complaint with the police. Police on Tuesday late night spotted two members, who fled from the captors, from a locality in Harishchandrapur. Police teams checked vehicles in the area. Early on Wednesday, the remaining nine were found. Those arrested have been identified as Anarul Haque, Anarul Haji and Ansarul Sheikh of Harishchandrapur. Najibur, the pradhan accused of orchestrating the abduction, has gone into hiding. However, co-accused Ashraful spoke to newspersons over phone on Wednesday and dismissed the abduction charges as baseless. “It is nothing but an attempt by some local leaders to malign my image,” he said. The arrests, Trinamul insiders said, would help them control the perception damage in Malda after the loss of face owing to the abduction. “It is good that the police have rescued all the members and arrested some persons. Trinamul will not intervene in the probe in any manner,” said a district Trinamul leader. “Trinamul leaders have taken the strategy of saving those who had planned the abduction. They are highlighting the arrests of those who, we believe, were only carrying out orders,” said Sudipta Chatterjee, a state committee member of Malda BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation introduces 22 waste disposal vehicles||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Wednesday introduced 22 vehicles which would be engaged by the conservancy department for prompt collection and disposal of waste across Siliguri and meet the target to develop it a “waste-free city”. Gautam Deb, the chairman of the board of administrators (BoA) of the SMC, flagged off the new vehicles — eight covered vans and 14 erickshaw vans — as part of the plan to streamline conservancy services provided by the civic body across the town. Sources said around Rs 1 crore was spent on these vehicles. “We are streamlining the waste management system of the civic area in an organised manner. Our target is to provide the residents a ‘waste free city’ in another six months’ time,” said Deb. During the past few years, When the Left was in power at the SMC, residents from different walks of life have time and again pointed to the abysmal conservancy services by the civic body. “Heaps of garbage, especially in the commercial areas, would lie for days and there was hardly any regular initiative by the then Left board to keep the town clean. We want Siliguri to be clean and are putting all efforts to intensify the conservancy service,” said Ranjan Sarkar, a member of the BoA. Every day, around four metric tons of waste is collected from 47 wards in Siliguri. of the city and are sent to the dumping ground located off Eastern Bypass, in the northeast end of Siliguri. “The new vehicles will collect and dispose which will be used in collection and disposal of garbage from all five borough offices of the SMC,” said a source. The civic body in association with the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority has taken up a project of around Rs 18 crore for proper disposal of waste. “The project is in progress and we hope the services will ould considerably improve during the next few months,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||500 parakeets seized in Malda, one arrested||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) seized over 500 birds from a Calcuttabound train and arrested a person in this connection from Malda Town station on Tuesday night. V.B. Sharma, an inspector of the RPF, said hundreds of birds, mostly parakeets and a hill mynah — a rare avian species — were recovered from a coach of the Jogbani Express that runs between Jogbani in Bihar and Calcutta. “We raided the train at Malda Town station and recovered the birds kept in seven cages from a sleeper coach. We have arrested Sheikh Sahid who is suspected to be associated with a bird smuggling racket. He has revealed that the birds were loaded on the train at Katihar station. He was supposed to get down at Burdwan. We will interrogate him further to find out where the consignment was to be delivered,” Sharma added. The RPF sources said altogether 510 birds were kept in the cages. “The smuggler had covered the heads of the birds to prevent the birds from chirping. The RPF has done a good job,” said Subhasish Sengupta, an ornithologist based in Malda. Later, the RPF handed over the birds and Sahid to officials of the state forest department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||All India Matua Mahasangha leader threatens to dump BJP||A senior leader of the All India Matua Mahasangha on Wednesday said the sect would withdraw its support to the BJP if its demand for the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act was further delayed. The statement came a day after Union home minister of state Nityananda Rai had told the Lok Sabha that the ministry had sought another extension by six months to frame rules of the CAA. Told about the extension, Mohitosh Baidya, the general-secretary of the Mahasangha, headed by BJP MP and junior Union minister Santanu Thakur, said on Wednesday: “This doesn’t sound right…. We will take back our support if this goes on.” Baidya, who is also the spokesperson for the Mahasangha, was a part of the Matua delegation that accompanied Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Orakandi in Bangladesh in March this year. Orakandi was the birthplace of Matua sect founder Harichand Thakur. Baidya, like many other members of the sect, was hopeful that the Union government would finally frame rules of the CAA and implement it in Bengal once the earlier time-frame of July 9 expired. The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, had granted an extension of time up to April 9 and July 9, respectively, to frame the rules. However, Rai said on Tuesday that the ministry had sought permission for a further extension till January 9, 2022. “From what I hear, one would need to prove his Indian citizenship through parental and own documents once the rules are framed and the official work begins. This is not what we had demanded. Our demand is clear. We want unconditional citizenship…,” Baidya added. The Matuas, a group of lower-caste Hindu refugees from Bangladesh, have contributed largely to the growth of the BJP in Bengal. As the implementation of the CAA is further delayed, unrest has started brewing within the sect. “It is true the delay has put many people in despair and they also called us for a clarification. But we urged them to have patience,” admitted Subrata Thakur, the elder brother of Santanu and president of the Mahasangha. “Implementation of the Act, framing laws, is no small task since Covid-19 has spoiled many working days…,” he added. Mukutmani Adhikari, BJP MLA from Ranaghat South and the Nadia south unit chief of the Mahasangha, however, said there was no other option for the Matuas right now than to wait. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 815 more cases, 14 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 815 new Covid-19 cases, 811 recoveries and 14 deaths. Active cases fell by 10 to 11,370 on Wednesday, the 38th straight day of the slide. Calcutta logged 81 new cases and North 24-Parganas 114. So, Wednesday was the first time after a 20-day gap when one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure.Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures of new cases, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. Bengal’s recovery rate is 98.07 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.35. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent while that of the nation is 1.34. Thirteen districts, including Calcutta, logged zero deaths on Wednesday. Jalpaiguri, South Dinajpur, Nadia, West Midnapore, East Burdwan, Hooghly, North and South 24-Parganas reported one each. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.81 per cent on Wednesday. Bengal now has nearly 15.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes over 14.96 lakh recoveries and 18,109 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Academic writes in Trinamul daily, surname catches eye||An article on “woman power in Bengal politics” is drawing the attention of many people who are not regular readers of Jago Bangla, the Trinamul Congress’s mouthpiece, because of the roots of the writer. The article is penned by Ajanta Biswas, an associate professor of history at the Rabindra Bharati University in Calcutta. What has caught the eye of several social media users and Left sympathisers is the fact that Ajanta is the daughter of the late Anil Biswas, who as CPM state secretary was one of the most powerful figures in Bengal. The article is the first of a series on women political figures. The series begins with freedom fighter Basanti Devi and is scheduled to end with Mamata Banerjee, whose desire to become chief minister was once mocked by Anil Biswas. The article is accompanied by images of the freedom fighters Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das, his wife Basanti Devi and Sarojini Naidu. A sentence above the picture reads: “Basanti Devi thekey Mamata Bandyopadhyay (From Basantidevi to Mamata Banerjee).” Ajanta’s first article, titled “Bangorajneetitey Naarishakti (Woman power in Bengal politics)”, is not on Mamata but primarily deals with women patriots such as Basanti Devi and Sarojini Naidu. Sources said the chief minister’s role would be discussed in the next issue. Kunal Ghosh, a Trinamul general secretary who oversees the operations of the daily, said Ajanta had shared the article with him a few days ago. Ghosh found the article interesting and published it with Ajanta’s nod. “One shouldn’t find politics in this. The piece is rich in historical facts and analysis, which is why it has been published. It is true Ajanta’s father was an able politician, but she herself is a competent academic as well.” Ajanta is a CPM cardholder. Such members usually need permission to write for any publication outside the party fora. CPM sources said they were not aware of Ajanta seeking such permission. This newspaper could not contact Ajanta for corroboration in spite of making several phone calls and sending text messages. CPM state committee member and former legislator Sujan Chakraborty said he had heard about the article but was not aware of the content. “We will have to see it first. Can’t comment on this right now,” Chakraborty added. Another CPM state committee member said: “It is shocking for us. How can someone who is a member of our party write for a publication run by our political rival? She knew where her article was going to be published and I see a political motive behind this.” Ajanta is a member of the Left-backed West Bengal College and Teachers’ Association. She had been an active member of the Student’s Federation of India, the CPM’s students’ wing, at the erstwhile Presidency College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista seeks 'permanent political solution' for the Darjeeling hills in Lok Sabha||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista on Wednesday told Parliament that the BJP was committed to finding a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling hills keeping in mind the recurring demand for Gorkhaland from the region. He said although the region comprising the hills, Terai and the Dooars was among the highest revenue generating regions, they all remained grossly underdeveloped. “For generations, people from here have been discriminated against and deprived by the West Bengal government,” said Bista. The MP said because of deprivation, discrimination and lack of democracy, the demand for Gorkhaland was often raised in the region. “However, Gorkhaland state is not just a demand for development but it is also related to the identity crisis faced by 1.5 crore Gorkhas across India,” said Bista. Bista said “recognising” the recurring demand of the statehood, the BJP was committed to “finding a permanent political solution” for the region. “I request the central government to expedite the process for a permanent political solution,” said Bista. Before requesting the Centre to expedite the process of finding a “permanent political solution”, Bista alleged that there was a lack of grassroots democracy in the region and especially the Darjeeling hills as bureaucrats and people associated with the Trinamul Congress were running local bodies. “No panchayat elections have been held since 2001 (in Darjeeling) and since 2017, the GTA is being run by selected nominee without holding polls,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Third wave fear prompts push for more tests in Bengal||The Bengal health department has directed all district administrations to increase the number of Covid-19 tests because of the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic and cases of Delta and UK variants being reported in the state. Apart from testing, health officials have been asked to increase vaccination mainly with a target to finish the second doses pending in the state. “It has been found that the number of Covid tests have decreased in districts after the slump in cases during the second wave of the pandemic. Every district and testing centres have a specific target to test persons for Covid but many districts are meeting only half of it,” said a senior health official. After two north Bengal districts — Darjeeling and Kalimpong — reported cases of Delta and UK variants of Covid-19, East Midnapore also logged a case of Delta variant on Wednesday. Sources said the East Midnapore district health department had sent 27 samples of Covid-19 cases for genome sequencing earlier this month to Kalyani’s National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, in which a Delta variant was confirmed. However, the UK variant of the novel coronavirus has not been reported in south Bengal. Worried over the cases of Delta variant emerging in Bengal, the state government has directed districts to take necessary measures immediately to control it. The East Midnapore district administration has called a meeting of 223 gram panchayat chiefs immediately after the district reported the Delta variant. “Delta spreads fast and the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared it as a variant of concern (VOC),” said a health official. Bibhas Roy, the East Midnapore chief medical officer of health, said he had directed increased tests after the variant was found in the district. “We are very serious after a sample was found positive with the Delta variant. We have asked officials to increase the number of tests,” said Roy. Health officials in several districts said though the state government had asked them to increase tests, there was shortage of testing kits across Bengal. “Drive to vaccinate tourists coming to tourist spots like Digha was taken and it was decided that random tests for Covid would be carried out. But practically, it has not been possible because of the lack of kits,” said health official in Nandigram health district. The situation at other tourist destinations in the state is no different.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
