30-07-2021||West Bengal||PIL filed in Cal HC seeking Mukul Roy's removal from post of PAC chairman||A PIL seeking removal of MLA Mukul Roy from the post of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairperson in the West Bengal Assembly was moved before the Calcutta High Court on Friday, which the state government opposed contending that the matter is in the domain of the speaker. The petitioner, BJP MLA Ambika Roy, claimed that the post of PAC chairman traditionally goes to an opposition member, but since Mukul Roy has joined the ruling Trinamool Congress after being elected on a saffron party ticket, he should be removed from the post. Appearing for the state, Advocate General Kishore Dutta opposed the prayer submitting that the speaker has the sole authority in the Assembly and it is for him to decide who was eligible for the post. Claiming that a court cannot interfere in the decisions of a speaker when it comes to business of the House, as per Article 212 of the Constitution, Dutta argued that the PIL was not maintainable and should be dismissed. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice R Bharadwaj directed the petitioner to submit a short note stating why this PIL is maintainable before the court by August 4. The state will be at liberty to file its reply to it thereafter, and the case will be listed for hearing on August 10, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: First meeting of newly formed PAC held, Mukul Roy away in Delhi||Newly appointed Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman Mukul Roy, who recently switched over to the TMC after winning the state elections on a BJP ticket, on Friday gave the panel's first meeting a miss as he was away in Delhi, accompanying Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Roy was recently made the chairperson of the PAC of Bengal Assembly by Speaker Biman Banerjee. In a letter to the speaker, Roy said that he wouldn't be able to attend the PAC meeting, which was, during the day, presided over TMC MLA Tapas Roy. BJP MLAs, who had quit as chairpersons of eight other assembly committees in protest against Roy's appointment to PAC, boycotted the meeting. "This person (Roy) was made PAC chairman violating all rules and see how serious he is about the post. The chairman himself was absent from the first PAC meeting. This only shows the true colour of Mukul Roy and the ruling party," Leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari told reporters. Defending Roy, the TMC leadership said there is no rule that mandates the presence of chairman during the PAC meeting, if he is away attending to other emergencies. "He is occupied with some other engagements, and Roy had informed the speaker in advance. We don't need a lecture from Suvendu and his party on parliamentary regulations," Tapas Roy said. Mukul Roy, officially a BJP MLA from Krishnanagar Uttar, joined the TMC last month. He, however, did not resign as a legislator, despite being asked to do so by the saffron party. The TMC leader was elected from among twenty members of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC). Asserting that an opposition MLA is always appointed as the committee's chairman, in accordance with the norm, Adhikari said the TMC misused that rule to place Roy at the helm. "We had proposed names of six MLAs. The BJP never recommended Mukul Roy. He publicly joined the TMC recently, but that clearly wasn't taken into account," the saffron camp MLA from Nandigram stated. Adhikari further said that his party wanted eminent economist and MLA Ashok Lahiri to head the committee. "This corrupt TMC government finds ways to get their stooges elected to the top post," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Jawhar Sircar set to be elected too Rajya Sabha||Trinamul Congress candidate for Rajya Sabha by-election, Jawhar Sircar, will be elected unopposed as his nomination paper was found valid during scrutiny on Friday, sources in the Bengal Assembly secretariat said. The BJP has already announced that it would not field any candidate for the by-poll to the Upper House of Parliament, paving the way for Sircar, a former CEO of Prasar Bharati, to be elected without contest from the state. Sircar's name is expected to be officially announced as the winner on August 2, the last date of withdrawal of nomination papers. Assembly secretariat sources said that the nomination papers of Sircar were examined for over half an hour in presence of the candidate, TMC Chief Whip in the House Nirmal Ghosh and his deputy Tapas Roy. "Sircar's nomination papers were stated to be in perfect order by the returning officer," Ghosh later told reporters. The Rajya Sabha seat was vacated by former TMC leader Dinesh Trivedi earlier this year, necessitating the by-election which is supposed to be conducted on August 9. The former Prasar Bharati CEO filed his nomination as the TMC candidate on July 28. "Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service.... His contribution shall help us serve our country even better," the TMC had said while announcing his candidature. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, on Thursday said that the saffron party will not nominate any candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat vacated by Trivedi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BSF personnel arrested for raping Bangladeshi woman in custody||A BSF personnel has been arrested for allegedly raping a Bangladeshi woman, nabbed while illegally crossing over into India, on the pretext of interrogating her inside a camp of the paramilitary force in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district, police said on Friday. Acting on a complaint lodged by the survivor at Gaighata police station, the accused BSF sub-inspector was arrested on Thursday, a senior police officer said. "The incident took place on the night of July 27. After it came to light, the BSF itself handed over the jawan to the local police and placed him under suspension," a senior officer of the paramilitary force said. The survivor and another woman, both hailing from Bangladesh's Gopalganj, were arrested while illegally crossing over into India. As per the survivor's police complaint, the two women were arrested by personnel of the 158th battalion of the BSF while they were illegally entering India through the Jhaudanga border. "She has alleged that the BSF personnel took both of them to the Kharer Math camp of the paramilitary force for questioning. When nobody was around, the accused trooper raped the woman on the pretext of interrogating her," the police officer said, quoting the FIR. The BSF personnel has been booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code, and produced before the Bangaon Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, which remanded him to two days in police custody, he said. The woman's confidential statement has been recorded by the magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC, and medical tests were conducted on her, the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid : Bengal govt extends stricter restrictions till August 15||The Mamata Banerjee government has extended the stricter restrictions until August 15 as a part of its attempt to keep the Covid situation under control. Cinemas have been allowed to operate with not more than 50 per cent seating capacity from July 31. The Covid protocols will have to be complied with. According to the order issued to extend the restrictions for another 15 days, indoor government programmes can be held with 50 per cent seating capacity. The government has laid stress on maintaining the stricter restrictions between 9pm and 5am when all outdoor activities, except emergency services, have been prohibited. The night ban covers movement of people and vehicles, barring those given exemptions. In spite of demand from various quarters to allow operation of suburban local trains, the government has decided to keep the services suspended for now. “We have not allowed any major relaxation this time as we don’t want the daily positive cases to rise abnormally. Positive cases have begun to show a rising trend,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Worrying survey spurs mask-up drive in Bengal ||State police have launched large-scale raids and set up several checkpoints to penalise people roaming around without masks, the move coming after a state government survey found that only a little over half of people out on roads wore masks, and even fewer did so properly. In the survey done with help of the police in around 650 points across Bengal, findings suggested that on average a little over 51 per cent of people wore masks. Among those wearing masks, only around 60 per cent properly secured them on their faces. State government sources said after the survey report came, Nabanna top brass directed police to take strict measures to ensure people wore masks amid the threat of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and recent detections of the Delta and UK variants of the virus in both north and south Bengal. “The survey report was very alarming. Hence, all districts have been asked to take strict measures to make masks compulsory for people outdoors. Police have been asked to start cases against violators,” said a senior state government official. Police sources said it was not possible to start cases against everyone under the disaster management act but a campaign that in effect says “either cover your face with a mask, else face cases” has been put in place. Police in several districts have lodged hundreds of cases against people for not wearing masks. For example, East Burdwan district police on Thursday launched the ‘Mask up Burdwan’ drive in one of the biggest south Bengal towns. Police set up four new checkpoints in the town to monitor people on roads. Those without masks will reportedly face cases or at the very least an alert from the police. “We have launched Mask up Burdwan mainly to stop people coming out of their homes without masks. It is not that we will only start cases, our main goal is awareness amid the threat of a third wave. Police from checkpoints will keep vigil on people without masks,” said Kamanasish Sen, East Burdwan police chief who launched the drive. In Bankura, police set up at least a dozen check points at its tourist spots with cops keeping an eye on visitors. “We started around 60 cases yesterday (Wednesday). We are also conducting raids in markets to find out if people are wearing masks or not. We are strict in this regard,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura police chief. Birbhum police have started over a hundred cases against people not wearing masks, said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, Birbhum police chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Young couple found dead under mysterious circumstances at Alipurduar residence||A young couple was found dead under mysterious circumstances at their house in Falakata of Alipurduar district on Thursday morning. Police sources said Subhajit Das, 30, and his wife Payel, 28, were found lying dead in their room, while their three-year-old daughter was spotted wailing in the bed. It has been learnt that Subhajit used to work at a private company in Bangalore and Payel was associated with a private nursing home in Falakata. As the couple did not come out of their room till late on Thursday morning, Subhajit’s mother repeatedly banged the door and screamed their names. Later, she called the neighbours for help. The police sources said their neighbours broke the door after there was no response from Subhajit or his wife. “We saw the little girl lying on the bed. Subhajit was found hanging, while Payel was seated dead in a chair,” said a resident of Collegedanga. The police have recovered the bodies. “We are waiting for the post-mortem reports to ascertain the cause of their deaths. Our officers are trying to gather information about the couple,” said Kuntal Banerjee, the additional superintendent of police, Jaigaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLA Neeraj Zimba hopeful of Scheduled Tribe status of 11 Gorkha communities||BJP MLA Neeraj Zimba continues to exude hope that 11 Gorkha communities will soon be accorded the Scheduled Tribe status though it is seven years since the Bengal government mooted the proposal and the Centre didn’t commit even on Thursday on granting the tag. Darjeeling MLA Zimba on Thursday took to Facebook to express his confidence that the tribal status and Gorkhaland would be become realities during the tenure of local party MP Raju Bista. “I am very confident that it will be under the tenureship of our Hon’ble MP Sri Raju Bista Ji, our Gorkhas will achieve both our demands of #Permanent_Political_Solution and #Schedule_Tribe_Status of the 11 Leftout Gorkha Tribal Communities way before 2024,” wrote Zimba. The tenure of the present Lok Sabha ends in 2024. Zimba further said: “Note: “One fine morning” is not too far.” Pratap Khati, a leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League which is an ally of the BJP, had said last year that the 11 Gorkha communities would definitely be granted the ST status and hill people would wake up to find their status changed to the ST “one fine morning”. A response by Renuka Singh Saruta, minister of state for tribals, is virtually silent on whether the Centre would make urgent intervention to examine the claim of the Gorkhas for the ST status. Shanta Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamul Congress, wanted to know the reason for the unprecedented delay (in granting the status) and the details thereof. In her written reply to Chhetri on Thursday, Saruta admitted that the Centre had received a proposal from Bengal on February 28, 2014, for the inclusion of the 11 Gorkha community in the ST list. But the minister was vague on whether the Centre would make urgent intervention and the reasons for the delay. The minister has informed that the Centre laid down modalities for deciding on the claims for the inclusion and exclusion of communities in the SC and ST list. “As per the modalities, only those proposals which have been recommended and justified by the concerned State Government/UT Administration and concurred with by Registrar General of India (RGI) and National Commission for Scheduled Tribes are to be considered and legislation amended. All action on the proposal is taken as per these approved modalities,” the reply states. Applications under the RTIs had clearly stated the RGI had rejected the proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Tribal woman in Jalpaiguri accuses John Barla as ‘unhelpful’ ||A 30-year-old tribal woman from a tea estate in Jalpaiguri district has accused John Barla, the Union minister of state for minority affairs and the BJP MP of Alipurduar, of inaction when she went to him with a complaint of sexual abuse against an influential person. On Wednesday, the woman filed a complaint with Debarshi Dutta, the Jalpaiguri SP, where she alleged that a businessman had sexually tormented her for around a year. Dutta said: “In the complaint, she stated Jaychand Agarwal, a businessman of Banarhat, tormented her a number of times. She has stated that she had (last year) been to John Barla, the MP, and sought his help. But the MP, according to her, did not help her, and fleeced her financially. We have arrested the businessman and started a probe.” The SP did not elaborate how the MP allegedly cheated the woman financially. Sources in Banarhat said the woman knew Agarwal who helped her in her wedding too. “Though she filed the complaint on Wednesday, she is referring to an issue that’s almost a year old. We are exploring all angles,” said a source in the district police. The woman told the media briefly: “I met John Barla seeking his help. But he did not help me. That is why I approached the police now and hope to get justice.” On Thursday, Agarwal was produced at a court in Jalpaiguri. The court sent him to police custody for two days. Barla spoke to this paper over phone from Delhi where he brushed aside the charges. “A tribal woman approached me about a year ago with a bank cheque that bounced for want of funds. I had given her all possible help. There is no question of my cheating her financially. I don’t know why such charges are being raised against me now, I suspect some political conspiracy,” he said. Recently, it was found that Barla built a house on a plot leased out by the state government to a tea company and is building a multi-storey commercial complex on another plot owned by the state PWD department. The minister, who kept mum about his properties, had earlier hit the limelight for advocating separate statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal. The woman’s allegations prompted Gangaprasad Sharma, a former district president of BJP in Alipurduar who quit the saffron camp and joined Trinamul after Assembly elections, lambasted Barla on Thursday. “It is disappointing that a woman did not get necessary help from an elected representative, who is a member of the Union cabinet now. We want the police to investigate the matter thoroughly, and if required, speak with the MP,” said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 766 new Covid-19 cases, 14 more deaths||Bengal on Thursday logged 766 new infections, 822 recoveries and 14 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 70 to 11,300, as the state saw the 39th uninterrupted day of a slide. Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate is at the state’s all-time high of 98.07 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.35. Its daily positive confirmation rate is 1.67 per cent now. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while the nation’s is 1.34 per cent. Seventeen Bengal districts logged zero deaths on Thursday, Darjeeling, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas one each. Calcutta reported three deaths and 64 new infections. With North 24-Parganas logging 106 new cases, it became the second day after a 20-day gap of a Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures of new cases. North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia single-digit figures. Bengal now has over 15.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes 14.97 lakh recoveries and 18,123 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rainfall disrupts livelihoods in several south Bengal districts, thousands homeless||Continuous, heavy rainfall over the past few days has disrupted life and livelihoods in at least half a dozen south Bengal districts and rendered thousands of people homeless. Large parts of Haldia and Kharagpur towns are also submerged. Sources in the Met office in Calcutta said in the past 24 hours, districts to get the most rain were South 24-Parganas, East and West Midnapores. Among towns, Midnapore, Haldia, Canning and Diamond Harbour got the highest rainfall in the state, with 230mm, 215.8mm, 185.6mm and 92.1mm, till Thursday 6am. Much of Haldia township is submerged and the dock complex inundated. Port officials said there was no power supply to Haldia dock and township since Wednesday night as most substations went under water. Frequent lightning rendered the vessel traffic management system defunct and stalled the waterway movement. There was no inward and outward vessel transport in the past 24 hours. “All possible attempts to normalise the situation at the Haldia dock complex are on ,” said Vinit Kumar, chairman, Calcutta Port. Haldia residents called the situation “scary”. “We were asleep on Wednesday night and woke up to water in our room,” said resident Naresh Das. Haldia apart, Nandigram and many other areas of East Midnapore went underwater. “It is worse than Cyclone Yaas as entire Nandigram is waterlogged. We are trying to rescue people from flooded homes,” said Abu Taher, the deputy chief of Nandigram Panchayat Samity. Most areas in Kharagpur town, including a part of the railway station, are submerged. Train services have not been disrupted, but senior officers are assessing the situation, said a senior official in South Eastern Railways. Over a hundred villages in South 24-Parganas are under water. Officials said waterlogging was reported from Gosaba, Basanti, Kultali and Sagar blocks. “We have rescued 9,265 persons and opened 76 camps in our district. There is no report of casualty or injury or embankments breached,” said P Ulaganathan, South 24-Parganas DM. In Kakdwip, no business activities could be carried out in the wholesale market of betel leaves as the market was waterlogged. Agriculture department officials in the four south Bengal districts said they feared a loss to aman paddy and vegetable cultivation as crops had submerged. In North 24-Parganas, Sandeshkhali block is the worst-hit. A major part of the Sandeshkhali town, including Nazat police station, has been inundated since Thursday. Additional inputs from Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Higher secondary council withdraws cap on Class XI seats at all state-run schools||The West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education on Thursday withdrew the existing cap on the number of seats in Class XI at all state-run and state-aided schools for this year. With this, a school can admit up to 400 students in each of the three streams — science, commerce and arts — in 2021. Normally, the maximum limit per stream is 275 students. The increase in Class XI seats was made as an exception considering the 100 per cent success rate in Madhyamik. Thursday’s order, signed by council secretary-in-charge Tapas Mukhopadhyay with the approval of its president Mahua Das, came as a relief for not only heads of schools but students and parents. Education department sources said Nabanna had ordered officials to ensure admission for all students who passed Madhyamik this year. The admission process starts in August. A senior official of the council said: "Many schools approached us requesting a waiver on the existing cap and an increase in the maximum quota of admission. We considered the aspect realistically and sought a decision from the state government which accorded its nod,” the official said. With a 100 per cent success rate, the number of Class XI aspirants would be around 13.66 per cent more than the previous year. “We appealed to the council to waive the restriction and increase the maximum admissibility of students to 400. We also demanded appointment of new teachers as many schools would face problems in handling such a huge number of students,” said Chandan Maiti, state general secretary of Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses. “We are happy that the council considered the issue sincerely,” added Maiti, who is the headmaster of Mathurapur Krishnachandrapur High School in South 24-Parganas. “Every year the number of qualifying students increases. An increase of barely 1 per cent puts schools like ours in a fix owing to constraints in infrastructure coupled with lack of teachers. The council should try to understand this,” Santanu Mandal, added headmaster of a high school in Nadia's Haringhata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP to not field candidate against TMC nominee Jawhar Sircar in RS bypolls||The BJP has decided not to field a candidate against Trinamul Congress nominee Jawhar Sircar in a Rajya Sabha bypoll, but a section of leaders in the saffron camp felt the party should have ensured a contest though the result was a forgone conclusion. The decision was announced by Opposition leader in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari in a tweet on Thursday. “Today is the last date for nomination of RS by-poll in WB. BJP is not putting up any candidate for this seat. Outcome of the poll is defined and known to all. Our fight against this irrational Govt. will continue,” Adhikari tweeted. Trinamul fielded former civil servant Sircar for the seat that was vacated by Dinesh Trivedi before his switch to the BJP. Although the result in case of a contest — with Trinamul’s nearly three-fourths majority in the House — is a foregone conclusion, sections within the BJP had hoped that Sircar wouldn’t be allowed to win unopposed. “There is, indeed, zero chance for us to win this by-poll. Yet, to keep the morale of the supporters high, a candidate should’ve been fielded,” said a state BJP functionary. The Election Commission of India had declared August 9 as the date of the bypoll. According to some BJP leaders, at a time when Mamata Banerjee is gaining traction in national politics, putting up a fight against her Rajya Sabha candidate would’ve sent a robust, positive message to the workers at the grassroots. “These workers have been suffering at the hands of Trinamul goons since the Assembly poll results. They needed to see that the party left no stone unturned and was not letting shoulders droop,” said a source. BJP sources said fielding a candidate was firmly opposed by Nandigram MLA Adhikari. The former Trinamul turncoat – despite intense dislike of several influential sections within the BJP state unit – has been wielding increasing clout in his new party. A member of the BJP’s state committee said if the party had fielded a candidate, it would’ve been an opportunity to “expose” Mukul Roy. Roy, the former Number Two in Trinamul, had joined the BJP in 2017 and went on to become its MLA this summer. But he returned to his former party after the election. The BJP has been trying to get Speaker Biman Banerjee to implement the anti-defection law against Roy. However, there has been little progress so far. Since each MLA has to show his/her vote to the agent of each candidate during the Rajya Sabha polls, if the BJP had fielded a candidate and Roy hadn’t voted for that person, it would have been easier for the party to “expose” him. Revolt against Khan The BJP’s Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan, also the state unit chief of the BJP’s youth wing, found himself mired in yet another controversy on Thursday. At least two members of the youth wing openly revolted against Khan’s decision to induct Moumita Saha as a secretary of the unit, in a conversation within its official WhatsApp group. Khan had removed them from the group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata meets Nitin Gadkari, seeks electric vehicle unit for Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday met Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari to discuss several road and infrastructure projects in the state and seek help for the electric vehicle manufacturing industry in Bengal. The Bengal chief minister, who is in Delhi to stitch together an alliance of Opposition parties against the BJP, went to Gadkari’s home in the afternoon and spent around an hour before calling the meeting “very successful”. Gadkari, with whom Mamata has been sharing a cordial relationship for years, and the chief minister first had a 30-minute one-to-one meeting. After that, state and central government officers joined the meeting, during which several projects related to Bengal came up for discussion and the Union minister pledged all possible support. “I requested that it will be good if we have a manufacturing industry in Bengal that will manufacture electric buses, electric autos, electric scooters,” Mamata told reporters after the meeting. “We are a bordering state and share borders with Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and northeastern states. So, we need proper roads,” she added, explaining the need for better connectivity for Bengal. Sources in the state government said Mamata had gone prepared for the meeting and rolled out a long list, which included concrete embankments in the Sunderbans, elevated road corridor between Barasat and Bongaon (so that people do not face eviction), road projects linking Nalhati and Muraroi in Birbhum, Siliguri and Sevok and then Sevok and Rongpo in Sikkim. Mamata said the Union minister listened to the demands and said he would help implement the projects. Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi will be reaching Delhi on Friday, after which a meeting will be fixed for further discussions, she added. The meeting between the duo, Trinamul sources said, was significant not only because of administrative relevance. “You should not overlook the political angle... He may be a senior Union minister, but it’s common knowledge that he is not in the mainstream. The fact that he is giving Didi time and pledging all support for Bengal projects at a time she is trying to bring all the parties together against the BJP is indeed politically significant,” said a source. In her first visit to the capital since assuming the office of the chief minister for the third time in a row, Mamata did call on the Prime Minister for a “courtesy meeting”, but her primary focus has been developing a consensus for a united fight against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Over the last couple of days, Mamata met Opposition leaders like Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Arvind Kejriwal — she met DMK leader Kanimozhi on Thursday — to discuss how all Opposition parties could be brought together for what she has called Mission Hope 24. Veteran poet and lyricist Javed Akhtar and Bollywood actress Shabana Azmi on Thursday met Mamata and endorsed her mission. “Yes, we need a change in the country the way Bengal got a change back in 2011,” said Akhtar after meeting Mamata. Asked whether he felt Mamata should lead the mission to bring about a change, he said bringing in the change was more important than who was leading it. “There are signs of divisions, violence in today’s India... We need a better democracy,” said Akhtar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Three constables of Indian Reserve Battalion injured in bomb attack in North 24-Parganas||Three constables of the Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) were injured when goons hurled bombs at them at Jagaddal town’s Phuluri More in North 24-Parganas during the wee hours of Thursday. Susanta Poddar, Dipu Barman, and Pijush Kanti Majhi, who were a part of a team of Jagaddal police station, had gone to the site on getting information about a clash between two rival groups. The three constables attached to the Barjora-based battalion of the IRB received splinter injuries on their legs and bodies. Rushed to the BN Bose subdivisional hospital in Barrackpore, they were released later. The police team had gone to the place around 2.30am, when the clash was well underway, said sources. “Our personnel were examining unexploded bombs on the road when goons attacked them. At least four bombs were hurled and exploded near them,” a cop said. The police have started a case and are trying to identify the goons from CCTV footage retrieved from cameras at nearby locations. A senior officer of Jagaddal police station said three persons had been detained for interrogation. No arrests were made. BJP leader Umasankar Singh blamed the police for the spurt in crimes in the area. Trinamul leader Sanjoy Singh ruled out political involvement behind the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans Tiger Reserve foresters felicitate 39 villagers for bravery ||Foresters in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve on Thursday felicitated 39 residents of a remote village at Gosaba in South 24-Parganas on the occasion of International Tiger Day for their bravery in driving away a big cat without harming the animal in April this year. The foresters said the villagers had set an example at a time when people habitually turned violent against the wild animals in retaliation for attacks on humans in remote pockets of the mangroves. “The 39 villagers became an example in the conservation of tigers going beyond the man-animal conflict as they saved the tiger. We thought their bravery should be rewarded and so we felicitated them,” said Jones Justin, the deputy field director of STR. On the morning of April 9, a few residents of Lahiripur village in Gosaba discovered a fresh pugmark on the soft earth on the riverbank that led towards the nearby jungle. Sources said soon villagers came up with their weapons to find the tiger. The team of 39 instead set up a human chain before their habitat and started shouting so that the tiger couldn’t come towards them. Meanwhile, the residents informed the forest office. “There were only a few foresters, who were not enough to drive away a tiger. The villagers aged between 30-40 years assured us that they would help us drive away the tiger ,” said a forest official. The foresters first put up a net to save the human habitat from the tiger. “These 39 villagers showed their bravery as they agreed to follow the pugmark with us. We needed people as we had to shout in a high decibel to drive away the animal. It was not easy to take part in such a drive but the villagers did it. After an effort of a few hours, we became successful as the tiger swam into the river,” said a forester. The villagers said that they took the challenge to save the tiger as they knew that attacking the big cat wouldn’t solve their problem. “As we know there are tigers in our neighbouring forests, so it is our duty to save them. We are happy as the department had felicitated us,” said Nitish Mondal, a 35 year old farmer from Lahiripur area, who along with 38 others were felicitated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
