31-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta cinema hall owners to start operation on getting new content||Cinema hall owners in the city on Saturday said they will wait for new content to reopen their facilities even after the West Bengal government allowed them to resume operations with 50 per cent seating capacity. Some single-screen proprietors, however, restarted their operations in districts with old films. Cinema halls in the state remained closed since May 1 as the government had imposed several restrictions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Film exhibitors in the city are waiting for new releases to resume screening after three months, Navina cinema owner Navin Chokhani told PTI. “Covid protocols are in place in our facility. We are in touch with distributors and production houses as they will decide on the issue of new releases. Several films were not released due to the 2nd wave of the pandemic. We will hopefully take a call by next Wednesday,” he said. Satadeep Saha, the co-owner of Ajanta cinema and a local multiplex, said several theatre halls are not yet ready to reopen this week as staffers have gone to their native places in districts and other states after the announcement of the closure in May. “There is also no news about immediate big-ticket releases of Bengali and Hindi films. No multiplex or single screen facilities restarted their operations in the city. Around eight or nine exhibitors have reopened their halls from July 31 in the districts with old releases," he said. Chokhani said exhibitors need new releases to resume their operations and otherwise, viewers will not come to cinema halls to see old films. "We are in running condition as Covid protocols are in place after the reopening of cinema halls in October last year. We have carried out inspections in the auditorium so that health safety guidelines are followed. We now need an occasion such as big-ticket releases to reopen our facilities," he said. Saha said cinema hall owners will take a decision on reopening by August 6 as new films are released on Fridays. Priya cinema owner Arijit Dutta said, "We will consider the prevailing situation and take a call on resuming operations." A spokesperson of SVF Productions, leading Bengali film producers and distributor of Bollywood cinemas, said, "We are yet to decide about the releases and will decide by early next week." An official of leading distributor of Bollywood films said no multiplex facilities have started screening from Saturday. SVF Productions, which also runs several multiplex facilities, is yet to open any screen. "We will soon decide on this after considering all factors and sanitisation measures," the spokesperson said. The Bengal government on Wednesday allowed cinema halls to reopen from July 31 with 50 per cent seating capacity and strict adherence to Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo quits politics, says he is not joining any other party||Former Union Minister and BJP leader Babul Supriyo said on Saturday that he has decided to quit politics and will be resigning as an MP. He hinted the decision was partly due to losing the ministerial berth and also differences with the state BJP leadership. Supriyo, who had held several portfolios as MOS in the Narendra Modi government since 2014, was removed earlier this month during a major cabinet reshuffle. "Leaving, Alvida. Spoke to my parents, wife, friends, and after listening to the advice I am saying that I am leaving. Am not going to any other party - TMC, Congress, CPIM, nowhere. I am confirming that nobody has called me. "I am going nowhere. I am a one-team player! Have always supported one team #MohunBagan - Have been with only one party - BJP Bengal. That's it!! Leaving, Supriyo said in a Facebook post. "I have stayed for too long I have helped somebody, have disappointed somebody, It is for the people to decide. To be involved in social work, you can do that without being involved in any politics," his post read. The two-time MP from Asansol was among the several ministers who were dropped from the union cabinet on July 7 as part of a major rejig. His unsuccessfully contested assembly polls against Trinamool Congress's Aroop Biswas in the last assembly elections. Both Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri were dropped as ministers. Four other MPs from West Bengal Nishit Pramanik, Santanu Thakur, Subhas Sarkar and John Barla were inducted as MOS in the ministry. "If someone ask that whether leaving the politics is somehow connected to losing ministry. Yes then it is true to some extent.... Also had differences with the state leadership since the assembly poll campaign, he wrote. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh declined to comment on it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||KPP leaders write to Narendra Modi for Kamtapur state||Leaders and workers of the Kamtapur Progressive Party (KPP) sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri on Friday, demanding the separate Kamtapur state and inclusion of Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) language in the eighth schedule of the Indian Constitution. The KPP leaders, who also demonstrated in front of the district magistrate’s office, lent support to a demand that north Bengal be declared as a separate state or a Union territory but said it should be named Kamtapur. The demand was raised by Alipurduar BJP MP John Barla, who is also the Union minister of state for minority affairs. Manabendra Roy, an assistant secretary of the KPP, said the party had been formed with the demand for separate Kamtapur state which would comprises the entire north Bengal region. “We also want constitutional recognition of our language. We support John Barla’s demand for a separate north Bengal state but it has to be named Kamtapur and nothing else. That is why we have sent the letter to the Prime Minister,” said Roy. During the demonstration, the leaders demanded that the central and state governments hold talks with them. “If required, John Barla can also join the talks. BJP has MPs and MLAs from the region and they should pay heed to the aspirations of residents who live in north Bengal,” said Budharu Roy, a vice-president of the KPP. For the past few years, the KPP had been silent on the statehood demand. Atul Roy, the founder-president of the party who died recently, had extended support to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Other demands which the KPP has raised include announcement of national holiday on the birth anniversary of Chila Roy, the fiercest fighter of the Cooch Behar royal family, and establishment of AIIMS in north Bengal. “We do not support the demand for a separate state. The state government is sincerely carrying out development in the region and we believe it is the only way through which peoples’ issues can be addressed,” said K.K. Kalyani, the district Trinamul chief. Bapi Goswami, the district BJP president, was cautious in his remarks. “Our party does not want any further partition of Bengal. But we want to point out that because of lack of development, such demands are being raised from this region,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Jesuits offer free ventilator, undertake vaccination drive in hills||The Darjeeling Jesuits of North Bengal has handed over a ventilator worth Rs 38 lakh to Darjeeling Sadar Hospital and undertaken a vaccination drive for 600-odd tea garden workers for free. Fr Stanley Varghese, the rector of St Joseph’s School (North Point) run by the Jesuits, said they had also decided to convert the century-old institution into an isolation centre for children if the need arose in the days to come. The Jesuits had started the Sursum Corda Covid Care Centre at the St Joseph’s College Hall from April 20 and it was officially shut on Friday because of a drop in Covid-19 cases. “We had received a ventilator worth Rs 38 lakh from a well-wisher in New York. We did not have to use the ventilator at our care centre and handed it over to Darjeeling Sadar hospital for its use in the ICU today,” said Fr Varghese. The Jesuits also held a two-day free vaccination camp which ended on Friday for tea garden workers at St Joseph’s School in Darjeeling. “We realised that a lot of tea garden workers were having to spend a lot of money to travel to the town areas for free vaccination. Besides, jabs were not always available either. We also found out that the infection was slightly higher in rural areas and therefore, we decided to hold a free vaccination camp,” said the rector. Many social organisations had in the past tied up with private hospitals for paid vaccination drives. During such drives, social organisations also sponsored some jabs. But this is the first time that the organisers are sponsoring the entire jabs of a camp. For private centres, the Union government has fixed the price of a single jab of the vaccine at Rs 780, which seems unaffordable for many tea workers. The North Point school authorities tied up with Laali Guras, a social organisation that sponsored 200 of the 600 jabs. Sources in the administration said of the 13 lakh peopled aged above 18 in Darjeeling district, around 6 lakh had been administered the first dose while around 2.3 lakh had received the second jab as well so far. In Kalimpong district, of the 2.09 lakh peopled aged above 18, around 1.2 lakh have received their first jab, while about 49,000 have been administered the second dose too. “We are looking at holding another free vaccination camp in the first week of August at the school,” said Fr Varghese. The project has been christened North Point Vaccination Drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||26 animals born at Darjeeling zoo this year||Altogether 26 animals of seven species have been born at the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park (PNHZP) in the past seven months under its captive breeding programme, the park authorities have said. Sources said captive breeding of a number of endangered species of the Himalayan region was initiated at the zoological park at the beginning of this year. “In total, 26 animals — including seven red pandas, four snow leopards, five markhors, three leopard cats, three blue sheep, two Himalayan gorals and two Himalayan tahrs —have born till July this year,” said Dharamdeo Rai, the zoo director. The zoological park — one of the major attractions for tourists visiting Darjeeling — was established in 1958. It has been identified as the only coordinating zoo of India to conduct captive breeding of red pandas. The park runs a breeding centre at Topkey Dara, located around 12km from Darjeeling. Back in the nineties, it was launched under the “Project Red Panda” programme which is being carried out for conservation of the species. According to Rai, if the cubs and calves are counted, the total number of red pandas in the park has increased to 27, followed by 26 Himalayan goral, 18 Himalayan tahr, 15 blue sheep, 12 snow leopard, 10 markhor and 9 leopard cats. “Apart from the pandas, the zoo is also marked for captive breeding for these animals — considered as endangered species. One of the key reasons for selecting the park for the captive breeding programme is because of the climate of Darjeeling which helps in survival of the newborns,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Seven die as rain wreaks havoc in south Bengal districts ||Seven lives were lost across south Bengal as heavy downpour continued on Friday because of a well-marked low pressure that led to water-logging at several places and disruption in normal life, including suspension of railway and road communications. While four persons, including a five-year-old child, died in collapse of walls, the rest were electrocuted. According to the meteorological office in Calcutta, heavy to extremely heavy rainfall occurred in South 24-Parganas and Howrah districts on Friday. At the same time, very heavy rainfall lashed most places in Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Bankura, West Midnapore and Birbhum. Continuous rain caused erosion of railway tracks at Ahiran in Murshidabad district adjacent to NH12 under Azimganj-Malda section. While the railway authorities undertook repairs, routes of some trains were diverted. In Murshidabad’s Raghunathganj, an elderly man died in a wall collapse. Natu Mondal, 76, was sleeping in his mud house when one of the walls collapsed on him. In a similar incident, Laxmiram Soren, 55, died at Rajnathpur village of Sonamukhi in Bankura on Friday afternoon. Two other persons were injured and later admitted to the Bankura Medical College and Hospital in a critical condition. In Bankura’s Similipal, Wahid Khan, 65, also died in a mud wall collapse. The victim was sleeping at his home at Pathardoba village. The local residents recovered the body trapped under the wall on Friday morning. In West Burdwan’s Asansol Nikhil Baski, 5, died when a mud house caved in. Police said the kid and two others were trapped under the debris. They were taken to Asansol district hospital where Nikhil was declared dead. In Howrah’s Dasnagar, Hemanta Singh, 39, was electrocuted. He was trying to turn down the main switch of his house to avoid the possibility of electrocution after rainwater entered the residence. Some local residents spotted Singh lying and rushed him to Howrah District hospital where he was declared dead. At Bongaon in North 24-Parganas, a youth and his mother were electrocuted at Tawbazar. Police and local sources said Rishav Adhikari, 26, was first electrocuted when a galvanised iron wire snapped because of heavy wind and got entangled with an electric cable. His mother Mita Adhikari, 49, died while trying to rescue him. Villagers of Simultala near Basanti in South 24-Parganas blocked the state highway by digging up a trench after the locality went under water because of clogged drains. In East Midnapore’s Nandigram, Sonachura, Kalicharanpur, Kendamari and Rewapara, residents blocked roads accusing the local administration of negligence in clearing the drainage system that created inundation. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty, Alamgir Hossain, Abhijeet Chatterjee and Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Nine members of BJP’s youth wing write to top leaders, accuse state chief of 'dictatorial' practices ||Nine members, including four women, of the BJP’s youth wing wrote to the party’s top leaders on Friday, accusing the unit’s state chief Saumitra Khan of “dictatorial” practices and threatening women activists over the phone. The development came a day after Khan — a Trinamul Congress turncoat who is now the BJP’s Bishnupur MP — removed some of those people from an official WhatsApp group of the youth wing’s state unit after they had accused him in the group of turning the Yuva Morcha into a “circus”. “Saumitra Khan is pursuing dictatorial policy on the youth front. Ignores female activists… and threatening them over telephone,” read the letter sent from the email address of Banashri Mondal, signed by herself, Jhilam Banerjee, Priyanka Sharma, Arush Sau, Priyanti Roy, Saptarshi Mukherjee, Shyam Jaiswal, Arup Das, Manojit Sarkar, and “other state committee members”. Khan said he would answer to the leadership if he was questioned regarding the allegations. “I’ve not seen the letter. The BJP is a democratic party and everyone has the right to place their allegations before the leaders,” he said. Sources close to Khan said two other youth leaders were responsible for these “controversies” and accused them of attempts to malign him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal records 711 active cases, 835 recoveries and 5 deaths||Bengal on Friday recorded the 40th consecutive day of a fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases as the state reported 711 infections, 835 recoveries and five deaths. The total of active cases fell by 129 to 11,171. Nineteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while West Midnapore, Hooghly and Calcutta logged one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. “Even about eight weeks ago, the daily toll was around 150 with some districts reporting 50-60 deaths each. We have come a long way since,” said a minister. “We successfully managed to arrest fatalities in the 46-60, 61-75 and 75-plus age brackets, which collectively have over 16,300 (90.1 per cent) of the total 18,128 deaths,” he added. The 61-75 age bracket of the infected has a mortality rate of 3.43, but 7,560 (41.7 per cent) of the total deaths. In Bengal, around 12,200 (67.3 per cent) of the total deaths were of infected males. Comorbidities caused the death of 12,642 people so far, which is 69.7 per cent of the total toll. Hypertension, with a third of the comorbid deaths, is the biggest killer. Diabetes, with over one-fourth, is close second, followed by cardiac diseases, with about a tenth of the total. The recovery rate is currently at the state’s all-time high of 98.08 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.33. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.65 per cent on Friday. With Calcutta logging 74 new infections and North 24-Parganas 101, Friday was the third successive day again of at least one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day, while Kalimpong, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur, Malda and Purulia recorded single-digit figures. Bengal now has over 15.27 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 14.98 lakh recoveries and 18,128 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Two workers of Sevoke-Rangpo railway construction washed away in Kalimpong||Two labourers of the Sevoke-Rangpo railway construction project were killed when a rivulet swollen because of incessant rain apparently swept away their tent in Kalimpong district early on Friday. Three more workers went missing and two suffered injuries in the tragedy that happened after a landslide had brought boulders to the Mamkhola rivulet which swelled up in the impact. “A rivulet at Rangpo (near the Bengal-Sikkim border) rose after intense rain caused boulders to fall into the water this morning,” said Hari Krishna Pai, the superintendent of police, Kalimpong. The site is about 23km from Kalimpong town. The deceased were Dhan Singh Bhandari, 35, a citizen of Nepal, and Ronit Tirkey, 19, of Alipurduar district. Bhajan Das and Alok Dera, both in the age group of 35-40 years and residents of Cooch Behar district, suffered injuries and were admitted to a hospital in Sikkim. Arun Rai, 24 of Tarkhola, Bikash Tamang, 22, of Sangsey and Nepali national Damber Ram, 50, are still untraceable. Tarkhola and Sangsey are in Kalimpong district. “Search and rescue operations involving police, local rafters and other experts are underway,” said Pai. Sources said the labourers had pitched a tent just outside a tunnel that was being constructed as part of the railway project near Rangpo. “We suspect the tent was swept away between 1am and 2am,” said a local resident. Heavy machinery on the site was also damaged by the swollen rivulet. This is the second time in the past two months that workers involved in the Sevoke-Rangpo railway project are killed. On June 17, a 2m rock had crashed on labourers working in an under-construction tunnel at Bhalukhola, which is very close to the latest accident site, killing two and injuring five. Almost 86 per cent of the 44.98km link connecting Bengal with Sikkim will run through 14 tunnels. Each tunnel will be eight meters in diameter. The Rs 4,000cr project is scheduled to be completed by December 2023. Wing Commander (retd) Praful Rao, founder, Save The Hills, a non-profit organisation working on environmental issues, said Kalimpong had received a rainfall of 200mm in a span of 13 hours starting from 11am on Thursday. “The intensity of the rainfall in a short span of time has caused a lot of damage in Kalimpong. From government agencies to civilians, we must always remain vigilant, get our resources ready and undertake simple activities like clearing drains at regular intervals,” said Rao. Apart from the Mamkhola incident, a number of landslides were reported from various parts of Kalimpong and Darjeeling districts on Friday. Houses and cars were damaged and three people suffered injuries in Kalimpong. The NH10 that connects Sikkim with the rest of the country remained closed through most part of the day. A single lane traffic was thrown open around 4pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
