01-11-2021||Business||GST surges to Rs 1.30 lakh crore in October||India's Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection surged to Rs 1.30 lakh crore in October, the second highest since its implementation in July 2017, indicating economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic and impact of festive demand, a finance ministry statement said on Monday. The highest GST collection of Rs 1.41 lakh crore was recorded in April 2021. This is the fourth time in a row when the GST collection was upwards of Rs 1 lakh crore. The collection from GST was Rs 1.17 lakh crore in September, 2021. Tax collections last month on goods sold and services rendered was 24 per cent higher than in October 2020, and up 36 per cent over 2019-20. "The gross GST revenue collected in the month of October 2021 is Rs 1,30,127 crore of which CGST is Rs 23,861 crore, SGST is Rs 30,421 crore, IGST is Rs 67,361 crore (including Rs 32,998 crore collected on import of goods) and Cess is Rs 8,484 crore (including Rs 699 crore collected on import of goods)," the statement said. CGST refers to Central Goods and Services Tax, SGST (State Goods and Service Tax) and IGST (Integrated Goods and Services Tax). The increase is very much in line with the trend in economic recovery and this is also evident from the trend in the e-way bills generated every month since the second wave. The revenues would have still been higher if the sales of cars and other products had not been affected on account of disruption in supply of semiconductors, it added. During October, revenues from import of goods were 39 per cent higher and the revenues from domestic transactions (including import of services) were 19 per cent higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year. The statement further stated that the revenues have also been aided due to the efforts of the State and Central tax administration resulting in increased compliance over previous months. In addition, it said, the action against individual tax evaders is a result of the multipronged approach followed by the GST Council. On one hand, it said, various measures have been taken to ease compliance like nil filing through SMS, enabling Quarterly Return Monthly Payment (QRMP) system and auto-population of return. On the other hand, the Council has also taken various steps to discourage non-compliant behaviour, like blocking of e-way bills for non-filing of returns, system-based suspension of registration of taxpayers who have failed to file six returns in a row and blocking of credit for return defaulters. During the past one year, it said, GSTN has augmented the system capacity considerably to improve user experience. With more and more taxpayers filing the returns every month, the percentage of returns of the old period filed in any month has been increasing continuously. "With improvement of return filing, the focus of the GST Council has been on timely filing of GSTR-1, the statement containing details of invoices. This statement is critical to ensure discipline in taking input tax credit. Various steps have been taken to ensure timely filing of GSTR-1," it said. Overall, the impact of various efforts taken by the government has ensured increased compliance and higher revenues, the statement noted. As a part of overall efforts to plug evasion, more steps to restrict fake ITC are under consideration of the GST Council. The government has settled Rs 27,310 crore to CGST and Rs 22,394 crore to SGST from IGST as regular settlement, it said, adding, the total revenue of Centre and the States after regular settlements in the month of October 2021 is Rs 51,171 crore for CGST and Rs 52,815 crore for the SGST.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-11-2021||Business||Sensex soars 832 points to reclaim 60K mark||Reclaiming the 60,000 level, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 832 points on Monday, led by gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC twins and TCS amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 831.53 points or 1.40 per cent higher at 60,138.46. Similarly, the NSE Nifty rose 258 points or 1.46 per cent to 17,929.65. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring over 7 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech, Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, M&M, Bajaj Finserv, Nestle India and Reliance Industries were the laggards. "Indian markets opened on a positive note following largely positive Asian markets as investors react to mixed China factory activity data for October," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. Sentiments were upbeat as a monthly survey said India's manufacturing sector activities gained further strength in October as companies scaled up production and stepped up input purchasing in anticipation of further improvements in demand, he noted. Further, GST data released earlier in the day showed the second highest ever GST collection of Rs 1.3 lakh crore, a growth of 24 per cent YoY, which further boosted the sentiments, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.82 per cent to USD 84.41 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-11-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 500 points in early trade on Monday tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Bharti Airtel and HDFC amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 506.20 points or 0.85 per cent higher at 59,813.13 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 158.40 points or 0.90 per cent to 17,830.05. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, Infosys and Axis Bank. On the other hand, M&M, Bajaj Finserv, Dr Reddy's , HUL and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index had plunged 677.77 points or 1.13 per cent to end at 59,306.93, and Nifty fell 185.60 points or 1.04 per cent to 17,671.65. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 5,142.63 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. Markets seem to have reached a rise-on-sell mode as premium valuations of markets and no positive surprise from earnings especially due to higher input costs have weighed on investors' sentiments, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "However, despite that overall performance so far has been good with sharp growth in revenue aiding double digit growth in earnings. In our view, the market may remain volatile with downward bias in the near term and investors will track pricing power of the industries," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.33 per cent to USD 83.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-11-2021||Business||Splurge alert!||A nip is in the air, and the festive season is on. You must have made many a shopping list for yourself and your loved ones this season. There are offers galore on just about every imaginable product or service, and it’s a good time to treat yourself after what may have been a difficult year for you. While it’s important to enjoy yourself for now, it’s also important that your finances remain unscathed at the end of the festive season. There are several ways to finance your shopping. Some popular options today are credit cards, buy now pay later loans, personal loans, and other secured forms of lending. Let’s look at some ways to leverage these options smartly, have a great shopping experience, and also not have burgeoning post-festival debts. Budget, budget, budget This cannot be emphasised enough. Our wants are unlimited. But our needs — like our money — is limited. Therefore, we must set some boundaries with our festive shopping. Surely, we want to buy things not just for ourselves but friends and family, too. But let’s not forget the financial constraints most of us faced just a few months back as the pandemic raged on. Therefore, determine the amount you’re comfortable spending on your festive shopping, and remain within that limit. This is especially important where the shopping is being done on borrowed funds. Select the right option Credit cards, BNPL loans, and consumer loans are some convenient financing options available to you where the expenditure is expected to be small to medium — let’s say from a few thousand to a couple of lakhs. These loans are not too big and can be paid off easily in the short term. But if you need a much bigger loan as well as a longer repayment tenure, you can choose a personal loan. If you’d prefer a lower interest rate, you could borrow against an asset such as gold. As a thumb rule, if you’re borrowing for the short term — typically under a year — you could take unsecured loans at a relatively higher rate of interest. But for longer periods, you should consider loans with lower rates of interest to reduce the long-term costs of borrowing. Leverage your existing loan You may be looking to purchase a high-ticket item — for example, a costly electronic item or even a car. These may require large borrowings that may have to be repaid over a tenure longer than a year. For example, a car loan can be repaid over seven years. If you have an ongoing loan such as a home loan and you’ve been timely with your EMI payments, you may consider leveraging it by taking a home loan top-up loan. This loan is connected to your home loan and may attract a much lower rate of interest than an unsecured loan such as a personal loan. A large government bank’s lowest rate on home loan top-ups is currently on a par with its lowest car loan rate but lower than its personal loan rate. This is a smart way to streamline your borrowings and lower your interest payments. Mind the credit utilisation It’s easy to exceed your credit card spending limit on a shopping spree. If your spending limit is proving inadequate, you should contact your bank for an increase. Normally, when the limit is hit, it is automatically increased for borrowers who are timely with repayments. If it hasn’t happened for you, you should speak to your bank. This is important not just to help you enjoy your shopping uninterrupted but also to keep your credit utilisation ratio (CUR) low. Ideally your CUR should be under 30 per cent. This prevents your credit score from taking a hard hit. Repay dues in full After setting a budget, staying within it, and borrowing smartly, you also need to repay your dues. If your borrowings are unsecured (credit cards, BNPL, or personal loans), ensure you do not keep them pending for long. Unsecured credit has the highest interest rate. For example, your credit card dues could easily attract an annualised interest rate of 40-50 per cent. Ensure you repay these in full and on time. Do not allow the festive borrowing to drag your finances down in the non-festive months to come. Clear dues before big buys If your festive shopping is going to be big — a home, a car, or something else that’s costly — ensure your credit slate is clean. If you have petty dues such as a credit card balance, you may want to clear them off before you apply for a home or car loan. This will not only improve your credit score but also spare more of your monthly income to repay the dues on the new loan. Your new lender would prefer that you aren’t saddled with older debts. A better credit score would also ensure you get a low interest rate on the new loan. When you borrow in any form, it’s important to keep track of your loan’s impact on your credit health. Always do a monthly check of your credit score, especially after a shopping spree. If your score is below 750, work on it to get it back up. The writer is CEO of  BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-11-2021||Business||Commercial vehicles sales improve as economy opens up||The sales of commercial vehicles are improving as the economy opens up and schools, offices and campuses resume physical activity.The revival is across all categories from light and intermediate vehicles to heavy vehicles and buses. Tata Motors executive director Girish Wagh said: “The domestic CV market is seeing a gradual recovery with cargo, agriculture, cement, steel, FMCG and e-commerce sectors showing fair growth.” He was speaking at a virtual launch of a range of 21commercial vehicles from the Tata Motors garage on Thursday. Wagh cited four factors post pandemic that are working in favour of the CV segment. “Infrastructure building is at a full pace, consumption is at an all time high fueled by e-commerce, there is an increase in personal mobility as schools, colleges, campuses reopen and domestic tours and travels are seeing unprecedented bookings,” said the director. While the small commercial vehicle segment had been resilient through the pandemic, it was the medium and heavy commercial segment that had been hit hard by the  lockdowns and reduced economic activities. With the economy gradually opening up, the latter is seeing an uptick, said Wagh. When asked if high diesel prices are slowing down the pace of recovery, he said: “Increased diesel prices are a headwind that the industry is facing but the freight demand has been up and freight rates are climbing up as a result of which profitability has come back.” Buses, which had been hit the most during the pandemic with people shying away from shared transportation, are seeing a gradual recovery as the vaccinated population have started  using them “Google mobility index is up. Intra-city mobility has resumed with IT sectors bringing back employees to offices and office transportation has begun. A reversal of reverse migration has started as workers are travelling back to their work places. Sleeper coaches, long distance buses are back on the roads. ,” said Wagh. Clean fuel Talking about the transition to cleaner fuel, Wagh said Tata Motors took the leading role in FAME Phase 1 and delivered 600 EV buses. “We have now 20 million kilometer experience of EV bus running and will utilise this experience into improving  our products,” said Wagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-11-2021||Business||Bandhan Bank to bring down group microfinance loan share to 50%||Bandhan Bank is on track to bring down the share of group microfinance loans in its portfolio to 50 per cent by March. This decision is part of the lender’s strategy to diversify its asset mix as well as expand the emerging entrepreneurs business (EEB). At the end of the second quarter of the fiscal, the EEB asset book of the bank stood at Rs 54, 040 crore of which group loan was  Rs 46,270 crore. This amounts to 56.7 per cent of the loan book of the bank. The share of group loans has been on a continuous decline over the past few quarters (see chart). The bank has internally set an exposure limit of around Rs 1.5 lakh for group borrowers. However, this may not be adequate for some of the borrowers with higher demand and better repayment capabilities. “A couple of years back we did a survey and found out that there is a challenge to finance those who are able to run a good enterprise, as part of the group,” Bandhan Bank managing director and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh said. “The process slowed because of the pandemic and has picked up now. We are looking at good borrowers from the group for individual financing. I expect the share of group loans to come down to 50 per cent by March,” he added. The bank has set a target to have an asset mix of 30 per cent EEB loans, 30 per cent housing, 30 per cent commercial and 10 per cent retail by 2025. As of September 30, 2021, EEB accounted for 66 per cent, housing 24 per cent, commercial 8 per cent and retail at around 1 per cent of the total advances of Rs 81,661 crore. Recovery plan Ghosh said that an encouraging trend for the bank during the quarter was the proportion of non paying microfinance borrowers coming down from 9 per cent as of June 30, 2021 to 4 per cent as of September 30, 2021. There was also a reduction in the partial paying customers from 29 per cent as of June 30, 2021 to 17 per cent as of September 30, 2021. “Customer queries have started to come in along with repayment. Group attendance has started improving. This is a good sign of the risk coming down in future,” he said. The bank’s non performing assets have shot up to 10.8 per cent in the second quarter of the fiscal from 8.2 per cent during the first quarter and 1.2 per cent in the corresponding second quarter of previous year. The bank has identified an aggregate EEB stress pool of Rs 19,500 crore and estimates to recover around Rs 6,000 crore by March 31, 2022. This will be further supported by the CGFMU scheme (credit guarantee for micro units), Assam relief scheme and the bank's own provision of Rs 9,500 crore. “The confidence in recovery comes from the collections that we have seen during the quarter and what we see in October. Our including arrears collection efficiency has been at 130 per cent and if that rate continues for the next 3 months, I don’t think we will have a challenge to recover Rs 6,000 crore,” said Sunil Samdani, chief financial officer, Bandhan Bank, at the quarterly earnings call. The bank has made close to Rs 1,100 crore recovery from the stress pool in September, and Samdani said the trajectory of the recovery is going up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-11-2021||Business|| US Trade Representative visit to provide platform for negotiations||The visit of US Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tai later this month is expected to provide a platform for negotiations on some of the pressing issues such as the equilisation levy even as the position of the two sides is expected to become clear on some contentious issues at the WTO such as patent waiver on Covid equipment and fisheries subsidy. India’s equalisation levy and IPR issues are likely to be discussed, Gupta said. He is also the Policy Leader Fellow, STG, European University Institute. This will be Tai’s first visit to India since she took over as USTR with the Biden administration coming to power.  She will be accompanied by Deputy US Trade Representative Sarah Bianchi as part of the Indo-Pacific region strategic dialogue process. Tai will be in Japan, Korea and will come to India on November 22. Besides bilateral trade issues, she is likely to take up trade in the Asia-Pacific region. Arpita Mukherjee at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (Icrier) said “the visit is expected to kickstart the dialogue to remove the trade irritant. The trade policy forum likely to be held during the visit would help the two sides to understand the areas to focus on in strengthening bilateral trade”. She said the visit comes ahead of a WTO meeting on November 30 and could provide direction on where the two parties stand on the India-South Africa proposal on TRIPS vis-a-vis Covid-19 treatment. “But the crux of the visit is strengthening Indo-Pacific strategic ties which would have global implications.” “Outcome of the upcoming ministerial conference of the WTO particularly with respect to fisheries subsidies negotiations, India and South Africa’s TRIPS waiver proposal at the WTO for Covid vaccines to which the US expressed support in May are likely to come up for the discussion,” Pralok Gupta, associate professor, IIFT, said. India’s equalisation levy and IPR issues are likely to be discussed, Gupta said. Tai is likely to hold a bilateral meeting with commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal, where she may discuss pruning fisheries subsidies and agriculture support at the WTO ministerial conference. The visit comes amid the two sides planning to hold the India-US trade policy forum, after a gap of four years. Ajay Sahai, Director General and CEO, FIEO said “the visit should result in further strengthening the trade ties between two countries. US concerns of a trade deficit are largely addressed through imports of crude and gas from the US besides aircraft and defense imports which will balance the trade deficit to a large extent. ” He said, “we should flag some of the irritants between the two countries like tariffs and non-tariff issues as both the countries cite them as market barriers and multiple practices and regulations that disadvantage foreign companies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-11-2021||Business||Investors expect a muted Samvat 2078||After a record year for the benchmarks, investors have toned down their expectations for Samvat 2078 on account of high valuations, rising commodity prices and anticipation of a hikes in interest rates. Investors will herald Samvat 2078 in a special one-hour session on November 4. A spectacular Samvat 2077 saw the Sensex playing down all the anxieties surrounding the pandemic as it catapulted past the 60000 mark and hit an all-time intra-day high of 62245.43. The Nifty surpassed 18000 to touch 18604.45 on October 19. However, the markets have come under pressure over the past few sessions because of concerns over valuations, selling by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) and some corporate earnings missing street expectations with rising raw material prices playing spoilsport. “Equities will continue to give positive returns in Samvat 2078. However, one should not expect a repeat of the huge gains that was seen during this year. Rising crude oil prices which pose upside risk to inflation and interest rate hikes by central banks could act as a dampener. Investors should be stock and sector specific,’’ an analyst with a foreign brokerage said. Brokerages have identified various themes that could deliver positive returns. Some of their favourites include infrastructure, travel & tourism, metals, real estate, banking and consumption driven sectors. “The rich valuations of the Indian market and of most sectors after the sharp re-rating in the multiples of most stocks from their pre-pandemic levels raise the prospects of a pullback in the market and/or modest returns for a longish period of time,’’ Kotak Securities said in a note. Axis Securities, however, offered a bullish view. It said New Year would be a year of balance sheet leverage, led by a significant improvement in corporate profitability. The return of equity for the broader market is improving after a muted performance for several years. “Overall, the Indian market has entered into an earning’s up-cycle with an expectation of more than 20 per cent growth in Nifty’s earnings in the next two years. With faster economic recovery on the cards, more cyclical sectors are likely to join the rally with the expectation of higher government spending moving forward,’’ the brokerage added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
01-11-2021||Business||Tummoc plan for series A funding round to scale up operations||Bangalore-based multi-modal commute platform Tummoc is planning for a series A funding round of $3-5 million as it looks to scale up operations to 10 cities by 2022. Founded in 2016, Tummoc facilitates commuters in discovering the fastest and cost effective route using different modes of transport such as auto rickshaws, bikes, e-rickshaw, metro and buses. Under the “Plan My Trip” feature of the app, users can discover multiple ways to reach their destination, including a singular transport option like a metro service or a combine of two or more transport options to find the best route suiting their requirements. The services are now available in Bangalore, Calcutta and Hyderabad. The start-up plans to expand to Delhi, Mumbai, Kochi and Chennai. “Last 7-8 months have been great for us. We started with Bangalore, went to Calcutta and Hyderabad and will be adding more cities in coming months. We have grown our user base to almost 2 lakh users and plan to scale up to 10 lakh users as we expand to 10 cities by April 2022,” said Tummoc co-founder Hiranmay Mallick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
01-11-2021||Business||Bengal extends circle rate, stamp duty rebates till January 31, 2022||The Bengal government has extended the 10 per cent reduction in prevailing circle rates on all immovable properties and a two per cent rebate on stamp duty till January 31, 2022. Two formal notifications were issued by the finance department on Saturday extending the reliefs which were announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Kurseong last week. In the administrative review meeting, Banerjee agreed to the requests from the real estate community and declared that the relief announced earlier would be extended by “three months”. The government had reduced the circle rate and stamp duty payable during registration of an immovable property in the state budget in July. The relief, aimed at creating demand for housing, was in place till October 30. The fresh notifications clear apprehension among buyers and builders about the continuity of the relief measures. Government officials said all queries relating to the earlier rebate period from July 9 to October 30, along with any query taken on Sunday, will be considered valid for the following rebate period. Explaining the rationale behind the move, one of the notifications read: “..it got overwhelming response from the registrant people and it became difficult for the registration offices to accommodate such heavy rush for registration following the guidelines and restrictions imposed to combat Covid-19 pandemic”. It goes on to add: “Meanwhile, due to natural calamities like flood situations experienced in different parts of the state and owing to registration offices being closed for several days on account of festivals, a considerable section of the registrant people, who were otherwise ready to avail the benefit, could not avail such benefit.” Stamp duty now stands at 4 per cent and 3 per cent in urban and rural areas respectively for property up to Rs 1 crore and 5 per cent for urban and 4 per cent rural for property above Rs 1 crore. The real estate fraternity was understandably happy with the outcome. Harsh Patodia, national president of Credai, the body of builders, welcomed the move. “This would be yet another incentive for the buyer, apart from historic low interest rate and still benign property prices,” Patodia, who is building Trump Tower in Calcutta, said. Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director of Knight Frank India, in a statement on Sunday evening said: “We are very pleased with the Bengal government’s decision to extend the stamp duty rebate window till the end of the year. The extension has come at an important cusp of time as we head towards Diwali.” Baijal went on to add: “A healthy rise in new demand and supply of residential homes and prevalence of low home loan interest rates will be helpful for the growth of the residential sector in the region. ” A recent study conducted by Knight Frank said demand for residential property increased significantly in Calcutta as a result of the stamp duty cut. The demand increased 39 per cent in July 2021, 268 per cent in August and 80 per cent in September compared with a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
