03-11-2021||Business||Government announces excise duty cut on petrol and diesel||Buckling under pressure, the government on Wednesday cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by a record Rs 5 and Rs 10 per litre to help bring down rates down from their highest-ever levels.  The excise duty reduction is effective from November 4 when petrol price will come down from the current rate of Rs 110.04 a litre in Delhi to Rs 105.04. Diesel rate will be reduced from Rs 98.42 per litre to Rs 88.42.  "Government of India has taken a significant decision of reducing Central Excise Duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10 (pre litre) respectively from tomorrow. Prices of petrol and diesel will thus come down accordingly," the finance ministry said in a statement.  This is the highest-ever reduction in excise duty and rolls back a part of the Rs 13 and Rs 16 per litre increase in taxes on petrol and diesel effected between March 2020 and May 2020 to avoid passing on to consumers the sharp fall in international oil prices.  That hike in excise duty had taken central taxes on petrol to their highest level of Rs 32.9 per ltire and that on diesel to Rs 31.8 a litre.  The statement said states are also being urged to commensurately reduce VAT on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers.  The reduction follows unrelenting hike in international oil prices pushing pump rates across the country to their highest-ever levels. While petrol is above Rs 100-a-litre-mark in all major cities, diesel has crossed that level in more than one-and-a-half dozen states.  The total increase in petrol price since the May 5, 2020 decision of the government to raise excise duty to record levels now totals Rs 38.78 per litre.  Diesel rates have during this period gone up by Rs 29.03 per litre.  The relentless increase in fuel prices had been severely criticised by Opposition parties, particularly Congress which had demanded that the government reduce its excise duty.  Based on April to October consumption numbers, the loss of revenue to the government due to the excise duty cut will be Rs 8,700 crore per month. This totals to an annual impact of over Rs 1 lakh crore, industry sources said. For the remainder of the current fiscal, the impact would be Rs 43,500 crore.  The cut in excise duty will bring relief to motorists. The relief will be bigger for trucks and agri sector -- the biggest users of diesel.  "The reduction in excise duty on diesel will be double that of petrol. The Indian farmers have, through their hard work, kept the economic growth momentum going even during the lockdown phase and the massive reduction in excise on diesel will come as a boost to the farmers during the upcoming Rabi season," the statement said.  The ministry said in recent months, crude oil prices have witnessed a global upsurge. "Consequently, domestic prices of petrol and diesel had increased in recent weeks exerting inflationary pressure."  The world, it said, has also seen shortages and increased prices of all forms of energy.  "The Government of India has made efforts to ensure that there is no energy shortage in the country and that commodities such as petrol and diesel are available adequately to meet our requirements," it added. "To give a further fillip to the economy, the Government of India has decided to significantly reduce the excise duty on diesel and petrol."  The reduction in excise duty will also boost consumption and keep inflation low, thus helping the poor and middle classes. The decision is expected to further spur the overall economic cycle.  Prior to the cut, the government's collection from levy of excise duty on petroleum products had risen 33 per cent in the first six months of the current fiscal when compared to last year and was 79 per cent more than pre-COVID levels.  Data available from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) in the Union Ministry of Finance showed excise duty collections during April-September 2021 surging to over Rs 1.71 lakh crore, from Rs 1.28 lakh crore mop-up in the same period of the previous fiscal.  Thanks to the March-May 2020 hike in excise duty rates, the collection is 79 per cent more than the Rs 95,930 crore mop-up in April-September 2019.  For the full 2020-21 fiscal, excise collections were Rs 3.89 lakh crore and Rs 2.39 lakh crore in 2019-20, the CGA data showed.  After the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, excise duty is levied only on petrol, diesel, ATF and natural gas. All other goods and services are under the GST regime.  Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas Rameswar Teli had in July told Parliament that the union government's tax collections on petrol and diesel jumped by 88 per cent to Rs 3.35 lakh crore in the year to March 31, 2021 (2020-21 fiscal) from Rs 1.78 lakh crore a year back.  Excise collection in pre-pandemic 2018-19 was Rs 2.13 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
03-11-2021||Business||Sensex slumps 257 points to close below 60,000||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 257 points on Wednesday tracking losses in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid a negative trend in global markets ahead of the US Fed's policy outcome. The 30-share index ended 257.14 points or 0.43 per cent lower at 59,771.92. Similarly, Nifty fell 59.75 points or 0.33 per cent to 17,829.20. Sun Pharma was the top loser in the Sensex pack, falling over 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, L&T, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement, SBI and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. "After a sideways movement post its positive opening, the indices took a downturn as major global indices traded weak ahead of the US Fed policy announcement, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. The Fed is expected to announce the tapering of its asset purchase program in the near-term while any hint on interest rate reversal is keeping investors on the edge. Any indications showing a faster rate of tapering will have a negative effect on the equity market. Or else, we can expect a reversal from this weak trend, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with losses, while Tokyo was closed. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.66 per cent to USD 83.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
03-11-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Wednesday led by gains in index majors Reliance Industries, L&T and Infosys amid a positive trend in US markets ahead of the US Fed's policy outcome. The 30-share index was trading 282.15 points or 0.47 per cent higher at 60,311.21 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 84.20 points or 0.47 per cent to 17,973.15. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by L&T, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, SBI and UltraTech Cement. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Titan, Asian Paints, HDFC Bank and HUL were the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 109.40 points or 0.18 per cent lower at 60,029.06, and Nifty fell by 40.70 points or 0.23 per cent to 17,888.95. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) turned net buyers in the capital market, as they purchased shares worth Rs 244.87 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while the Tokyo stock exchange was closed on Wednesday. Stock exchanges in the US ended with gains in the overnight session ahead of the Federal Reserve's policy outcome, scheduled for tonight. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.24 per cent to USD 83.67 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
03-11-2021||Business||HPCL reports 22.4 per cent year-on-year decline in net profit ||State-owned refiner HPCL has reported a 22.4 per cent year-on-year decline in its net profit at Rs 1,923.5 crore during the July-September quarter against Rs 2,477.45 crore a year ago. The company had reported a profit of Rs 1,795 crore in the preceding June quarter. Total income rose 41 per cent to Rs 87,310.6 crore during the quarter, while expenses rose 44.9 per cent to Rs 85,688.6 crore. Dabur profit up 4.6% FMCG major Dabur India reported a 4.64 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 505.31 crore for the September quarter backed by a double-digit volume growth in the domestic market. The company had posted a profit of Rs 482.86 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations was up 11.98 per cent at Rs 2,817.58 crore against Rs 2,516.04 crore a year ago. JSPL net up three-fold Steel maker JSPL reported a nearly three-fold rise in consolidated net profit to Rs 2,584 crore during the September quarter, mainly on account of increased income, up from Rs 897 crore in the year-ago period. Total income rose to Rs 13,615 crore from Rs 8,295 crore a year ago. Its expenses increased to Rs 10,109 crore against Rs 7,066 crore in the year-ago period. On a standalone basis, JSPL posted a net profit of Rs 2,711 crore, higher than Rs 998 crore in the year-ago period. Its income increased to Rs 13,280 crore from Rs 7,871 crore. The company's standalone expenses during the period were Rs 9,655 crore against Rs 6,546 crore in the year-ago quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
03-11-2021||Business||Banking community rallies behind Pratip Chaudhuri||The banking community is rallying behind Pratip Chaudhuri, the former chief of State Bank of India (SBI), who was arrested by Rajasthan Police on Sunday. The Indian Banks Association (IBA) is set to take up the matter with Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the finance ministry. Senior bankers have condemned the action and called for a mechanism to protect people who have taken even genuine decisions after following the proper process. “One of the most ridiculous action by Rajasthan police. A shameful act. All bankers need to unite and condemn such high handedness of the police department,’’ Rajnish Kumar, the former chairman of SBI, said. Bankers said the development reminded them of the arrest of former Bank of Maharashtra managing director R.P. Marathe and executive director R.K. Gupta. In June 2018, they were arrested by the Economic Offenses Wing (EoW) of the Pune police in an alleged cheating case. They were reinstated by the bank later after the police filed a closure report on the case because of lack of evidence. Calling the arrest “absolutely pathetic”, Sunil Srivastava, the former deputy managing director of SBI, tweeted as to how the police from another state arrest someone in the capital without notice and without summons. “Absolutely pathetic, is the system being gamed again by defaulters despite all efforts by Modi govt, time for overhaul of judicial processes to improve transparency and introduce accountability?’’ he asked while tagging PMO India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
03-11-2021||Business||Sun Pharma denies Taro stake charge||Sun Pharmaceutical Industries has been hit by allegations of failing to disclose the ownership of additional shares in its subsidiary Taro. According to regulatory filings, as of March 31, 2021, Sun Pharma and its affiliates owned 77.8 per cent of Taro’s outstanding ordinary shares. A compliant has reportedly been filed at the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) alleging that Sun Pharma did not disclose the ownership of additional 3.8-4 million shares. According to a report, the complainant alleged that the company used these undisclosed shares to influence the outcome of an extraordinary general meeting that was held in 2013 in which an activist investor tried to block resolutions and elect its nominee directors. Sun Pharma has denied these fresh allegations. The company said it has neither got any notices nor has any independent information of compliant filed with the SEC. The company added that it does not own any shares in Taro other than what is disclosed and that no attempt was made to influence voting at Taro EGM. It was in 2010 that the country’s largest pharma company had acquired a controlling stake in Taro Pharma, after a legal battle. Shares of Sun Pharma on Tuesday ended at Rs 814.60-marking a gain of 0.35 per cent over the previous close. Meanwhile, the company reported a nearly 13 per cent rise in consolidated net profit to Rs 2,047 crore for the period ended September 30, 2021.Consolidated revenues stood at Rs 9,625 crore against Rs 8,553.13 crore a year ago. In May 18, 2007, Taro and Sun Pharma's subsidiaries entered into a merger agreement whereby Sun Pharma's subsidiary would acquire Taro which the latter’s board of directors unanimously approved. However, in 2008, Taro terminated the proposed merger agreement. Following that, Sun Pharma had filed an action in the Supreme Court of the State of New York against Taro and its board of directors. Shares of Sun Pharma on Tuesday ended at Rs 814.60-marking a gain of 0.35 per cent over the previous close. Meanwhile, the company reported a nearly 13 per cent rise in consolidated net profit to Rs 2,047 crore for the period ended September 30, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
03-11-2021||Business||ARC reform brings hope to retail investors||Retail investors groaning under the burden of dud and worthless financial assets have just been thrown a lifeline. A committee constituted by the Reserve Bank of India has suggested that asset reconstruction companies (ARCs) should be permitted to acquire stressed financial assets from retail investors and all other regulated financial entities. The six-member committee, headed by former RBI executive director Sudarshan Sen, said the ARCs should have the freedom to look beyond banks and financial institutions as they endeavour to revive broken entities and squeeze value out of the ballooning stressed assets in the financial sector. The committee, which was formed in April this year, has said the scope of section 5 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act, 2002, should be expanded to allow ARCs to acquire stressed financial assets from alternative investment funds, foreign portfolio investors, asset management companies that make investments on behalf of mutual funds and non-banking finance companies including housing finance companies irrespective of asset size. However, the 98-page report, which was placed in public domain for discussion, did not spell out the mechanism by  which retail investors could transfer their bad financial assets to the ARCs. The committee felt that the nature of debt creation in the country was changing with the gradual increase in the proportion of debt raised through market-based sources like bonds, debentures and commercial paper. “Today, AIFs, mutual funds, FPIs, etc are actively providing funds to non-financial firms through subscription to debt securities. Retail investors are also investing in debt securities, including unsecured debt. It would, therefore, be useful to broad base the entities from which ARCs can purchase financial assets,” the committee said in its report. Two bank-approved external valuers will need to assess the liquidation value and the fair market value whenever a bank is looking to bid out bad loan assets of Rs 500 crore and above. For financial assets between Rs 100 crore and Rs 500 crore, one valuer may be engaged, the committee said. If 66 per cent of the lenders by value decide to accept an offer by an ARC, the decision will be binding on all the lenders and the resolution plan must be implemented within 60 days of approval by the majority lenders. If a dissenting lender refuses to comply, it will have to make a 100 per cent provisioning on the loan outstanding. The committee also recommended a two-year moratorium on proceedings against the borrower by all authorities if the ARC agrees to acquire 66 per cent of its debt. It said the SARFAESI Act should also provide for deferment in the collection of taxes, cesses and rates by the central, state and local authorities in the case of all these borrowers. It suggested that the eligibility criterion for ARCs should be raised from a minimum net owned funds (NOF) of Rs 100 crore to Rs 200 crore. Fraud accounts The committee said the sale of fraud accounts to ARCs may also be permitted with appropriate safeguards "without diluting the fixing of accountability at banks/FIs' level or affecting criminal proceedings against the responsible persons." ARCs often face problems when seeking to modify the charge on assets. The committee said the Centre could consider carving out a mechanism for automatic transfer of charge when a lender sells assets to an ARC. The threshold for an investor to be recognised as a sponsor of an ARC should be raised to 20 per cent from 10 per cent at present. The ARCs should be allowed to sponsor SEBI-registered AIFs and use these entities as an additional vehicle to facilitate restructuring or recovery of debt acquired by them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
03-11-2021||Business||Registration of residential property zooms 47% in Calcutta Metropolitan Area||Registration of residential property zoomed 47 per cent in Calcutta Metropolitan Area during the July-October period, marking a spectacular rise in transaction after a stamp duty cut and a reduction in circle rate came into effect. Data collected from the directorate of registration and stamps revenue suggested 19,843 properties were registered during the four-month period compared with 9,319 units registered in 2020. If a 10-month data is compared — between January and October — registration of property doubled in greater Calcutta in 2021 compared with 2020, which witnessed minimal transactions during the April-June period because of the Covid-induced lockdown. Data curated by Knight Frank from the directorate suggests north and south of Calcutta accounted for 3/4th of the entire registration that took place in little less than four months, while Rajarhat, a major market for residential and commercial real estate, accounted for less than 10 per cent. A cut in stamp duty by 2 per cent and reduction in circle rate, which dictates tax incidences, was introduced in the state budget which took place in July after the Mamata Banerjee government came to office for the third term. However, for all practical purposes, buyers could not take benefit of the relief scheme, aimed at spurring growth in the real estate sector, before July 24. The benefits were rolled over from October 31 for another 3 months, in order to help those who could not avail the scheme due to puja holidays and Covid - 19 measures. Real estate consultants and brokers say the extension up to January 31 would be particularly beneficial as the winter months usually witness brisk sales in Calcutta. “This is a good time to step out to make the site visit any time without bothering about rain or sun, which ultimately translates into higher sales,” Jitendra Khaitan, chairman of Pioneer Properties, said. Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director of Knight Frank, said the higher sales would encourage developers to bring more projects in the market, which in turn would have a manifold impact on the economy at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
03-11-2021||Business|| Bharti Airtel reports consolidated net profit of Rs 1,134 crore||Bharti Airtel reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,134 crore for the second quarter ended September  against a net loss of Rs 783 crore a year ago. The net profit came above analyst estimates, aided by an exceptional gain of Rs 722 crore on account of the transfer of spectrum rights to Reliance Jio. Consolidated revenue also beat estimates and grew 13 per cent to Rs 28,326 crore during the July-September quarter against Rs 25,060 crore in the same period last year. “We continue to maintain a high degree of financial flexibility. As a result, we have now achieved nil bank debt for our India businesses. We will continue to evaluate all options to maintain a comfortable leverage profile and manage associated costs,” Gopal Vittal, Bharti Airtel MD and CEO, India & South Asia, said. “During the quarter gone by, we saw a healthy 5.5 per cent sequential growth in consolidated revenues and expansion of EBITDA (earning before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation) margin to 49.5 per cent.” Average revenue per user — the amount an operator earns per subscriber —  rose to Rs 153 from Rs 146, because of  higher recharge frequency after the second wave and the withdrawal of free talk time benefits. Rival Reliance Jio reported lower ARPU of Rs 143.6 per month in second quarter. Airtel has benefited from higher user additions and a jump in data usage due to remote working trends during the Covid-19 pandemic. It added 8.1 million 4G users in the second quarter from the previous quarter to touch 192.5 million subscribers — making it 60 per cent of its overall customer case. Mobile data consumption surged 47.5 per cent from a year ago. The company had also undertaken some hikes in its tariffs earlier this year. In July, it scrapped the entry-level prepaid recharge of Rs 49 and set the base plan at Rs 79 . “The step up in performance of our enterprise and homes business reflects our  resilience and strength . Even more exciting is the way our new businesses – Airtel Payments Bank, data centres and revenues from digital services are shaping up. With a future-proofed 5G network, we are well positioned to build a strong Airtel of the future,” Vittal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
03-11-2021||Business||Delhivery files draft papers with Sebi to raise up to Rs 7,460 crore||Delhivery on Tuesday filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to raise up to Rs 7,460 crore through an initial public offering (IPO). The IPO includes fresh issuance of equity shares of Rs 5,000 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) of Rs 2,460 crore by existing shareholders. The company, which competes with players such as Blue Dart, joins start-ups such as Nykaa, Policybazaar and Paytm that are tapping the capital markets after a strong response to the float from Zomato. Some of the investors who will sell shares in the Delhivery IPO include Deli CMF PTE Ltd (China Momentum Fund), CA Swift Investments (Carlyle), SVF Doorbell (Cayman) Ltd or SoftBank and Times Internet Ltd. Sapphire price band Sapphire Foods India, which operates KFC and Pizza Hut outlets in the Indian sub-continent, on Tuesday announced a price band of Rs 1,120-1,180 per share for its Rs 2,073-crore initial public offering (IPO). The share-sale will open for subscription on November 9 and close on November 11. The bidding for anchor investors will open on November 8. It will entirely be an offer for sale (OFS) of 1,75,69,941 equity shares by promoters and existing shareholders. At the upper end of the price band, the IPO is expected to fetch Rs 2,073 crore. Investors can bid for a minimum lot of 12 shares and in multiples thereafter. Sapphire Foods, which is backed by marquee investors like Samara Capital, Goldman Sachs, CX Partners and Edelweiss, is the largest franchisee of Yum Brands in the Indian sub-continent, in terms of revenue in the financial year 2020 as per a Technopak report. It is also Sri Lanka’s largest international QSR chain in terms of revenue for 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
03-11-2021||Business||RBI fine-tunes prompt corrective action framework||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday fine-tuned its prompt corrective action (PCA) framework under which restrictions are placed on weak banks to restore their financial health. Under the new framework, the banking regulator removed the criteria of profitability and replaced it with leverage ratio, or the percentage of capital that a bank has relative to its total exposure. PCA was introduced in 2002 and revised in 2017 with three parameters to identify weak banks: capital adequacy, asset quality and profitability. The three parameters had three thresholds. If a lender breaches the thresholds, it will come under PCA with restrictions varying according to the severity of the breach indicated by the thresholds. In its latest rejig, the RBI has retained the parameters of capital and asset quality. The RBI said the framework would apply to all banks in India including foreign lenders operating through branches or subsidiaries. Payment banks, small finance banks and regional rural banks have been excluded from PCA. Initially there were close to a dozen lenders under PCA. While most of them have exited the framework, only Central Bank of India remains under PCA. The threshold for the new criterion of leverage has been based on the Reserve Bank of  norm of 3.5 to 4 per cent capital of a bank vis-a-vis its total exposure. Banks will breach risk threshold 1 if its leverage ratio is 50 basis points below the regulatory minimum. Risk threshold 2 will come into play if it is more than 50 basis points but below 100 basis points of the regulatory minimum. The third threshold will be breached if leverage is over 100 basis points below regulatory minimum. The benchmark of the criterion of capital is a minimum capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) of 9 per cent and a capital conservation buffer of 1.25 per cent. The RBI said breach of CRAR will trigger PCA. On the third criterion of asset quality, the benchmark is net non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks above 6 per cent. The three thresholds have been retained with varying degree of breach from above 6 per cent to 12 per cent. In a notification, the central bank said a lender will be placed under the framework based on the audited annual financial results and the ongoing supervisory assessment. The RBI said it may impose PCA on any bank during the course of a year (including migration from one threshold to another in case the circumstances so warrant. As regard exits, the regulator said the bank must not breach the risk thresholds in any of the parameters for four continuous quarterly financial statements, one of which should be audited annual financial statement subject to assessment by RBI. It will also be based on the supervisory comfort of the RBI, including an assessment on sustainability of profitability of the bank. Some of the curbs that are imposed on banks under PCA include restriction on dividend distribution and remittance of profits. Banks are not allowed to set up new branches, with restrictions on capital expenditure. Its promoters may also be asked to bring in capital. Moreover, the RBI may also look at supervisory actions such as a special audit of the bank and even resolution through amalgamation or merger. Bank alert RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Tuesday asked banks to remain vigilant to any emerging signs of vulnerabilities and take remedial measures to mitigate the risks. The Reserve Bank of  India said the governor held separate meetings with the MD and CEOs of public sector banks and certain private sector banks through video conferencing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
