04-11-2021||Business||Diwali Muhurat trading: Sensex, Nifty off to a positive start||Market benchmark BSE Sensex rallied 359 points to 60,131 in the opening trade of the special Muhurat session on Thursday to mark the beginning of Hindu Samvat year 2078. The 30-share index was trading higher by 358.92 points, or 0.62 per cent, at 60,130.84 in the first few minutes of trade. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 108.50 points or 0.61 per cent to 17,937.40. All BSE sectoral indices were in the green, led by auto, consumer durables, bankex and oil and gas. Brokers said buying activity gathered momentum as investors opened their books on the first session of Samvat 2078. All Sensex stocks were trading in the positive zone. M&M led the gainers' pack, spurting 2.76 per cent, followed by ITC, Kotak Bank, L&T, SBI, Bajaj Auto and Nestle India. Meanwhile, foreign institutional investors (FIIs) net sold shares worth Rs 401.48 crore on Wednesday, while domestic institutional investors bought to the tune of Rs 195.55 crore, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-11-2021||Business||Services sector expands at fastest pace in more than a decade||The services sector expanded at its fastest pace in more than a decade to meet growing demand despite rising inflation. The survey-based IHS Markit Services Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) accelerated to 58.4 from 55.2 in September. A reading above 50 signifies expansion and below 50, contraction. Economists cautioned against getting carried away with the numbers as pent up demand and festive season sales would get diluted in the coming months. The pace of job creation based on the 400 firms surveyed remained moderate but quickened from September to the fastest since February 2020. “The recovery of services entered its third straight month, with firms scaling up activity at the fastest pace in ten-and-a-half years and creating more jobs,” Pollyanna de Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit, said. Buoyed by the signs of improvement in underlying demand, service providers took on additional staff during September. The increase in employment ended a nine month sequence of job shedding but was marginal overall as some respondents said they have sufficient workforces to deal with their workloads. “While forecasts of better demand in the year ahead supported business confidence regarding output, growth looks set to be constrained by rising inflation expectations. We saw a substantial decline in positive sentiment among service providers due to this factor, despite input cost inflation retreating in September,” Lima said. N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University, said: “The PMI numbers are not surprising given the pent up demand and festival season. However, they do indicate the direction of growth. The services sector growth is not likely to sustain at this pace in the coming months.” “The pent-up demand would get diluted in manufacturing while it will elongate for services progressively. We must remember that inflation is a dampener and while statistically it is less than 5 per cent, high fuel cost, prices of services and manufactured goods will hit consumption once the pent-up fury recedes,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings,  said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-11-2021||Business||Forty two firms provisionally selected for PLI scheme||Forty two firms, including Daikin, Panasonic, Syska and Havells, with a committed investment of Rs 4,614 crore have been provisionally selected as beneficiaries under the production linked incentive scheme for the white goods sector, the government said on Wednesday. The government said 26 companies will invest Rs 3,898 crore for air conditioner components and 16 companies will invest Rs 716 crore for LED component manufacturing. Investment of around Rs 4,614 crore is envisaged, which will create additional direct employment for about 44,000 persons. The scheme will be implemented over a seven-year period from 2021-22 to 2028-29 and has an outlay of Rs 6,238 crore. “Total 52 companies filed their application with committed investment of Rs 5,858 crore under the PLI scheme. After evaluation of all the applications, 42 applicants with committed investment of Rs 4,614 crore have been provisionally selected as beneficiaries under the PLI scheme,” the commerce and industry ministry said in a statement. Applicants selected include Daikin Airconditioning India, Amber Enterprises India, PG Technoplast, Hindalco, Mettube India, Blue Star Climatech, Havells India, Johnson Controls Hitachi Air Conditioning India, Voltas, IFB Industries, Dixon Devices, Panasonic India, Syska and Haier Appliances (India) Ltd. Six applicants proposing FDI from countries sharing land border with India have been advised to submit their applications for approval, it added. Further, four applicants have been referred to the Committee of Experts (CoE) for examination. “The investments in Air Conditioners will lead to manufacturing components across the complete value chain including components which are not manufactured in India with sufficient quantity,” it said. At present, there is insignificant manufacturing of certain high value components of ACs like compressors, copper tubing and aluminium stock for foils. Many other components like control assemblies for indoor units (IDU) or outdoor units (ODU), display units, brushless direct current motors and valves are not manufactured in enough quantity. “All these components will now be manufactured in India in significant quantities. Similarly, LED Chip packaging, LED Drivers, LED Engines, LED Light Management Systems, PCBs including metal clad PCBs and Wire wound inductors etc. will be manufactured in India in high quantities,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-11-2021||Business||Srei apprises CoC on insolvency resolution process||The administrator of two Srei group companies has apprised the committee of creditors on Tuesday about the status of the firms’ corporate insolvency resolution process. Last month, the Reserve Bank had superseded the boards of Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance Ltd (SEFL) and appointed Rajneesh Sharma as the administrator of the two crisis-ridden firms. After this, the RBI had appointed a three-member advisory committee to assist Sharma in the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) of the two Srei group companies. On October 8, the Reserve Bank (RBI) had filed applications for initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process against SIFL and SEFL at the Calcutta Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). “We wish to inform you that the first meeting of the Committee of Creditors of the company was duly convened and conducted on Tuesday at 11 am in Calcutta,” SIFL said in a regulatory filing on Wednesday. In a similarly worded exchange filing, SEFL said the first meeting of the committee of creditors was convened on Tuesday at 2 pm. “At the aforesaid meeting, the administrator of the company apprised the Committee of Creditors about the status of CIRP since the initiation, composition of committee of creditors based on the claims received, various aspects relating to the CIRP, going concern operations of the company and the way forward in terms of the activities/milestones as stipulated under the code,” they said in their respective exchange filings. The corporate insolvency resolution process has been initiated in both the companies under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016. Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd (SIFL) is the parent company of SEFL.  The economic stress caused due to the pandemic led to an asset-liability mismatch in the Srei group, which resulted in the bankers taking control of the finances of Srei in order to recover their dues. Srei group, which mainly caters to the MSME and infrastructure sectors, owes around Rs 18,000 crore to around 15 lenders, including Axis Bank, UCO Bank and State Bank of India, and has another nearly Rs 10,000 crore of external commercial borrowings and bonds. The Bombay High Court on October 7 had dismissed Srei group's plea against the RBI action on SIFL and SEFL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-11-2021||Business||Benchmark indices close Samvat 2077 with losses||The benchmark indices closed Samvat 2077 with losses in an otherwise volatile session as nervousness prevailed ahead of a crucial Fed policy meeting where the US central bank could announce reducing its monthly bond purchases (the taper affect). The 30-share Sensex oscillated more than 809 points with sentiment buoyed by service sector growth at its highest in more than a decade in October. Caution soon prevailed as the market players began to take stock of the Fed policy meeting that is widely expected to unwind its monthly bond purchases of $120 billion. The markets are focussed on Fed’s inflation outlook which could give some indication on possible interest rate hikes sometime in the next calendar year. At Dalal Street, the Sensex opened in the green at 60275.21 and rose to an intra-day high of 60361.82. However, selling soon set in and the index fell to a low of 59552.49 after which it settled at 59771.92, a fall of 257.14 points or 0.43 per cent. The broader NSE Nifty slipped 59.75 points, or 0.33 per cent, to 17829.20. The domestic markets thus closed Hindu calendar year Samvat 2077 with strong gains. While the Sensex rallied 16133.94 points, or 36.97 per cent, the Nifty gained 5048.95 points or 39.50 per cent. The markets will have a special one-hour muhurat trading session on Thursday to mark the beginning of Samvat 2078. “After a sideways movement post its positive opening, the indices took a downturn as major global indices traded weak ahead of the Fed policy announcement. The Federal Reserve is widely expected to announce the tapering of its asset purchase programme in the near-term, while any hint on an interest rate reversal is keeping investors on the edge,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial. He added that any indications showing a faster rate of tapering will have a negative effect on the equity markets. Siddhartha Khemka, head — retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, noted that on the domestic front, services PMI data came in better than expectation. The macro-economic trends continued to see good recovery, with high-frequency indicators improving month on month. Companies have largely delivered on their earnings in line with expectation. “However, valuations are still at a premium and would demand consistent earning delivery going ahead. Thus the market might continue to remain under pressure till valuations get reasonable and global cues improve,’’ he said. In Wednesday’s trade, among the sectoral indices, BSE telecom, bankex, auto, consumer durables and finance ended up to 1.50 per cent lower, while capital goods, realty, metal and industrials settled with gains. The broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices slipped up to 0.32 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-11-2021||Business||Nokia India records top speed of 9.85 GB per second on Vodafone||Telecom gear maker Nokia India on Wednesday claimed to have recorded a top speed of 9.85 Gigabit per second on Vodafone Idea network during the ongoing 5G trials. The company has achieved the top speed in back end data transmission, which means connecting mobile base stations network, during the trials in Gandhinagar, Gujarat. “Together with Vi, we achieved 9.85 Gbps of backhaul capacity using E-band microwave in 80 GHz spectrum, unlocking the potential of deploying 5G,” Nokia India said in a tweet. The high frequency zone of E band is proposed to be used to connect mobile networks in the back end and data speed in these bands are expected to match the transmission levels of optical fibres. “We are delighted to partner with Vi in trials to deliver 5G services by connecting smallcells & macrocells with fibre-like speed through E-Band, in areas where fibre is challenging to deploy,” Nokia said. In September,Vodafone Idea had claimed to have recorded a peak speed of 3.7 Gbps, highest by any operator in India, during the 5G trials in Pune. The company also claimed to have recorded 1.5 Gbps download speed in the mid-band spectrum in Gandhinagar and Pune. Vi (Vodafone Idea) has been allocated high-frequency bands like 26 Gigahertz (Ghz) by the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) along with the traditional 3.5 GHz spectrum band, for 5G network trials. The DoT had approved applications of Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone in May, and MTNL later. The permission has been granted for six-month trials with telecom gear makers Ericsson, Nokia, Samsung and C-DOT. In June, Jio claimed to have recorded a peak speed of 1 Gbps and Airtel is also said to have recorded the same level of peak speed in July. Reliance Jio is using its own technology as well for 5G trials. All the private players are providing 4G services across the country at present and are gearing up for 5G services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-11-2021||Business|| Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd board meet on November 11 ||Zee Entertainment Enterprises on Wednesday announced that its board will meet on November 11 to consider quarterly results for the period ended September 30. Zee had cancelled the board meeting earlier scheduled to be held on October 27 because of a lack of quorum. The company had then said that the next date of meeting will be announced in a fresh notice. At present, there are seven members on the Zee board. “Zee Entertainment Enterprises has informed the BSE that the meeting of the board of directors of the company is scheduled on November 11, inter-alia, to consider and approve the unaudited financial results of the company both on a standalone and consolidated basis for the second quarter and half-year ended September 30,’’ the company said in a filing to the stock exchanges. The announcement comes days after Justice G.S. Patel of the Bombay high court temporarily restrained Invesco from calling an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) for the removal of Zee’s MD & CEO Punit Goenka and the appointment of its six nominees on the company’s board. Last month, Zee had moved the Bombay high court against its largest shareholder, saying that the latter’s requisition for the EGM be declared illegal and invalid. Invesco and OFI Global together hold 17.88 per cent in Zee. According to the current regulations, a shareholder holding more than 10 per cent in a listed firm can seek an EGM. Invesco has since then filed an appeal with a division bench of the Bombay High Court. The matter will be heard on November 29. While investors will be tracking Zee’s numbers for the quarter, they will also be watching out for any announcement or an update with regard to the proposed merger with Sony. Invesco had earlier raised concerns about some of the terms of the deal. It had alleged that the timing of the announcement and the non-binding nature is ``no more than camouflage on the part of Zee to divert and distract from the primary issues before the company’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-11-2021||Business||Cairn Energy to drop lawsuits to seize Indian properties abroad||UK-based Cairn Energy plc on Wednesday said it has agreed to drop its lawsuits to seize Indian properties abroad. Meeting the requirements of a new legislation that scraps the levy of retrospective taxation, the company has given the required undertakings indemnifying the Indian government against future claims as well as agreeing to drop any cases anywhere in the world. Cairn said the Indian government now has to accept this and issue the company a so-called Form-II, that will commit India to refund the tax collected to enforce the retrospective tax demand. Following the issue of Form-II, Cairn will withdraw legal proceedings and will get a refund of Rs 7,900 crore. Cairn said its undertaking shall be treated as having never been furnished if the Principal Commissioner for Income Tax either rejects the undertaking given by it in Form No.1 under rule 11UE(1) or the intimation of withdrawal given under rule 11UF(3), or declines to grant the refund. In a statement, Cairn said it has “entered into undertakings with the Government of India in order to participate in the scheme introduced by recent Indian legislation, the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021, allowing the refund of taxes previously collected from Cairn in India”. “Subject to certain conditions, the Taxation Amendment Act nullifies the tax assessment originally levied against Cairn in January 2016 and orders the refund of Rs 7,900 crore which was collected from Cairn in respect of that assessment,” it said. “Cairn will commence the filing of the necessary documentation ... intimating the withdrawal, termination and/or discontinuance of various enforcement actions,” the company said in a statement. Cairn added it expects to pay by early 2022 the special dividend announced in September. The dividend and a share buyback were contingent on the settlement of the dispute. Seeking to repair India's damaged reputation as an investment destination, the government in August enacted new legislation to drop Rs 1.1 lakh crore in outstanding claims against multinationals such as telecom group Vodafone, pharmaceuticals company Sanofi and brewer SABMiller, now owned by AB InBev, and Cairn. About Rs 8,100 crore collected from companies under the scrapped tax provision are to be refunded if the firms agreed to drop outstanding litigation, including claims for interest and penalties. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore is due only to Cairn. Subsequent to this, the government last month notified rules that when adhered to will lead to the government withdrawing tax demands raised using the 2012 retrospective tax law and any tax collected in the enforcement of such demand is paid back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-11-2021||Business||SBI reports 67% jump in standalone net profits for second quarter||State Bank of India (SBI) on Wednesday topped Street expectations to report a 67 per cent jump in standalone net profits for the second quarter ended September 30 on a decent growth in its core income and lower provisions. Net profits at the country’s largest bank rose to an all-time high of Rs 7,626.57 crore compared with Rs 4,574.16 crore in the year-ago period. Analysts were expecting the lender to report a net profit in the region of Rs 6,600-7,400 crore. The numbers were well received by the stock markets with the SBI scrip hitting a new 52-week high of Rs 542.20. It later ended at Rs 527.65, a rise of 1.14 per cent over the last close. Profits jumped on account of lower provisions at Rs 3,034 crore during the period against Rs 11,886 crore a year ago. In its notes to accounts, the bank said it has made the entire provision of Rs 7,418.39 crore to cover the revision in family pension . SBI chairman Dinesh Khara said the bank had strengthened its recovery mechanisms for loans that led to the fall in provisions. Gross non-performing asset (NPA) ratio to total advances fell below 5 per cent to 4.9 per cent during the quarter from 5.32 per cent in the preceding three months and 5.28 per cent a year ago. In value terms, gross NPA stood at Rs 1,23,942 crore compared with Rs 1,34,259 crore in the April-June period. Fresh slippages declined to Rs 4,176 crore from Rs 15,666 crore on a sequential basis. Recoveries and upgrades rose to Rs 7,407 crore from Rs 4,969 crore in the first quarter and Rs 4,038 crore in the same period of the previous year. The bank said it had followed the Supreme Court’s interim order and did not declare some standard account on August 30, 2020 as NPA. If it had declared them as bad loans, gross NPA would have risen to 5.88 per cent, or 1,40,251 crore, and net NPA to 2.08 per cent or Rs 47,644 crore. The bank’s net interest income — interest earned minus interest paid — rose 10.65 per cent to Rs 31,184 crore from Rs 28,181 crore a year ago. Khara said loans worth Rs 4.6 lakh crore were awaiting disbursement. He said there has been unutilised working loan limits of 50 per cent by its corporate customers. Gross advances of the bank rose 6.17 per cent to Rs 25,30,777 crore from Rs 28,83,624 crore a year ago. Domestic corporate loans fell almost 4 per cent to Rs 7,56,764 crore, while retail loans rose 3.71 per cent to Rs 9,04,473  crore. Chaudhuri issue The SBI chairman said the arrest of former chairman Pratip Chaudhuri was an unfortunate incident and he hoped that Chaudhuri would be released soon. “It appears that he was not given an opportunity to be heard before issuing the arrest warrant,” Khara said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
