05-11-2021||Business||Novartis AG to sell nearly one-third voting stake in Roche||Novartis AG said on Thursday it would sell its nearly one-third voting stake in Roche back to its cross-town rival for $20.7 billion, disentangling the two pharma companies that had been linked by the investment for two decades. The deal extricates Roche from ownership ties to a major competitor with strategic vetoing power, though it has kept a passive role in the face of powerful Roche family shareholders. The transaction sent Roche shares to a record high. By mid-morning, they were up 2.4 per cent, while Novartis shares were up 0.2 per cent. Novartis has agreed to sell 53.3 million Roche bearer shares for $388.99 (356.93 Swiss francs) per share, a price that reflects the volume-weighted average of the Roche non-voting equity certificates over the 20 trading days to Nov. 2, Novartis said in a statement. In a separate statement, Roche said it will use debt to finance what it called a "disentanglement of two competitors" and plans to reduce its capital by cancelling the repurchased shares to regain full strategic flexibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-11-2021||Business||Opec rebuffs Biden pressure on output||Officials from the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Russia and other oil-producing nations shook off pressure from the Biden administration and decided on Thursday to stick with their previous plan to raise oil production by a modest 400,000 barrels a day next month. President Biden and other world leaders had pressured countries like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to increase production because oil prices, which collapsed during last year’s pandemic lockdowns, have now reached their highest levels in seven years. Gasoline prices, too, have jumped in the United States, Britain and elsewhere. The jump in prices, Biden said Tuesday, “is a consequence of, thus far, the refusal of Russia or the Opec nations to pump more oil.” But on Thursday, there was no change of heart at the monthly meeting of Opec Plus, the group of 23 oil-producing nations led by Saudi Arabia and Russia. In a statement, the group said it was committed to ensuring “a stable and balanced oil market” at a time when other energy markets like natural gas are experiencing “extreme volatility and instability.” Biden has raised the possibility of tapping the United States strategic petroleum reserve to modestly boost oil supplies as a means to control prices. Oil futures on Thursday lost earlier gains and were mostly flat, with Brent crude at about $81.65 a barrel and West Texas Intermediate about $80 a barrel. With climate pressures looming, the Opec countries may prefer to reap high revenue, build their financial reserves and raise funds for investments in solar and wind power and other businesses that may replace oil. Opec and its allies may also have less room to increase production than is believed. The group is falling short of its overall target, and some members, like Angola and Nigeria, are thought to have already reached their maximum outputs, while others, like Russia, may not be far away. It is not in the interest of countries unable to increase output for the Saudis and others to increase production, bringing down prices and revenue. NYTNS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-11-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank cuts benchmark lending rate by 5 basis points||State-owned Punjab National Bank on Wednesday announced cutting its benchmark lending rate by 5 basis points to 6.50 per cent. The Repo Linked Lending Rate (RLLR) has been reduced from 6.55 per cent to 6.50 per cent with effect from November 8, PNB said in a regulatory filing. As part of continued efforts to enhance customer service, PNB also launched a range of deals and offers on its retail loans this festive season. With reduction in RLLR, all loans including home, car, education and personal loans would become cheaper. The bank had last cut its RLLR on September 17 from 6.80 per cent to 6.55 per cent. With effect from November 8, 2021, the bank will provide one of the lowest interest rates on car loans at 6.65 per cent and further reduced home loan rates, which now start from 6.50 per cent, making its banking service more attractive than ever before, PNB said in a separate statement. To promote the government’s efforts towards the adoption of electric/green vehicles, PNB has slashed the interest rate on e-vehicles and CNG vehicles to 6.65 per cent, while it starts from 6.75 per cent for other cars, it said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-11-2021||Business||Costly coking coal hurts Indian steel makers||Runaway coking coal prices coupled with a limited scope to raise prices may keep margins under pressure for Indian steelmakers using the blast furnace route to produce the metal. Companies who have announced results for the second quarter have reported higher EBIDTA (earning before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation) and net profit compared with the first three months of the fiscal, but a majority of them have displayed a contraction in their margins. JSW Steel and Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) reported higher profit after tax on the back of higher volumes but a contraction in margins. Jindal Steel & Power Ltd (JSPL) mirrored the same trend. Tata Steel is yet to declare its results. For instance, operating margin and net profit margin of SAIL came off to 27.02 per cent and 16.04 per cent, respectively, during July-September compared with 32.33 per cent and 18.65 per cent on a like-to-like basis. JSW Steel also reported decline in EBIDTA per tonne (Rs 3,346/tonne) in the second quarter because of cost pressure even as, like SAIL, it reported a sequential jump in total EBIDTA aided by higher volumes. JSPL also reported higher net EBIDTA but a decline in per tonne average even though net profit was higher in the second quarter than in the first quarter. Commenting on the results, brokerage ICICI Securities downgraded JSW Steel to “reduce’’ from “hold’’ noting the EBIDTA contraction cycle has begun after 5 quarters of upcycle starting from the first quarter if 2020-21. It blamed an increase in coking coal cost to $400 a tonne for the squeeze. The brokerage also downgraded JSPL from “buy” to “hold” and maintained “sell” rating for SAIL. In a note on SAIL, titled “headwinds pile up” the brokerage  noted that average price of coking coal in the first quarter of the fiscal was Rs 11,480/tonne which increased to Rs 15,150/tonne during the second quarter. It is expected that in the third quarter coking coal prices are going to be meaningfully more which is around Rs 23,000-25,000/tonne. Compared to such a steep increase in coking coal prices, the average increase in  net sales realisation seen in the third quarter is Rs3,500/tonne for long products and Rs 1,700/tonne for flat products. Rating agency Crisil has similar views. The operating margin of primary steelmakers will reduce by a third to 24-26 per cent in the second half of this fiscal versus the first half as input cost soars owing to a more than 2x rise in coking coal prices since July, it said in a recent note. However, for the full fiscal, the operating margin will average a robust 31-32 per cent, a good 400 basis points (bps) higher than in last fiscal, because of a strong first half that saw healthy steel prices and moderate input costs. “The surge in coking coal prices, which account for about a third of the total cost of production, will materially elevate cost pressures for domestic primary steel makers,” Naveen Vaidyanathan, director, Crisil Ratings, said . However, the upside in steel prices for the domestic market may be limited considering the nascent economic recovery. “Although domestic steel prices are expected to remain strong, further upside from current levels could be limited because the discount of domestic steel prices to the landed cost of imports has already reduced to 15 per cent in October from 25 per cent at the beginning of the fiscal,” Ankush Tyagi, team leader, Crisil Ratings, said Following the price hike in the beginning of November, the domestic price is now at a par with Asian prices but still at discount to US and EU . Crisil numbers take into account top 5 integrated steel players such as Tata Steel (including Tata BSL), JSW Steel, JSPL, SAIL and ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-11-2021||Business|| Trai floats consultation paper to discuss tariff-related issues for SMS and cell broadcast alerts||Telecom regulator Trai has floated a consultation paper to discuss tariff-related issues for SMS and cell broadcast alerts through Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) platform during disasters and non-disasters. The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) allows SMS and cell broadcast free of cost only for a definite period and for events where a specific request for free of cost messages comes from specific nodal authorities. Trai said there are certain occasions when the government would like to send alert messages free of cost to the public forewarning of a possible disaster. “Or occasions where the public has to be informed of special events such as holding of relief/ vaccine/ medical camps/ specific law and order related situations etc,” Trai said, highlighting the relevance of the consultations. The paper asked the telecom operators and other stake holders: “Is there a need for an elaborate tariff fixation exercise for CAP messages? In the alternative, would it be better from the perspective of ease of regulation to keep all categories of alerts/ messages free of charge? Is keeping all CAP alerts/ messages free of charge an economically prudent and viable option?” The cell broadband platform is used to send messages to several users in a specific geographical area simultaneously. The broadcast range can vary from a single cell to the overall network. Currently, cell broadcast has been included in the existing 3G, 2G, 3GPP, and LTE standards. The purpose of this consultation paper is to elicit stakeholders’ views on the tariff for SMS/cell broadcast disseminated by TSPs through CAP platform during disasters/ non-disasters and to understand the technical aspects that might have an impact on the cost of the service. Trai has invited written comments by December 1, and counter-comments by December 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-11-2021||Business||Excise duty cuts on diesel, petrol to cost Rs 45,000 crore in lost revenue||The excise duty cuts on diesel and petrol announced by the Narendra Modi-government will cost Rs 45,000 crore in lost revenue and widen the Centre’s fiscal deficit 0.3 percentage point to 6.4 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP), Nomura said on Thursday. On Wednesday, the Centre announced a much needed cut in excise duties on both petrol and diesel by Rs 5 per litre and Rs 10 per litre, respectively, to offset the impact of rising crude oil prices on consumers. Since the Modi government’s late  evening decisions, many BJP-governed states and Odisha and Sikkim have cut the state tax on fuel. According to a note from Nomura, the tax cuts could cost the government Rs one lakh crore (0.45 per cent of GDP) on an annual basis in terms of lost revenues. For the remaining months of this fiscal, it would translate to a loss of Rs 45,000 crore. “We revise our estimate of the fiscal deficit to 6.5 per cent of GDP (previously 6.2 per cent) versus the budget target of 6.8 per cent. The tax cuts should lower headline CPI inflation by 0.14 percentage point (pp) due to direct effects and up to 0.3pp, if indirect effects are included, although there are offsets from elevated input costs, reopening pressures and an ongoing energy crunch,” the brokerage observed. It pointed out that the reduced fuel prices should be positive for consumption. However, Nomura has retained its GDP growth projection of 9.2 per cent for the current fiscal because of downside risks from supply-side bottlenecks on account of chip and energy shortages. “The fuel tax cuts should reduce the burden on monetary policy, at the margin but, with inflationary pressures broadening amid the continued growth recovery, we expect policy normalisation to continue,’’ the note said. It may be recalled that the monetary policy committee (MPC) has often called for a cut in taxes of the two fuels to lower inflation and anchor inflationary expectations. In its October monetary policy, the panel forecast CPI inflation to come at 5.3 per cent for 2021-22, 5.1 per cent in the second quarter, 4.5 per cent in Q3 and 5.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of the current fiscal. It had retained the projection for real GDP growth at 9.5 per cent for 2021-22. Nomura, however, added that the Centre’s move partly reverses the hike in duties in 2020 by Rs 13 per litre for petrol and Rs 16 per litre on diesel, following a steep drop in oil prices, and comes on the heels of higher crude prices pushing retail prices to record highs. According to the brokerage, there is an economic and political context to the announcement. It said that on the economic side, extremely high petrol and diesel prices exacerbate the broad-based supply-side increase in inflationary pressures. The timing of the cut – on the eve of Diwali – also seems designed to maximise the growth boost from festive consumption. Moreover, the government has the fiscal space to pay for these tax cuts as revenues in the current fiscal far exceeds the budgeted target. Additionally, parsimonious spending has helped to limit fiscal deficit in the first half to 35 per cent of the budgeted target, compared with a 15 per cent overspend of budget in the same period of the previous fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
05-11-2021||Business||Stock markets kick off Samvat 2078 on a cheerful note||Stock markets kicked off Samvat 2078 on a cheerful note buoyed by the fuel duty cuts and the US Fed shying away from any decision to cut its policy rates in the future. At a special one-hour session on Thursday, the Sensex regained the 60000 mark as it rallied 306.74 points or 0.51 per cent to close at 60078.66. The broader Nifty 50 settled with gains of 87.60 points at 17916.80. Market players said investor participation was better than last year with the cash market turnover on the NSE at over Rs 11,553 crore. Investors are being extremely guarded in voicing their outlook for equities in the year ahead, especially after the sharp run-up in the just ended Samvat 2077. But on the auspicious opening day of Samvat 2078 they remained bullish and took their cues from the duty cuts announced by the Centre and some states. The investors now expect inflationary pressures to ease, while sectors such as automobiles will benefit from the cuts. Among the sectoral indices on the BSE, the S&P auto index led the list of gainers rising 1.43 per cent. In the Sensex pack, Mahindra & Mahindra rose 3.13 per cent to Rs 872.95 followed by ITC, Bajaj Auto, Larsen & Toubro and Kotak Mahindra Bank which gained up to 1.82 per cent. The rally came on the back of encouraging global cues. The markets had already discounted the taper decision announced by the Fed on Wednesday night. The US central bank said it would begin to reduce its monthly bond purchases of $120 billion by $15 billion per month and end them by 2022. Investors were seeking guidance on US inflation and interest rates. US Fed chair Jerome Powell said the time has not yet been reached to raise interest rates which came as a big relief . Analysts are advising caution on buying strategies. Stocks are likely to be volatile this year as they face challenges such as  the withdrawal of accommodative monetary policy, rising inflation and interest rates on one hand and tailwinds such as strong economic growth in India. Given the concerns of expensive valuations, it is felt the markets will be harsh towards any earnings disappointment from corporate India. Brokerages expect certain sectors such as banking, real estate, tourism & hospitality and metals to do well. They said retail investors should look at quality stocks having good earnings visibility. “After the spectacular returns in Samvat 2077, investors should expect modest returns only, say in low teens, in Samvat 2078. This Samvat is likely to be very volatile, unlike last Samvat,” V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services said. “Rising inflation would be the biggest known threat to the market. Rate hikes by the Fed can happen by the end of 2022 or, perhaps, earlier than that if persistent inflation and the bond market forces its hands,’’ Vijayakumar said. He said any rate hike by the US Federal Reserve  would lead to some capital flight from emerging markets such as India and this was likely to trigger some sharp correction in the market. However, such a correction may turn out to be low and short-lived if the economy rebounds smartly. All eyes on RBI Back home, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is expected to announce some major steps in its policy normalisation. Some analysts expect the central bank to raise the reverse repo rate in its December policy meet or in the next calendar year. According to Krishna Kumar Karwa, managing director — Emkay Global Financial Services, while the Nifty has delivered a 50 per cent return over the past one year and the small & mid-cap indices have gained by 80 per cent, it will be “unfair” to assume that the benchmark indices will deliver similar returns in the short term. “A carefully constructed portfolio which harnesses the tailwinds, which the Indian economy is expected to enjoy in the coming years, should deliver 12-15 per cent compounded returns over the medium term,”  he said. “Right from IT, domestic manufacturing and real estate to financial services, capital market intermediaries, and capital goods --- all the sectors are expected to do well over the medium term’’, he added. According to Dhiraj Relli, MD & CEO, HDFC Securities,  “After a great year for equity markets, investors are looking forward to the markets continue to rise though not at the same pace.” “Global headwinds in the form of rising inflation and withdrawal of monetary stimulus may impact the momentum, but strength in Indian macros and improving micros may help offset these.” “Investors need to conduct portfolio review, asset allocation review, and raise the quality of stocks held in their portfolio,’’ Relli  said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
