06-11-2021||Business||India ready to move into next orbit of growth: SBI chief||India is ready to move into the next orbit of growth with the hugely successful implementation of the COVID-19 vaccination programme, State Bank of India (SBI) Chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara said on Saturday.  The kind of vaccine drive the country has seen makes all the Indians proud, especially because the domestically produced vaccine is being used in a big way, Khara said at the India Pavilion at EXPO2020 Dubai.  "Actually, it (rapid vaccination) has enhanced the confidence level of the common man as well as the economy," he said.  India recently achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against COVID-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark.  "The country has lived through one of the most challenging times and has come out of it in a very successful manner that gives the confidence that going forward, the journey should be rather easy, and we should be having a huge opportunity for growth... which I am sure will go a long way in terms of meeting the common man's aspirations," he said.  The credit growth in the economy was quite muted for almost two years, he said, expressing hope that the capacity utilisation will improve, and help revive investment demand in the corporate sector.  "The government has done a wonderful job by continuing its focus on infrastructure investment, which has gone a long way in terms of giving a push to the core sectors of the economy. And with private corporate sectors coming with the investment, the economy will certainly move to the next orbit of development," he added.  On the India Pavilion, Khara said it is presenting the real India, which is full of opportunities, to the whole world in an impressive manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-11-2021||Business||CBIC guidelines to block tax credit by GST field officers||The CBIC has prepared guidelines to block tax credit by GST field officers, saying that such blocking should be on the basis of “material evidence” and not just out of  “suspicion”. The authorities have laid down five specific circumstances in which such credit could be blocked by a senior tax officer. These include the availment of credit without any invoice or any valid document or availing of credit by purchasers on invoices on which the GST has not been paid by sellers. AMRG & Associates senior partner Rajat Mohan said, “If these broad guidelines are followed by central as well as state tax officers in letter and spirit, these will surely reduce the litigation for honest taxpayers who are currently facing harassment at the hands of tax officers.” The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said the commissioner, or an officer authorised by him, not below the rank of assistant commissioner, must form an opinion for blocking of input tax credit (ITC) only after “proper application of mind” considering all the facts of the case. “It is reiterated that the power of disallowing debit of amount from electronic credit ledger must not be exercised in a mechanical manner and careful examination of all the facts of the case is important to determine cases(s) fit for exercising power under rules 86A,” it said. The government had introduced Rule 86A in the GST rules in December 2019 giving powers to taxmen to block the ITC available in the electronic credit ledger of a taxpayer if the officer has “reasons to believe” that the ITC was availed fraudulently. The taxmen till early October had blocked Rs 14,000 crore worth of input tax credit (ITC) of 66,000 businesses under this rule. The CBIC in its guidelines dated November 2 said the remedy of disallowing the debit of amount from electronic credit ledger being, by its nature, extraordinary, has to be resorted to with utmost circumspection and with maximum care and caution. It contemplates an objective determination based on intelligent care and evaluation as distinguished from a purely subjective consideration of suspicion. The reasons are to be on the basis of material evidence available or gathered in relation to fraudulent availment of input tax credit or ineligible input tax credit availed as per the conditions/grounds under sub-rule (1) of Rule 86A. These guidelines have recommended monetary limits for the division of powers between commissions, joint commissioners, and assistant commissioners on blocking of the tax credit. For blocking of ITC above Rs 5 crore, principal commissioner/ commissioner will take a decision. Where the monetary amount is in the range of Rs 1 crore to Rs 5 crore, additional commissioner or joint commissioner will take a decision, while for those less than Rs 1 crore deputy commissioner/assistant commissioner rank officer will take decision on ITC blocking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-11-2021||Business||Ola forays into grocery delivery||Ride-hailing platform Ola has started piloting a quick delivery service for items such as grocery, personal care and pet care products in Bangalore, making a foray into the quick commerce sector, according to sources. The sources said Ola is starting a pilot of its “Ola Store” in Bangalore starting off with a few key localities and then to expand across major cities in India in the coming months. The service is aiming for a sub-15 minute delivery timeline, they added. When contacted, Ola declined to comment. The sources said the service is available within the Ola app and is rolling out to select consumers in Bangalore. Customers will be able to order from an assortment of nearly 2,000 items across multiple categories including groceries, beverages, home and personal care as well pet care products. These will be delivered from strategically placed dark stores in key parts of the city, the sources added. While traditional e-commerce deliveries take a day or longer, quick commerce (or q-commerce) enables customers to get small quantities of goods to customers in a shorter period of time. Some of the players in the segment include Dunzo and Swiggy Instamart. According to a RedSeer report, the quick commerce sector in India is expected to grow to $5 billion by 2025 from the current $0.3 billion. Uber turnaround Uber on Thursday posted a big rebound in third-quarter revenue thanks to riders and drivers returning from pandemic lockdowns, but its bottom-line loss was wider than Wall Street expected. The San Francisco-based ride-hailing company said its third-quarter loss widened to $2.42 billion, or $1.28 per share, from $1.1 billion, or 62 cents per share, in the year earlier quarter. The latest quarter included stock-based compensation costs as well as a hefty unrealised loss related to its investment in Didi. The Chinese ride-sharing company went public on the New York Stock Exchange in late June and days later faced a cybersecurity review from China’s internet watchdog. Uber put the pretax impact of Didi’s decline at $3.2 billion, partially offset by unrealised gains in Zomato and other investments. Revenue in the quarter that ended September 30 grew 72 per cent year over year to $4.85 billion as gross bookings rose 57 per cent to $23.1 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-11-2021||Business||Boeing investors settle suit  over 737 MAX safety oversight||Boeing investors have reached an agreement with current and former company officers to settle a lawsuit over the safety oversight of the 737 MAX, two people familiar with the matter said on Thursday. The proposed settlement agreement is expected to be filed in the coming days in Delaware Chancery Court, and is subject to approval by a judge, the people said. It would likely include provisions to increase internal safety oversight, they said. One of the people added that the monetary portion of the agreement could be around $250 million, and would be paid by insurers. A Boeing spokesperson declined to comment. Lawyers representing the plaintiffs did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The settlement agreement was reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal. In an amended complaint unsealed in February, New York State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli, who heads the state pension fund, and other investors argued that Boeing’s board had breached its fiduciary duties and acted with gross negligence by failing “to monitor the safety of Boeing’s 737 MAX airplanes”. The lawsuit, also filed in Delaware Chancery Court, alleges that the board did not develop any tools to evaluate and monitor airplane safety until after 737 MAX crashes in Ethiopia and Indonesia killed 346 people in five months, and the fleet was grounded.  Reuters In March, Boeing asked the Delaware court to throw out the shareholders’ lawsuit, saying the board had engaged in “robust and well-established” oversight of jet’s development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-11-2021||Business||NCLT approves GAIL acquisition of IL&FS stake in OTPC||The National Company Law Tribunal has approved state-owned gas utility GAIL (India) Ltd’s acquisition of bankrupt Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services’ 26 per cent stake in ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC), GAIL said on Friday. OTPC is a special purpose vehicle between Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), IL&FS Group and the Tripura government for setting up of a 726.6mw combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) thermal power plant at Palatana, Tripura. ONGC holds 50 per cent interest in the company in the project that supplies electricity to the northeastern states. The Tripura government holds 0.5 per cent while India Infrastructure Fund II holds the balance 23.5 per cent stake. “NCLT has granted approval for the acquisition of 26 per cent equity stake of Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS) Group by GAIL (India) Ltd in OTPC,” GAIL said in a stock exchange filing. The stake, it said, is being acquired from IL&FS Group companies namely IL&FS Energy Development Company Ltd (EDCL) and IL&FS Financial Services Ltd (IFIN). “The closing of the transaction is yet to take place and actions are being taken by IL&FS and GAIL for the same,” it added. The Tripura power project was set up to use locally produced natural gas which was otherwise economically unviable to transport gas. The 726.6mw project is an integral part of the government’s efforts to develop infrastructure in the northeastern region and has been touted as the single largest investment in northeast India. The gas to the Tripura project is supplied by ONGC’s 55 km pipeline. As part of its green energy playbook, GAIL is focussing on building a clean energy portfolio and the acquisition is part of that plan. GAIL had reported more than doubling of its net profit in the September quarter after it again started making money on gas marketing. Net profit of Rs 2,862.95 crore, or Rs 6.45 per share, in July-September, was 131 per cent higher than Rs 1,239.67 crore, or Rs 2.75 a share, in the same period last fiscal, according to the company's stock exchange filing. Sequentially, net profit was up 87 per cent over Rs 1,529.92 crore earning in the April-June quarter of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
06-11-2021||Business||Brokerages advise caution on Paytm||The focus will be back on India’s primary markets next week as the largest initial public offering (IPO) opens for subscription even as the performance of two other new age firms that are likely to list will be monitored keenly. One97 Communications, the parent of digital payments brand Paytm, will open for subscription on Monday. There will be two other IPOs vying for investor attention — Sapphire Foods India Ltd and Latent View Analytics Ltd that will open for subscription on the following day and close on November 11. However, the most watched will be the Rs 18,300-crore float from One97 Communications which is the biggest after Coal India’s IPO in 2010. The offering comprises fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs 8,300 crore and Rs 10,000 crore from an offer for sale (OFS) by existing shareholders. The company has fixed a price band of Rs 2,080-2,150 per share, indicating a valuation of around Rs 1.48 lakh crore. On Wednesday, Paytm raised Rs 8,235 crore from anchor investors. Market circles expect a good response to the offering though some analysts cite its lofty valuations even as the key question remains as to when it will turn profitable. Considering the trailing twelve month (TTM) sales of Rs 3,142 crore on a post-issue basis, the company is going to list at a market cap/sales of 44.36 with a market cap of Rs 13,93,79 crore. “There are no listed companies in India whose business is comparable with that of company’s business,’’ says Saurabh Joshi and Kaushal Thakkar, analysts at Marwardi Financial Services. They are assigning an "avoid’’ rating to the Paytm IPO pointing out that valuations are way too high for a loss-making company. The brokerage has a subscribe rating to the initial offer from Sapphire Foods which operates KFC and Pizza Hut outlets in the country. The company has fixed a price band of Rs 1120-1180 per share for its Rs 2,073 crore IPO. ICICI Securities has given an “unrated” rating to the IPO of One97 Communications. The brokerage says that it has strengths like the Paytm’s brand, scale & reach, a wide addressable market, deepening merchants partnership and expansion of financial services. On the other hand, there are risks such as  extremely competitive markets, and the failure to attract merchants & grow relationships could affect its business. While Paytm is reportedly trading at a premium of Rs 125-150 per share in the grey market, Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS, an investment research firm, says that investors will also track the market debut of five companies which concluded their public offerings this week. Among them, the most watched will be the listing of FSN E-Commerce Ventures, which runs the online marketplace for beauty and wellness products Nykaa, Fino Payments Bank and parent entity of Policybazaar PB Fintech. The grey market premium for Nykaa is reported to be around Rs 650. Kejriwal cautioned a muted listing of some the companies may affect the subscription levels of the three IPOs. In October, Aditya Birla Sunlife AMC had made a tepid debut, trading at Rs 647.60-a 9 per cent discount to the issue price of Rs 712 per share. Some of have given stellar returns to investors. For instance, Paras Defence And Space Technologies which listed on October 1, closed at Rs 815.10 on Friday on the BSE — a 366 per cent premium to its issue price of Rs 175 per share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
06-11-2021||Business||Century Plyboards to hive off logistics business||Century Plyboards (India) Limited has decided to hive off its container freight station (CFS) business into a wholly owned subsidiary as the company focuses on its  core businesses, setting a target to reach Rs 5,000-crore turnover by 2025-26. The company may seek collaboration for the divested freight station business, and the slump sale of the business to a subsidiary opens the opportunity. “We have a CFS division that we are now hiving off to a subsidiary because it is an unrelated business. While freight station has opportunities in the domestic market, it is not our core competence. We shall align with some like minded people or some leading players,” Sajjan Bhajanka, chairman and managing director, Century Plyboards (India) Limited, said at an earnings call. In a communication to the stock exchanges, Century Ply has said it expects to receive Rs 52 crore from the slump sale as a going concern. The logistics business contributed around 3 per cent to the company’s revenue from operations as of September 30, 2021. Century Ply had clocked a turnover of Rs 2,113 crore in 2021-22 and the management expects a 19 per cent compounded annual growth rate over the next five years. The company is expecting double-digit growth in the  wood panel industry over the next five years across MDF (medium density fibre-board), plywood, laminate and particle board business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
06-11-2021||Business||Govt begins review of tax exemptions||The Centre has sought suggestions on possible changes in direct and indirect taxes from trade and industry bodies with the objective of broadening the tax base, while reducing the rates in the next budget which is due in three months. The finance ministry’s revenue department has written to the various organisations to give their suggestions within 10 days. North Block officials said they were reviewing personal and corporate tax exemptions. They could be rationalised or rolled back in the budget based on the costs and benefits of the exemptions. The capital gains tax exemption for investing in startups which expires in March may be reviewed. The basic customs duty and IGST (integrated goods and services tax) exemptions for export-oriented units is also being monitored, the officials said. The ministry has asked for suggestions on reducing compliances, providing tax certainty and reducing litigations. The organisations can also give recommendations on excise and custom duty. However, no suggestions on the goods and services tax (GST) would no be entertained as that is the domain of GST Council. In Budget 2020-21, the income-tax act provided for more than 100 exemptions and deductions of different nature. “I have removed around 70 of them in the new simplified regime. We will review and rationalise the remaining exemptions and deductions in the coming years with a view to further simplifying the tax system and lowering the tax rate,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said. In indirect taxes, the 2020-21 budget withdrew 80 exemptions related to customs duty, while the 2021-22 budget proposed to review more than 400  exemptions through consultations from October 1, 2021. The Centre has asked the trade and industry bodies to supplement and justify their suggestions by relevant statistical information about production, prices and revenue implication of the changes and any other supporting information. Making a specific mention about the inverted duty structure, the revenue department said the request for a correction of an inverted duty structure — higher duty on input and lower duty on output —  for a commodity should necessarily be supported by value addition at each stage of manufacturing. “It would not be feasible to examine suggestions that are either not clearly explained or which are not supported by adequate justification/statistics,” the department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
06-11-2021||Business||Bankers sign McLeod debt recast deal||Bankers to troubled tea planter McLeod Russel India Ltd have finally come on board to restructure the outstanding debt of the company under a Reserve Bank of India (RBI)-mandated framework, marking a significant initial step towards cleaning up the company’s financial mess. All banks that have exposure to the Khaitan family-promoted company signed the Inter Creditor Agreement (ICA) with McLeod Russel setting the ground rules for the finalisation and implementation of the resolution plan, the company informed its shareholders. The ICA will follow the RBI circular of June 7, 2019 which issued directions for Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets. While most banks came on board right from the start, at least one major lender had initially demurred and intended to pursue multiple legal options to recover its dues. The disclosure to the bourses on Friday indicates that the bank consortium is willing to look beyond the scope of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC) to recover its dues that stand at around Rs 1,800 crore from McLeod. The signing of the ICA with all members of the banking consortium comes about two months after McLeod was sucked into the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) for defaulting on its loans. The company managed to come out of the IBC process after settling the dues with the creditor Techno Electric & Engineering Co, a non-banking private entity. Tea industry sources suggested that there could still be a few aggrieved private lenders who may be mulling legal options to recover their dues. Like Techno Electric, these private lenders, had provided funds to the Khaitans over the years. They are not party to the ICA which only involves banking lenders. Aditya Khaitan, chairman of McLeod Russel, did not comment on the signing of ICA. Sources in the know of things suggested that the bankers and promoters now have to put their heads together to decide on a sustainable financial structure for the company. The lenders have agreed to provide some leeway to McLeod to pay back its dues. A primary requisite for the debt restructuring is that the promoters will have to arrange funds. Earlier, the promoters had sold 17 gardens and raised around Rs 750 crore to service its debt. However, two recent developments suggest that Khaitans may be able to arrange money from other sources. It paid off over Rs 100 crore to Techno in September to arrive at a settlement. Later, the promoter entities bought shares of the company from the stock market to maintain their nominal holding in the company. Despite this, McLeod continues to be the largest bulk tea producer in India with 44 million kgs of annual production. The company’s total production is about 73 million kgs if its estates in Vietnam and Africa are taken into consideration. While declaring the first quarter result, McLeod had disclosed that it had signed the ICA with certain lenders. It further mentioned that the lenders were in the process of reviewing the techno-economic viability (TEV) study and also obtaining the best possible credit rating so that it could implement the resolution plan recommended by SBI Capital Markets Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
