07-11-2021||Business||Keeping close watch on commodities' price movement to fix vehicle prices: Maruti Suzuki India||The country's largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India is keeping a close watch on the price movement of commodities, which had touched an 'unprecedented' high in the second quarter, to fix its vehicle prices in the future as it has not fully passed on the impact to consumers, according to a senior company official.  The company is hoping for a softening of commodity prices, which also move cycles, having "sort of reached the peak".  "Material cost is an important cost in the overall cost structure for any OEM (original equipment manufacturer). Normally, 70-75 per cent of the total cost of an OEM is material cost.  "In the second quarter, our material cost to net sales ratio had gone up to a very high figure of 80.5 per cent. This is unprecedented," Maruti Suzuki India Senior Executive Director (Marketing and Sales) Shashank Srivastava told PTI.  When asked if the company will hike prices of its vehicles, especially around the new year as is usually done, he said, "We have to carefully monitor the situation because we haven't passed on even the past increases of commodity prices into our (vehicle) price hikes."  Srivastava added that the company has taken a price hike of about 1.9 per cent at the beginning of September but "we have to carefully watch the direction of the commodity price movement in the future".  He further said the peak of commodity prices was in Q1 of the ongoing fiscal but the effect of it comes to the OEMs like Maruti Suzuki with a lag of one quarter.  "So, the effect of that peak had come to us in the second quarter," he said, adding that the commodity prices have been increasing dramatically in the past one year.  He said, "Starting from May 2020, almost all commodities that are related to automobile production have increased."  Steel, which was Rs 38 per kg, went up to about Rs 72 per kg, although it has come down a little bit. Copper, which was at USD 5,200 per tonnes, also went up to USD 10,400 per tonnes, he added.  Besides, the prices of other precious metals like palladium, platinum and rhodium have also gone up by up to almost two-three times.  "It does show that there has been a huge, unprecedented increase in commodity prices and still continue to be high, although in the precious metal, there have been some softening in the last couple of weeks," Srivastava said.  He expressed hope that in the next few quarters, there will be less pressure compared to the current level. "The consensus seems to be that we have sort of reached the peak as far as commodity prices are concerned because commodity prices also move in cycles."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
07-11-2021||Business||Rajib Kumar Mishra made new PTC chief||PTC India has said Rajib Kumar Mishra has been given the charge of the company’s chairman and managing director, effective Saturday. “Rajib Kumar Mishra, director (marketing and business development) shall exercise the power of chairman and managing director of PTC India Ltd with effect from November 6, 2021, subsequent to relieving of Deepak Amitabh,” the company said in a statement. Earlier this month, the company stated in a BSE filing, “This is in continuation to our letter dated October 13, 2021, informing about the resignation of Deepak Amitabh as CMD of PTC India from November 5, 2021.” PTC India’s board in its meeting held on November 1 decided that till regular CMD/MD is appointed, Mishra, the current whole-time director, will also exercise the powers of CMD from November 6, according to the BSE filing. Mishra is an alumnus of NIT, Durgapur; postgraduate from NTNU, Norway, under Norad Fellowship and PhD in Business Administration from AMU. Mishra was granted the visiting scholar status by the University of Texas, Austin, in 2008. He has over 36 years of experience working in the power sector majors like NTPC and PowerGrid before joining PTC. Mishra joined PTC India in 2011 as executive director and is now a whole-time director since February 2015. Currently, he is director (business development and marketing), in PTC India. Additionally, he is holding the post of managing director of PTC Energy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
07-11-2021||Business||Skoda to launch its second model under India 2.0 project called Slavia||Skoda Auto will soon launch its second model under the India 2.0 project called the Slavia, a premium mid-size sedan for the A0 segment. The first vehicle under the project was the Kushaq SUV. The company has released two official designs of the Slavia before the official presentation later this month. Like the Kushaq, the Slavia will be produced locally in Pune and is based on the MQB-A0-IN version of the Volkswagen Group’s Modular Transverse Toolkit, which has been specifically adapted by Skoda Auto for the Indian market. The model’s name evokes the early days of the company and the first bicycles sold in Mladá Boleslav from 1896 by the founding fathers Václav Laurin and Václav Klement and means glory in Czech language. Maruti Celerio Maruti Suzuki India Limited opened bookings for its new Celerio earlier this week. High fuel prices have again increased the demand for compact, fuel efficient cars and the new Celerio has Maruti’s next generation K-series dual jet, dual VVT engine which the company claims is the “most fuel efficient petrol car in India”. Shashank Srivastava, senior executive director (Marketing & Sales), Maruti Suzuki India Limited, said, “Since its launch, Celerio was popular with its unique style and the Auto Gear Shift (AGS) Technology that helped democratise the two-pedal technology in the country. We are confident that the Celerio will once again energise the compact segment.” C.V. Raman, chief technical officer (engineering), Maruti Suzuki India, said, “Powered by Next-Gen K-Series Dual Jet, the new Celerio will be the ‘most fuel efficient petrol car in India’.” MG Astor MG Motor India delivered 500 units of the new Astor on the occasion of Dhanteras. The Astor had sold out for 2021 within 20 minutes of opening of bookings. The company is producing limited numbers overcoming acute shortage of semi-conductors. The company said it is trying its best to improve the availability to meet its initial target of 4000-5000 deliveries by December. The Astor is India’s first SUV with personal AI assistant and first-in-segment Autonomous (Level 2) technology. Bookings are now open for Astor delivery in 2022.Customers can book it online or by visiting an MG Motor India dealership near them. With nine variants and five colour options, the new SUV MG Astor is available at an introductory price starting at ?9.78 lakh. The Astor has two engine options – the Brit Dynamic 220 TURBO petrol engine with a 6-speed AT delivering 220Nm of torque and 140ps of power. And the other – VTi Tech petrol engine with a manual transmission & an 8-speed CVT, delivering 144Nm of torque and 110ps of power. Astor has 80+ internet features residing on MG i-SMART technology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
07-11-2021||Business||Divi’s Labs reports 16.71% jump in consolidated net profit ||Drug firm Divi’s Laboratories on Saturday reported a 16.71 per cent jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 606.46 crore for the quarter ended September 30, mainly on account of robust sales. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 519.59 crore for the corresponding period of the previous fiscal, Divi’s Laboratories said in a filing to the BSE. Its consolidated total income during July-September 2021 stood at Rs 2,006.62 crore. It was Rs 1,762.94 crore in the year-ago period, it added. The group has not experienced any significant impact on its operations, supply chain and recoverability of carrying amounts of financial and non-financial assets due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Divi’s Labs said. Suven Pharma Suven Pharmaceuticals on Saturday posted a 31 per cent increase in its consolidated net profit at Rs 97 crore for the second quarter ended September 30. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 74 crore in the July-September period of the previous fiscal. Revenue from operations rose to Rs 301 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
07-11-2021||Business||IndusInd bank admits to 'technical glitch' in disbursing loans ||IndusInd Bank on Saturday admitted that its subsidiary had disbursed 84,000 loans without consent because of a ‘technical glitch’, even as it rejected allegations of loan evergreening. Evergreening is a practice of reviving a stressed account by giving more loans. The statement from the private sector lender came after a report said that whistleblowers at its subsidiary-Bharat Financial Inclusion Ltd (BFIL) had written to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the bank’s board alleging misgovernance and ever-greening of loans worth thousands of crores since the Covid-19 pandemic. IndusInd Bank, which denied allegations of ever-greening, admitted that on account of a technical glitch in May 2021, nearly 84,000 loans were disbursed without the customer consent getting recorded at the time of loan disbursement. The bank disclosed that it initiated an independent review to see if there is any process lapse or accounting failure at BFIL. “Should there be any need, the bank will immediately take corrective action as appropriate and keep all the stakeholders adequately informed,’’ the lender said. It added that this issue was highlighted by the field staff within two days and the technical glitch was rectified expeditiously. Though IndusInd Bank did not disclose the disbursal value of these 84,000 loans, it said that among them, only 26,073 clients were active with their outstanding at Rs 34 crore. According to the lender, this is 0.12 per cent of its portfolio as of end-September. The bank has also made necessary provision against this portfolio. It also pointed out that the standard operating procedure has since been revised to make biometric authorisation compulsory. It was in 2018 that IndusInd Bank acquired BFIL (previously known as SKS Microfinance). While 82 per cent of the BFIL serviced customers are in rural and deep rural India where the access to banking services is limited, the bank said that the glitch got further aggravated because of operational issues arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, including the lockdown, containment zones, and restrictions at the village or panchayat level, which necessitated disbursement of some loans in cash. “The bank wishes to reiterate that there is a strong risk management and control framework in place, both within the bank and at BFIL. Nevertheless, the bank has been following a conservative provisioning approach and reiterates that there is no change in the credit cost estimates including that in the micro-finance business…In October 2021, nearly 100 per cent of the loan disbursements were in the bank accounts of the customers, as in pre-Covid time,’’ it added. Through BFIL, the bank provides micro loans to women in rural India for income generating activities under the joint liability group format. IndusInd Bank said this customer segment represents the bottom of pyramid in terms of economic wealth and is the target segment for financial inclusion. During the pandemic, the customers faced operational difficulties and some turned intermittent payers. Based on their requirements, the bank provided additional liquidity support to the extent of 20 per cent of the outstanding as on Feb 29, 2020 as applicable under the ECLGS (emergency credit line guarantee scheme) and it also restructured some loan under applicable regulatory guidelines including extension of moratorium to help tide the immediate cash flow mismatch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
