08-11-2021||Business||Paytm’s IPO, the country’s biggest-ever, subscribed 18% on first day||Paytm's ₹ 18,300 crore initial public offer (IPO), the country's biggest ever, was subscribed 18 per cent on November 8, 2021, the first day of bidding. It received bids for 88.21 lakh equity shares against offer size of 4.83 crore shares. The portion set aside for retail investors was subscribed 78 per cent, while the reserved portion of non-institutional investors (NIIs) was subscribed 2 per cent, and qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) have put in bids for 16.78 lakh shares against 2.63 crore shares set aside for them. Earlier, Paytm's share sale via IPO opened for subscription on Monday. The last day for its subscription is November 10, 2021. One97 Communications, Paytm's parent company, plans to sell shares in the price band of Rs 2,080 to ₹ 2,150 per share and retail investors can bid for a minimum of one lot of six shares up to a maximum of 15 lots. At the upper price band, one lot of Paytm shares will cost Rs 12,900. Paytm's IPO consists of an offer for sale of Rs10,000 crore from its existing investors and fresh issue of Rs 8,300 crore. The company plans to use funds generated from the IPO to grow and strengthen Paytm ecosystem, including through acquisition and retention of consumers and merchants and providing them with greater access to technology and financial services. It also plans to invest in new business initiatives, acquisitions and strategic partnerships.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
08-11-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 478 points to close at 60,545||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 478 points on Monday after gains in index majors HDFC, Infosys and Kotak Bank despite a negative trend in the global markets. After a volatile session, the 30-share index ended 477.99 points or 0.80 per cent higher at 60,545.61. Similarly, the Nifty surged 151.75 points or 0.85 per cent to 18,068.55. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finserv, Tech Mahindra, Kotak Bank and HDFC. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking over 10 per cent after the lender admitted to having disbursed 84,000 loans without customer consent in May owing to a "technical glitch". M&M, SBI, Maruti, Asian Paints and TCS were also among the laggards. Indian market opened on a mixed note after a long holiday week following mixed Asian market cues as investors digest China trade data, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session, market erased initial losses and traded in green, he said, adding that traders took support of the statement by industry chamber PHDCCI that India's economic recovery gained momentum in recent months on the back of rapid progress in vaccinations, festive season and consequent improvement in consumer and industry sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses, while Shanghai was positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.15 per cent to USD 83.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
08-11-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in early trade on Monday tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank and HDFC amid a largely negative trend in Asian markets. After opening on a positive note, the 30-share index turned negative to trade 130.18 points or 0.22 per cent lower at 59,937.44 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty fell 25.80 points or 0.14 per cent to 17,891. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking around 9 per cent, after the lender admitted to have disbursed 84,000 loans without customer consent in May owing to a "technical glitch". Asian Paints, Sun Pharma, M&M, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank were also among the laggards. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Titan, UltraTech Cement and L&T were the gainers. In the previous session on Thursday, special Muhurat trading was conducted to mark the beginning of Hindu Samvat year 2078. Sensex climbed 295.70 points or 0.49 per cent to close at 60,067.62, and Nifty advanced 87.60 points, or 0.49 per cent, to finish at 17,916.80. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 328.11 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. The BSE and NSE remained closed on Friday (November 5) for 'Diwali Balipratipada'. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.04 per cent to USD 83.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
08-11-2021||Business||FINTECH | Fine print||Fintech, the unsplittable atom in the digital space, is raging all over the banking and financial services sector — loans, investments, insurance and, above all else, payments, offering tremendous convenience to users but leaving a trail of caveats regardless. As finance gets increasingly digitised, the emergence of smart technologies such as artificial intelligence has expedited complex processes and brought customers closer to newer services. Indeed, these have spawned a whole generation of instant products: the three-minute loan or the no-load mutual fund or their equivalent in other spheres have democratised financial services. This has also resulted in what appears to me as certain mistaken beliefs and inexact ideas; increasingly, the market has cottoned on to the theory that purveyors of fintech are “Too Connected To Fail”, which perhaps is a derivative of the slightly dated notion pervading the BFSI sector — “Too Big To Fail”. That digital applications bring issues like cyber security to the fore is not for our discussion today. I can only point out that a lot of scrutiny has happened on that front already, and consumers are getting increasingly aware of phenomena like spamming and phishing. Criminal intent is a hot button that generates debates everywhere, especially in emerging markets like India where victims of cyber crime are often too vulnerable. Cost factor I wish to change the course of our narrative today by referring to other aspects of fintech that users must be made aware of — costs, for instance. Fintech, as we will no doubt appreciate, reduces distances and brings down expenses in a significant manner because the issue of physical set-up and layered intermediation is addressed efficiently. That said, I will draw your attention to costs associated with technology-enabled services like payments and loans. These are typically borne by the customer. Let us consider a situation where a fintech-driven loan (yes, the three-minute kind that I alluded to earlier) is easier to procure than one offered by a conventional bank. No paperwork, no processing fee and so on — let us suppose that this makes the deal cheaper by a couple of basis points in comparison. For the customer concerned, the facility will make sense if the interest payable too is lower on a sustained basis (that is, throughout the tenure of the loan till repayment). Rollover effect The matter may end right there, leaving no room for further debate, especially if the loan is a one-off event. In real life, fintech companies also deal with small-ticket exposures. One loan can lead to the next, and roll-over can happen quite frequently. There have been many instances in the past where a section of repeat customers have gone overboard. In a situation where access to services remains relatively easy, over-borrowing (and over-spending, if you permit) is fairly common as well. One loan after another can have a compounding effect on costs. You will agree that such a phenomenon can happen more commonly on the loans front, and be relatively sparse in areas like securities broking or investment advisory, where fintech has its positive applications as well. Loans can indeed spin off quite a story as it really did a few months ago in India, leading to regulatory censure. I am of course referring to the many loan apps that people (mostly the young and the reckless) had downloaded in the wake of Covid-19. Payday loans The infamous “payday loans” are a case in point elsewhere in the world. Technically speaking, these are small loans (often provided at high interest rates) that are meant to be repaid when the borrowers get their next payments (read: salaries). They nearly appear as cash advances given for very short periods of time, usually on the basis of income levels. A casual search on the world wide web will lead you to a vortex of information, and to sundry companies offering such short-term facilities. Away from Indian shores, for instance, is an entity named CashUSA, which clearly has a network of lenders offering rates ranging from 5.99 per cent to 35.99 per cent for loan durations ranging from 90 days to 72 months. I admit, however, this is not a local player and the name has been cited here as merely an example. However, the moot point is that such a company can facilitate a loan quite quickly. And, on the due date, it “can simply withdraw money electronically from the same account into which they originally deposited your funds”. Period. Here is a list for users of fintech The writer is director of  Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
08-11-2021||Business||Calcutta ranks fourth in list of wealthiest Indian cities home to over 10,000 dollar millionaires||The city ranks fourth in the list of wealthiest Indian cities being home to over 10,000 dollar millionaires, according to a study by a South Africa-based agency which tracks global wealth. Mumbai, the financial capital of India, leads the pack followed by Delhi, the national capital, and Bangalore. While Mumbai and Delhi are way ahead, Bangalore leads only by total wealth. Calcutta, where many rich business families, though now relocated, trace their roots has more number of high net worth individuals, multi millionaires or even billionaires . The study was conducted by New World Wealth (NWW), a research outfit based out of South Africa, which is tracking the movements and spending habits of the world’s wealthiest people for over seven years. The findings are part of the first India Wealth Report which NWW came up with recently. The publications from the agency include Global Wealth Migration Review, recently cited by Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra to highlight flight of capital from India during the regime of Narendra Modi. The report finds that there are about 3,30,00 millionaires in India, each with net assets of at least $1 million. The number of people having net assets of $10 million, $100 million and $1 billion stands at 21,000, 1,074 and 120 respectively. Inequality on the rise The study observes a particularly high number of billionaires in India compared with other countries.  This may indicate the concentration of wealth in the hands of a limited number of individuals, a sign of inequality. The India Wealth Report 2021, which collects data as late as December 2020, did not offer any more observations on the comment. However, the GWM Review 2019 had sought to highlight the inequality linked to the concentration of wealth in the hands of few. GMWR 2019 argued that if more than 40 per cent of a country’s wealth are in the hands of HNWIs, there could be little space for a meaningful middle class. The ideal ratio should be under 30 per cent. Going by the parameter, Japan appeared to be the most equal country where only 24 per cent of the wealth are with the millionaires, and Saudi Arabia least where 56 per cent of the wealth are with HNWIs. Andrew Amoils, the wealth analyst with NWW, told this newspaper that high wealth inequality stands out in India . According to the 2019 report, 48 per cent of wealth are held by HNWIs, way above global average of 36 per cent. Noted economist Abhirup Sarkar appeared to agree with the tenor of the finding. “It is a fact that there exists high inequality in India.” he said. He said inequality had gone up everywhere in the world since the 90s because of two reasons: globalisation and technology. Under globalisation, the markets have opened up and opportunities increased but not everyone has been able to take the opportunity. Only the privileged have benefited. “I would argue that years of social inequality have spurred income inequality in India. The enlightenment required to use the market opportunity was not available to a very large chunk of the population,” Sarkar said. A finding by NWW may be supporting his view. Amoils said the high percentage of HNWIs with MBAs stands out in India as is the strong wealth growth in Bangalore. Along with globalisation, technology played an important role in exacerbating inequality. Companies  have become technology driven, capital intensive instead of labour intensive. Those who can operate the machine may be earning a lot but the machine is replacing many more who may be earning less.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
08-11-2021||Business||Purplle to scale business following  $75 million fund-raise||Mumbai-based beauty and personal care e-commerce platform Purplle is planning acquisitions and to test the omnichannel distribution format as it looks to scale business following a $75 million fund-raise at a valuation of around $600 million. The company also has a long-term plan to go public in the next five years. “The valuation was $630 million post money and the investment was led by private equity fund Kedaara Capital. They have taken many companies public. Our existing investors, which include Sequoia Capital and Blume Ventures, have also participated. Till now the aggregate amount of funds raised is $170 million,” said co-founder and CEO Manish Taneja. Taneja, an IIT Delhi graduate, forayed into the beauty segment with online platform Purplle along with co-founders Rahul Dash and Suyash Katyayani, both graduates from IIT Kharagpur in 2012. The decision, Taneja explained, was due to the category offering scalable business with good gross margin. “We will invest the proceeds in working capital, capex and marketing. We are looking to build our own brands and also looking to acquire brands from high quality entrepreneurs who are probably good at brand building but not at finance, HR or logistics. We also plan to further invest in technology and products,” Taneja said. The company will experiment with the omnichannel route of having both an online and offline presence. “We will definitely try the omnichannel route. Sometimes early next year we will open up a few stores and see how it plays out for us. It will be an experiment to start with,” said Taneja. “There is no hurry to go public. But I think we will be ready as a company from a corporate governance, quality of financial statement point of view and whenever the time is right we will hit the market in the next four-five years,” said Taneja. Bengal on top The e-commerce platform at present has a gross merchandise value of around Rs 100 crore a month and Bengal’s contribution to overall GMV is around 12 per cent. “Our top 3 cities would be Calcutta, Delhi-NCR and Mumbai. While Calcutta constitutes the major portion of business in Bengal, cities like Siliguri and Jalpaiguri are not far away,” said Taneja. Around one third of the company’s business comes from its homegrown brands with Good Vibes from the cohort becoming a Rs 150 crore brand. Taneja remains bullish on the growth prospects of the online beauty and personal care market in the country. “It’s a $20 billion market out of which 4-5 per cent comes from online. It is expected to become $25-27 billion within the next 3-4 years of which 15 per cent is expected to come from online. That is a sizable market to play in,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
08-11-2021||Business||Bad loans spook starts to recede ||The spectre of bad loans, which haunted the banking industry after the two distinct waves of the pandemic since March 2020, has started to vaporise and has become less of a threat today, bringing a sense of relief to the boardrooms in the financial sector. Most of the banks that have declared their second quarter results have seen a sequential reduction in their non-performing accounts (NPAs) and  slippages in addition to improvement in some of the other parameters such as recoveries and upgrades. The claw back in fortunes — driven by improved loan recoveries — is riding a resurgence in economic activity and the steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases . Further, the two loan restructuring schemes announced by the RBI last year have prevented a spike in non-performing  assets. Bankers now suggest that if the current trend continues, their asset quality will improve further in the second half which could result in a lower ratio of defaults at the end of this fiscal. Concerns have also abated with regard to the retail portfolio which had shown an uptick (in stressed loans) during the April-June period on account of the second wave. The positive outlook has brightened prospects at both private and public sector banks. Canara Bank, for instance, expects its gross NPA ratio to fall to 7.5 per cent in 2021-22 from the current level of 8.42 per cent — and 8.93 per cent in 2020-21— due to better recoveries. Though the PSU lender saw its fresh slippages inching up to Rs 6,525 crore (of which almost half came from two Srei group companies) from Rs 4,253 crore in the preceding three months, this was made up by its cash recoveries which surged to over Rs 3,000 crore from Rs 1,600 crore during the same period. The bank also upgraded loans worth Rs 2,671 crore, leading to a situation where recoveries and upgradations exceeded slippages. The country’s largest lender-State Bank of India (SBI) also reported a sharp improvement in its asset quality with fresh slippages sliding 73 per cent from the preceding quarter to Rs 4,176 crore. Recoveries and upgradation also improved to Rs 7,407 crore from Rs 4,969 crore in the first quarter. State Bank of India chairman Dinesh Khara said while there were defaults on the retail side during the first quarter, the lender was able to pull it back during the July-September quarter. Moreover, its collection efficiency now stands at 95 per cent as mobility has improved with the decline in Covid cases. “There could be a further drop in slippages during the second half, though a possible third wave could turn out to be a spoiler. The restructured book is also not much of a worry since they have been well provided for. “Therefore, given the current conditions, we do not anticipate any major shocks on the asset quality front,” a senior official from a PSU bank said. Axis Bank, which saw its gross NPAs falling to a 20-quarter low, is also optimistic. At a conference call with analysts after the second quarter results, its top management said the second half of the fiscal could see lower net NPA additions as compared with the April-September 2021 period, given its focus on collections. During July-September 2021, its recoveries from written off retail accounts was 64 per cent higher than in the preceding three months. In July, the financial stability report of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) projected that gross non-performing assets (GNPA) ratio of scheduled commercial banks may increase from 7.48 per cent in March 2021 to 9.80 per cent by March 2022 under the baseline scenario and to 11.22 per cent under a severe stress scenario. During the year ended March 31, 2020, the GNPA ratio of banks stood at 8.4 per cent. While it remains to be seen if the current trend leads to a moderation in these numbers, some of the experts feel that the MSME portfolio could pose a challenge. In a recent report, rating agency Crisil said gross NPAs of banks will rise to 8-9 per cent this fiscal, well below the peak of 11.2 per cent seen at the end of fiscal 2018. It added that stressed assets in the retail segment will rise to 4-5 per cent by the end of the fiscal from around 3 per cent last year largely due unsecured loans. Despite benefiting enormously from schemes like ECLGS, the micro, medium and small enterprises (MSME) segment may witness a deterioration in asset quality and may be in need of restructuring to manage cash-flow challenges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
08-11-2021||Business||JLR expects chip supply to improve ||Tata Motors-owned Jaguar Land Rover expects the semiconductor shortage situation to gradually start recovering in the remaining part of the current financial year. The British multinational automotive company will continue to take steps to contain the impact of the shortage on its operations across the globe. “Looking ahead, the supply shortage of semiconductors remains dynamic and difficult to forecast. However, JLR expects to see a gradual recovery starting in the second half of fiscal 2022,” the automaker said in its interim report for the three and six-month period ended September 2021. While the supply of semiconductors remains constrained, the company will continue to take mitigating actions, including prioritising the production of higher-margin vehicles and closely managing costs , it added. “Furthermore, Jaguar Land Rover is taking measures to increase the future visibility and control over semiconductor supply for its vehicles, working closely with semiconductor and tier 1 suppliers,” the Whitley, Coventry-headquartered firm noted. JLR noted that the global economic recovery from Covid-19 continues but outbreaks in a number of regions, more recently in Southeast Asia, have impacted the supply base. Besides, financial markets continue to trend upwards but the rebound in the economic activity continues to drive inflationary pressures impacting a number of sectors including commodities, power, freight and wages, it added. The automaker noted that the passenger car industry volumes continue to be constrained in most markets as a result of the continuing supply shortage of semiconductors, exacerbated by recent Covid-19 outbreaks in certain regions. It, however, added that strong demand continues for its products with record orders in excess of 1,25,000 units, which should support a strong recovery for when production and supply of vehicles recovers. In terms of new products, the sales of the new Range Rover, which was revealed in October, are expected to start in the fourth quarter of FY22, JLR said. The automaker expects the EBIT (earnings before interest and tax) margin and free cash flow (before restructuring costs) to turn positive in the second half of the financial year 2022, it added. In Q2 FY22, the company’s total retail sales (including the China JV) stood at 92,710 units, down 18.4 per cent year-on-year, reflecting the semiconductor shortage and impact on retailer inventories. Retail sales were lower year-on-year in most regions, including North America (15.6 per cent), China (6.3 per cent), Europe (17 per cent), and the UK (47.6 per cent). The automaker noted that retail sales of all models were lower year-on-year with the exception of the new Land Rover Defender, which retailed 16,725 vehicles, up 70.4 per cent year-on-year, making it its best-selling model in the quarter. In the second quarter, the company’s revenue stood at £3.9 billion, down 11.1 per cent, primarily reflecting the lower sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
08-11-2021||Business||JSPL to invest Rs 18,000 crore to boost its Angul steel capacity||Steel producer JSPL plans to invest Rs 18,000 crore to boost its Angul steel capacity to 12 million tonnes (mt) by 2023. “We are investing about Rs 18,000 crore to increase the Angul plant capacity to 12mt and have plans to increase it to 15mt by 2025,” JSPL managing director V.R. Sharma told The Telegraph. He said the expansion would be carried out through internal accruals.The expansion plan for 15mt envisages a 4.25mt blast furnace, 2.7mt direct reduced iron and 6.3mt steel melt shop, replicating the present facilities at Angul. The company will take 30 months (December 2023) to commission the blast furnace, to be followed by the direct reduced iron plant, with commissioning expected in February 2025. These projects along with the related raw material capacities — coke oven, oxygen plant —  will account for almost two-thirds of the planned capital expenditure of Rs 18,000 crore. Debt reduction Sharma said the firming up of steel prices has enabled JSPL to pay back debts and helped in the expansion plans, adding the company would be a debt free from July. Consolidated net debt has declined to Rs 11,164 crore by the second quarter ended September from Rs 15,227 crore in June. During the second quarter of the fiscal, finance costs have declined 31 per cent on an annual basis. The focus on strengthening its balance sheet has resulted in net debt falling Rs 35,350 crore from a peak of Rs 46,500 crore.Net debt will fall another Rs 3,015 crore when the company completes the sale of Jindal Power Limited, which is accounted as asset held for sale on its books. “JSPL becomes the first entity with zero domestic net debt in our Indian steel coverage. Current net debt of Rs 11,200 core can be attributed to foreign operations. With the divestment of Jindal Power, the management looks to become net debt free by 2022-23 – a very likely scenario,” ICICI Securities said in a research note. The country’s finished steel consumption increased 7.57mt  in September, 4 per cent lower on an annual basis but 5.4 per cent higher monthly. Steel consumption rose significantly in the first half to 48.95mt against 36.54mt a year ago. While the demand from white and yellow goods industries has weakened over the last few months because of higher steel prices and limited component supplies, an increase in government investments including schemes such as Make in India and government projects have provided growth momentum to the construction and infrastructure sectors. Infrastructure, construction, auto, real estate & pipes account for around 65 per cent of domestic demand. Domestic finished steel consumption in the third quarter is likely to be sequentially higher with the monsoon season being over and improving vaccination rates, India Ratings and Research said. Both flat and long product domestic spreads are likely to correct in the second half because of higher coking coal prices. This will be partially offset by the increase in steel prices over the last month, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
08-11-2021||Business||Future moves CCI to stop Amazon deal ||The independent directors of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) have fired a major broadside in their battle with Amazon by writing to the Competition Commission of India (CCI) seeking a revocation of the approval that it granted in November 2019 that enabled Amazon to pick up a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL). FCPL, which is classified as a promoter entity, holds close to 9.82 per cent stake in Future Retail, thereby giving the US retail giant an indirect stake of over 3.50 per cent in the latter. The indirect stake in FRL forms the basis on which Amazon has tried to scuttle FRL’s bid to sell its retail business to the Reliance group under a Rs 24,713-crore deal struck in August 2020 — exactly a year after the FCPL-Amazon transaction. In a six page letter written to CCI chairman Ashok Kumar Gupta, on behalf of the independent directors, Ravindra Dhariwal alleged that Amazon concealed facts, made misrepresentations and false representations to the commission when it sought the approval for the transaction. The independent directors of FRL have charged Amazon of acquiring “strategic, material and special rights over FRL” in violation of laws and procedures in the country — and use that weapon to further its evil design to make FRL bankrupt by blocking the deal with the Reliance group, forcing banks to write off loans worth Rs 30,000 crore that they had extended to FRL, rendering insolvent 6,000 small and medium businesses that have dealings with Future Retail, and turning 50,000 employees jobless. Incidentally, the CCI while issuing its order approving the Amazon-FCPL transaction on November 28, 2019, had said the approval “shall stand revoked if, at any time, the information provided by the Acquirer (Amazon) is found to be incorrect. This approval should not be construed as immunity in any manner from subsequent proceedings before the Commission for violations of other provisions of the Act’’. The Future group is seeking to use that conditional approval to torpedo the Amazon-FCPL deal itself as the battle between the two sides starts to escalate. The Singapore tribunal recently gave its final arbitration order in favour of Amazon, which the US giant intends to enforce in Indian courts. Amazon’s pernicious strategy was designed to kill competition in the burgeoning e-commerce retail segment, the FRL independent directors said in their letter. False representations Under the terms of the deal struck in August 2019, Amazon had acquired a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons for Rs 1,431 crore and an indirect 2.52 per cent holding in Future Retail — and cleverly side-stepped questions from the Commission over the rationale for obtaining rights over FRL. On August 12, 2019, entities from the Future group that included FRL, FCPL and certain promoter companies entered into a shareholders’ agreement (SHA). Under this agreement, FRL was required to obtain the prior consent of FCPL for certain key matters including disposal of its retail business and assets to any third party and particularly to certain restricted persons including the Reliance group. The FRL directors claimed in that letter that in response to a pointed question from the Competition Commission over whether the FRL rights were economic or strategic, Amazon had replied that the investment in Future Coupons was made because of its “unique business model and gift and loyalty cards business” and the rights over Future Retail “were only investment protection rights” and were intended to add “credibility to its financial position in the short term”. The directors said Amazon had specifically replied that the rights over FRL “would not be exercised by Amazon directly and would be exercised by FCPL as a shareholder of FRL to protect the investment made in FCPL by Amazon and Kishore Biyani”. They added that the Commission’s approval for Amazon’s investment in FCPL was granted on the basis of these representations. However, Amazon went on to assert its rights over FRL and obtained an arbitral award from the Singapore tribunal in an effort to block the sale of the company’s retail assets to the Reliance group. The letter also said as a result of the false representations, Amazon achieved three objectives: it acquired control over Future Retail without having to come out with an open offer under Sebi regulations; it violated FDI laws in the country by seeking to adopt a “twin-entity investment structure”, and also bypassed restrictions under Press Note 2 that effectively barred the sale of FRL products on its e-commerce platform. The letter said that if the CCI had referred the issue to the department of economic affairs (DEA) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), “the authorities would have become aware of this modus operandi of Amazon and would not have allowed the (FCPL) transaction to proceed”. The independent director said that if this had been disclosed, the CCI would have referred the matter to Sebi to check whether the transaction is in compliance with its laws and regulations. They maintained that Amazon has significant strategic rights over FRL which were “superior to shareholders, lenders and creditors of FRL”. They added that since the promoters of FRL were contractually bound to vote as per the directions of Amazon, it clearly shows that the latter and the promoters of FRL are “persons acting in concert” while exercising control over FRL. This, they claimed, would make it obligatory for Amazon to make an open offer to the public shareholders of FRL to acquire a 26 per cent of FRL. “Amazon’s acquisition of thThe company plans to become debt free from the first quarter of next fiscal. ese strategic rights will be in violation of Fema FDI Rules since any acquisition of shares or rights as a shareholder by a foreign entity in FRL (multi-brand retail company) requires prior approval of government,” the letter added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
