09-11-2021||Business||Sensex ends 112 points lower to close at 60,433||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped by 112 points on Tuesday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance, despite a positive trend in global markets. After a volatile trading session, the 30-share index ended 112.16 points or 0.19 per cent lower at 60,433.45. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 24.30 points or 0.13 per cent to 18,044.25. HDFC Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 2 per cent, followed by HDFC, Bajaj Finance, NTPC, Maruti, Kotak Bank and PowerGrid. On the other hand, M&M, SBI, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. "After a positive opening, the domestic market traded lower as private banking stocks were under pressure following dull global markets," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Despite the passage of the long-awaited infrastructure bill, the gains in the US market were capped as investors cautiously awaited the US inflation data, he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended in a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Major indices in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.91 per cent to USD 84.19 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
09-11-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in early trade on Tuesday tracking gains in index-heavyweights ICICI Bank, Infosys and L&T, despite a weak trend in Asian markets and sustained foreign fund outflow. After opening on a choppy note, the 30-share index was trading 118.07 points or 0.20 per cent higher at 60,663.68 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 36.45 points or 0.20 per cent to 18,105 amid high volatility. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Auto, L&T and TCS. On the other hand, Nestle India, HDFC Bank, PowerGrid, HDFC and Asian Paints were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 477.99 points or 0.80 per cent higher at 60,545.61, and Nifty surged 151.75 points or 0.85 per cent to 18,068.55. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 860.65 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. "Investors have to remember the fact that this bull run is global with India outperforming. In the mother market US, S&P 500 is up 25 per cent YTD and in India, Nifty is up by 29 per cent YTD," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The correlation between markets is very high globally. Therefore, a correction is also likely to be global. There are no visible triggers for a correction presently, he noted. In the previous session, FII selling of Rs 861 crore was overwhelmed by DII buying of Rs 1,912 crore. According to him, as long as this trend continues, markets will remain resilient despite high valuations. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Major indices on Wall Street ended marginally positive in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.10 per cent to USD 83.35 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
09-11-2021||Business||India’s buy-now-pay-later industry set to surge over ten-fold||India’s buy-now-pay-later (BNPL) industry is booming and set to surge over ten-fold within four years as tens of millions of online shoppers get lured by interest-free credit with fewer hassles, market players told Reuters. Redseer estimates India’s BNPL market will rocket to $45-50 billion by 2026 from $3-3.5 billion now. The research firm also estimates that the number of BNPL users in the country may rise to 80-100 million customers by then, from 10-15 million currently. However, since the maximum credit currently being offered on BNPL is Rs 100,000  ($1,347.89), much lower than credit card offers, it will take some time before it can disrupt the cards market or wrest market share, said analysts at Macquarie Research. Fintech firm MobiKwik sees BNPL business nearly doubling in two years. Amazon joined the BNPL bandwagon in 2020 while BharatPe started the service last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
09-11-2021||Business||SpiceJet offers tickets to passengers on instalments||SpiceJet on Monday launched a scheme under which passengers will be able to pay for tickets in three, six or 12 instalments. “As part of the launch offer, customers will be able to enjoy three months EMI option at no additional cost (no interest),” the airline said. To avail themselves of the EMI scheme, passengers need to provide basic details such as PAN, Aadhar number or VID and verify it with a one-time password. Customers will have to pay the first EMI by providing their UPI ID and subsequent EMIs would be deducted from the same UPI ID. Passengers do not have to provide any credit or debit card details to avail themselves of the EMI scheme. Shilpa Bhatia, chief commercial officer, SpiceJet, said:  “The ticket price cannot be the reason to delay that family vacation any longer. Moreover, in case a customer wishes to end the loan before the chosen EMI period, they can do the same and no foreclosure charges will be levied.” Vistara flights to Paris Vistara has commenced non-stop flight services to Paris from Delhi under the air bubble agreement between India and Europe. Vistara will fly twice a week between the two cities — on Wednesday and Sunday — with Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner aircraft, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
09-11-2021||Business||FM to meet state chief ministers in a move to boost capital expenditure||In a move to boost capital expenditure, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will meet the state chief ministers next week, officials said. North Block officials said the review meeting on November 15 would “urge states to increase their capital spending in the second half of the year” as the economy moves ahead after the Covid-19 pandemic. In the Budget 2021-22, the finance minister had increased the capital expenditure to Rs 5.54 lakh crore – 26 per cent more than the revised estimate of Rs 4.39 lakh crore for 2020-21. Against the annual target of Rs 5.54 lakh crore, the government has achieved capital expenditure to the tune of Rs Rs 2.29 lakh crore, 41 per cent of the budget estimate in the first half (April-September) of the current financial year. The data showed that out of the total expenditure incurred in the first half, almost Rs 1 lakh crore has been spent in the two months of August and September alone. Officials said the capital expenditure will gather momentum in the second half of 2021022, and would have been higher in the first half itself had Covid 2.0 not led to localised lockdowns. The meeting is part of a comprehensive review by the finance ministry to monitor release of funds and push key infrastructure departments to ensure timely completion of projects. During these meetings, the minister has reviewed the progress on capital expenditure by departments, implementation of projects under the National Infrastructure Pipeline, and plans for asset monetisation. The Centre has incentivised the States to emphasise on capital expenditure. Under the scheme entitled ‘Special Assistance to States for Capital Expenditure for 2021-22’ the Centre has approved capital projects worth Rs. 2,903.80 crore in 8 States, and has also released an amount of Rs. 1,393.83 crore to these States. Additionally, for the current year 2021-22, out of the net borrowing ceiling of 4 per cent of GSDP for the States, 0.50 percent of GSDP was earmarked for incremental capital expenditure to be incurred by the States during 2021-22. Due to these collaborative efforts by the Centre and the States, eleven States have achieved the capex target set by the Centre during Q1 of 2021-22. As a result, these States have been granted permission to borrow an additional amount of Rs. 15,721 crore which is 0.25 percent of their Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
09-11-2021||Business||Britannia posts consolidated net profit of Rs 381.84 crore for Q2||Commodity price inflation has resulted in lower profit for Britannia Industries in the second quarter of 2021-22. The company posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 381.84 crore for the second quarter, down 1.33 per cent from Rs 387 crore during the first quarter and 22.89 per cent from Rs 495.20 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. The company’s total income was at Rs 3,660.77 crore, up from Rs 3,492.61 crore in the same period a year ago. “The impact of the second wave of Covid-19 started receding in the quarter and economic activity started picking up. However, inflationary trends remained rampant around the globe,” said Varun Berry, managing director, Britannia Industries. An unprecedented inflation in the price of palm oil of 54 per cent, industrial fuel of 35 per cent and packaging material of 30 per cent led to an overall inflation of 14 per cent during the quarter, he said. The company has initiated price hikes across its portfolio to mitigate the inflation impact. "While we have been able to partially mitigate the impact through strategic forward covers and accelerated cost efficiency programs, we have also initiated necessary price increase across portfolio all of which will address cost push and normalise profitability," said Berry. On a consolidated basis, cost of raw materials consumed during the quarter was at Rs 1914.72 crore, compared to Rs 1768.12 crore during the corresponding quarter previous year. Britannia scrips at Rs 3718.80 crore were up 1.89 per cent over the previous close at Bombay Stock Exchange. The bottomline during the quarter was lower than market estimates. "We continued to focus on increasing direct distribution and improving our rural footprint. We are confident that our resilient brands and strategic growth initiatives will hold us on a path of profitable share gain in the future as well," said Berry. During the quarter the company expanded its snacks, wafer and cake categories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
09-11-2021||Business||Shares of IndusInd Bank tank almost 11 per cent||Shares of IndusInd Bank on Monday tanked almost 11 per cent with investors appearing unimpressed by its explanation that a technical glitch may have led to the disbursal of loans without its consent as charges of the evergreening of loans swirled around the lender. Brokerages are also miffed by the lender's failure to effectively communicate to the bourses on critical issues such as the position of key personnel at the bank. The IndusInd Bank scrip ended sharply lower at Rs 1061.45 on the BSE -a drop of 10.71 per cent or Rs 127.30 over the previous close. Similarly, on the NSE, the stocks slumped 10.51 per cent to settle at Rs 1,063.95. On Saturday, lender had said its subsidiary Bharat Financial Inclusion Ltd (BFIL) had disbursed 84,000 loans without its consent because of a “technical glitch’’. Whistle-blowers at the MFI arm had earlier written to the RBI and the bank’s board alleging misgovernance and ever-greening of loans worth thousands of crores since the beginning of the pandemic. The bank had denied the allegations and said only 26,073 clients of the 84,000 were active with their outstanding at Rs 34 crore. IndusInd said it has also made necessary provisions against the portfolio. The standard operating procedure (SOP) has since been revised to make biometric authorisation compulsory in disbursing loans. The markets were not satisfied with the explanation and dragged down the stock. Analysts also sought better communication and more clarity from the bank in some other matters as well. Brokerage Macquirie said the bank did not inform the exchanges that non-executive vice-chairman M.R. Rao had recently moved to an advisory role. The bank has also been silent reports that  BFIL’s MD & CEO Shalabh Saxena and chief financial officer Ashish Damani has joined another listed MFI — Spandana Spoorthy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
09-11-2021||Business||Roadmap for T+1 trading drawn up||The country's stock exchange, depositories and other market infrastructure institutions have come up with a roadmap to implement the market regulator's plan to introduce a T+1 (trade plus one day) settlement cycle next year. The new settlement mechanism will kick off in a phased manner from February 25. T+1 means that market trade-related settlements will need to be cleared within one day of the actual transactions taking place. Currently, trades on the Indian stock exchanges are settled in two working days after the transaction is done (T+2). The exchanges will first rank all listed companies based on the daily average market capitalisation for the month of October. The 100 companies that rank at the bottom of the list will be the first to switch to the T+1 settlement cycle. From March next year, the next 500 companies at the bottom of the list will move to the new settlement cycle on the last Friday of every month. This means that all the listed companies will move to the T+1 settlement cycle by the end of the year assuming there are no glitches in implementation. It may be recalled that soon after market regulator Sebi announced its plan to introduce the T+1 cycle, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) had voiced concern about the move, arguing that migration to the settlement would require changes that are more complex at their end. They also claimed that they would be impacted due to time zone differences and the involvement of multiple parties like global and local custodians in different jurisdictions. They had also said that the US SEC had given a two year roadmap in 2021 for migration to T+1 from T+2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
09-11-2021||Business||Vodafone indemnity bond to settle retro tax case with govt||Telecom firm Vodafone has informed the finance ministry it will submit an indemnity bond to settle its retrospective taxation case with the government, following a strategy similar to Cairn Energy. Vodafone said it would submit the indemnity bond according to the rules notified by the tax department last month, sources said. Cairn Energy said last week it was entering into an undertaking with the Indian government to withdraw all cases against the government and settle its tax dispute. This would allow the company to get a refund of around Rs 7,900 crore. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on October 13 notified “Relaxation of Validation (Section 119 of the Finance Act, 2012) Rules, 2021”, prescribing the forms and the conditions of the declaration to be filed by the company. After enacting a law to scrap any tax demand levied on companies using the controversial 2012 amendment to the Income Tax Act, the government on October 2 notified rules for settling such cases. The government has promised to refund any tax collected using such law but without any interest and subject to companies agreeing to withdraw all pending legal proceedings. Under the notified rules, companies are required to furnish a declaration to the IT department withdrawing all legal proceedings against the government over the levy of retrospective taxes. They are also required to indemnify the government against any future claims and commit not to seek any damage. The quantum of amounts collected under retrospective tax claims — about Rs 8,100 crore — will now be refunded without  interest. Of these, Cairn accounted for about Rs 7,900 crore and Vodafone, Rs 45 crore . The tax department has sought Rs 11,218 crore in taxes from Vodafone over its 2007 acquisition of Hutchison-Essar through a deal in the Cayman Islands. The Supreme Court had in January 2012 quashed the tax demand but the same was sought to be revalidated through Section 119 in the Finance Act, 2012. A penalty of Rs 7,900 crore was also sought from Vodafone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
09-11-2021||Business||Government notifies rules to settle Voda retro tax case||The government has notified a fresh set of rules to facilitate settlement of the retrospective tax dispute with British telecom giant Vodafone Plc. The Central Board of Direct Taxes on October 13 notified “Relaxation of Validation (Section 119 of the Finance Act, 2012) Rules, 2021”, prescribing the forms and conditions for the declaration to be filed by the company for settling its case. After enacting a law to scrap any tax demand levied on companies using the controversial 2012 amendment to the Income Tax Act, the government on October 2 notified rules for settling such cases. The government has promised to refund any tax collected using such law but without any interest and subject to companies agreeing to withdraw all pending legal proceedings. Under the rules notified, companies are required to furnish a declaration to the I-T department withdrawing all legal proceedings against the government over the levy of retrospective taxes. They are also required to indemnify the government against any future claims and commit to not seek any damage. The first set of rules released earlier this month applies to companies such as Cairn Energy Plc of the UK which were slapped taxes after the 2012 amendment. These taxes were sought using Section 9 of the 2012 law. The case pertaining to Vodafone is different as taxes were sought from the company by validating an October 2010 order of the I-T department that sought Rs 11,218 crore in taxes from the British firm over its 2007 acquisition of Hutch-Essar through a deal in the Cayman Islands. The Supreme Court had in January 2012 quashed the tax demand but the same was sought to be revalidated through Section 119 in the Finance Act, 2012. A penalty of Rs 7,900 crore was also sought from Vodafone. After the notification of the rules, Vodafone will have 45 days to approach the government for a settlement. Vodafone had challenged the levy of such taxes after the 2012 legislation at an international arbitration tribunal. The tribunal overturned such a levy and asked India to reimburse legal costs. The government’s liability totalled Rs 85 crore, of which Rs 45 crore collected toward the tax levy was to be refunded. The government had challenged the arbitration award before a Singapore court. In the case of Cairn, the government will have to return Rs 7,900 crore of taxes it had collected by selling the company's shares, withholding tax refunds, and confiscated dividend income. Vodafone had not faced any enforcement to collect the taxes sought from it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
09-11-2021||Business||Future Retail moves SC for stay on enforcement of SIAC order||Future Retail Ltd (FRL) on Monday filed a special leave petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court after the Delhi high court refused to grant a stay on the enforcement of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) order of October 21 that had gone in favour of Amazon. The appeal to the top court was filed on a day the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) stayed a proposed meeting of shareholders and creditors of FRL that had been called to approve the Rs 24,713 crore-deal with Reliance Retail. It is not known when the Supreme Court will schedule a hearing on the latest petition by FRL. However, the apex court is due to resume hearing on Thursday on an earlier batch of petitions filed by both FRL and Amazon. Last month, the SIAC refused to interfere with an emergency award issued in October 2020 that restrained FRL from going ahead with its merger with Reliance Retail. In a separate development, the Mumbai bench of the NCLT directed that no meeting of shareholders or creditors of FRL be held till final order is pronounced by the Supreme Court. FRL had earlier proposed to conduct the meeting of equity shareholders on November 10, the secured creditors on November 11 and unsecured creditors on the following day. On Monday, the Future group firm said that it sought to reschedule the meeting of shareholders and creditors between November 26 and November 30. Amazon, however, opposed this petition. The twin developments come after the independent directors of FRL wrote a letter to the Competition Commission of India (CCI) requesting it to revoke an approval given in November 2019 that enabled Amazon to pick up a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL). FCPL holds around 9.82 per cent in FRL. While it remains to be seen if the competition regulator will accept its plea, a key question that must be asked is whether FRL is looking to scuttle the over two-year old deal with Amazon which it had poorly negotiated in the first place. The independent directors of FRL have alleged that Amazon misrepresented facts before the CCI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
09-11-2021||Business||Reliance Industries Ltd fully exits shale gas business||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Monday fully exited shale gas — a business it had entered a decade ago . The oil-to-telecom conglomerate said that it has sold its holding in EagleFord shale gas assets. Reliance Industries’ foray into shale gas play in the US began in 2010 when it signed joint venture agreements with Atlas Energy, Pioneer Natural Resources and Carrizo Oil & Gas. Over the years, it has disengaged from these shale ventures During that year, RIL subsidiary Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP had entered into a joint venture with Pioneer Natural Resources Company, under which Reliance acquired a 45 per cent interest in Pioneer’s core Eagle Ford shale acreage position. This is the acreage that is now being sold. “Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding, LP, a wholly-owned step-down subsidiary of RIL, announced the signing of agreements with Ensign Operating III, llc, a Delaware limited liability company to divest its interest in certain upstream assets in the Eagleford shale play of Texas, USA,” RIL said in a statement. The company said it has now divested all its shale gas assets and has exited from the business in North America. “A purchase and sale agreement has been signed between Reliance Eagleford and Ensign on November 5, 2021, for this sale. The sale is at a consideration higher than the current carrying value of the assets,” RIL said. Reliance’s interest in the business started to wane since 2014 after a drop in crude oil prices hit valuations. Shale gas blocks are economically viable only when prices are above a certain threshold. RIL in 2017 sold the first of its shale gas business: Marcellus shale in north eastern and central Pennsylvania for $126 million. It had in 2010 bought a 60 per cent stake in the asset for $ 392 million. In June 2015, the company sold its Eagle Ford midstream joint venture with Pioneer Natural Resources in the US for $ 1 billion. Reliance had spent $46 million in acquiring a 49.9 per cent stake in Eagle Ford and invested a further $ 208 million. In February this year, it agreed to sell its entire stake in certain upstream assets in the Marcellus shale gas asset in south-western Pennsylvania in the US for $ 250 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
09-11-2021||Business||SoftBank reports $3.5 billion loss for fiscal second quarter||SoftBank Group Corp sank into the red for the July-September period, dragged down by losses on its investments in China, the Japanese technology conglomerate said on Monday. SoftBank reported a 397.9 billion yen ($3.5 billion) loss for the fiscal second quarter, compared with a 627 billion yen profit recorded the same period the previous year. Quarterly sales grew 11 per cent to 1.5 trillion yen ($13 billion). Tokyo-based SoftBank said its investment portfolio called Vision Fund suffered losses, including the value of its stake in South Korean online retailer Coupang. But it said it booked gains on its shares in DoorDash, an online food-ordering service based in San Francisco. SoftBank said the recent crackdown in China on the technology sector weighed on Chinese share prices. SoftBank’s Vision Fund was hit by a 1 trillion yen ($9 billion) loss in the July-September quarter, according to its chief executive, Masayoshi Son. Son, who founded the company, acknowledged the latest losses were a big contrast to the booming results it reported for the previous fiscal year. “We have headed straight into a blizzard in the middle of the winter,” Son told reporters, adding he won’t make excuses. He said one big factor was a sharp drop in the share price of Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba, in which SoftBank is a shareholder. AP But he stressed SoftBank's main business was shifting to the Vision Fund and becoming less dependent on Alibaba's performance. However, Vision Fund's Chinese investments also suffered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
09-11-2021||Business||Tesla Inc shares decline 3.0 per cent ||Tesla Inc shares declined 3.0 per cent on Monday as investors prepared for its chief Elon Musk’s proposed sale of about a tenth of his holdings in the electric-car maker following his Twitter poll. Musk, the world’s richest person, tweeted on Saturday that he would offload 10 per cent of his stake if users of the social media network approved the proposal. The poll asking Musk’s followers if he should sell stock garnered more than 3.5 million votes, and 57.9 per cent of the people voted “Yes”. Musk had said he would have to exercise a large number of stock options in the next three months, which would create a big tax bill. Selling some of his stock could free up funds to pay the taxes. “I only have stock, thus the only way for me to pay taxes personally is to sell stock,” Musk wrote. “I was prepared to accept either outcome.” Tesla shares were last at $1,185.95 after falling as low as $1,133 earlier in the session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
09-11-2021||Business||Paytm IPO kicks off with investors subscribing to 78% of their quota||The mega Paytm IPO kicked off on Monday with retail investors subscribing to 78 per cent of their quota. One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, plans to raise a mammoth Rs 18,300 crore through the initial public offer, which is India’s largest since Coal India’s Rs15,000-crore offer in 2010. The issue is remain open till November 10. The IPO is expected to value One97 Communications at $20 billion (about Rs 1.5 lakh crore). At that level, it will rank around 30th in terms of market capitalisation of all stocks trading on the National Stock Exchange — just below Tata Steel and Tech Mahindra but above Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd. Paytm founder and CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma was at the Tirupati temple on Monday. He later tweeted a picture of the visit. Sharma is expected to receive a little over Rs 400 crore by selling a part of his holding in the company. The overall subscription stood at 18 per cent on the first day as the other two categories got off to a slow start. The offer includes a fresh issue of primary shares worth Rs 8,300 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) by existing shareholders of Rs 10,000 crore, which includes Ant Financial, Alibaba and Softbank. Japan’s Softbank has slipped into the red in the July-September quarter on account of its losses in China. The likely listing date of the shares is November 18. The IPO comes in at a price band of Rs 2,085-2,150 per share. Market circles expect the interest from institutional investors and high net-worth individuals to grow in the next two days.  Foreign portfolio investors are also expected to join the queue. According to Anindya Banerjee, deputy vice-president, currency derivatives & interest rate derivatives, Kotak Securities Ltd, the rise of the rupee against the dollar can be attributed to FPI investment in Paytm. There has been a mixed reaction among analysts to the IPO. Marwadi Shares and Finance Ltd estimates the company will list at a market market capitalisation of Rs 1.4 lakh crore. “There are no listed companies in India whose business is comparable with that of the company’s business. We assign an avoid rating to this IPO as valuations are demanding for a loss-making company,” the brokerage added. Vikas Jain, senior research analyst at Reliance Securities, said though Paytm has no listed peers, it has created significant scale and has strong brand equity, which should lead to sustained valuations in the future. ``A strong 33 per cent compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) in gross merchandise value (GMV) over 2018-19 to 2020-21, despite the pandemic, vindicates Paytm’s leadership and brand value. This along with 17 per cent estimated CAGR in digital payments in value to  $40 trillion during the financial year ending March 31, 2021 to 2025-26 indicates a sustainable growth in the long run,’’ Jain said  while recommending a subscribe rating for the long-term perspective. Some other brokerages like Arihant Capital have also recommended a subscribe rating for listing gains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
