10-11-2021||Business||Zomato net loss widens to Rs 434.9 crore in September quarter, announces 3 key investments||Online food delivery platform Zomato on Wednesday reported widening of its consolidated net loss to Rs 434.9 crore for the quarter ended September 30, 2021, mainly on account of investments in the growth of its food delivery business.  The company had posted a net loss of Rs 229.8 crore for the corresponding period of the previous fiscal, Zomato Ltd said in a regulatory filing.  Consolidated revenue from operations of the company stood at Rs 1,024.2 crore for the quarter under consideration. It was Rs 426 crore for the same period a year ago, it added.  "Why did our losses go up? This was due to investments in the growth of our food delivery business," Zomato Founder & CEO Deepinder Goyal and CFO Akshant Goyal said in a letter.  The losses went up specifically due to three reasons -- increased spending on branding and marketing for customer acquisition, increased investments and growing share of smaller/emerging geographies in the company's business and increased delivery costs due to unpredictable weather and increase in fuel prices, they added.  On the long term view of Zomato's business, the letter said the three main parts of it are brutal prioritisation, that is divesting or shutting down any businesses which aren't likely to drive exponential value for its shareholders in the long term.  Investing in the company's core food businesses and the ecosystem around it to make it a robust long term value drive, and building the hyperlocal e-commerce ecosystem by leveraging its key strengths to invest and partner with other companies to tap into growth opportunities beyond, it added.  "Our core food related businesses food ordering and delivery, dining-out, and hyperpure (B2B supplies for restaurants) will remain the key value drivers for Zomato for the next few years. These are all complex businesses and we want our entire team to stay focused on these most important value drivers for our business," the letter said.  Keeping this in mind, Zomato is in the process of divesting or shutting down its non-core businesses which were not going to significantly move the needle for shareholders in the long term, it added.  Zomato is in the process of selling Fitso to Curefit for USD 50 million. In order to cultivate a great long term partnership with Curefit, "we are also investing cash in Curefit. Net USD 50 million cash investment plus value of the Fitso business (worth USD 50 million) will give us a cumulative shareholding worth USD 100 million in Curefit (6.4 per cent shareholding in Curefit)," the letter said.  The company has also signed definitive documents for investing around USD 75 million in Bigfoot Retail Solutions Pvt Ltd (Shiprocket) for around 8 per cent stake as part of a larger USD 185 million round, it added.  "We have also signed definitive documents for investing around USD 50 million in Samast Technologies Pvt Ltd (magicpin) for around 16 per cent stake as part of a total round size of USD 60 million,"the letter said.  Including USD 100 million investment in Grofers earlier in August 2021, "we have now committed USD 275 million across four companies over the past six months. We plan to deploy another USD 1 billion over the next 1-2 years, with a large chunk of it likely to go into the quick-commerce space," it added.  The company has shut down our direct-to-consumer experiment in Nutraceuticals. Instead, it is choosing to back a platform play for all D2C brands by investing in Shiprocket, it added.  "We are also shutting down our operations in Lebanon, which is the only international business we were left with other than dining-out business in the UAE after shutting down the rest of our international operations last year," the letter said.  Zomato believes that the food delivery market in India is still nascent, and there is an opportunity to grow the market at least 10x over the next few years, it added.  "In order to make this happen, we are going to continue investing heavily in market creation, in addition to investing in ecosystem companies around our food delivery business so that the cost of running a better food delivery business goes down with time," the letter said.  The company is currently in talks with various restaurant point-of-sale players, e-vehicle fleet operators, among others, to evaluate investments in these companies keeping the long term in mind, it added.  Dining-out is still recovering from the shockwaves of COVID-19, and it will take a few months for the dining-out sector to get back on the growth path it was on pre-COVID. Zomato is continuing investing in product development and working with its restaurant partners to get the industry back in shape easier and faster, the letter said.  "Hyperpure is growing well, and we are excited about what it can become. We are building this business with first principles discipline, and are planning to invest upwards of USD 50 million in this business over the next 18-24 months," it added.  Shares of Zomato Ltd closed at Rs 135.75 on BSE, down 1.31 per cent from its previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
10-11-2021||Business||Sensex ends 81 points lower to close at 60,352||Equity benchmark Sensex declined by 81 points on Wednesday due to losses in HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and HUL amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share index ended 80.63 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 60,352.82. Similarly, Nifty fell 27.05 points or 0.15 per cent to 18,017.20. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, HUL, Asian Paints, Titan and SBI. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, M&M, Sun Pharma, Reliance Industries and ITC were among the gainers. "Broadly, domestic market continued to trade negative after disappointing opening as inflation worries affected the global markets, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. However, he said the market trend was mixed on a stock-to-stock basis. China's CPI rose 1.5 per cent YoY, while the producer price index rose by 13.5 per cent YoY owing to imported inflation and domestic supply shortages, Nair noted, adding that global investors are awaiting the release of the US inflation data due later today, which is expected to continue at peak levels. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses, while Hong Kong was positive. Major indices in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was flat at USD 84.78 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
10-11-2021||Business||India on way to becoming fastest growing economy in world, says Finance Ministry report||Armed with necessary macro and micro growth drivers, India is on its way to becoming the fastest-growing major economy in the world, a finance ministry report said. Rapid vaccination and teeming festivities will push India's ongoing recovery resulting in narrowing of demand-supply mismatches and greater employment opportunities, as per the monthly Economic Review prepared by the ministry. "Aatmanirbhar Bharat Mission encapsulating major structural reforms continues to play a critical role in shaping India's economic recovery, both through the signalling of business opportunities and expansion of spending channels. "Armed with necessary macro and micro growth drivers, the stage is set for India's investment cycle to kickstart and catalyse its recovery towards becoming the fastest growing economy in the world," the review said. The Economic Survey 2020-21, released in January this year, had projected GDP growth of 11 per cent during the current financial year ending March 2022. The Survey had said growth will be supported by supply-side push from reforms and easing of regulations, push for infrastructural investments, boost to manufacturing sector through Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes, recovery of pent-up demand, rise in discretionary consumption subsequent to rollout of vaccines and pick-up in credit given adequate liquidity and low interest rates. India's economic recovery gathered steam in the festive season, recording a decade high Diwali sales of Rs 1.3 lakh crore, as per Confederation of All India Traders. Improving COVID-19 situation amid high business and consumer spirits delivered sustained economic recovery in October 2021 as well. The global economic recovery however continues to be impacted by prolonged supply constraints and input cost inflation, it said. Yet IMF in its October 2021 update foresees improved global growth prospects at 5.8 per cent in 2021 and 4.9 per cent in 2022 triggering a coterminous global trade growth, by volume, at 9.7 per cent and 6.7 per cent, respectively. World Trade Organization's October forecast also confirms favourable trade prospects underpinned by resurgence in global economic activity and vaccine dissemination. This augurs well for India's export performance in the near future lending credence to IMF projecting India becoming the fastest growing economy, among major countries, in the current and the following year. Agricultural sector continues its strong presence in economic recovery with higher acreage of Rabi sowing, improved reservoir levels, and adequate availability of fertilisers and seeds ensured by the government, it said. A sustained rise in agri-exports, growing year-on-year by 22 per cent in April-August 2021, bespeaks government's commitment to increasing farmers' income, it said, adding, rural demand remains upbeat with month-on-month improvement in tractor and two and three-wheeler sales in September 2021. The report said, softening retail inflation and adequate liquidity in the market are also reflected in largely stable G-Sec and corporate bond yields since July 2021. "A more deliberate effort to reduce cost of borrowing is seen in complete pass-through of policy repo cuts as weighted average lending rate (WALR) on fresh rupee loans decline by 130 basis points between February 2020 and September 2021," it said. Understandably, it said, RBI's Monetary Policy Committee in its 33rd meeting during October 6-8 resolved to continue with the extant configuration on the policy rates and its accommodative stance, while deciding to prioritise growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
10-11-2021||Business||Nykaa shares make dream debut||Shares of FSN E-Commerce Ventures, which runs online marketplace for beauty and wellness products Nykaa, listed with a huge premium of over 79 per cent against the issue price of Rs 1,125 on Wednesday. The stock debuted at Rs 2,001, reflecting a jump of 77.86 per cent on the BSE. It then zoomed 89.24 per cent to Rs 2,129. On NSE, it listed at Rs 2,018, a premium of 79.37 per cent. The company's market valuation remained at Rs 97,754.06 crore on BSE. The initial share-sale of FSN E-Commerce Ventures was subscribed 81.78 times earlier this month. The Rs 5,352-crore IPO had a price range of Rs 1,085-1,125 per share. The company has a diverse portfolio of beauty, personnel care and fashion products, including its owned manufactured brand products, under its two business verticals -- Nykaa and Nykaa Fashion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
10-11-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped over 400 points in early trade on Wednesday dragged by losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid a negative trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund outflow. The 30-share index was trading 417.45 points or 0.69 per cent lower at 60,016 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty fell 122.10 points or 0.68 per cent to 17,922.15. Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by HDFC, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, HUL and Asian Paints. On the other hand, M&M, Sun Pharma, Tech Mahindra, ITC and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 112.16 points or 0.19 per cent lower at 60,433.45 and the Nifty fell 24.30 points or 0.13 per cent to 18,044.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,445.25 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. Even though the market appears resilient, the bulls are facing a major headwind in the form of sustained selling by FIIs, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "The 'buy-on-dips' strategy of retail investors and domestic institutional investors (DIIs) is countered with the 'sell-on-rally' strategy of FIIs. This tug of war between retail/DII vs FIIs is likely to continue in the short run. "If the global environment for equity turns weak, accelerated selling by FIIs can trigger a minor short-term correction in the market," he noted. Further, he added that the highlight of the day's session is likely to be the listing and trading of Nykaa. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Major indices on Wall Street ended on a negative note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.40 per cent to USD 85.12 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
10-11-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries may look to float overseas bonds||Kesoram Industries may look to float overseas bonds to retire outstanding high cost debentures ahead of their scheduled maturity and pare down interest outgo from the balance sheet. The cement producer has Rs 1,890 crore debt on its balance sheet and it paid Rs 122.8 crore as the finance cost in the second quarter, weighing down on the company’s operational performance. It recorded a Rs 12.02 crore loss on a consolidated basis in Q2, compared with Rs 6.25 crore profit in the same period last fiscal. Total income stood at Rs 855.89 crore against Rs 669.18 crore a year ago. The company reported an EBIDTA of Rs 339 crore in the first six months and clocked a production of 3.47 million tonnes of cement against Rs 234 crore in the same period last year and 2.2 MT volume. P. Radhakrishnan, whole-time director & CEO, said an impairment charge of Rs 20.25 crore on account of subsidiary Cygnet Industries, which is now closed, dragged down profit. He said the recent rights issue would bring down debt to Rs 1,500 crore. “We are looking at retiring the high cost debentures definitely by 2022-23,” he added. Market sources indicated Kesoram may tap overseas investors for bond sale, which will effectively bring down interest cost to below 10 per cent from 19-20 per cent now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
10-11-2021||Business||Services sector should gear up for $1 trillion export by 2030: Piyush||The services sector should girdle themselves up for $1 trillion export by 2030 as India transforms itself from a BPO provider to more knowledge-oriented fields. “India has the potential to become the top services exporter in the world. The services are boosting India’s transition from an assembly economy to a knowledge-based economy,” Goyal said at a global services conclave organised by the Services Export Promotion Council (SEPC). The services sector provides employment to nearly 2.6 crore people and contributes approximately 40 per cent to India’s exports. The services trade surplus was $89 bn in 2020-21;  it has been the largest FDI recipient, with 53 per cent of the foreign  funds coming to the sector. Goyal said the country should leverage its potential in a host of sectors including IT, education, technology-based healthcare and management, and business services. He said the opening up of legal services will benefit Indian lawyers as they would get huge opportunities in countries such as  Europe, Australia and America. However, Goyal added that there is a need to get Indian lawyers on board on this issue. “I personally believe that the opening up legal services in India will actually be a net gain for lawyers of India because no lawyer is going to come from America or Europe and practise at Indian rates.” “But, Indian lawyers will get huge opportunities in Europe and Australia, in America, in all of the world actually, with the kind of skills that our lawyers have,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
10-11-2021||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra reports over eight-fold increase in profit for Q2||Homegrown auto major Mahindra & Mahindra on Tuesday reported an over eight-fold increase in its standalone profit after tax at Rs 1,432 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, 2021, riding on the back of robust sales even as semiconductor shortage affected vehicle production. The Mumbai-based company had posted a standalone a profit after tax (PAT) of Rs 162 crore in the July-September period of the previous fiscal. Revenue for the second quarter rose 15 per cent to Rs 13,305 crore against Rs 11,590 crore in the year-ago period. The company said it sold 99,334 vehicles during the period under review, up 9 per cent from 91,536 units in the second quarter of last fiscal. M&M’s tractor sales, however, declined 5 per cent to 88,920 units in the second quarter, against 93,246 units in the year-ago period. On a consolidated basis, the Mahindra Group reported a PAT of Rs 1,929 crore compared with Rs 615 crore in the Q2 of 2020-21. Revenue rose to Rs 21,470 crore in the second quarter  against Rs 19,227 crore in the year-ago period. “We have seen significant all around improvement in our performance this quarter. Our strong show in the auto and farm sectors was complemented well by the improved performance in the group companies. “Our investments in digital platforms are doing well and present a meaningful opportunity to create and unlock value,” M&M managing director and CEO Anish Shah said. Shah said both auto and farm sectors showed, “very resilient performance, despite a lot of headwinds on commodity prices and supply chain” while product launches have seen a very strong response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
10-11-2021||Business||RBI lifts restrictions imposed on Diners Club International||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has lifted the restrictions imposed on Diners Club International and allowed it to take new domestic customers. The credit card issuer met with the central bank’s norms on data localisation. On April 23, the RBI had barred Diners Club from taking fresh customers from May 1. The RBI took the supervisory action in exercise of powers vested under Section 17 of the Payment and Settlement Systems (PSS) Act, 2007. In April 2018, the central bank had directed payment system providers to store all data only in India within a period of six months. They were required to report compliance to the RBI and submit a board approved system audit report. The directive was issued after the banking regulator observed that not all system providers were storing the payments data in India. “In view of the satisfactory compliance demonstrated by Diners Club International Ltd with the RBI circular... on Storage of Payment System Data, the restrictions imposed, vide order dated April 23, 2021, on on-boarding of fresh domestic customers have been lifted with immediate effect,” the RBI said on Tuesday. Apart from Diners Club, the RBI barred American Express in April. In July, the banking regulator restricted Mastercard from issuing new debit, credit and prepaid cards on similar grounds. The restrictions imposed on both American Express and Mastercard continue  even as it is learnt that another major player Visa is in compliance with the data storage rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
10-11-2021||Business||Paytm IPO draws modest response from big investors on second day||The Rs 18,300-crore initial public offering (IPO) of One97 Communications drew a modest response from big investors on its second day, with its overall subscription standing at 48 per cent, largely because of a strong response from retail investors. Data available from the bourses showed that on Tuesday, the IPO from the Paytm parent received bids for 2,34,63,600 shares against 4,83,89,422 shares on offer. Of the 2.34 crore shares that were bid for, retail investors submitted bids for 1,08,16,986 shares or 46 per cent. That portion was subscribed 1.23 times. Non-institutional investors bid for just 5 per cent of the 1.31 crore shares reserved for them while the portion meant for QIBs showed 1,20,08,328 shares being bid for against 2,63,94,231 reserved for the category, thus showing a subscription of 46 per cent. However, market circles are not unduly worried about the leisurely pace seen in the qualified institutional buyers (QIB) and non-institutional investors on the second day as they say subscription from these categories often show a spike on the final day. “If you see most of the IPOs, the QIBs and HNI participation increases only on the final day and that too after 2 pm,’’ a market observer said. However, there have been concerns in some quarters as to the slow response shown by the HNIs compared with some of the other offerings like Nykaa. Though experts say they cannot be compared due to the sheer size of the Paytm IPO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
10-11-2021||Business||HSBC keen to make a comeback in private banking in India||Almost six years after exiting India, HSBC is reportedly keen to make a comeback in private banking, lured by the rising number of affluent people on the back of an economic recovery and a stock market boom. Nuno Matos, chief executive — wealth & personal banking — told the Reuters in an interview that the bank was exploring whether to re-enter onshore private banking in India. “We want to bank mass affluent and high net worth customers. At this moment, the two major pillars we are expanding in India are insurance and asset management..On the private banking side, we are not there yet and that's something that demands a strategic decision this year,’’ the Reuters report quoting him said. The bank at present caters to wealthy Indians from its hubs in London, Singapore and West Asia. HSBC had exited the Indian private banking business in 2015 following a strategic review. The division had then employed 70 people, who were absorbed into the retail banking operations. The bank had then said that it would offer private banking clients the choice to move to HSBC Premier, the  global retail banking and wealth management platform. A Knight Frank report in February has said the number of ultra-high net worth individuals would rise 63 per cent to 11,198 people in India, the second fastest growth in the world. Ultra-high net worth individuals are individuals with wealth of $30 miilion or more. In its Wealth Report 2021, the property consultant said there were 5,21,653 UHNWIs globally, with 6,884 in India. The number of UHNWIs is predicted to grow  27 per cent globally between 2020 and 2025, taking their population to 6,63,483. Knight Frank said the number in Asia would rise the most by 39 per cent, led by Indonesia at 67 per cent and India, 63 per cent. However, a recent survey by Standard Chartered into the affluent — comprising emerging affluent, affluent and high net worth consumers in 12 markets across Asia, Africa, West Asia and the UK —  showed that 94 per cent in this category in the country have reset their life goals after the Covid-19 pandemic. It said  48 per cent of the respondents have reported diminished confidence in their finances after  Covid-19.has diminished their confidence in their finances, preventing them from taking the actions necessary to achieve their new goals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
10-11-2021||Business||General Electric to split into three publicly traded businesses||General Electric, the iconic industrial corporation of the late 20th century, once a sprawling conglomerate renowned for its management prowess, is making a final break with its storied past. The 129-year-old company announced on Tuesday that it planned to break itself into three publicly traded businesses, the latest effort to simplify its business and lift its stagnant stock price. In a conference call with analysts, H. Lawrence Culp, an outsider brought in as chief executive three years ago, described the planned breakup as a “defining moment” for G.E. and the culmination of his effort to remake it as a “more focused, simpler, stronger high-tech industrial company.” G.E.’s plan is to spin off its health care division in early 2023, and its energy businesses a year later. That would leave its aviation unit as its remaining business, which would continue to be led Culp. In speaking to analysts, Culp also portrayed the move as being in step with the times, as other industry conglomerates have streamlined. The spinoffs, he said, “heightens focus and accountability” and “just makes everybody better.” Industrial conglomerates have fallen out of favour with investors. In the last few years, G.E.’s big German rival Siemens has spun off its health care and energy businesses. And Honeywell International, another wide-ranging industrial company, has sold off some operations. But none have undergone as drastic an overhaul as G.E. has planned. Under Jack Welch, who led the company for two decades until 2001, G.E. added to its portfolio, especially building up a huge finance arm. The assumption was that G.E. cadre of managers were the best in the world, and there was easy money to be made on Wall Street. But buildup backfired when the financial crisis hit in 2008. G.E. was the nation’s largest nonbank financial institution at the time, and the company was caught in the credit crunch. Its then-chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, moved to drastically pare back the big finance unit, GE Capital. But struggles and surprises continued in the financial business, and in a big power-generation business, which overexpanded and misread demand. NYTNS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
10-11-2021||Business||Enforcement Directorate steps into Future-Amazon dispute ||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has now stepped into the dispute between Future and Amazon. The central agency has reportedly asked the Kishore Biyani-led Future group to submit documents with it in regard to the 2019 deal with the US retail giant. The agency is investigating a possible breach of foreign investment laws, a Reuters report said. The demand indicates heightened scrutiny of a deal which is at the heart of legal battles between Amazon and Future after the Indian company decided to sell its retail assets to rival Reliance Industries for Rs 24713 crore in 2020. That transaction has been put on hold by an arbitrator and the Indian courts after Amazon argued Future had violated its contracts with the US company by entering into the sale. Future denies that, and says Amazon is illegally exerting control over the Indian company’s business decisions. The ED had sent a confidential notice to Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL), a promoter entity, seeking all correspondence including emails with Amazon on the 2019 investment, according to Reuters. In August 2019, FCPL, Amazon and other promoter entities of the Future group entered into a subscription agreement and shareholders’ agreement following which Amazon invested Rs 1,431 crore in FCPL. The Reuters report quoting sources said that the notice was part of an ongoing investigation by the Indian agency to establish whether there were any violations of foreign investment law when Amazon made the investment. The notice was sent on October 28, which is before the recent letter of the independent directors of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to the Competition Commission of India (CCI). The ED has given Future Coupons 15 days to respond to the notice. In their letter, the independent directors of the listed firm asked the CCI to revoke its approval given in November 2019 due to which Amazon picked up the 49 per cent stake in FCPL. The directors have alleged that Amazon concealed facts, made misrepresentations and false representations to the commission when the approval was sought. They directors claimed that Amazon did not notify to the commission that its rights over the key matters of FRL were strategic in nature and the investment in FCPL was made only for the purpose of obtaining the strategic rights in FRL. They have also claimed that Amazon’s acquisition of the strategic rights will be in violation of FEMA FDI Rules. Any acquisition of shares or rights as a shareholder by a foreign entity in FRL which is a multi-brand retail company requires prior approval of the government — a charge which is now being investigated by the enforcement department. Apart from the agreement between FCPL and Amazon, a shareholder agreement was entered among FRL, FCPL and other Kishore Biyani -companies on August 12, 2019 under which the listed entity — FRL — was required to obtain the prior consent of FCPL for certain key matters including the disposal of its retail business and assets to any third party and particularly to certain restricted persons which included the Reliance group. The ED has also asked Future for copies of various legal filings and supporting documents submitted by Amazon and Future group representatives to Indian courts and the Singapore arbitration panel. The Singapore panel has  so far backed Amazon’s contentions, saying Future breached its agreements with the US company and must not proceed with the Reliance deal while the proceedings are ongoing. The shares of Future Retail on Tuesday  ended lower by 1.20 per cent on the BSE. On Monday, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) stayed a proposed shareholders meeting of the company for the approval of its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. Future is India’s second largest retailer with more than 1,700 retail outlets, including popular chain Big Bazaar. Before the Reliance deal, Amazon had its sights on ultimately owning some of Future’s assets itself if regulations changed to allow that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
