11-11-2021||Business||Sensex slumps 433 points to close at 59,919||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled by 433 points on Thursday tracking losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC and SBI amid mounting inflationary pressure in the global market and foreign fund outflows. The 30-share index ended 433.13 points or 0.72 per cent lower at 59,919.69. Similarly, the Nifty fell 143.60 points or 0.80 per cent to 17,873.60. SBI was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Tech Mahindra, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Titan, M&M, Reliance Industries and TCS were among the gainers. "Indian markets opened on a negative note following mixed Asian market cues and higher than expected inflation data reported in US raising concerns of an earlier-than-expected hike in interest rates in the world's largest economy," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. Further, he noted that continuous foreign fund outflows subdued traders' sentiments. FIIs have sold equities worth Rs 5,515 crore so far this month. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses rebounded in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Major indices in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.63 per cent to USD 83.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
11-11-2021||Business||Sensex slumps over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 300 points in early trade on Thursday tracking losses in index-majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid a largely negative trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund outflow. The 30-share index was trading 303.07 points or 0.50 per cent lower at 60,049.75 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty fell 102.60 points or 0.57 per cent to 17,914.60. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by HDFC, SBI, Nestle India, Axis Bank, HCL Tech and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Titan, Tata Steel, L&T, Bharti Airtel and Maruti were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 80.63 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 60,352.82, and Nifty fell 27.05 points or 0.15 per cent to 18,017.20. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 469.50 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "Rising inflation is emerging as a threat to the global equity rally, at least in the short-term," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Consumer price inflation in the US has risen to a 30-year high of 6.2 per cent, year-on-year, in October. In China, too, producer price inflation has risen to 13.5 per cent. This has the potential to spill over to global commodity inflation, he cautioned. Sensing the danger ahead, the US 10-year yield rose to 1.57 per cent. "The Fed still believes that the spike in inflation is caused by supply-side issues and, therefore, is transient. But there are many who believe that the Fed is behind the curve and that the entrenched inflation will force the Fed to accelerate tapering and advance rate hikes. "If this scenario is to unfold, there can be a sell-off and sharp corrections in markets, globally," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Tokyo were positive. Major indices on Wall Street ended on a negative note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.23 per cent to USD 82.83 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
11-11-2021||Business|| Rising input costs dampen Birla Corporation net profit||Rising input cost and the monsoon has dampened the net profit of Birla Corporation, the flagship of the MP Birla group. Net profit declined 48.5 per cent to Rs 86 crore in the second quarter of 2021-22 from Rs 167 crore a year ago. Revenues of the cement maker increased marginally by 2.1 per cent to Rs 1,711 crore against Rs 1,675 crore in the previous similar period. “Demand for cement was majorly impacted by the extended and heavy monsoon and shortage of sand in states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. To sustain healthy market share and capacity utilisation, which was maintained at 84 per cent in the September quarter, the company had to channel its products outside its core markets, which in turn impacted realisations and profitability,” the company said. Birla Corp was also hit by a sharp increase in fuel, raw material and packaging costs owing to the rise in commodity prices, it said. Berger net dips 1% Berger Paints on Wednesday reported 1 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 219.21 crore for the September quarter. Revenue from operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2021 was Rs 2,225.01 crore compared to previous year’s Rs 1,742.55 crore, representing an increase of 27.69 per cent. The company in its regulatory filings said that its operations during the six month period ended September 30, 2021 was affected by Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdowns. There was also a rise in raw material costs during the quarter. Eveready profit down Eveready Industries on Wednesday reported a 48 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 31.04 crore for the September quarter, impacted by lower demand and higher input costs. The company had posted a profit of Rs 57.22 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
11-11-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India Ltd launches compact hatchback Celerio||Maruti Suzuki India Limited on Wednesday launched a variant of the Celerio, its compact hatchback. Calling it “India’s most fuel-efficient petrol car”, the company said the new Celerio clocks a mileage of 26.68 km per litre and will sport a price tag of Rs 4.99 lakh to Rs 6.94 lakh. The company is developing a CNG version and will launch it in the coming weeks. Kenichi Ayukawa, managing director & CEO, Maruti Suzuki India Limited, said, “The Indian automobile industry has witnessed an unprecedented shift because of the pandemic which has given a special impetus to the need for personal mobility. “India is primarily a small car market, with nearly 46 per cent of total passenger vehicle sales being hatchbacks. As a leading car manufacturer, it is our responsibility to drive the revival of the automobile industry. With the all-new Celerio, we endeavour to boost the most important passenger vehicle segment in the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
11-11-2021||Business||Delay in RERA formation hits Bengal housing||A delay in the formation of a regulatory authority has affected the launch of real estate projects in Bengal. Developers have lost out on new business opportunities while aggrieved home buyers were left in the lurch because of the delay. Six months have passed since May 4 when the Supreme Court had struck down a Bengal specific act to govern real estate activities in the state as ‘unconstitutional’, prompting the Mamata Banerjee-government to come up with new rules following the central model act. The housing department had notified rules on July 26, which laid down the legal framework for setting up the Real Estate Regulatory Authority. However, it is yet to become functional for the want of a chairman and members. More than 100 projects are yet to see the light of the day for want of registration by RERA, which is a must before builders can solicit buyers for new projects. Likewise, several hundred complaints filed by harassed homebuyers are also awaiting adjudication of the authority. The vacuum in the regulatory authority comes at a time  the Mamata Banerjee government announced a relief in the rate of stamp duty and the circle rate to stimulate demand in the real estate sector and encourage buyers. In the absence of the authority, neither are the developers able to launch projects and take advantage of the buoyancy in the market nor are buyers getting enough projects to choose from. “It is a fact that project launches are getting delayed as the authority has not been formed. We hope it is done soon,” Nandu Belani, president of Credai, Bengal, said. The formation of the regulatory authority involves a well laid-down search process. The chairperson and other members of the authority are to be appointed by the state government on the recommendations of a selection committee consisting of the chief justice of the high court or his nominee, the housing secretary and the law secretary or their nominees. Sources said the selection committee has been formed even though a change of secretary in the housing department may have slowed down the process, apart from the puja holidays. The selection committee  would be required to recommend candidates which the government is bound to pick from to fill up the post of chairperson. Some of the developers, however, are not willing to wait for the formation of the authority and registration before launch to avoid cost overrun. Sushil Mohta, president of Credai West Bengal and owner of Merlin Group, said he has advised members to go ahead without registration, if required. “Our project is fully compliant with the rules framed under the West Bengal Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Rules, 2021. Once the authority is formed, we will take registration,” Mohta said when asked about a new Merlin project. Not all developers are confident though. One of them pointed out there is no legal provision to register ongoing projects in the rule promulgated in July. “Some of us may not want to expose our projects to legal challenges and put buyers into jeopardy,” said a city-based developer who did not wish to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
11-11-2021||Business||Bank-backed life insurance companies leave LIC falling behind||Life Insurance companies promoted by banks such as SBI Life, HDFC Life and ICICI Pridential, Max Life are taking away market share in the retail segment from  LIC. In absolute numbers, insurance regulator IRDAI’s data shows LIC reporting a first year premium of Rs 13,500.78 crore in October 2021, down 13.17 per cent from October 2020. In contrast, the total first year premium of private insurers in October 2021 was Rs 8,105.46 crore, up 12 per cent over October 2020. LIC’s market share in first year premium has also declined from 70.21 per cent in October 2020 to 64.21 per cent in October 2021. According to Emkay Global insurance industry analyst Avinash Singh, LIC’s growth faltered with a 2 per cent year on year decline in retail weighted received premium (RWRP) in October with an overall growth rate of a meagre 2.7 per cent in the first seven months of 2021-22. RWRP is a measure of premium received on individual policies. The growth rate of the private players was largely driven by an increase in ticket size of policies, while poor sales of high value annuity products and lesser focus on unit linked polices has affected the growth rate of the largest life insurer in the country. Singh pointed out that LIC’s traditional mode of predominantly depending on life insurance agents for distribution of policies is unable to keep pace with the strong bancassurance sales of the private players who have also ramped up their digital presence. “High networth individuals have designated relationship managers provided by the banks who are playing a big role in expanding sales. With its unchanged way of doing business over decades, LIC seems to be quickly losing its stronghold in the retail life segment, particularly in the high-ticket segment,” he said. The consolidation of public sector banks has also given a strong growth momentum to the smaller bank promoted life insurance companies. Overall developments in 2021-22 validate the long term trend of a gradual shift of the retail life insurance market toward private players with strong brand and distribution reach, Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
11-11-2021||Business||SC rejects Future appeal on plea listing ||The Supreme Court has reportedly turned down a request by Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to list its appeal with that of a plea made by the US retail giant Amazon. FRL had filed a special leave petition (SLP) at the apex court after the Delhi high court did not give any interim relief with regard to its plea for staying the October 21 order of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). The Supreme Court will hear the Amazon plea against an order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The tribunal had earlier given its nod to FRL to hold shareholder meetings for the proposed deal with Reliance Retail. Reports said that while FRL also wanted its matter to be heard along with that of Amazon, the Supreme Court declined the request. The SIAC had rejected a plea from FRL to lift the interim stay on the Reliance deal. Following this, FRL along with its promoters had filed an appeal with the Delhi high Court against this order. However, the Delhi high court did not provide any interim relief, which led to FRL approaching the apex court for relief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
11-11-2021||Business||Zomato announces trio of investments||Zomato on Wednesday announced a trio of investments: in savings app provider magicpin, logistic aggregator Shiprocket and Curefit. The online food delivery platform said it would invest a cumulative sum of Rs 928.52 crore in magicpin and Shiprocket. The Deepinder Goyal-led company is also picking up a 6.4 per cent stake in Curefit Healthcare Pvt Ltd for $100 million in cash. Curefit was founded by Mukesh Bansal who had established Myntra. Simultaneously, Zomato is also divesting a stake in its subsidiary Fitso, which will be bought by Curefit. Zomato is splashing out funds even though its losses have widened to Rs 429.6 crore for the quarter ended September 30 compared with a loss of Rs 356.2 crore in the preceding three months and Rs 229.6 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Total income of the company rose to Rs 11,610 crore from Rs 9,166 crore on a sequential basis and Rs 4,469 crore a year ago. “The paradigm for India has changed within a year and that gives us a new opportunity to build a much bigger Zomato than what we dreamt of a year ago,’’ the company said. Zomato will adopt a three-tier strategy that includes brutal prioritisation, investing in the core business and the ecosystem around it and building a hyperlocal e-commerce ecosystem through partnerships to tap into opportunities beyond food. The company, which currently has a market capitalisation of Rs 1.06 lakh crore, pointed out that it will divest or shut down any businesses which is unlikely to drive exponential value for its shareholders in the long-term. Smart moves As part of this strategy, Zomato has signed an agreement to invest $75 million in Shiprocket owner Bigfoot Retail Solutions Pvt Ltd. This is part of a larger $185 million funding round. Shiprocket is a B2B logistics-tech company. It is also investing approximately $50 million in magicpin owner Samast Technologies for a 16 per cent stake as part of a total funding round size of $60 million. magicpin drives omni-channel growth for local retailers. It has a network of 170,000 paying merchants in categories such as fashion, food, electronics and grocery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
11-11-2021||Business||Onus on fuel duty cut to ease price worry||The hike in input costs along with rising crude oil prices are a source of worry on the inflation front but the recent fuel duty cuts should soften the price pressures, the finance ministry said on Wednesday. “Core inflation, which reflects the hardening of input costs and the ripple effects of escalating global crude oil prices, poses concerns. Yet, these concerns have not embedded themselves in self-fulfilling inflationary expectations as seen in RBI’s inflation survey,” the ministry’s monthly economic report said. “The recent cut in central excise duty on petrol and diesel prices is expected to soften inflationary pressures exerted by rising crude oil prices.” North Block expects food inflation, which had hit a 30-month low in September, to cool down further in October, bringing retail inflation down below the level of 4.4 per cent recorded in September. Good kharif production and adequate buffer stock of food grains are expected to keep food inflation low, the report said. The easing of inflation pressures, reflected in the retail inflation staying ‘‘comfortably close’’ to the median of RBI’s monetary policy goal, should help the policy makers to prioritise growth. “Unlike the central banks in advanced countries, the RBI is not under pressure to raise repo rates for checking inflation that creates more room for monetary side expansion of demand,” the report said. India’s economy is set for an accelerated uptick in job creation and demand, backed by strong prospects of a revival in investment, a surge in bank credit and easing of inflation pressures, the report said. The finance ministry is hopeful of the investment cycle picking up, which should push up growth. Das upbeat Reserve Bank governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday ruled out upside risks to the 5.3 per cent inflation forecast for the current fiscal, saying the recent cut in excise duty on diesel and petrol as well as better management of supply-side issues on the food front have contained inflationary expectations. These measures are significantly positive for inflation management, he said at an event in Mumbai. However, the governor warned that core inflation still remains elevated and needs to be addressed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
11-11-2021||Business||Cabinet nod to Rs 17,408cr support for Cotton Corporation of India ||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a Rs 17,408 crore support to the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) and hiked the price of ethanol extracted from sugarcane for blending in petrol. The funds to the CCI will be primarily utilised for the repayment of bank loans taken by the state-owned firm for the procurement of cotton during the previous seven marketing years. Cotton season or marketing year runs from October to September. The CCI has availed itself of the loans to procure cotton from farmers at the minimum support price.The purchases were for cotton seasons 2014-15 to 2020-21. The government on Wednesday hiked the price of ethanol extracted from sugarcane for blending in petrol by up to Rs 1.47 per litre for 2021-22 marketing year starting December as part of its target to achieve 20 per cent doping by 2025. A higher blending of ethanol in petrol will help cut India its oil import bill and also benefit sugar cane farmers as well as sugar mills. In another decision, the Cabinet approved reservation norms for jute packaging materials for jute year 2021-22. According to the reservation norms, 100 per cent foodgrains and 20 per cent of sugar will be packed in jute bags during jute year 2021-22 under JPM Act, 1987. The decision is likely to bring relief to 3,70,000 workers employed in jute mills and ancillary units||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
11-11-2021||Business||Nykaa shares make sizzling debut at stock exchanges ||Shares of FSN E-commerce Ventures, the parent of beauty & personal care (BPC) retailer Nykaa, on Wednesday made a sizzling debut on the stock exchanges as it ended with a premium of 96 per cent to the issue price. The spectacular performance sent its market cap surpassing Rs 1 lakh crore to touch Rs  1,04,360.85 crore. That puts the net worth of its founder Falguni Nayar, who along with her husband and two children hold 51 per cent, at a little over Rs 53,000 crore. According to Bloomberg Billionaires Index, Nayar is now India’s weathiest self-made female billionaire. Savitri Jindal, chairperson of the OP Jindal group, is currently ranked as India’s wealthiest woman. While shares of Nykaa were expected to make a strong opening, its performance topped estimates of some of the market observers. On the BSE, the share debuted at Rs 2,001 per share — a premium of close to 78 per cent over the issue price of Rs 1,125 per share. The scrip then almost doubled over the issue price to hit an intra-day high of Rs 2,248.10. It finally settled at Rs 2,206.70.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
11-11-2021||Business||Paytm IPO fully subscribed on final day||The initial public offering (IPO) of One97 Communications Ltd, the promoters of Paytm, was fully subscribed on Wednesday, with the qualified institutional buyers (QIB) making a beeline for their quota largely on the final day. After two days of sedate action on the institutional front, the issue got susbcribed 1.89 times. The shares are likely to be listed on November 18. The Rs 18,300-crore Paytm IPO is the biggest since the Coal India float in 2010. In the first two days of the IPO, there was good response only from the retail investors. On the first day, the overall subscription stood at 18 per cent which rose to 48 per cent on Tuesday. The overall response to the IPO from the Paytm parent may seem subdued than some recent offerings but sources said they cannot be compared given the huge size of the share float of One97 Communications. The issue came at a price band of Rs 2,080-2,150 per share. With some analysts raising concerns about its valuations, all eyes are, therefore, now on its listing. Paytm at the upper end of the price band will have a market cap of Rs 1.39 lakh crore, making it one of the most valuable companies of the country. However, observers are not willing to hazard a guess on how it would perform on its debut. The grey market premium of the stock is now understood to have slipped to Rs 40-45 from Rs 60-70 a day ago. A senior analyst from a foreign brokerage felt that if Paytm makes a tepid debut, it could temper the valuations of some of the other offerings that are in the pipeline. However, there are others who disagree with this view and say that investor interest will depend on the business model of the company. For instance, the IPO of Latent View Analytics Ltd which will close on November 12 has been subscribed 6.39 times so far. Similarly, the offering from Sapphire Foods which closes for subscription on Thursday has been subscribed 1.07 times. Paytm had closed the country’s largest anchor round on November 3 as it raised Rs 8,235 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
