12-11-2021||Business||India opens government bonds to individual buyers||India opened its $1 trillion government bond market to individual investors on Friday as it sought help from the public to fund its ambitious spending plans. Asia's third-largest economy plans to borrow Rs 12.05 trillion ($161.87 billion) via bonds this financial year, ending March 2022, as it embarks on huge investment plans to boost growth amid the pandemic. This essentially means Individuals can now directly purchase treasury bills, dated securities, sovereign gold bonds and state development loans from primary as well as secondary markets. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the new scheme "allows the smallest investor to participate in the country's economic progress". "Small investors will be assured of good returns on a secure investment and the government will get the resources it needs for infrastructure development and building a new India," PM Modi said. Retail direct investors will also have an online facility to gift government securities to other retail direct investors. "A significant milestone in the development of the government securities (G-sec) market, the Reserve Bank of India-Retail Direct (RBI-RD) Scheme will bring G-secs within easy reach of the common man by simplifying the process of investment," the central bank said in a statement. Governments in developed economies have long allowed individuals to invest in bonds, which usually offer smaller returns than other investments but are seen as safer. Taking cue from other emerging market such as Brazil, the Philippines and Bangladesh, India too is facilitating public access to its sovereign bond market. Bond experts see this as a crucial step ahead of India's expected inclusion in global bond market indices early next year, which should help the government raise more money from foreign investors. ‘‘If we are going to allow a lot of foreign investments into the bond market, we should also balance it with domestic investors, so that we get more stability," Srinivasan MV from Mecklai Financial said. India raised Rs 7.02 trillion between April and September, largely from institutional investors. But analysts remain uncertain about the appetite for low-interest long-term government bonds at a time when interest rates are poised to rise as global central banks tighten monetary policy to combat rising inflation. "Appetite may not pick up immediately. It could take some time," Srinivasan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-11-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 767 points to close above 60,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 767 points on Friday on heavy buying in index majors Infosys, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index ended 767 points or 1.28 per cent higher at 60,686.69. Similarly, the Nifty rose 229.15 points or 1.28 per cent to 18,102.75. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by HDFC, Infosys, Bajaj Finserv, Asian Paints and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Tata Steel and Axis Bank were among the laggards. "The momentum which was lost during the week was regained as inflation worries started fading with investors shifting their focus to good quarterly earnings, economic recovery and strong domestic macro data points, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Major indices in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.07 per cent to USD 81.98 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-11-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 400 points in early trade on Friday tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and HDFC twins amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 400.87 points or 0.67 per cent higher at 60,320.56 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 120.10 points or 0.67 per cent to 17,993.70. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tata Steel, Sun Pharma and Nestle India. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto and NTPC were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 433.13 points or 0.72 per cent lower at 59,919.69, and Nifty fell 143.60 points or 0.80 per cent to 17,873.60. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,637.46 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. The market is now caught in crosswinds - the tailwinds of good corporate results and sustained retail enthusiasm getting countered with the headwinds of inflation fears and sustained FII selling, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "The global backdrop is exhibiting mixed signals. The fact that the US markets didn't crack in spite of unexpectedly high inflation and the European markets shrugged off the inflation fears reflect the underlying strength of this global rally despite high valuations," he noted. In India, the sustained FII selling - Rs 8,458 crore selling till November 12, on top of the Rs 13,550 crore selling in October - indicates where smart money is headed. But... in recent times, there has been "new money" trumping "smart money". Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Major indices on Wall Street ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.70 per cent to USD 82.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-11-2021||Business||Tata Steel achieves highest ever quarterly profit of Rs 12,548 crore ||Tata Steel Group achieved its highest ever quarterly profit of Rs 12,548 crore during the July-September quarter on the back of an improved performance by the European business. Its consolidated net profit is the highest among Tata group companies — and even tops TCS. It grew by 28 per cent quarter-on-quarter and 7.5 times from the same period last year. Turnover stood at Rs 34,220 crore, 16 per cent higher than the preceding quarter and 50.17 per cent over the same period last year as steel prices remain near record highs, partaking in the broad-based commodity rally globally. T.V. Narendran, MD and CEO, noted that the performance came despite a seasonally weaker quarter and Indian volumes rose by 11 per cent to 4.73 million tonne. European EBIDTA improved 2.2 times Q-o-Q. Taking advantage of the strong cash flow, the company continued to deleverage the balance sheet with Rs 11,424 crore repayment in the first half. Koushik Chatterjee, ED & CFO, said the company could potentially deleverage in the second half of the fiscal as much as the first half. AMNS India AMNS India (formerly Essar Steel) posted an EBIDTA of $551 million during the July-September period, sequentially down from the previous quarter of $607 million because of higher iron ore and energy cost. Crude steel production in the last quarter stood at 1.9 million tonnes. CESC net down 12% CESC’s consolidated net profit declined 12 per cent to Rs 340 crore in the September quarter from Rs 387 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations rose 4.27 per cent to Rs 3,494 crore from Rs 3,351 crore a year ago. Zee profit up 187% Zee Entertainment Enterprises has reported a 187 per cent rise in consolidated net profits for the quarter ended September 30. Net profit zoomed to Rs 270.16 crore from Rs 94.07 crore a year ago. Operating revenue rose almost 15 per cent to Rs 1,979 crore from Rs 1,723 crore a year ago. ZEEL added that ad-sales bounced back in the second quarter by almost 21 per cent over the year ago period. Shares of the company on Thursday ended lower by 1.16 per cent at Rs 313.95.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-11-2021||Business||Home prices may inch up in next four to six months||Home prices may inch up in the next four months to six months on the back of a cost push, firm demand and lower inventory, breaking out of the stagnation witnessed over the last several years and testing the nascent recovery in the country. The amount of increase will depend on multiple factors such as location, quality of development, reputation of the developer and buyers’ appetite to absorb the hike. Builders feel a 5-10 per cent rise can be expected. The increase will be more pronounced in the affordable segment, which offers properties in the price range of up to Rs 50 lakh, while it may not be as significant for the premium and luxury segments. Builders say there has been a Rs 350-400  per square foot rise in construction cost from January 2020 onwards, mostly on account of steel and cement prices. “Prices have already started moving up in the last six months and the trend could accelerate going forward,” Sushil Mohta, president of realtors’ body Credai (West Bengal), said. Buyers who have signed an agreement for sale would not be impacted by this hike as the real estate regulatory authority does not allow escalation clauses in the contract. However, prices may go up in unsold apartments and new projects, Nandu Belani, president of Credai Bengal, said. While realty prices are market driven, builders felt the need to apprise the market of the impending price rise. Sidharth Pansari, owner of Primarc and a Credai member, said the rise would not be in one go and it would depend on several factors, including the stage of development of a project. “All we are saying is that there is a cost push on account of raw material, labour etc and it will be passed on progressively,” he said. Market sources say builders were hoping that buyers would not shy away from higher prices despite the economy being barely out of the woods and income yet to go up significantly. They are banking on a low mortgage rate that would allow buyers to shell out a little more for an apartment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-11-2021||Business||SC to hear Future Retail-Amazon dispute on November 23||The Supreme Court will hear on November 23 the dispute between Future Retail (FRL) and Amazon over the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. The top court on Thursday also asked the Kishore Biyani led group not to proceed with the matter at any other forum till it hears the case. FRL had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court against the Delhi high court’s recent order which had declined its plea for a stay on an arbitration tribunal’s order passed in October. The Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) had rejected FRL’s plea to lift the interim stay on the deal with Reliance Retail. The Supreme Court was also hearing a counter plea by Amazon, seeking to restrain the regulators from approving the merger deal. At the hearing on Thursday, Supreme Court judge Justice Hima Kohli offered to recuse herself from hearing a batch of petitions, saying that she and her family members have shares in Reliance Industries Ltd group firms, which is one of the interested parties to the litigation. A PTI report quoting lawyers who were present during the hearing said they did not have any objection. The bench also suggested that both the parties move the Delhi high court in view of the fresh development in which the SIAC arbitral tribunal had rejected the FRL plea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-11-2021||Business||Bengal excise dept floats special purpose fee on foreign liquor||The Bengal excise department has introduced a special purpose fee on foreign liquor bottled in India as well as imported foreign liquor, which manufacturers anticipate could have an inflationary impact. Whisky, brandy, liqueur, cordial, bitters, vodka, gin and similar potable alcohol will draw a special purpose fee ranging between Rs 5 and Rs 400 for various declared price slabs of manufacturers. In a notification amending West Bengal Excise (Foreign Liquor) Rules,1998, the Bengal excise department has introduced the special purpose fee which is payable per bottle of foreign liquor either bottled in India or imported into the country with a stated objective “to promote responsible drinking’’. As a result of the amendment, MRP of liquor in Bengal will now be determined on the basis of declared price, excise duty, additional excise duty, registration fee for production, distributor margin, wholesaler margin, retailer margin and the special purpose fee along with any rounded off value. Declared price has been defined as the price at which the manufacturer or the importer intends to supply the case of foreign liquor to the distributor. At the same time the rules have been amended to lower the annual registration fee for manufacturers. Sources said while on one hand, some statutory fees have been lowered, the government has added a fee that may restrict consumption volumes, which has already taken a hit because of excise duty changes that raised liquor prices in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-11-2021||Business||Industry may contest Haryana job quotas||Industry is considering to take the Haryana government to the courts over a state law that mandates 75 per cent reservation of jobs in the private sector for locals. Industry sources said the legislation would significantly impact the MSMEs that are coming out of the Covid-19 pandemic. The sources said industry representatives are in active discussions with the legal fraternity as the high court had earlier stated it  would hear the matter after the law is formulated. The state is the hub of  large automobile manufacturing with multiple small component players supplying to giants such as Maruti Suzuki. The new legislation would impact the MSMEs more as the state government has said the quota would apply only to jobs with a gross monthly salary of up to Rs 30,000. Anil Bhardwaj, secretary-general, Federation of Indian Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, believes the regulation will create an artificial distortion in the free market economy and will not be sustainable. Pradeep Multani, president, PHDCCI, said the regulations could result in businesses looking to move out of the state. “If Indian industry has to be competitive globally, we need to be able to have the most efficient workforce. Investors and businesses source the best human resources available on merit and talent rather than domiciles of the candidates and draw on talent from across the country.” “The reason for industry employing candidates from outside the state is the shortage of adequately skilled, locally available, manpower. Such a move would not only adversely impact the ‘ease of doing business’ in the state, but also be detrimental to Haryana’s image of an industry friendly destination,” Deepak Jain, president of the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association (ACMA), said. Some were concerned it could lead to a competitive quota regime in different states. The move can have wider implications since a large number of MNCs and Indian corporates are based in Gurgaon and other NCR cities which are within the state. Analysts said the move would dissuade new investments which are supposed to come into the state, especially by large scale companies and MNCs. The firms which are already present may put on hold any expansion plans they may have and may opt for other destinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-11-2021||Business||5G spectrum auction likely to be delayed till April-May 2022||The 5G spectrum auction is likely to be delayed till April-May from an initial projection of February, which could widen the Centre’s fiscal deficit for the year. Telecom minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday said at an event the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) is working on the modalities of the auction “Our estimate is by April-May. I think it will take time because Trai consultations are complex, diverse opinions are coming,” he said. While announcing the government’s big-bang telecom reforms in September, Vaishnaw had said the auctions would be held in February. The telecom department has approached Trai for its recommendations on pricing, amount of 5G spectrum for sale and other modalities. “The government had budgeted for inflows of nearly Rs 54,000 crore from other communication services for the current year, presumably boosted by the expectation of fresh auction inflows,” according to Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra. “We now assess the inflows from the telecom sector into the government’s 2021-22 non tax revenues to be limited to Rs 28,000 crore, trailing the budgeted Rs 54,000 crore, which will modestly widen its fiscal deficit, “ she said. The government is targeting a fiscal deficit of 6.8 per cent of GDP in 2021-22, a big improvement over the previous year when the fiscal deficit shot up to 9.3 per cent in the Covid-affected economy. The DoT has sought the views of Trai across multiple bands such as 700Mhz, 800 Mhz, 900 Mhz, 1800 Mhz, 2100 Mhz, 2300 Mhz, 2500 Mhz bands as also 3,300-3,600 Mhz that were not put up for auctions in the last round.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-11-2021||Business||Sensex slips below 60000 mark as US retail inflation rattles investors||The Sensex slipped below the 60000 mark, joining other Asian markets as investors worldwide fear an impending liquidity squeeze by central banks such as the US Fed because of rising inflation. The 30-share benchmark tanked almost 700 points to a low of 59656.26, but some buying towards the last one hour saw the index recovering to settle at 59919.69, a fall of 433.13 points or 0.72 per cent. The broader Nifty fell below the 17900 mark to close at 17873.60, down 143.60 points. The sell-off was triggered by US retail inflation which stood at a 31-year high of 6.2 per cent in October with the US 10-year treasury spiking 12 basis points to 1.57 per cent. Inflation also gripped China in its talons. The consumer price index rose 1.5 per cent in October from 0.7 per cent in the preceding month, while factory inflation hit a 26-year high. Indian investors, cowering under lofty valuations and rising commodity prices, are bracing for more corrections, given the inflation spectre in the two largest economies of the world. The investors, therefore, gave a short shrift to the assurances by the Centre and the RBI that the fuel duty cuts last week would temper down inflationary expectations. “Rising inflation is emerging as a threat to the global equity rally, at least in the short-term. Consumer price inflation in the US has risen to a 30-year high. In China, too, producer price inflation has risen to 13.5 per cent. This has the potential to spill over to global commodity inflation,” said V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The US Federal Reserve still believes the spike in inflation is caused by supply-side issues and, therefore, is transient, Vijayakumar said. But there are many who feel the Fed is behind the curve and entrenched inflation will force it to accelerate tapering — which is the cutting down of bond purchases — and advance rate hikes. “If this scenario is to unfold, there can be a sell-off and sharp corrections in markets, globally, ’’ he said. According to Madhavi Arora, lead economist, Emkay Global Financial Services, the US inflation shocker came on top of strong CPI (consumer price index) report from China showing the pass-through of raw material prices into consumer good. “Clearly, the transitory for longer theme is gaining momentum. Even as pricing in some services sectors should continue to improve, supply-side problems may take longer to resolve, running the risk of transitory price pressures persisting for longer, especially in core goods,’’ she said. The rupee also came under pressure against the dollar on weak stocks and a stronger greenback in the overseas markets. It ended at 74.52 — a drop of almost 18 paise over the last close. At the bond markets, yields on the 10-year security ended at 6.37 per cent against its previous finish of 6.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
