13-11-2021||Business||Hulladek Recycling plans to recycle 50,000 tonnes of e-waste by 2025||Hulladek Recycling, a city-based electronic waste management firm, plans to recycle 50,000 tonnes of e-waste by 2025. The company was established in 2015 by Nandan Mall, a commerce graduate from St. Xavier’s College. The company currently processes e-waste for 1,500 corporate clients, including Tata Steel, PepsiCo, Nestle India, Modelez International and IndusInd Bank. The company also collects e-waste from individual households and residential complexes and works with Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Hidco. Thirty-year-old Mall said on Friday that the business opportunity emerged with the central government bringing in E-waste (Management and Handling) Rules in 2011. At that point of time the recycling market was barely formalised. The rules were later updated in 2016 by the Central Pollution Control Board that oversees formal e-waste management in India. The company is currently active as a Producer Responsibility Organisation whose role is collection and channelisation of e-waste on behalf of producers for environmentally sound management of such waste. E-waste includes electronic products made of metal, plastic, glass and could also include hazardous chemicals such as lead, cadmium and mercury. In 2020, India generated 3.2 million tonnes of e-waste. At an average price of Rs 50 per kg, the e-waste industry in the country is valued at around Rs 1,600 crore. “According to industry estimates, the percentage of e-waste being recycled will increase from 5 per cent at present to 10-15 per cent and we aim to grab this opportunity. We are looking to expand across the country and scale up our corporate clients by 1.5-2 times,” said Mall. “We provide door-to-door services for e-waste collection. The waste collected by the company is transported to partners across the country for safe disposal. All relevant documents and certificates are shared with the clients once the waste is recycled,” said Mall. He added that the company may seek funding to scale up operations and explore opportunities into allied businesses in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-11-2021||Business|| RailTel terminates agreement with Zee group subsidiary||RailTel, the telecom infrastructure provider, has terminated an agreement with a Zee group subsidiary for content on demand in wifi-enabled trains and stations. Margo Network, a subsidiary of Zee Entertainment Enterprises, has initiated legal action against the public sector entity for scrapping the 10-year agreement. Shares of RailTel on Friday ended lower by 1 per cent at Rs 125.75 on the BSE. In a regulatory filing to the bourses, the company said the content-on-demand contract awarded to Margo Networks on January 14, 2020, to provide the service in all mail, express and suburban trains and all Wi-Fi enabled railway stations on a build-own-operate basis for 10 years has been terminated with effect from November 11, 2021 due to non-performance by the contractor. The company had said that the project will be implemented in two years and the content will be made available both in paid and unpaid formats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-11-2021||Business|| I Squared Capital drops out of the race to buy Bharat Petroleum||US private equity firm I Squared Capital is dropping out of the race to buy India’s second-largest state oil firm, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL). Sources said a complex deal structure and lack of financial backers for the transaction may have been a deal breaker. I Squared Capital, through its Indian arm Think Gas, was among the three suitors that had evinced interest in buying the government’s near 53 per cent shareholding in BPCL. “The company has made a decision not to participate in the financial bidding,” a source with direct knowledge of the development said. “The firm has not communicated the decision yet to the government or its transaction adviser but has decided not to go ahead,” the source added. While emails sent to I Squared Capital and the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management — which is running the privatisation plan — remained unanswered, a senior government official said the government will not be aware of such a development as only the transaction adviser would be privy to such moves and that there was an iron curtain between the government and the transaction adviser on such issues. Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta Group and private equity firm Apollo Global Management are the other two bidders. Both I Squared Capital and Apollo Global spoke to global energy giants and sovereign and pension funds to get financial and strategic support for the bid but failed to elicit much interest, another source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-11-2021||Business||Retail inflation up 4.48%, industrial production slows to 3.1%||The Narendra Modi government suffered a double whammy on Friday with retail inflation rising to 4.48 per cent in October due to a spike in global crude prices and industrial production slowing to 3.1 per cent in September, fuelling concerns that the road to economic recovery may be a little more wobbly than the finance ministry is prepared to admit. Rising inflation, which has bubbled to the top as a concern in the US and China, two of the world’s biggest economies, has sparked debate among global central banks as they mull monetary policy responses to spur growth in pandemic-pummelled economies. The RBI, which is scheduled to hold its monetary policy review next month, can draw some comfort from the fact that this is the fourth consecutive month when inflation has been within the RBI’s tolerance band of 2-6 per cent. But the modest rise meant inflation was starting to climb after a four-month downtrend as crude oil prices climb and food prices harden. The central bank had forecast inflation at 5.3 per cent during this fiscal ending March next year but several economists think the headline number masks persistent price pressures. Inflation in food basket rose to 0.85 per cent in October compared with 0.68 per cent in the preceding month. Fuel inflation shot up 14.35 per cent due to a spike in global crude prices. Madhavi Arora, Lead Economist at Emkay Global Financial Services, said: “Despite the base effect, high fuel costs, input cost pressures and the seasonal turn in some food prices in the coming months could even see inflation rise towards 6.2 per cent later in the fiscal year. We revise our forecast by 25bps to 5.5 per cent for FY22, as we reckon supply-side bottlenecks, higher imported commodity inflation and high pump prices would pose a countering upside pressure on inflation.” Arora does not expect the RBI to tweak policy interest rates as it is committed to the broad objective of reviving growth and core inflation remains somewhat tempered because of the output slack. That view was bolstered somewhat by the latest data on index of industrial production (IIP) which showed growth in factory output had slumped to 3.1 per cent from 11.9 per cent in August. Growth in the manufacturing sector -- which has a 77.6 per cent weight in the IIP -- sank to 2.7 per cent in September from 9.7 per cent in August. Growth in mining shrank to 8.6 per cent in September from 23.6 per cent in the previous month while electricity generation dimmed to 0.9 per cent from 16 per cent in August -- largely expected because of the acute coal shortage that the thermal power plants have been wrestling with in the past month. Among use-based industries, capital goods grew 1.3 per cent while both consumer durables (-2 per cent) and consumer non-durables (-0.5 per cent) contracted. “As the base effect wears off, and the pressures related to coal, metals and logistics costs come to the fore, we expect the CPI inflation to return to an uncomfortable range of 5.0% to 6.0% in Dec-March FY2022.  The MPC is likely to change the monetary policy stance to neutral only after there is additional evidence that the domestic demand revival has become durable, which is likely in the February 2022 review. We expect this to be accompanied by a 15 basis point hike in the reverse repo rate by the RBI,” Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist, ICRA said. The reverse repo rate -- currently at 3.35 per cent -- helps the RBI maintain a sustainable level of liquidity in the system and temper inflation. The October inflation data will be the last before the RBI's rate-setting panel meets on December 6-8, where it is widely expected to leave the repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-11-2021||Business||Vodafone narrows consolidated net loss to Rs 7,132.3 crore during Q2||Vodafone Idea narrowed its consolidated net loss to Rs 7,132.3 crore in the second quarter ended September 30, bettering a market consensus estimate of Rs 7,293.5 crore. In the same quarter a year ago, the troubled telecom company — whose fortunes have been buoyed by a four-year moratorium on the payment of legacy dues — had posted a net loss of Rs 7,218.2 crore. The company had posted a loss of Rs 7,319 crore in the preceding quarter. The loss narrowed as a result of a decline in total expenses which fell to Rs 16,577.6 crore against Rs 17,367.6 crore in the year-ago quarter. Revenues, however, shrank to Rs 9,406.4 crore in the July-September period against Rs 10,791.2 crore in the comparable quarter. VIL said its cost optimisation steps had resulted in 80 per cent savings in the second quarter during which the company raised tariffs which helped boost its average revenue per user (ARPU) to Rs 109, up 5.3 per cent from Rs 104 in the first quarter. The company had raised the entry-level pre-paid pricing plan from Rs 49 to Rs 79 in a phased manner and also increased tariffs for some post-paid plans. “During the last quarter, we witnessed a recovery in our operating momentum as the economy has started to gradually open up aided by the ongoing rapid vaccination drive. “We continue to improve our 4G subscriber base on the back of superior data and voice experience on Vi GIGAnet, India’s fastest mobile network. We continue to focus on executing our strategy to improve our competitive position and win in the marketplace,” said VIL MD & CEO Ravinder Takkar. Analysts believe that the four-year moratorium on dues will lead to a cumulative savings of around Rs 1 lakh crore. The company has the option of converting the interest on dues into equity that will be farmed out to a government-nominated agency. VIL said it would convey its decision before the middle of January next year when the stipulated 90-day period ends. During the quarter, its subscriber base declined to 253 million from 255.4 million in the first quarter, down 2.4 million. It added that the 4G subscriber base saw healthy addition of 3.3 million and the overall 4G base now stands at 116.2 million. Subscriber churn improved to 2.9 per cent in the second quarter against 3.5 per cent in the April-June quarter. Shares of VIL on Friday closed with gains of 4.66 per cent at Rs 10.34 on the BSE. The stock rose on speculation that the company was in talks with State Bank of India for fresh loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-11-2021||Business||Reserve Bank tightens norms for recognition of dud assets ||The Reserve Bank on Friday tightened the norms for recognition of dud assets and directed lenders not to standardise an NPA account after getting only interest payment as well as to mandatorily mention the due dates along with details of interest and principal amounts. The monetary authority has from time to time been issuing new/revised norms on dud asset classification as system-wide NPAs began to balloon. Issuing some clarifications to all the extant provisions and including the ones issued on October 1, 2021 on the prudential norms on income recognition, asset classification and provisioning pertaining to advances (IRACP), the RBI asked banks not to upgrade an NPA account after getting only interest dues paid. Some lending institutions upgrade accounts classified as NPAs to standard accounts on payment of only interest overdue and partial overdue. “To avoid any ambiguity in this regard, it is clarified that loan accounts classified as NPAs may be upgraded as a standard account only if the entire arrears of interest and principal are paid by the borrower,” the apex bank said in the revised notification this evening. Lenders have also been asked to specifically mention in the loan agreements the exact due date of a loan and the breakup of the principal and interest, among others, instead of giving a description of the due dates, which leaves scope for interpretation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-11-2021||Business||Top private sector port operators showed up at Tajpur pre-bid meet ||India’s top private sector port operators including Adani Ports, DP World and JSW Infrastructure are among the 10 entities who showed up at the pre-bid meeting for Tajpur port, kick starting the process to build Bengal’s first greenfield port in more than 50 years. The meeting on Friday was the first official interaction that the Mamata Banerjee government organised with the prospective bidders for the project which is likely to be awarded in the fourth quarter of this fiscal. The top brass of the state administration is understood to be pleased with the initial interest shown by the top guns in the maritime sector, raising the prospect for a new port in Bengal. More players could join later as the last date for submission of the final bid is more than a month away. Some of the companies present at the meeting wanted to visit the site and also examine the techno economic viability study which has been prepared by the state government, according to sources who are aware of the discussions that took place at the pre-bid meeting. The last date to submit final bid stands at December 20 at present. WBIDC is spearheading the Tajpur project. “Some players sought more time to make their assessment before taking the final call. If the committee of secretaries overlooking the project is agreeable, it can be arranged,” a state government official said. Potential bidders The companies that have evinced interest in the project control a very large slice of India’s maritime infrastructure, with the Adani group topping the list. The Gujarat-based company has recently emerged as the lowest bidder to operate a berth at Haldia. It is also one of the bidders for a container berth at Calcutta. DP World of Dubai has also been drawn to the idea of operating a port in Bengal for a long time, having shown interest in the Kulpi port. JSW Infra, part of the $13 billion JSW Group, is also expanding its footprint in the port sector. The list of participants include Essar Ports, two overseas entities from the Netherlands and Singapore, and two central government outfits including Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, Calcutta (erstwhile Calcutta Port Trust), which was once considered to be a partner of the state for Tajpur. Design challenge The successful bidder will be given 125 acres of seafront to develop the port and another 1,000 acres of land situated 4 km away for port-linked industrial development. The state government will also assist the developer to build roads and a rail link. The operator will also have to get crucial environment clearances from the Centre. The developer will have the right to design the port which will be a major factor determining cost and viability of the project. If the terminals are built deep into the sea by creating dykes/watersheds and reclaiming land, the initial investment could be high, shipping experts say. In contrast, the developer will have to wrestle with the burden of an annual expenditure to maintain the sea channel through dredging operations so that large ships can call at the port built on the shore. The port operator may have to look at these options to reach a draft of 14-16 metres which will allow Capesize vessels carrying over 150,000 tonnes of bulk cargo to call at the port. Due to low draft (upto 8 metres), existing port facilities at Haldia and Calcutta, are unable to handle large ships, thereby raising cost of handling for the port users.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
