14-11-2021||Business||Centre releases Rs 8453cr health funds to strengthen healthcare system at grassroot levels||In an effort to strengthen the healthcare system at the grassroot levels, the finance ministry has released Rs 8,453.92 crore as a health sector grant to rural and urban local bodies in 19 states. “These grants are meant to strengthen health systems and plug the critical gaps in the healthcare system at the primary level,” the ministry said in a release on Saturday. Bengal will get a sum of Rs 828 crore that will have to be passed on to the local bodies in the state. The grants have been released according to the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission. In its report for the period from 2021-22 to 2025-26, the Commission had recommended a total grant of Rs 4,27,911 crore to local governments. The grants recommended by the Commission include health grants of Rs 70,051 crore. Of this, an amount of Rs 43,928 crore has been earmarked for rural local bodies and Rs 26,123 crore for urban local bodies. The Commission also identified interventions that would directly strengthen the primary health infrastructure and facilities in both rural and urban areas and earmarked grants for each intervention. These interventions include support for diagnostic infrastructure to the primary healthcare facilities in rural areas (Rs 16,377 crore), block-level public health units in rural areas (Rs 5,279 crore), construction of buildings at sub centres, primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) in rural areas (Rs 7,167 crore).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
14-11-2021||Business||Hiked steel prices stay competitive||Driven by market dynamics, steel prices in the country have risen but are still competitive compared to prices of the metal in the international markets, an official said on Friday. Steel makers in the country have reportedly raised prices of benchmark hot rolled coil by up to Rs 3,500 a tonne on the back of rising input costs due to soaring coal prices. “Steel prices follow global trends and are now at a higher level. If compared to international markets, our prices are still low. It is a deregulated sector and market dynamics have an influence on it,” said steel ministry additional secretary Rasika Chaube while addressing a programme organised by the CII. Tata Steel in its guidance indicated that prices of the metal in India will be higher by about Rs 2,500 per tonne in the current quarter compared with last year and in Europe, it will be higher by about £25 to £30 per tonne. With increasing coal prices and high cost of raw materials, it is difficult to sell steel at current prices, a company official said. However, some analysts said steel prices may see corrections in the near term with iron-ore prices easing. Mission Purvoday Chaube said the Centre envisioned the transformation of eastern India as a potential integrated steel hub through Mission Purvoday. “The eastern region is foreseen to contribute 80-90 million tonnes in the estimated 250-million-tonne production by 2030,” Chaube said. The government intends to create land banks, ensure availability of iron ores at competitive prices and provide statutory clearances on time, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
14-11-2021||Business||Aditya Birla Group’s Grasim Industries reports 27.36 per cent increase in profit||Aditya Birla Group firm Grasim Industries has reported a 27.36 per cent increase in its consolidated net profit at Rs 2,032.41 crore for the second quarter ended in September 2021. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,595.85 crore in the corresponding previous quarter. Revenue from operations was up 25.71 per cent at Rs 22,564.22 crore from Rs 17,949.53 crore a year ago. Total expenses were at Rs 19,863.82 crore, up 24.16 per cent from Rs 15,998.90 crore a year ago. “The demand momentum picked up in Q2FY22 and has continued thereafter across all businesses. Backed by strong demand, realisation and volumes have improved in key businesses, offsetting the cost increase,” Grasim Industries said in a statement. Flat profit at CIL State-owned CIL has reported an almost flat consolidated net profit of Rs 2,936.91 for the September quarter against Rs 2,948.12 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. Consolidated revenue from operations during July-September 2021 increased to Rs 23,291.08 crore from Rs 21,153.07 crore in the year-ago period. Hero Moto net dips Two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp’s consolidated net profit declined 22 per cent to Rs 747.79 crore in the second quarter ended September 30, 2021, impacted by lower sales. The company, which posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 963.82 crore in the same period last fiscal, said its electric vehicle project is in advanced stages and is gearing up to launch the first product by March 2022. Consolidated revenue from operations was at Rs 8,538.85 crore against Rs 9,473.32 crore a year-ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
14-11-2021||Business||Central government bid to regulate crypto assets||The Centre intends to keep a close watch on cryptocurrencies and will take proactive measures to regulate trading in this emerging asset class to ensure that it doesn’t become an easy vehicle for money laundering and terror financing. A meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi examined the various dimensions of digital currencies and related issues in a comprehensive manner without unequivocally spelling out whether it had abandoned the idea of an outright ban on private cryptocurrencies. Sources said the consensus that emerged at the meeting was that efforts ought to be made to stop unscrupulous agents from misleading the youth by over promising returns and promoting a stack of unregulated assets through non-transparent advertising. Finance ministry officials have indicated that a comprehensive Bill on crypto currencies with details on taxation is expected to be introduced in the winter session of Parliament which starts later this month. The revenue department is of the view that capital gains and income earned through crypto assets ought to be appropriately taxed. Similarly, if there is service involved in the transaction, then GST needs to be levied. Meanwhile, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance has called cryptocurrency associations and industry experts on Monday for a meeting to discuss the topic ‘CryptoFinance: Opportunities and Challenges’. “The government is working on the new crypto bill. This bill is not looking to ban crypto currencies; but it will allowing trading in crypto within certain limitations. The biggest concern for the government is capital outflow as they are unable to fully track crypto transactions. Taxation is another major issue,” Sidharth Sogani, chief executive officer of CREBACO Global, told The Telegraph. He said last week the crypto exchanges and the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) had announced that about Rs 6 lakh crore was invested in crypto currencies but it isn’t known how much of this would be subject to tax and how much the government could earn in tax revenue from this asset class. “If Rs 6 lakh crore is the right figure, we are looking at a big number in terms of tax. Moreover, the per user scale of investment is debatable. This is both a currency and commodity... a sort of a hybrid. It is an unprecedented instrument. However, treating it as a commodity is easier and is the best fit for the economy,” Sogani added. The finance ministry has already held multiple meetings with financial sector regulators and industry stakeholders over the past few weeks on the need to create a legislative framework for trading in cryptocurrencies. Both the RBI and Sebi have voiced deep reservations about private cryptocurrencies. “There is a huge amount of risk that will impact financial stability, and we have shared our concerns with the government,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said in a recent interview with a television channel. “The government will take the necessary policy decision in that regard.” A consensus has now started to emerge within a section of the country’s policymakers that there is a need to define cryptocurrencies as an asset class but not elevate it to the status of legal tender. The RBI’s internal panel report on the contentious topic of cryptocurrencies is expected to come out next month. The banking regulator had tried to stop banks from acting as facilitators of crypto transactions. However, on March 4 this year, the Supreme Court had set aside an RBI circular of April 6, 2018 that had prohibited banks and entities regulated by it from providing services in relation to virtual currencies. Several nations have been mulling ways to regulate the profusion of crypto currencies now available for trading. A recent IMF report said that Bitcoin remained the dominant crypto asset but its market share has declined sharply in 2021 from more than 70 per cent to less than 45 per cent. The government held off on plans to introduce The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021 in the budget session as it continued discussions with stakeholders. The draft law had proposed to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies and laid down the regulatory framework for the launch of an “official digital currency”. However, the government now appears to have second thoughts on outright prohibition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
