15-11-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher ||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher on Monday as rise in WPI inflation capped early gains despite a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index settled 32.02 points or 0.05 per cent higher at 60,718.71. Similarly, the Nifty rose 6.70 points or 0.04 per cent to 18,109.45. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by ITC, Asian Paints, Nestle India and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Tata Steel, M&M, Bajaj Auto and SBI were among the laggards. Indian markets opened on a positive note on Monday despite mixed cues from Asian market peers where Chinese shares traded lower post better than expected consumer spend data, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session markets lost initial gains and traded marginally in green with buying in healthcare, IT, and tech stocks. "Upside remain capped as WPI inflation in October surged to 12.54 per cent from 10.66 per cent a month ago and 1.31 per cent in October 2020," he noted. The wholesale price-based inflation spiked mainly due to rise in prices of manufactured products and crude petroleum. It has remained in double digit for the seventh consecutive month beginning April. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai ended with losses, while Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.33 per cent to USD 81.08 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
15-11-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Monday led by gains in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid foreign fund inflow and a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 315.89 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 61,002.58 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 90.30 points or 0.50 per cent to 18,193.05. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by ITC, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, M&M, Asian Paints and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Tech Mahindra, HDFC and Tata Steel were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 767 points or 1.28 per cent higher at 60,686.69. Similarly, the Nifty rose 229.15 points or 1.28 per cent to 18,102.75. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market, as they purchased shares worth Rs 511.10 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. "Partly justifying the market rally, corporate earnings have grown by 46 per cent year-on-year in Q2. The surge in earnings has been led by financials, metals and mining and oil & gas. "But, even discounting this impressive performance by India Inc, the market is overvalued and, therefore, corrections are due," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were positive. Stock exchanges in the US ended higher in Friday's session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.89 per cent to USD 81.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
15-11-2021||Business||Aim for  the sky||Every year, we ask Indians what they financially aspire to in life. One aspiration keeps emerging as the most important: saving for child’s education. So how is it that so many parents struggle to plan something as important to them as this? Picking the right financial investment tool for your child’s future is critical. The key problems I see with many child investment plans is that they provide inadequate returns, under achieve both as life insurance covers and investments, and are not easy to exit when you need liquidity. The allure of assured returns and moneyback payments draw parents to these plans. While the promised returns appear attractive on paper, they don’t beat inflation. So what are some better ways to invest for children? A typical child plan Consider the benefit structure of a typical child plan. Let’s say your plan needs an investment of Rs 1 lakh per year for 20 years. In years 15 and 16, you get back Rs 2 lakh a year. In years 17, 18, 19 and 20, it is Rs 3 lakh. In the 21st year, the policy matures, and you get Rs 20 lakh plus accruing bonuses. If you passed away during the policy term, your family would receive the life insurance benefit of Rs 20 lakh. On a total investment of Rs 20 lakh, the plan returns Rs 36 lakh in multiple installments, allowing you to finance the various stages of your child’s education. Sounds good, right? But what about the annual rate of return on this investment? How the returns compare Using the numbers above let’s calculate another investment. But this time, we will use India’s worst performing equity fund in the last 20 years. As of November 1, this fund has returned 12.75 per cent per annum since 2001. Assume you invested Rs 1 lakh a year in it for 20 years, and withdrew Rs 2 lakh in years 15 and 16, and Rs 3 lakh in years 17, 18, 19 and 20. Despite the withdrawals and the rock-bottom rate of return, you would still be left with Rs 64.54 lakh at the end of 20 years — more than 3X what the above child plan returns. If you were fortunate to pick a fund that returned 20 per cent in this tenure, you’d have been left with Rs 1.93 crore in the end. Therefore, to be left with just Rs 20 lakh in the above child plan, an annual rate of return of a measly 6.1 per cent would apply. This is less than even EPF, which would have left you Rs 31.44 lakh in 20 years. So why would anyone chase assured returns when they are so low? Assured returns hitches Assured returns, while reassuring, will be woefully low for the goal that you’re investing for. In the above case, your investment returns 6.1 per cent while education inflation is in double digits. A business school charged Rs 4 lakh for its two-year management programme in 2007. In 2021, it charges Rs 27 lakh. This implies an annual inflation rate of 13.58 per cent in the course fees over 15 years. Assuming that rate to be constant, the course would cost Rs 1.82 crore in another 15 years. Hitting this number with an investment with poor returns would require you to pay a high investment cost. You’d have to invest Rs 62,000 per month for 15 years to save Rs 1.82 crore assuming an assured return of 6.1 per cent. But if the rate was a market-linked 15 per cent per annum, you could get there with just Rs 27,000 a month. With a market-linked investment such as a mutual fund, you also have the flexibility of liquidation at any moment of your choosing. But with assured returns plans, a premature surrender would carry heavy charges. Better options While it’s common to make investing mistakes at the start of your working life, it’s important to take corrective actions and not make those mistakes long-term. When investing for goals that are far away in the future — whether your child’s education or your retirement — you can help yourself by investing in market-linked instruments such as equity, mutual funds, index funds, and ETFs. Over a span of 10+ years, they should be able to provide double-digit returns, liquidation without penalties, and the option to change your investing style if it isn’t working for you. And since the investment cost is low, you would have enough money left to buy yourself adequate life coverage. Secure yourself Most child plans provide life insurance as well. The problem with these plans is also the poor life coverage. In the above example, a life cover of Rs 20 lakh could prove grossly inadequate - not just for your child’s education needs but also for the needs of your surviving family members. A person with dependents should always buy a term policy with a sum assured of 10-20 times their current annual income. Each member of the family should have a health cover of at least one time the annual income. This would ensure that a costly hospitalisation doesn’t force you to dip into the funds saved for your child. Your child’s future is too important to take a bet on with opaque investment plans that may lead to disappointment. Market-linked investing for the long-term is almost always smarter. When in doubt, consult a qualified investment adviser. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
15-11-2021||Business||Tata Steel credit rating at investment grade on debt cuts||After a decade of under performance, the European business of Tata Steel finally came good this quarter. Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and chief financial officer Tata Steel, says Europe would sustain profitability in the near term as well. In a conversation with The Telegraph, Chatterjee shares his thoughts about reaching investment grade ratings, further deleverage, expansion plans and COP26. Was Tata Steel Group’s net debt reduction as per market expectation. What will be your guidance for the second half? During the first half of the year we have prepaid about Rs 11,400 crore of principal debt which is beyond the initial guidance and from the market point of view it is well appreciated. Our balance sheet metrics are now in investment grade rating with net debt to equity around 0.7 and net debt to EBIDTA close to 1. This is a very significant structural achievement and we will continue to further deleverage the balance sheet to make it very strong on an all-weather basis. Based on the achievements so far, Standard & Poors have upgraded Tata Steel two notches recently to investment grade levels of BBB-. This is testimony of the strength of the underlying business. We will continue to aggressively reduce our debt in the second half also. The company spent Rs 4,202 crore on capex to expand capacities at Kalinganagar. What is estimated to be the capex in the second half? The number you are mentioning is the consolidated capex for the company in the first half not just Kalinganagar. We have guided that we should be spending around Rs 10,000 – Rs 12,000 crore on a consolidated basis for the full year and that doesn’t change. In Kalinganagar we have so far spent around Rs 7,000 crores and we have started on the entire expansion project with specific accelerated completion of the cold rolling mill and the pellet plant in the next calendar year. Could you give us the latest timeline on completion of the expansion? When is the increased capacity likely to hit the market? The cold rolling mill and the pellet plant are on a accelerated path and both are margin expansionary projects. These will be completed next year and will enhance the profitability. The balance project with the entire volume expansion will be progressively commissioned in 2024. What is the roadmap for Tata Steel’s domestic business after the ongoing expansion of Kalinganagar? We have a very strong pipeline of technology-led organic growth across sites and businesses including in downstream value added products and services. Within our capital allocation framework we will continue to deploy capital and grow the India business significantly in the next decade. This is the base plan. We will carefully and prudently look at inorganic growth when the opportunity comes. The European operation of Tata Steel turned in a solid performance in the second quarter. Do you think it is sustainable for the next quarters? Yes, the European business reported one of its best quarters with 16 per cent EBIDTA margin. The raw material to steel prices spreads have expanded and is likely to remain robust in the next couple of quarters. So we expect European business to continue to sustain its profitability in the near term. What is your take on the recent COP26 and what will be the financial impact of the resolutions on Cop-26 on making steel in Europe? From the Glasgow Climate Draft that came in Saturday at the COP26 plenary, there are a few positives like the common alignment of all countries to stick to the 1.5 degrees scenario even though it will need a lot of effort globally to maintain that scenario as the world has already crossed more than 1 degree temperature rise. Climate does not care for country boundaries and therefore there needs to be an urgency for transition. To do that effectively, there should be a very significant multi year capital flow from global north to global south to fund the transition because there is carbon debt that developed countries owe to developing countries who have to also address economic inequality as a result of the transition. For us in Europe, Tata Steel Netherlands has already announced its intention to explore the hydrogen based process technology in the long term. We have started work on this front and are also in discussion with the government there. For such a transition it has to be a shared funding among the company, customers and the government. This is currently work in progress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
15-11-2021||Business||Paytm likely to allocate shares at upper price band of Rs 2,150 apiece||Digital payments  firm Paytm is likely to allocate shares at the upper price band of Rs 2,150 apiece on Tuesday after market regulator Sebi’s approval which is expected to come on Monday, sources aware of the development said. Earlier the allocation was expected to take place on Monday and the Paytm Money app also displayed the same. Based on the bid received for Paytm’s Rs 18,300 crore initial public offer, the company will list an enterprise valuation of Rs 1,49,428 crore or slightly over $ 20 billion at an exchange rate of 74.35. The country’s biggest IPO was subscribed 1.89 times with institutional buyers, including FIIs flooding the share sale with offers seeking 2.79 times the number of shares reserved for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
15-11-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India to launch new product in SUV category||Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL) will be launching a new product in the SUV category. With nothing but the Vitara Brezza to offer, Maruti is taking a hit  from South Koren rivals Hyundai and Kia apart from European companies . Maruti is facing stiff competition to protect its market share, facing the twin headwinds of chip shortage and material cost increases. . “We will retain our share. We will continue to focus on the hatchback segment that constitutes 46 per cent of the market. It is still the largest segment,” said Kenichi Ayukawa, managing director, MSIL. at the recent launch of the Celerio. The company is developing a mid-sized SUV grounds-up in collaboration with Toyota as part of the global partnership programme between Suzuki and Toyota Corporation. Asked if the company had any alternative strategy to counter the falling small car sales, Ayukawa said: “We are working on a new product in the SUV segment. But there are customers for smaller cars too and we are offering them a lot of alternatives with clean fuel options like CNG.” “We will also have alternative fuel options like ethanol. All our products are improving and we are working towards net zero emissions,” Ayukawa said. Regarding the carbon footprint of the new Celerio, C. V. Raman, executive director, MSIL, said: “It has a carbon footprint of 88 gm per kilometre. With segment-first features like Idle Start-Stop, the new Celerio takes a step forward towards sustainability by reducing carbon dioxide emissions by up to 19 per cent across variants.” Raman said Maruti was on track to achieve the goal set by the Indian government at COP26 to reduce carbon dioxide emission by 45 per cent. “If we take 2005 to be the base year, we had the Zen Estillo which had a carbon footprint of 155gm per kilometre. In 2021, the Celerio has a footprint of 88gm per kilometre, a 44 per cent improvement.” Asked about the company’s EV strategy, Ayukawa said: “We will have EVs by 2025.” Earlier the company chairman RC Bhargava had stated that the company would not be in the EV space unless there are substantial volumes to be sold. He had said the company would be looking to sell 10,000 units of EVs per month when it launches its EV programme. Both bookings and inquiries remained strong for the market leader in the recently concluded festive season. The company currently has pending orders of more than 250,000 units. It is working closely with supply-chain partners to ease supply constraints and accelerate deliveries. “In September, we lost about 60 per cent of our production. In October we recovered but lost 40 per cent. Even in November, we are losing 15 per cent or something. The situation has begun improving but is still challenging. Globally, all industries are facing difficulties,” Ayukawa said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
15-11-2021||Business||Next GST Council meeting to focus on rationalisation of rate slabs||The next GST Council meeting in December will focus on the rationalisation of the multiple rate slabs and ways to raise revenues as the deadline to end compensation to states looms. The council’s decision would be critical as the legally bound compensation provided by the Centre to the states for revenue shortfall would end in June 2022. The meeting would review the report of the two Group of Ministers constituted to look into the issue of rate rationalisation and revenue augmentation. The next meeting is likely to be held after the Winter Session of Parliament scheduled to end on December 23. North Block officials said the exact date of the meeting will be decided immediately after the report given by the two Group of Ministers constituted during the last council. The panels have been given two months to submit their report. The GoM on rates, which has held its preliminary meeting last week virtually, would be holding its first structured meeting on November 20 when the issue of multiplicity of rates and complications arising out of the present classification of commodities under slabs will be discussed in detail. The government has formed a GoM led by Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj S. Bommai. The GoM has been tasked to propose rationalisation of rates and give the report within two months. The seven-member group includes Bengal’s  Amit Mitra, Kerala’s finance minister K.N. Balagopal and GST Council members from Bihar, Rajasthan, Goa, and Uttar Pradesh. The group would have to suggest immediate changes, as well as come up with a road map for short- and medium-term changes to the GST rate structure. They will review current tax slabs and GST exempt items, identify potential evasion sources and suggest changes in IT systems. Finance ministry officials said increased formalisation of the economy, rationalisation of tax rates, correction in inverted duty structure and a move towards the revenue neutral rate of 15 per cent would increase the revenue of the states. The council is also working on developing tools to plug in the revenue gap or loopholes between the state and the Centre for which it had formed another GoM. The GoM on systems reforms shall identify potential sources of evasion and suggest changes in business processes and IT systems to plug revenue leakage and identify possible use of data analysis, the Centre said. They said the cess collected from June 2022 to March 2026 will be used to repay the interest and principle on the borrowed sum. The compensation cess levied on automobiles, tobacco products and aerated water, over and above the basic GST rate, was to be tapped to cover the gap between states’ actual revenues and the 14 per cent annual revenue growth for five years they were assured for adopting GST. Under GST, a four-rate structure that exempts or imposes a low rate of 5 per cent on essential items and a top rate of 28 per cent on cars is levied. The other slabs of tax are 12 per cent and 18 per cent. Besides, a cess is imposed on the highest slab of 28 per cent on luxury, demerit and sin goods. There have been demands for merging the 12 per cent and 18 per cent slabs as also take out certain items from the exempt category to balance the impact of slab rationalisation on revenue. There has been a thinking for a long time to bring down the number of rates and one idea was to merge the 12 per cent and 18 per cent rates and prescribe a consolidated rate of 15 per cent. Various other combinations are also under consideration. “The GoM on rate rationalisation would review the current rate slab structure of GST, including special rates, and recommend rationalisation measures, including a merger of tax rate slabs required for a simpler rate structure in the GST,” the order had said post GST council meeting in Lucknow. “The GoM on systems reforms shall identify potential sources of evasion and suggest changes in business processes and IT systems to plug revenue leakage; “The GoM on systems reforms shall identify potential sources of evasion and suggest changes in business processes and IT systems to plug revenue leakage; identify possible use of data analysis towards better compliance and revenue augmentation and suggest the use of such data analysis and; identify mechanisms for better co-ordination between central and state tax administration and tax administration of different states; and suggest timelines for changes recommended,” the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
15-11-2021||Business||Govt to enhance funding under PLI scheme for domestic solar cells||The government will soon enhance the funding under the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the domestic solar cells and module manufacturing to Rs 24,000 crore from the existing Rs 4,500 crore to make India an exporting nation. “We brought the PLI scheme (for solar cells and modules) worth Rs 4,500 crore. We invited bids and we got 54,500 MW manufacturing capacity of solar equipment. We asked the government to sanction Rs 19,000 crore more under the PLI, which was approved (in-principle). Now we would have a PLI of Rs 24,000 crore. We would be exporting solar equipment,” power and new & renewable energy minister R.K. Singh said. The minister also informed that at present solar module manufacturing capacity in the country is 8,800 MW while the solar cell manufacturing capacity is 2,500 MW. In April this year, the Union cabinet approved a Rs 4,500 crore  PLI scheme to boost domestic manufacturing capacity of solar PV modules. The scheme is aimed at adding 10,000 MW manufacturing capacity of integrated solar PV modules entailing direct investment of Rs 17,200 crore at present. With the increase in allocation to Rs 24,000 crore, the quantum of investments and domestic manufacturing capacity envisaged under the PLI scheme would further increase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
15-11-2021||Business||Hemant Kanoria relives Srei journey||For Hemant Kanoria, the founder of Calcutta-based non-bank finance companies  — Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance — retirement has come a year early. Kanoria, who built Srei three decades ago, turns 60 next August. “I had already decided next year on August 5, 2022, I would be achieving 60 and the retirement age in Srei is 60 years and so I would retire. Fortunately or unfortunately it has been preponed by one year,” Kanoria said in an interaction with The Telegraph. Reserve Bank of India, which regulates all non-bank finance companies, superseded the board of Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance on October 4, 2021. The regulator had cited governance concerns and default in meeting payment obligations for its decision. RBI appointed Rajneesh Sharma, former chief general manager, Bank of Baroda, as the administrator and an expert committee has been put in place to aid Sharma. The two companies have been subsequently placed under the corporate insolvency resolution process by the Calcutta Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal. “If I look back as a founder, I have the satisfaction that an organisation like Srei was built up which has played a part in the development of the country’s infrastructure. From mezzanine capital to financing the first power plant in Andaman to listing Srei in London Stock Exchange, there have been many firsts and it has been an interesting journey,” Kanoria who was the erstwhile chairman of Srei, said. “The plan now is to devote my time to social work and mentor entrepreneurs,” he said. Management style Kanoria said that the promoter family has followed a professional management approach leaving the corporate decisions to the teams under the supervision of the board of Srei NBFCs. The family trust has made investments into various companies, including Srei. The objective of the trust is its investment should be relevant and contribute towards the development of the nation. The income of the trust from the dividend earnings is then utilised  for social work, he said. “When we make an investment from the trust, we ensure you put up an experienced board of directors, a good management team, and proper systems and processes. As a family member, it is not practical, and also not our policy, to get into the day-to-day affairs and operations of the investee companies. The management teams are adequately empowered and they take the ownership capably.” “Srei was created over 32 years ago because there was a need to finance construction companies to introduce mechanisation in infrastructure building. Subsequently, with the assistance of international financial institutions, it also embarked on financing long gestation infrastructure projects.” Kanoria said. However, the present challenges have not made any significant impact on the other businesses where the trust has invested. “Each of the companies is run independently, have an independent board of directors, independent governance structure and professional managers,” Kanoria said. Srei’s future Kanoria said as Srei’s founder ideally he would want the brand to remain intact and the NBFC should be able to start and grow its business. “It has been a professionally run organisation with an excellent team and an experienced and illustrious board. The company’s intention was always to pay back the creditors. In 30 years we have paid back Rs 50,000 crore to the lenders on time. I am sure the company will recover from the current situation and whoever runs it, the institution should be able to contribute in the future in a manner it was doing earlier. It has a good operational track record and I am sure the organization will grow. India needs infrastructure financing institutions like Srei for nation-building,” he said. “We have to learn from the mistake that has happened and the error was that the bankers were unhappy that we approached the NCLT last year for realignment and full payment of the debt. From our side, we could have possibly interacted with them more closely. The intent was good (as we had offered to make full repayment of principal with interest) but there may have been a communication gap. Even with the regulator, certain issues could have been addressed better,” Kanoria said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
15-11-2021||Business||Future Retail directors claim more anomalies||The independent directors of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) have shot off another letter to the Competition Commission of India (CCI) that reiterates their earlier request to revoke an approval given by the anti-monopoly body in 2019 following which Amazon picked up a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL), a promoter group entity. In the second letter on Sunday, the independent directors have cited internal communications of the US e-commerce giant to establish its contradictory statements before the courts and the CCI. In the earlier November 10 letter, they accused Amazon of submitting “completely opposite information” which was “contradictory” to its own internal communications. The letter cited representations made by Amazon, one of which was the rationale for investing in FCPL. Amazon said it was investing in FCPL because of its unique business model which addresses an existing gap in the payment landscape of India. However, the independent directors submitted documents and emails which they said, showed that Amazon never intended to invest in FCPL because of its unique business model or strong potential. They claimed that the US major was initially planning to put money into FRL through a proposed foreign portfolio investment. On December 11, 2018, Amazon had finalised an agreement to acquire a 9.9 per cent direct stake in FRL. However, this plan was buried soon after Press Note-2 was issued by the Government in December 26, 2018. The note had said that foreign direct investment (FDI) is not permitted in the inventory based model of e-commerce. Though it did not bar Amazon from holding a stake in FRL, sources said Amazon’s concerns were with regard to a clause in the note which barred e-commerce players from selling products of companies in which they have stakes. The clause effectively meant the products of Future group could not be sold through the e-commerce channel of Amazon, resulting in Amazon investing in FCPL rather than directly infusing capital into FRL. The independent directors alleged that Amazon adopted a twin-entity investment structure wherein it will invest in FCPL and the latter will acquire 9.82 per cent stake in Future Retail Limited. The directors  cited an email from Rakesh Bakshi, head, legal and assistant general counsel, Amazon India, to Jeff Bezos, the CEO of Amazon, where he said that they will use such an investment structure to invest in FRL. FCPL now holds 9.82 per cent stake in FRL. The email to Bezos stated Amazon’s shareholding in Future Coupons will be divided into voting equity share capital (25.1 per cent), and non-voting equity share capital (23.9 per cent), though Amazon will have all the statutory rights available to a 49 per cent shareholder. The email said a similar structure was adopted by Amazon —  to resolve the restrictions of Press Note 2 — in Project Brigade, where it acquired a 49 per cent interest in More Retail Limited which is also engaged in retailing food and grocery in India. It went on to add that Amazon is paying  a premium of 25 per cent for the acquisition of the stake in FCPL, which gave it strategic rights over FRL. “This premium is being paid on account of the strategic rights and call option being provided to Amazon. Due to the call option and the strategic rights being at or above the prevailing market price, we currently estimate a $41 million P&L loss at sign,” the email quoted Bakshi as writing. Future Coupons was founded in 2008 and is engaged in the business of marketing and distribution of gift cards, loyalty cards and other rewards programmes to corporate customers. The independent directors said in the letter that Amazon had obtained the CCI approval by making deliberate misrepresentations and by “actively misleading’’ the body. They claimed that Amazon’s representation that it does not have any direct or indirect shareholding in FRL is also contradicted by its own internal records. The directors referred to the same email which said that the number of equity shares of FRL to be held by Future Coupons has been calculated such that Amazon can indirectly hold the same number of shares of FRL that it would have acquired had it directly invested Rs 1,400 crore in FRL, which would have been at a 25 per cent premium. “The price which has been paid for the FCPL shares has been determined by Amazon on the basis of FRL’s valuation as is clearly set out in the email. There is no valuation ascribed or carried for FCPL business per se. FCPL is just used as a vehicle for an investment in FRL,’’ the letter said. On Amazon’s contention that it has limited investor protection rights in FCPL, the independent directors said that the retailing major had paid a premium over their perceived valuation of FRL to acquire strategic rights over the latter. “Inspite of the fact that in their mind, the rights acquired by Amazon over FRL were strategic, Amazon has chosen to represent these rights as ‘investment protection rights’ to CCI’’, the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
