16-11-2021||Business||Disha Consultancy: A Staunch Service for Business Management and Tax Consultancy||Every company, irrespective of its scale, must keep a tight grip on finances to generate optimal returns. The work does not end with developing assets rather it also involves rigorous management and selling if required. Moreover, in today’s competition-driven marketplace, business management allows companies to predict any potential risks of operating any assets. It also helps the firms to eliminate any loss-making segments from their enterprise or make them more productive. Therefore, the firms should realize the grave need for efficacious business management as much as business ownership. But, how can a business imply an business management strategy? The most convenient answer could be through a top-notch business management company. Business management firms help businesses to manage their business to improve compliance and support growth. This type of organizations usually curate and offer a wide range of business management services including accounting, managing funds, tax planning, return filings, and investing advice. The clientele of these management firms can span from high-value corporations to government organizations to NGOs to small businesses. Disha Consultancy is a premium asset management and tax consultancy service that has gained a considerable reputation in the domain within 3 years of its birth. In 2018, Disha Hardick Bavishi, an MBA graduate, planned to launch such a unique service driven by her passion for business management. Her sole goal was to support the small, medium, and large companies making knowledgeable business decisions. Asked about the company’s ambitions, Disha adds, “I have always been keen about finances and understanding the potential of the Indian market. I felt there was a need to create a platform that can help industries and companies solve their business management-related issues. Our aim at Disha Consultancy is to provide comprehensive business management solutions along with complete tax and accounting support at an affordable cost.” Through meticulous research, the consultancy firm assures its clients an attractive portfolio by making sure that all the assets are functional. Making profitable returns out of investment requires strategic planning. Management in a suboptimal asset can prove to be a nightmare for businesses. Using macro and micro analytic tools, Disha Consultancy ensures that your money is going to the right place, your business is managed in a right way, your resources are utilized in optimal way creating maximum value addition. Their business management package serves as an all-in-one strategy for businesses. It makes hiring them more affordable, especially for small and medium scale businesses. With an expert team of professionals, Disha Consultancy has already added more than 50 clients under its hood. The highly experienced individuals in the firm guide their clients through everything from accounts management to tax consultation to assistance in auditing owing to their exceptional legal expertise. Moreover, the hard work, work ethics, morality, and transparency of the firm have made them a trustworthy name in the consultancy market. Carrying the vision of being a valuable asset management service, Disha Consultancy is making dynamic efforts to lend helping hands to the budding business ventures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-11-2021||Business||RBI governor notes deeper issues with cryptocurrencies||For the second time in a week, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Tuesday expressed his concerns over cryptocurrencies, saying there are "far deeper issues" involved in virtual currencies that could pose a threat to the country's economic and financial stability. The statement comes within a few days of the Prime Minister holding a meeting on the cryptocurrencies amid worries over misleading claims of huge returns on cryptocurrency investment. On Monday, PTI had reported that the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance discussed the pros and cons of crypto finance with various stakeholders, and several members were in favour of regulating crypto currency exchanges rather than an outright ban on such currencies. The government is likely to introduce a bill on cryptocurrencies during the winter session of Parliament beginning November 29, according to the PTI report. While addressing the 8th SBI Banking and Economic Conclave, Das pointed out that when the RBI says it has serious concerns on crypto currencies, there are far deeper issues involved and a deeper discussion is needed. "When the RBI, after due internal deliberation, says that there are serious concerns on macro economic and financial stability, there are deeper issues, which need much deeper discussions and much more well informed discussions, he noted. On the recent meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance on crypto currencies, Das said he was not privy to what the Standing Committee discussed and deliberated. The governor doubted the current trading numbers in crypto currencies and said the investors are being lured to open accounts by offering credit. "We have received a lot of feedback that credit has been provided to open accounts and various other kinds of incentives are being provided to open accounts, but the total account balance is just about Rs 500, Rs 1,000 or Rs 2,000, and that covers about 70 to 80% of the accounts," he said. Das, however, said the value of transactions and trading in virtual currencies has gone up but the number of accounts is exaggerated. The RBI governor at an event on Wednesday last had said that new-age currencies pose serious threats to the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country and also doubted the number of investors trading on them as well their claimed market value. On March 4, 2021, the Supreme Court had set aside an RBI circular of April 6, 2018, prohibiting banks and entities regulated by it from providing services in relation to virtual currencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-11-2021||Business||Infotainment Influencer Jay Kapoor talks about the ‘Money Mistakes you should avoid early in your life.’||The young Infotainment Influencer, ‘Jay Kapoor’ shares his experience stating that; when it comes to money, we will all have to admit our educational institutions have done a very bad job at educating the young citizens of our country. The environment outside the schools and colleges isn't of much help either. Given that money is such an important part of our lives and understanding and managing it is one of the first steps of adulthood. The abysmal financial literacy in the country and the lack of reliable sources to learn from makes it worse. While you are in school, everything follows a certain order over which you have little or no control. Everything from your schedule to your finances is outsourced to schools or parents. But once you leave home, it could be for a job or for college. You find yourself in a world of chaos, where you are supposed to be responsible for every decision of your life. Managing your own finances and being responsible for them becomes even harder given the lack of training and information. People end up making mistakes, mistakes that are too common and with little prior knowledge are easy to avoid because it's good to learn from your mistakes. It's better to learn from other people's mistakes. So here are common pitfalls that you must avoid early in your life for better personal finance management: Not making a Budget One of the most common mistakes people make is not making monthly budgets. It's the most common phenomenon of how your salary disappears with you having no clue of where all of it went. Making a budget enables you to allocate expenses and saves you from being a victim of impulse shopping. One of the biggest problems that come with digital transactions is that you don't remember where all of it goes and you actually end up spending more. The most basic thing you can do to avoid this is to make a monthly budget and stick to it. It does not mean that you don't spend any money at all. It just means that you become smart about your money. The most commonly used Golden rule for budgeting is the 50-30-20 rule where 50% of your money goes for essential things like food, rent, electricity bills, etc. 30% goes for your additional spending like going out and buying stuff. The rest of the amount can be either saved or invested. You can play around with the percentages and find what works for you, but making a budget, tracking your expenses and sticking to it is very important. Not investing in themselves One other mistake that has recently become quite common is that young people get into investing and markets too early. They understand the value of saving and then want to use that saved up amount to invest in markets. It could be the get rich quick dream that lures them or just how the world of investing is presented on the internet. But early on in your life it's much better to invest that saved amount on yourself, than to try and time the market right for quick gains. Those quick gains or profits might look enticing in the shorter term but when you look at it with a larger perspective, investing in yourself will give you more returns. So, the amount of time you would invest in studying the markets is better utilised in upskilling yourself so that you can bring in more money and then eventually get more from the market. In no way does this mean that you should not save or invest, but rather utilize the maximum of your time in investing in yourself. Impulse purchasing When you are young and are earning a decent amount, it's quite natural to want to buy a new phone or a new car. It could just be because you want to rise up the societal hierarchy or just think that buying that thing could make you happy. Most of these purchases are depreciating in nature, what that essentially means is even though that car might get you a lot of likes on social media and make you popular among the friend group but the moment you step out of the showroom, its value drops. And the most important part of the story is that did you really need the car? Are you going to utilise it daily and if yes, how much return on investment will it give you. These could be a lot of questions to ask yourself, but these impulse purchases or purchases that are depreciatory in nature should be made only after giving a lot of thought. The best thing one could do is accumulate more assets and try to minimise the liabilities. Debt Early in Life Getting a loan for a house, Car or education is easy today. Companies are willing to hand out loans but a debt early on in life is the last thing you want. The debt comes with a huge responsibility of repaying it and that means your future choices could be limited because of that. This is not to scare you, but before getting a loan ensuring a repaying plan is very important. This does not mean that you should never get a loan if you have a proper plan and think that the loan gives you the required monetary leverage, you should take it. Credit Cards One other common piece of advice that you'll get is to never get a credit card. Credit cards are misunderstood and there is some truth to their bad name. If you spend credit card money on things you don't need and end up buying a lot of stuff, it could spell trouble. Credit Card loans are charged above 40% and that could be bad news. On the other hand, using a Credit card the right way could help you in earning rewards, discounts, building the right spending behaviour and improving your CIBIL score. There are multiple types of credit cards available that could give you additional discounts on your most common expenses. You just need to be cautious of how you use it and don't end up falling into the trap of buying now and paying later. There are a lot of other things that you need to be mindful of in your financial journeys. Essentially, if you understand debit-credit, budgeting and the importance of saving and investing, you are good to go. There's no end to learning and you could deep dive into financial resources as much as you want but ensuring a good basic understanding of things will make everything easier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-11-2021||Business||Creation of Content to De-Jargonize Business, Finance and Banking Industry||The banking and finance industry is vast, complex and filled with jargons which may be difficult for the common person to understand. When a person decides to invest in, there are multiple options available such as Direct Stocks, Equity Mutual Funds, Debt Mutual Funds, Crypto-currency, Bonds and many more. For centuries, Gold has been used as a medium of investment, however, there are various ways in which investment in Gold can be done, in order to get fruitful returns. Everyone gets fascinated with the idea of sitting at home and investing in various possible avenues in order to get profits, but in actual life it is really difficult and gets confusing for beginners to analyse the market and identify the right sources to invest in. At times it becomes puzzling and difficult to analyse, even for people who are investing in the stock market to identify the new available profitable options of money growth from time-to-time. According to sources, it has also been evident that financial agents do not educate the person properly instead just use marketing gimets to sell the schemes and policies introduced to them. In general, there are a lot of events which keep occurring in the ecosystem of business which hold a lot of importance in personal life. Due to lack of knowledge, these hacks or facts are avoided by the person. Did you know? The brands and departmental stores are planned and arranged in a specific manner to make you spend more money and time in the store. This clearly indicates that business professionals directly trigger the psychology of people. The trend of content creation over different social media platforms especially Instagram has made it easy to break down jargons of Finance and Banking Industry and give necessary insights about different businesses and their strategies to the audience. Anushka Rathod is one such content creator on Instagram with 250K+ followers, her motto is to educate the audience the fundamentals of business master plans, personal finance and banking. She creates unique content which involves simplifying the boring and lengthy finance and business topics in a fun, quirky, interesting and jargon-free manner. The fun element in her content makes it worth watching for audiences from diversified age groups, work-backgrounds and industries like architecture, law, finance, tech, entertainment, etc. The infotainment content which is nowadays available to the audience over different platforms is the refined and shorter form of the content which is taught via educational institutes. The aim of the creator is to analyse the available content heavy resources such as research papers, market analysis, annual general meeting reports of the companies or some trending event which has occurred in their particular niche, which is then translated into digestible content. This helps the audience to understand the characteristics of feasible investment options and securities, empowering them to make their own investment decisions. Creator aims at providing 360 degree content to their audience which includes day-to-day business hacks which can be used to spend money judiciously. Majority of people belonging from different walks of life are unaware about the various aspects of business, finance and economy which are interrelated, and directly or indirectly impact the functioning of businesses and economy. The transformation in the way the content is consumed, delivered and adapted has made it accessible for people to consume information in a go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-11-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 396 points to close just below 61,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked 396 points on Tuesday tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and SBI amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share index ended 396.34 points or 0.65 per cent lower at 60,322.37. The 50-issue Nifty fell 110.25 points or 0.61 per cent to 17,999.20. Reliance Industries was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by SBI, UltraTech Cement, IndusInd Bank, NTPC and Sun Pharma. On the other hand, Maruti, M&M, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, Infosys and Bajaj Finserv were among the gainers. "As Investors try to figure out the valuation disconnect between the recently listed digital entities versus their traditional counterparts who built distribution reach offline, the euphoria around the former seems to have set minds thinking, said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. "As the street worries on inflationary pressures leading to companies raising prices and their consequent impact on demand, we saw a highly volatile trading session today," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended in the red, while Hong Kong and Tokyo closed on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.72 per cent to USD 82.64 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-11-2021||Business||India received record FDI in last seven years; hope to see the trend continue: Commerce Minister Goyal||India attracted "record" foreign direct investments in the last seven years and the trend is expected to continue in the coming years as well on account of major structural reforms being undertaken by the government, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday. He also said that India is focusing on integrating its quality standards with the world and the country needs to let go of the mindset of a particular product being for the domestic market and others for the export market.  "Last seven years, we have seen record FDIs (Foreign Direct Investments). I hope to see that continue, looking at major structural reforms being undertaken. This pick up in economic activity is here to stay and the future looks to be extremely bright," he said at industry body CII's National Conference on MNCs 2021.  FDI inflows into the country rose 62 per cent to USD 27 billion during April-July period of the current fiscal. On Free Trade Agreements (FTAs), the minister said India is negotiating such pacts with countries, including UAE, Australia, UK, European Union (EU), Israel, and GCC ( Gulf Cooperation Council)) group.  "We will have an FTA with UAE in next 60-100 days, an interim agreement with Australia probably around the same time. With the EU, work should start soon (as) they have recently appointed a lead negotiator and we are working to start with Canada," he said.  Goyal appealed to MNCs (Multi National Corporations) to use India as a manufacturing base as they can capture the whole world from India. "Hope you continue to grow, acquire new businesses, recruit in India and bring international talent here," he said, adding that on the single window clearance platform, more states will come on board.  Under an FTA, two trading partners reduce or eliminate customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them. Besides, they liberalise norms to enhance trade in services and boost investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
16-11-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex fell over 100 points in early trade on Tuesday tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and Kotak Bank despite a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 122.35 points or 0.20 per cent lower at 60,596.36 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty fell 45.45 points or 0.25 per cent to 18,064. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Asian Paints, Kotak Bank, Reliance Industries and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Tata Steel, M&M, Bajaj Finserv, Maruti, Nestle India and Tech Mahindra were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex settled 32.02 points or 0.05 per cent higher at 60,718.71. Similarly, the Nifty rose 6.70 points or 0.04 per cent to 18,109.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market, as they purchased shares worth Rs 424.74 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. "Market direction is likely to be influenced largely by global developments, particularly the market's response to rising inflation. "US and European markets shrugging off the high US inflation rate of 6.2 per cent is very significant and this is likely to impart resilience to global equity markets in the short-term even while there is concern about elevated valuations in stock prices," said VK Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Back home in India, the RBI has again cautioned that stock prices in India are much higher judged by the traditional parameters of valuation. But the central bank is optimistic about the growth recovery underway in the Indian economy, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US ended marginally lower in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.89 per cent to USD 82.78 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
16-11-2021||Business||Wholesale price-based inflation spiked to five-month high in Oct||Wholesale price-based inflation spiked to a five-month high of 12.54 per cent in October, mainly because of a  rise in prices of manufactured products and crude petroleum. WPI inflation has remained in double digits for the seventh consecutive month beginning April. Inflation in September this year was at 10.66 per cent, while in October 2020 it was at 1.31 per cent. Inflation in manufactured items was 12.04 per cent in October against 11.41 per cent in the previous month. In the fuel and power basket, the rate of price rise was 37.18 per cent against 24.81 per cent in September. Crude petroleum inflation was 80.57 per cent during the month under review, against 71.86 per cent in September. Inflation in food articles was at (-)1.69 per cent in October against (-)4.69 per cent in September. Vegetable prices were lower at (-)18.49 per cent, while in onions it was (-)25.01 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
16-11-2021||Business||Ban on crypto currencies opposed by house panel on finance||A meeting on crypto currency by the parliamentary standing committee on finance on Monday appeared to veer towards the need to regulate the digital currencies rather than ban them outright. With the winter session of Parliament less than a fortnight away, and a crypto-currency bill on the cards, views on digital currencies are yet to be firmed up, raising the possibility that the bill will lay out a broad regulatory framework with the policymakers fleshing out the specifics in the rules that will underlie the legislation. An internal RBI report on crypto currencies will be ready only next month even as RBI governor Shaktikanta Das has reiterated his opposition to them. Sources said the proposed bill would focus on investor protection as crypto currencies come under a complex asset class category. Once cleared by the Union cabinet, the government plans to introduce the bill in the first week of the winter session. The parliamentary panel, chaired by BJP leader Jayant Sinha, on Monday discussed the pros and cons of crypto finance with various stakeholders, and several members were in favour of regulating crypto currency exchanges rather than imposing an outright ban, a PTI report said. At present, there are neither specific regulations nor an outright ban on the use of crypto currencies in India. Representatives of crypto  exchanges, block chain and Crypto Assets Council (BACC), industry bodies as well as academicians and other stakeholders submitted their views before the panel, whose meeting also happened days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held discussions with senior officials from various ministries and the RBI on crypto  currencies. This is the first meeting on the subject that was convened by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance. Some Congress members in the panel said there were significant challenges in banning crypto currencies. The broad view of the panel was that a Chinese wall should be put in place on crypto currencies’ fungibility in the real world and its interface with the real world should be regulated, they added. Currency is a domain of the sovereign whereby its value is fixed in an assured manner and crypto currency is a computer programme managed in distributed format on internet. Its value is only discovered by a buyer and user on an exchange which itself is illegal, they noted. One of the members even wondered how crypto currencies are going to be regulated when even regulating the internet remains difficult. Members also expressed concerns about the possibility of crypto currencies being used for financing terror activities. Sources said the security of investors’ money was the most serious concern expressed in the meeting. Some members expressed concern over full-page crypto ads. The panel is likely to call on government officials and other stakeholders soon to understand their perspective and expressed the hope that the bill when brought in Parliament would be referred to the standing committee and not rushed through. The finance ministry’s revenue department is of the view that if there is gain or income from crypto, it should be taxed according to capital gains rules. Similarly, if there is service involved in the transaction, then the goods and services tax needs to be levied. The government held off on plans to introduce The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021 in the budget session as it continued discussions with stakeholders. The draft law proposed to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies and laid down the regulatory framework for the launch of an “official digital currency”. However, the view on outright prohibition seems to have evolved since then. The Supreme Court in early March 2020 had nullified the RBI circular banning cryptocurrencies. Following this on February 5, 2021, the central bank had instituted an internal panel to recommend a model of the central bank’s digital currency. Earlier in March, the Supreme Court had set aside an RBI circular of April 6, 2018, prohibiting banks and entities regulated by it from providing services in relation to virtual currencies. At the Prime Minister’s meeting on Saturday, concerns were raised  over money laundering terror financing using crypto currencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
16-11-2021||Business||COP26 pledge to reduce coal use will have implications for industry||The specific targets to reduce coal use — India’s toned down commitment at COP26 — will have implications for the industry as well as thermal power producers given the investments committed to coal-fired electricity. “At least till 2040, the country’s dependency on coal is not expected to go down. The per capita power consumption would increase and energy demand would also go up as the economic development gathers pace,” Partha Bhattacharya, former Coal India chairman, said. He said capacity expansion in renewable energy would gather pace, but it may not significantly reduce the share of coal in power generation by 2030. Bhattacharya said there was little talk of crude oil, which results in methane emission, at COP26, and  it was unfair to blame coal alone. Analysts said the climate talks focus on coal — and not including oil and gas —  would disproportionately impact certain developing countries such as Indian and China. An equitable fossil fuel phase-out would place most of the burden squarely on the US and rich countries, analysts said. “India has set its short-term target for 2030, with 500GW of non-fossil fuel capacity and increase the share of renewable energy sources to 50 per cent. This would require an investment of about $500 billion,” Vibhuti D. Garg, energy economist, Lead India, Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, said. India has added 113GW of coal fired power capacity since 2011, while 33GW of thermal power projects are under construction and 27GW in the pipeline stage. The government forecasts coal plant capacity to grow to 267GW by 2030 from 208GW now. New coal-fired plants would be expected to operate for at least 30 years, cementing the fuel’s role in the global energy mix beyond the middle of the century. The recent coal shortages in thermal power plants have brought out the country’s dependency on the fuel. Garg said India will have reduce the share of coal to 50-55 per cent from 70-72 per cent by 2030. India will have to reduce its reliance on coal further if it wants to achieve the net zero goals by 2070. The country, however, should benefit from the reduced costs of battery storage and green hydrogen, paving the way for lesser reliance on fossil fuels in transport, power and industry. Prices of renewable energy in the recent tenders are hovering around Rs 2-2.5/kWh. While the average tariff of thermal power for NTPC is Rs 3.8/kWh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
16-11-2021||Business||Royal Dutch Shell to scrap dual share structure, move head office to Britain||Royal Dutch Shell said on Monday it would scrap its dual share structure and move its head office to Britain from the Netherlands, pushed away by Dutch taxes and facing climate pressure in court as the energy giant shifts from oil and gas. The company, which long faced questions from investors about its dual structure and had recently been hit by a Dutch court order over its climate targets, aims to drop “Royal Dutch” from its name — part of its identity since 1907 — to become Shell Plc. The Anglo-Dutch firm has been in a long-running tussle with the Dutch authorities over the country’s 15 per cent dividend withholding tax, which Shell sought to avoid paying with its two share classes. Its new single structure would resolve that issue and allow Shell to strike swifter sale or acquisition deals. In a further knock to its relations with the Netherlands, the biggest Dutch state pension fund ABP said last month it would drop Shell and all fossil fuels from its portfolio. The Dutch government said on Monday it was “unpleasantly surprised” by Shell’s plans to move to London from The Hague. The decision will, however, be seen as a vote of confidence in London after Britain’s exit from the European Union triggered a shift in billions of euros in daily share trading from the UK capital to Amsterdam. Shell’s shares, which will still be traded in Amsterdam and New York under the plan, climbed more than 2 per cent in London on Monday morning after the news. “The current complex share structure is subject to constraints and may not be sustainable in the long term,” Shell said, as it announced its plan to change the structure. The move requires at least 75 per cent of votes by shareholders at a general meeting to be held on December 10, the company said. “We see merits in the proposed restructuring of Shell’s shares structure and tax residence. Among other benefits, the proposed changes will increase Shell’s ability to buy back shares,” Jefferies said in a research note. Shell has said it would return $7 billion from selling US assets to ConocoPhillips in addition to an ongoing share buyback programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
16-11-2021||Business||Competition Commission of India to meet Amazon and FCPL in January||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) will meet Amazon and Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) in January in connection with the approval given by the fair trade watchdog to the e-commerce major’s investment in FCPL, a regulatory filing said on Monday. Independent directors of Future Retail Ltd have approached the CCI to seek revocation of the nod given to the US giant’s 2019 investments into FCPL, Future Retail Ltd’s (FRL) promoter group entity. In a regulatory filing on Monday, FRL said FCPL had informed the company of receipt of CCI’s communication. “...FCPL’s lawyers have received a communication dated November 15, 2021, from the CCI informing FCPL that CCI, after considering the application of FCPL inter-alia for a personal hearing, has decided to hear Amazon.com NV Investment Holding LLC (“Amazon”) and FCPL on January 4, 2022, in connection with the approval given by the CCI for Amazon’s investment in FCPL,” it added. On November 14, independent directors of FRL shot off a letter to the CCI, citing internal communications of Amazon to establish its contradictory statements before courts and the anti-monopoly body, and sought revocation of the approval given to Amazon-Future Coupons deal. They accused Amazon of submitting “completely opposite information” which was “contradictory” to Amazon’s own internal communications regarding the US giant’s 2019 investments into FRL's promoter company. The independent directors of FRL had written a similar letter earlier this month. Amazon is contesting the Rs 24,713 crore deal announced last year by Future Group with Reliance Retail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
16-11-2021||Business||Nykaa stock slips over 3 per cent as it reports 96% fall in net profit||Shares of FSN E-Commerce Ventures, the parent of beauty & personal care brand Nykaa, slipped over 3 per cent as it reported a 96 per cent fall in consolidated net profit for the quarter ended September 30, 2021. Net profit slumped to Rs 1.2 crore from Rs 27 crore in the same period of the previous year. This was the first time that Nykaa was reporting  quarterly results after the bumper listing last week. It has a market capitalisation of over Rs 1 lakh crore. The fall in its bottomline came largely on account of a spike in marketing and advertisement expenses as the company focussed on customer acquisitions. These expenses climbed to Rs 121.4 crore from Rs 31.5 crore in the year ago period — a jump of 286 per cent. Revenues from operations showed a strong growth of 47 per cent to Rs 885.3 crore from Rs 603.8 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. Nykaa’s numbers disappointed the Street with the stock ending with losses of Rs 78.30, or 3.32 per cent  at Rs 2,280.60 on the BSE. On the NSE, the stock closed at Rs 2,268.10 — a drop of 3.82 per cent over the previous finish. Debut trade pattern The bourses on Monday saw the debut of three companies with two of them giving positive returns to investors. It was a blockbuster listing for Sigachi Industries, the microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) manufacturer, which opened at a premium of 253 per cent over its issue price, the second best debut by any company. PB Fintech, the parent of Policybazaar, did not disappoint and closed with decent gains of 22 per cent over the issue price. However, it was a muted listing for SJS Enterprises at Rs 540 — a discount of 0.36 per cent to its issue price of Rs 542 on the BSE and later closed at Rs 509.85, down 5.9 per cent over the issue price. All eyes are now on the listing of Paytm parent One97 Communications on Thursday. The Sigachi stock debuted at Rs 575 against an issue price of Rs 163 — the second best after Tantia Constructions, which in April 2006 had delivered a gain of 260 per cent. The share hit the 5 per cent upper circuit at Rs 603.75 on the BSE — a rise of 270 per cent over the issue price. On the NSE, the scrip closed at Rs 598.50 after opening at Rs 570. Shares of PB Fintech debuted at Rs 1,150 — a premium of 17.34 per cent to the issue price of Rs 980 on the BSE. The share later closed at Rs 1,202.90, leading to a market cap of Rs 54,070 crore. On the NSE, the counter closed at Rs 1,201.60 after opening at Rs 1,150.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
16-11-2021||Business||RBI bulletin sees uneven economic recovery||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday said monetary and credit conditions were conducive for a durable economic recovery in the country. However, the central bank cited multiple challenges on the global front, including faster policy normalisation by major central banks that could lead to the tightening of financial conditions which will suppress the growth impulses. The observations were made by an RBI bulletin for November. According to the report, the Indian economy is differentiating itself from the global situation, which is marred by supply disruptions, stubborn inflation and surges of the infection (Covid-19) in various parts of the world. The central bank added the domestic situation has brightened following the considerable dip in fresh infections and a rapid progress in inoculations. The report warned the speed and pace of recovery remains uneven across different sectors of the economy. “The outlook remains overcast by the future course of the pandemic and global supply disruptions.’’ The RBI said mobility was rapidly improving, job market was recouping, while overall economic activity is on the cusp of a strengthening revival. In its October monetary policy, the RBI had retained its earlier projection of a 9.5 per cent real GDP growth in this fiscal. The report said in October-November, with the onset of the festival season, both the Google and Apple mobility indices recorded a marked improvement. Electricity generation in the first 10 days of November remained comparable with those recorded a year ago as well as over the pre-pandemic levels. There was an improvement in aggregate demand indicators, the report said. The e-way bill generation in October has surpassed the pre-pandemic levels of February 2020, an indication of improved economic activity and movement of goods transport. Some of the sectors such as  construction  is yet to catch up with its February 2020 levels as both steel consumption and cement production trailed below the baseline. The aviation sector also saw a pick-up in both passenger and cargo traffic and as per CMIE’s employment statistics, the labour market recovery is almost complete with the number of workers employed in September-October approaching the levels seen in 2019. The bulletin said the government is comfortably placed to achieve its tax revenue collection target for 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
16-11-2021||Business||American Airlines relaunches flights to India this week||American Airlines relaunched flights to India this week, nearly a decade after stopping them, looking to capitalise on growing demand for non-stop travel amid the coronavirus pandemic, a senior executive of the airline told Reuters. With travel demand bouncing back at home, American Airlines wants to expand its international network and India was “one of the biggest untapped markets” for it, said Tom Lattig, managing director of EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) sales. “A lot of customers really want to fly non-stop, particularly as we’ve come through the pandemic. We know there is huge demand for travel between India and the US so there is an opportunity right now in the middle of the pandemic to come back,” Lattig said in an interview in New Delhi. American Airlines, which suspended services to India in 2012, started flying between New Delhi and New York on the weekend and will add flights between India’s tech city of Bangalore and Seattle in March. If it succeeds with those two routes, it will add services to India’s financial capital of Mumbai, Lattig said. The expansion would also depend on the availability of aircraft as it awaits deliveries of wide-body aircraft from Boeing, he said. “There are more opportunities than we actually have aircraft for,” Lattig said. The US carrier is already flying 90 per cent of its pre-pandemic capacity at home and has even deployed widebody planes on some routes, Lattig said. Demand from Europe and Britain was also strong, especially after the United States opened its borders last week, and demand from Mexico and parts of Latin America had exceeded 2019 levels, he said. But the airline had yet to see any meaningful recovery in Asia, where it is flying less than 25 per cent of pre-pandemic capacity, Lattig said, adding that the slow rate of vaccinations in the region was partly to blame. Most of the current demand globally is from those visiting friends and family or for leisure. Lattig expected it would be the end of 2023 before corporate travel recovers to 2019 levels, with Asia being the slowest region to bounce back. Lattig said as American Airlines looks to establish a presence in India, it was banking on its service and a four-class cabin to better compete with rivals like Air India, which was acquired by India’s Tata Group, and United Airlines — both offering direct flights to the United States. Reuters The airline will also leverage its partnership with U.S. low-cost carrier JetBlue and code share with India's biggest airline - budget carrier IndiGo (INGL.NS) - to feed its network by connecting travellers from multiple cities. “We're going be the newcomer and we are going to be aggressive about establishing a place for ourselves," Lattig said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
