17-11-2021||Business||WTO: India to pitch for permanent solution for food security||India will pitch for finding a permanent solution to the issue of public stock holding for food security purposes in the forthcoming meeting of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) at Geneva, starting from November 30, an official said. The official expressed hope that "something may come" up on public stockholding and domestic support, which are part of negotiations on the agriculture sector, in the 12th ministerial conference, which is the highest decision making body of the 164-member WTO. The four-day ministerial conference will begin from November 30. "Now that the 12th meeting is approaching; a number of submissions are being made at the WTO for advancing negotiations in agriculture. India along with the G33 (group of nations) has been engaging in achieving a permanent solution to the public stockholding issue," the government official said. The official added that the public stockholding (PSH) is must for India because it has a mandate, which goes back a long period of time and India will pitch for that. Finding a permanent solution to the public food stockpile issue is linked to the survival of 800 million hungry people across the globe. Under the global trade norms, a WTO member's food subsidy bill should not breach the limit of 10 per cent of the value of production based on the reference price of 1986-88. Apprehending that full implementation of the food security programme may result in breach of the WTO cap, India has been seeking amendments in the formula to calculate the food subsidy cap. As an interim measure, the WTO members at the Bali ministerial meeting in December 2013 had agreed to put in place a mechanism popularly called the Peace Clause and committed to negotiating an agreement for permanent solution at the 11th ministerial meeting at Buenos Aires. Under the Peace Clause, WTO members agreed to refrain from challenging any breach in the prescribed ceiling by a developing nation at the dispute settlement forum of the WTO. This clause will be there till a permanent solution is found to the food stockpiling issue. India has invoked the clause in 2018-19 (13 per cent) and 2019-20 (11 per cent) as it breached the subsidy cap for rice. The current discourse in agriculture negotiations at the WTO includes developed members seeking developing countries to take on additional commitments in terms of enhanced market access, reduction in policy space through reduced domestic support. India is also co-sponsoring a G33 proposal for a permanent solution on PSH for food security purposes at the WTO on September 15. The chair of the committee on agriculture-special session of the WTO has come up with a draft ministerial text on PSH for the 12th ministerial conference wherein two options have been proposed including to continue negotiations on PSH beyond the 12th meeting. India has not agreed to these options, the official said. The seven negotiating areas under agriculture are domestic support, market access, export competition, export restrictions, cotton, special safeguard mechanism, public stockholding for food security purposes and transparency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-11-2021||Business||Sensex sheds 314 points to close at 60,008||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 314 points on Wednesday tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and Kotak Bank. The 30-share index ended 314.04 points or 0.52 per cent lower at 60,008.33, extending losses for the second straight day. Similarly, the Nifty fell by 100.55 points or 0.56 per cent to 17,898.65. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank, Bharti Airtel, Titan, Dr Reddy's and M&M. On the other hand, Maruti, Asian Paints, PowerGrid and NTPC were among the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses, while Shanghai was positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.90 per cent to USD 81.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-11-2021||Business||Ameer Merchant, The Eminent Entrepreneur On Investing In Stocks & Achieving Financial Goals||They say that to have financial success in your life, you have to take risks and start investing in assets and no one knows this better than Ameer Merchant. Coming from Bhavnagar, the prominent Entrepreneur exemplified the power of passion and dedication. Instead of following the conventional way of achieving financial goals, Ameer ventured his way to Entrepreneurship. Being at different places all over the world allowed him to gain extensive experience in various aspects of life which helped him to be a wiser personality. Ameer Merchant is currently the proud owner of several renowned firms such as Marine-Enterprise, Alreza Foods, Euphoria & Island Foods Co. When asked about his success, Ameer says, " Being the owner of this company which is growing exponentially is a lot more challenging than people can think of. I would say that the reason behind the growth and success of this company is the amazing team who is committed to their work." Adding to it, Ameer also said that a company can only reach the height it deserves only if it benefits people and be the change in society. Ameer still works hard to ensure that he is always at the top of his game. By learning constantly, your career graph will keep on growing exponentially and Ameer's journey exemplifies it. He started investing in stocks and currently has become a big-time stock investor. When he was asked about what motivated him to put his foot forward in this field, he said, " It is no news that to achieve your financial goals, but not everyone is ready to take the risk. I believe that investing is more of a calculative risk and people, especially the youth, must start knowing about it." Building assets is the ultimate way of securing your financial status. He has also ventured into the fragrance industry and has achieved a triumph. Ameer's success story has been full of ups and downs. Thanks to his challenging days, allowed him to become a prominent personality. With the sudden surge in the competition, Ameer is aware that he has to level up his game if he wants to be at the top. Currently, Ameer is still working hard and we all know that with diligent efforts and open-mindedness, Ameer will achieve everything he deserves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-11-2021||Business||Introduction to Mutual Funds and its types||Mutual Fund investment is the current hot topic in India. People have slowly realised the importance of investing and not just saving their earnings. The Mutual fund is a very good source of investment for a minimum sum of ₹ 500 to huge sums in crores. The Mutual Funds managers invest the collected corpus of different investors and allocate the amount in different securities to earn returns. The mutual funds investors can freely choose their choice of mutual funds from a variety of schemes as per their preference and needs. Mutual Funds Types Mutual Funds are classified into many types on the basis of different criterion like securities invested in, entry and exit conditions, and other factors. Let us discuss further the types of Mutual Funds. The Mutual funds are broadly classified in open-ended and close-ended funds. Open-ended Mutual Funds: The investor is free to enter and exit from such type of mutual funds at any given time. The investor can buy or sell their units in the mutual funds at the Spot NAV on the given date of transaction. Most of the Mutual Funds are open-ended and do not have a fixed maturity term. Close-ended Mutual Funds: These mutual funds are the opposite of open-ended funds. These funds have a fixed maturity term and are open for investing only during the launch period. Here are the different types of Mutual Funds present in the Indian market on the basis of securities invested in- 1. Growth or Equity schemes: As the name suggests, these mutual funds are for investors who wish to invest in the stock market. This is a highly risky form of investment as the share market is very volatile and can be bullish or bearish due to many direct and indirect events happening all around the world. Long-term investors prefer these mutual funds to avail themselves the benefit of growth in stocks. 2. Liquid or Money market funds: These Mutual funds are preferred by investors who want to invest for a short period of time. Securities that are mostly invested in are corporate bonds, certificate of deposits or commercial papers. 3. Debt funds or Fixed income Mutual Funds: It is one of the mutual funds with the least amount of risk for the investors, as the mutual funds managers invest in fixed income securities like government bonds, debentures, which follow the low-risk-low-return policy. This mutual fund scheme is ideal for investors looking for steady income. 4. Balanced funds: These Mutual funds invest in a way to maintain a balance of the debt as well as the equity in the fund invested by the mutual funds' manager. This combination offers a moderate return to the investor with comparatively lower risk than the equity or growth funds. 5. Gilt Mutual Funds: These are a very safe form of investment, as the securities invested in are only government securities. This fund is preferred by the risk-averse investors mostly. Mutual Funds calculation It is very accessible to calculate the returns from the mutual funds you are investing in. Many sources and tools are available online for mutual funds calculation purposes. The mutual funds calculator estimates the returns from a particular mutual fund. You just need to fill in a few details and click submit or OK; then the calculator will give you the information that you need. There can be majorly three types of calculators- Lumpsum Calculator: Under this calculator, enter the amount that you are potentially going to invest in one go or lumpsum. Set the time period you wish to invest that amount for and also enter the expected average return from the mutual fund scheme. Then it will provide you with the value of the sum that you will receive at maturity. SIP Calculator: This is very similar to the lumpsum calculator, the only difference being that lumpsum requires a one-time investment. But under the SIP plan, the investor has to deposit smaller amounts in instalments, which can be monthly, or quarterly, semi-annually or yearly. SIPs are preferred by investors who cannot invest a huge amount in one instalment. Goal calculator: Person can also invest in the mutual funds as per the amount they want to accumulate after a given period of time. And according to your expected return, desired maturity amount and time period, the calculator will provide you with the amount that you need to invest, whether lumpsum or in SIPs. For example, you wish to save ₹ 25 lakhs for your dream car and purchase it in the next 5 years. You can easily get the information from the mutual funds calculator that you need to invest at least ₹ 29000 monthly for five years when the minimum expected to return in 15% on the investment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-11-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex fell over 200 points in early trade on Wednesday tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a largely negative trend in Asian markets. The 30-share index was trading 245.5 points or 0.41 per cent lower at 60,076.87 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty fell 72.40 points or 0.40 per cent to 17,926.80. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank and HCL Tech. On the other hand, NTPC, Asian Paints, M&M, PowerGrid, Maruti and Bajaj Auto were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 396.34 points or 0.65 per cent lower at 60,322.37, and Nifty fell 110.25 points or 0.61 per cent to 17,999.20. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 560.67 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. "When valuations are rich, as they are now, some triggers can cause market pullback. The minor pullback on Tuesday was caused by the RBI's observations on excessive stock valuations," said VK Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was positive. Stock exchanges in the US ended with gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.84 per cent to USD 81.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-11-2021||Business||Sebi proposes market making mechanism for corporate bonds||Sebi on Tuesday proposed a market making mechanism in the corporate bond market in a bid to enhance liquidity in the secondary market for such bonds. Market makers are entities that quote both a buy and a sell price for corporate bonds in order to create liquidity in the secondary market. Generally, stock brokers double up as market makers. In a consultation paper, the regulator suggested that registered stock brokers or merchant bankers can act as market makers in the corporate bond market subject to minimum net worth requirements. To ensure the capital adequacy of a market maker, Sebi proposed that only those stock brokers or merchant bankers that have an additional net worth of Rs 10 crore over-and-above the requirements of their respective rules under Sebi should be permitted to act as market makers. The proposed framework should be applicable to listed issuers which have listed their non-convertible debt securities and their outstanding value of such debt securities should be at least Rs 500 crore as on the last date of the previous financial year. It should also be applicable for all prospective issuances, irrespective of the rating assigned thereof, according to Sebi. The regulator said that responsibilities of issuers and market makers should be on a comply or explain basis for one financial year to start with. “Market making is a significant cog in the wheel which will not only enhance liquidity but also provide a fillip to facilitate market efficiency and functioning,” Sebi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-11-2021||Business||Tea gardens focused on quality manage to arrest decline in prices ||Tea gardens that focused on quality have managed to arrest a general decline in prices this year, partly mitigating a steep cost push because of wage hikes in poll bound Bengal and Assam. Tea prices have softened on the back of higher production this year compared with 2020 when the lockdown forced garden closure, resulting in crop loss and higher prices. However, top gardens in Assam and Dooars are fetching more than they did around this time last year as packers continue to hunt for quality tea for their blends. “There were only a handful of Assam gardens fetching over Rs 400 a kg about a month ago. Now there are at least 15-20 gardens touching that figure. And chances are such prices will sustain because quality tea is in short supply,” Kavi Seth, chairman of J Thomas, said. A study conducted by Icra says average prices at north India auction centres were down by Rs 60 a kg (23 per cent) on a year-on-year basis during the first half of this fiscal. However, realisations of the top 50 CTC gardens declined by only 8.5 per cent in this period compared with 20 per cent for teas produced from the estates’ own gardens. In contrast, the price decline has been most in the bought leaf segment, which was down by Rs 77 a kg, or 33 per cent, the Icra report added. Atul Asthana, managing director of Goodricke Group, pointed out that he has never seen such prices for Dooars before. Gardens such as Danguajhar and Chulsa have been steady performers for the company this year because they focused on quality. However, he was quick to point out that only a handful of gardens are doing well and the vast majority is financially struggling on the back of wage cost hikes. There are about 750 gardens in Assam, 350 in Dooars and Terai and 80 in Darjeeling in Bengal. Wage, which contributes nearly two-third of the production cost, has gone up by over 20 per cent earlier this year. “Not all gardens can produce good quality. Tea is an agricultural product which deals with many variables. While it is good that some of the estates are being rewarded for their quality, the majority is languishing due to unremunerative prices,” Asthana said. Luxmi Tea managing director Rudra Chatterjee said the relentless focus on quality pays off. “Good quality tea will always find a buyer at the end of the day,” the Makaibari estate owner, who has multiple gardens in Assam, said. However, high prices for good quality are usually more pronounced in a market with an over-supply situation. Estate owners have been making representations to the government to allow crop diversification, which in effect may take out poor quality products and combat the excess production of tea which has been the bane for the industry in the last decade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-11-2021||Business||Price ceiling on raw jute presents fresh challenge for jute mills||A price ceiling on raw jute has presented a fresh challenge for jute mills that have sought government (both central and state) intervention to address the issue amid the prevailing high prices of similar grade of jute crop in Bangladesh. Owing to the Covid pandemic and cyclone Amphan, in 2020-21, raw jute production had fallen to 58 lakh bales. Bengal constitutes a major part of the jute production in India. This led to high volatility in raw jute prices for the season ending June 2021. Farmers who got better prices from the sale of crops in the previous year stepped up output for the 2021-22 jute season. According to Indian Jute Mills Association estimated raw jute production in 2021-22 jute year is 85 lakh bales. But it is still less than 100 lakh bales required for production of jute bags to package foodgrains. Higher new crop supply in July 2021 led to raw jute prices  falling sharply. But farmers were reluctant to part with the crop at low prices. The office of the Jute Commissioner issued a notification with an upward ceiling of Rs 6,500 per quintal in September. While the price is higher than the MSP of Rs 4,500 per quintal, it is still below the prevailing price in Bangladesh of around Rs 7,000 per quintal for comparative grade of raw jute. “With over 60 per cent of the crop still held at the micro level, the price ceiling limits fixed will prove to be counterproductive. The jute growers will become wary of committing to cultivation, thereby negating the objective of promoting jute to meet the goals of eco-friendly packaging of food grains,” IJMA said in a letter to textile minister Piyush Goyal. The industry body has also written to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting to take up the matter of price ceiling with the Centre. IJMA also sought government intervention towards utilising Jute Corporation of India to procure jute from farmers and supply the industry under linkage of jute bag supply order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-11-2021||Business||Cairn-Halliburton technical partnership announced||Cairn Oil & Gas on Tuesday announced a technical partnership with US-based Halliburton Company to raise 10-fold the reserves of its offshore assets as well as explore shale oil and gas in Rajasthan. Cairn, a unit of mining group Vedanta Ltd, is investing $3-4 billion in exploration and production of oil and gas across its assets that consist the prolific Rajasthan block, Ravva oil and gas field in Bay of Bengal and Cambay fields in western offshore. The company is targeting to reach 500,000 barrels of oil and oil equivalent gas production in 2-3 years including a fifth from offshore areas, Cairn CEO Prachur Sah said. “It is more than a technical partnership that we have entered into with Halliburton. We intend to use their technical expertise besides project execution capabilities,” he said. Founded in 1919, Halliburton is one of the world's largest providers of products and services to the energy industry. “Under this alliance, Cairn will work with Halliburton to pursue the target of increasing its recoverable reserve from offshore assets to 300 million barrels oil equivalent — a 10-fold increase from the present cumulative of 30 mmboe,” the company said in a statement. Sah said Cairn at present produces 25,000 barrels of oil and oil equivalent gas from offshore areas which is intended to go up to 100,000 barrels of oil and oil equivalent gas with the partnership with Halliburton in three years. The partnership for offshore assets will evolve through three stages of conceptual design, conceptual detailing, and execution. This will include geological and seismic studies, well-designing and engineering and drilling to determine recoverable reserves. The offshore assets include Ravva, off the coast of Andhra Pradesh, Cambay, on the western coast, and several newly acquired OALP (open acreage licensing policy) blocks. In shale, the chosen area in Lower Barmer Hills, Rajasthan, is estimated to have a shale potential of 3 billion barrels and with this partnership, Cairn aims to confirm a reserve of 300 mmboe. India is yet to commercially produce shale and this partnership can play a pivotal role in driving energy sufficiency for the country. “To achieve energy sufficiency, India must improve upstream exploration, augment technology for brownfield and encourage unconventional energy resources such as shale. With this partnership, we are combining the best of global technology with the promise of new-age exploration of unconventional fuels,” Sah said. The exploration and production of shale has revolutionised US' energy landscape and for India too, the fuel can be a game-changer. Cairn and Halliburton will develop pilot drills to explore the potential of shale in the Barmer basin. “The current shale potential here stands at 3 bn barrels and with this partnership, Cairn wants to establish a reserve of 300 mmboe,” the statement said. Earlier this year, Cairn had announced the beginning of oil production from the neighbouring Aishwarya Barmer Hill (ABH) site. India is yet to commercially produce shale and this association will be a significant step towards that end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-11-2021||Business||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala's  Akasa Air orders 72, 737 Max planes||Stock market titan Rakesh Jhunjhunwala’s airline Akasa Air on Tuesday  placed an order for 72 Boeing 737 Max planes, valued at nearly $9 billion. The deal includes two variants from the 737 Max family, the 737-8 and  high-capacity 737-8-200. The order by Akasa comes months after civil aviation regulator DGCA allowed the country’s airlines to fly the Max jet, ending its nearly two-and-a-half years of regulatory grounding after two fatal crashes in five months killed 346 people. SNV Aviation, which would fly under the brand name Akasa Air, has already received a No Objection Certificate (NoC) from the aviation ministry. The low cost airline plans to offer flights across India from the summer of 2022. Jhunjhunwala will reportedly invest nearly Rs 260 crore for a 40 per cent stake in Akasa. His team includes  former IndiGo president Aditya Ghosh and former Jet Airways CEO Vinay Dube, who will be the CEO of Akasa Air and director of the holding company, SNV Aviation Private Limited. “We are already witnessing a strong recovery in air travel, and we see decades of growth ahead of us,” Dube said at the Dubai air show, where the order was announced. “We believe that the new 737 Max airplane will support our aim of running not just a cost-efficient, reliable and affordable airline but also an environmentally friendly company with the youngest and greenest fleet in the Indian skies,” he said in a release. Dube said Akasa Air’s core purpose was  to help power India’s growth engine and democratise air travel by creating an inclusive environment for all Indians regardless of their socio-economic or cultural backgrounds. “Providing the lowest seat-mile costs for a single-aisle airplane as well as high dispatch reliability and an enhanced passenger experience, the 737 Max will ensure Akasa Air has a competitive edge in its dynamic home market, “an Akasa Air  statement said Speaking at the signing the deal, Stan Deal, president and CEO, Boeing Commercial Airplanes said, “the 737 MAX, with its optimized performance, flexibility and capability, is the perfect airplane to establish Akasa in the Indian market.” According to  Boeing’, India’s growing economy and expanding middle class will fuel strong demand for commercial flights, driving the need for more than 2,200 new airplanes in South Asia valued at nearly $320 billion over the next 20 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
17-11-2021||Business||India to have free trade agreement with UAE in next 100 days||The country plans to have a free trade agreement with the United Arab Emirates in the next 100 days and a working group has been set up to work out an FTA with the six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) as a group, Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday. “We will have an FTA with the UAE in the next 60-100 days and an interim agreement with Australia probably around the same time. With the EU, work should start soon (as) they have recently appointed a lead negotiator and we are working to start with Canada,” he said at the CII’s National Conference on MNCs 2021. The UAE is the third largest trading partner of India despite a dip in both exports and imports in 2020-21 due to the pandemic. India’s exports to the UAE last fiscal were valued at $16.7 billion while imports from the country were at $26.6 billion. The country is also among the top 10 investors into India with an estimated $11 billion of investments, more than half of which is in the form of FDI. “We have launched (FTA talks) with Israel and have already set up a working group to work out with the six GCC nations as a group,” Goyal said. The GCC, which includes Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, UAE, Saudi Arabia and Qatar, is of both economic and strategic interest to India as it has emerged as one of the largest trading partners. It has a substantial oil and gas reserve, which is also of great importance for the country’s energy needs. Moreover, it is a source of increased foreign investments into India. Under an FTA, two trading partners reduce or eliminate customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them. Besides, they liberalise norms to enhance trade in services and boost investments. Goyal appealed to MNCs to use India as a manufacturing base as they can capture the world from India. "Hope you continue to grow, acquire new businesses, recruit in India and bring international talent here," he said, adding that on the single window clearance platform, more states will come on board. He said the country attracted "record" foreign direct investments in the last seven years and the trend is expected to continue in the coming years as well on account of major structural reforms being undertaken by the government. He said India is focusing on integrating its quality standards with the world and the country needs to let go of the mindset of a particular product being for the domestic market and others for the export market. "Last seven years, we have seen record FDIs (Foreign Direct Investments). I hope to see that continue, looking at major structural reforms being undertaken. This pick-up in economic activity is here to stay and the future looks to be extremely bright," he said. FDI inflows into the country rose 62 per cent to $27 billion during the April-July period of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
17-11-2021||Business||Fitch Ratings keeps India sovereign rating unchanged at 'BBB-'||Fitch Ratings on Tuesday kept India’s sovereign rating unchanged at “BBB-” with a negative outlook due to a rise in public debt ratio and uncertainty on the debt trajectory. The negative outlook on the rating reflects lingering uncertainty around the medium-term debt trajectory, particularly given India’s limited fiscal headroom . Fitch said the rating balances a still-strong medium-term outlook and external resilience from solid foreign-reserve buffers. The rapid recovery from the pandemic is narrowing risks to the medium-term growth outlook. The rating agency said “immediate financial-sector pressure has eased, in part due to regulatory forbearance measures that are providing banks with time to rebuild capital buffers. The level of asset quality deterioration from the pandemic, while masked by forbearance relief, also appears less severe than we had anticipated.” The recently incorporated National Asset Reconstruction Company (bad bank) could help banks address our expected build-up of impaired loans, while sustaining adequate credit growth, though more details are needed to fully assess its potential. “Still, we expect credit growth to remain constrained, averaging at 6.7% year on year over the next several years, unless adequate recapitalisation can mitigate the risk aversion currently seen among banks,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
17-11-2021||Business||Delhi High Court directs CCI to rush ruling on Amazon||The Competition Commission of India must expeditiously decide whether Amazon misled them while seeking approval for its 2019 deal with a Future group entity, the Delhi high court said on Tuesday. The case in the high court was filed by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), which said it was protecting the interests of 6,000 traders which had supplied goods to the Future group amounting to Rs 10,000 crore and wants to recover the money from the group. The CAIT said in a statement it had filed the case before the Delhi high court on Monday and the ruling was made on Tuesday. It said the court has given the CCI two weeks to decide on the matter. Amazon and Future, India’s second-largest retailer, have been locked in a legal battle since 2021. The e-commerce giant successfully blocked Future’s bid to sell its retail assets to rival Reliance, accusing its partner of breaching some pre-existing agreements. Future, which denies any wrongdoing and fears liquidation if it fails to sell assets, has been arguing before the Competition Commission of India (CCI) that approval for the 2019 Amazon deal should be revoked as the US firm had made misleading representations while seeking approval. Amazon has said it is confident of addressing such regulatory concerns. A Delhi high court bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said the decision by the CCI be taken in accordance with rules, law and government policy applicable to the facts of the case and adequate opportunity be given to the parties to be heard. The court said it was not inclined to decide this issue and disposed of the CAIT petition. The plea said Amazon has obtained the approval of CCI for its investment in FCPL by deceit, fraud, misrepresentation and false representation. Lawyer for the CAIT told the court  it was interested in the matter to help the small traders recover the money from the Future group to prevent and to put an end to the alleged anti-competitive activities of Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC and its group companies operating in India which already have had a disastrous effect on crores of small traders. Additional solicitor general N. Venkatraman and lawyer Manu Chaturvedi, representing CCI, informed the court that the CCI is contemplating to call Amazon on January 4 for a hearing after which the matter will be decided. The CAIT has prayed that between the fights of corporate giants, Amazon and the Future group, traders should not be made a scapegoat or suffer any financial loss. The CAIT said that Amazon’s claim of control over Future Retail through their investment in Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) is illegal as no-foreign company is allowed to own or control a multi brand retail company such as FRL. “Had Amazon declared their intent of such control and relevant fact in their notice to CCI at the time of seeking its approval, CCI would have never allowed such illegal transaction to happen and therefore we are expecting CCI to revoke its approval,” CAIT said in a press statement. It added that if such misrepresentations are allowed to continue, then every company would misrepresent the facts of transactions just to seek CCI's approval and subsequently carry out a different transaction camouflaged as a transaction approved by CCI. The petitioner sought court's directions calling for all documents, records, internal notes and other information relating to the subject matter of the petition from the CCI and prayed that the commission be directed to take a decision with respect to the June 4 show cause notice within 10 days in accordance with law and the facts and circumstances of the case. With inputs from Reuters & PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
17-11-2021||Business||High-frequency indicators hint at economic recovery: RBI governor||Reserve Bank governor Shaktikanta Das on Tuesday said the economy is gradually recovering from the pandemic, which is evident from the numerous high-frequency indicators. India has the potential to grow at a reasonably high pace in the post-pandemic scenario, Das added. Speaking at an event organised by the State Bank of India (SBI), Das advised lenders to be prudent in risk-taking and use their  capital efficiently, reiterating liquidity will be available for meeting the productive needs of the economy. The central bank has so far not revised its growth projection of 9.5 per cent for the economy, though many others have done so. Analysts will be tracking the next monetary policy meeting in December for any revision. Das’s optimism on the economy comes a day after a monthly bulletin of the central bank referred to a durable economic recovery. Das said though the economy was gradually getting back on its feet after a devastating second wave, the recovery has progressed in an uneven manner. Contact-intensive services are still to regain their lost capacity despite rapid improvement in the recent period. He said India can still grow at a reasonably high pace in a post-pandemic environment. There are several factors that are stacked in India’s favour. Apart from factors such as favourable demographics, improving skill base and strong domestic demand, the government is providing necessary support through capital expenditure and reforms in various sectors such as infrastructure, manufacturing and telecom. The Centre has also adopted measures to boost productivity, ease supply constraints and improve the business environment. The pandemic has opened up new opportunities in digital and green technology even as the resetting of global supply chains could be advantageous to India. Exports are also likely to benefit further from global economic recovery. Das said consumption demand triggered by the festive season was making a strong comeback, encouraging firms to expand capacity and boost employment and investment. The recent fuel duty cuts by the Centre and many states will augment the purchasing power of people, creating space for additional consumption. “Are we at the cusp of a virtuous feedback loop where increased demand impulses will move in lockstep with commensurate supply response and ensure sustained growth of the economy? There are reasons to be optimistic on this front,’’ he said. The RBI governor had some advice for the banking community. He stated that there are risks and challenges which require serious introspection and action on their part. One of the main concerns that have re-emerged relates to the question of capital and provisioning buffers of banks, their adequacy and how they are used during a crisis. "I would thus strongly urge the banks to focus and further improve their capital management processes with a forward-looking, scientific and prudent approach. The key point is to envisage the capacity for loss absorption as an ongoing responsibility of the lending institutions’’, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
