18-11-2021||Business||Sensex slumps 372 points, falls below 60,000||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked 372 points on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors L&T, Infosys and TCS amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share index ended 372.32 points or 0.62 per cent lower at 59,636.01. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 133.85 points or 0.75 per cent to 17,764.80. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, L&T, HCL Tech, Tata Steel and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, SBI, PowerGrid, HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and HUL were among the gainers. The domestic sentiment was impacted by the negative cues from other Asian markets coupled with inflationary pressures partially driven by a surging trend in energy prices, said Likhita Chepa, Senior Research Analyst, Capitalvia Global Research. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.46 per cent to USD 79.91 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-11-2021||Business||Paytm shares make weak debut, tumble over 27 per cent during day trade||Shares of One97 Communications Ltd, Paytm's parent company, on Thursday made a weak market debut and tumbled over 27 per cent during the day from the issue price of Rs 2,150. The stock was listed at Rs 1,955, slipping 9 per cent from the issue price on the BSE. It then tumbled 27.25 per cent to Rs 1,564 during the day. On the NSE, it debuted at Rs 1,950, registering a decline of 9.30 per cent against the issue price. During the day, the stock plunged 27.34 per cent to Rs 1,562. "Paytm, the biggest IPO in India so far debuted the secondary market on a weaker note as compared to our expectations of a flat listing," Santosh Meena, Head of Research, Swastika Investmart Ltd, said. The company commanded a market valuation of Rs 1,01,484.00 crore in late afternoon trade on the BSE. Ant Group-backed Paytm's Rs 18,300 crore IPO was oversubscribed 1.89 times on the last day of India's biggest share sale last week. This was greater than miner Coal India's Rs 15,000 crore offer a decade back. "Paytm, formally called One97 Communications debuts today at exchanges which saw a dull response and got subscribed only 1.89 times from the investors which is much lower compared to the other recently listed companies," Parth Nyati, Founder, Tradingo said. He added that they feel that due to the brand the company sought high valuation and it might see a correction in the near term. The initial public offering of Paytm's parent company One97 Communications Ltd received bids for 9.14 crore equity shares against the offer size of 4.83 crore shares, according to information available with stock exchanges on November 10. Paytm had fixed its IPO in a price band of Rs 2,080-2,150 per share. Incorporated in 2000, One97 Communications is India's leading digital ecosystem for consumers and merchants. It offers a range of services, including payment services and financial services. Launched by a son of a school teacher from a small town Aligarh nearly a decade ago as a platform for cellular recharging, Paytm grew rapidly after ride-hailing agency Uber listed it as a fast cost possibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-11-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex fell over 100 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and TCS amid a negative trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund outflow. Despite opening on a positive note, the 30-share index turned red to trade 112.13 points or 0.19 per cent lower at 59,896.20. Similarly, the Nifty fell 35.95 points or 0.20 per cent to 17,862.70. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's, Maruti, Bajaj Auto and TCS. On the other hand, SBI, HDFC Bank, ITC, Bajaj Finserv and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 314.04 points or 0.52 per cent lower at 60,008.33, extending losses, and Nifty fell by 100.55 points or 0.56 per cent to 17,898.65. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 344.35 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. The market momentum has weakened recently, and the market appears to be heading for a risk-off mode. Lofty valuations, downgrading of India by many foreign brokerages, warning observations from the RBI and sustained selling by FIIs have contributed to this weakness in the market, said VK Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Globally, fresh COVID cases in parts of Europe are concerns. There is fear that fresh COVID- related disruptions may further aggravate supply-side issues adding fuel to the inflation fire, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US also ended in the red in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.54 per cent to USD 79.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-11-2021||Business||Coal India finds initial success in lowering carbon dioxide emission||Coal India has found initial success in lowering carbon dioxide emission using mechanised means of coal transportation through conveyor belts and loading by coal handling plants and silos. The development comes at a time the country has taken a challenging COP26 commitment of achieving net zero emissions by 2070. The public sector miner had engaged National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, a unit of Council of Scientific Industrial Research, to evaluate the environmental impact of coal movement through mechanised means at two of its big opencast mines — Lingaraj and Gevra in Mahanadi Coalfields and South Eastern Coalfields, respectively. In the Lingaraj open cast project, there was an annual reduction of 10,288 tonnes of CO2 emissions, an overall 54 per cent drop compared with despatch through railway sidings. There was also a 73 per cent drop in particulate matter and other gaseous emission. In Gevra, reduction in CO2 emissions was 1,658 tonnes per year, an overall 21 per cent drop against loading through sidings. Particulate matter and gaseous emission reduction was 84 per cent. “The result of the study is encouraging. Mechanised loading offers many environmental benefits such as reduced CO2 emissions, other air pollutants and ambient noise levels. Reliability in coal despatches also increases especially during monsoon as silo loading avoids road transport,” a Coal India official said. The public sector miner has planned an investment of Rs 10,500 crore for first mile connectivity projects that would lift the total mechanised loading by Coal India to 566 million tonnes. According to Coal India officials, another offshoot of mechanised loading is savings that accrue out of a decrease in diesel consumption and road transport cost. The two mines together saved Rs 170 crore on diesel consumption. Coal India is also dovetailing mechanisation projects with main railway lines at an estimated investment of Rs 2,335 crore. Coal is a major source of carbon emission in India. A study by the International Energy Agency shows that economic recovery in India in 2021 is expected to push emissions by almost 1.4 per cent above the 2019 levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-11-2021||Business||Sebi plans to tighten rules for IPO proceeds||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) plans to tighten rules for IPO proceeds, particularly of new age companies. A number of start-ups are planning to tap the capital markets after the successful listing of entities such as Zomato, Nykaa and PB Fintech. In a discussion paper released on Tuesday, the market regulator said companies were proposing in their offer documents to raise funds for “inorganic growth initiatives” which includes future acquisitions, investing in new businesses and strategic partnerships without identifying the target acquisition or giving details of specific investments. Sebi said start-ups were asset-light and may not need funds for  investment in fixed assets or capital expenditure that needs to be specified in their offer documents. Sebi, however, pointed out that raising funds for unidentified acquisition leads to some amount of uncertainty or ambiguity in the IPO objectives. The uncertainties grow  in case a major portion of the fresh issue is earmarked for an unidentified acquisition. This comes even as  issuer companies can raise up to 25 per cent of the fresh issue size under the head of general corporate purpose  (GCP). The market regulator has therefore proposed a combined limit of up to 35 per cent of the fresh issue size for deployment for inorganic growth initiatives and GCP, where the intended acquisition is unidentified in the objects of the offer. It however, added that such limits will not apply if the proposed acquisition or the strategic investment object has already been identified and suitable disclosures made. SEBI also proposed that 50 per cent of the anchor book should be given to those investors who agree with 90 days or longer lock-in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-11-2021||Business||Boeing to pay SpiceJet for grounding of Max ||Budget carrier SpiceJet on Wednesday said Boeing has agreed to settle outstanding claims related to the grounding of 737 Max aircraft. The airline did not specify how much it will receive from Boeing as compensation. SpiceJet’s fleet of 13 Max aircraft was grounded in March 2019 following back-to-back crashes that claimed 346 lives. The airline had raised claims with Boeing regarding “cost and losses”. “SpiceJet is pleased to announce that it has entered into a settlement agreement with Boeing wherein Boeing has agreed to provide certain accommodations and settle the outstanding claims related to the grounding of 737 MAX aircraft and its return to service,” the airline said. The settlement paves the way for the induction of efficient and younger Max aircraft into SpiceJet’s fleet and ensures the resumption of new deliveries from an existing order of 155 Max aircraft, the Indian carrier said. Civil aviation regulator DGCA in August had lifted the ban on 737 Max aircraft commercial flight operations after almost two-and-half years. SpiceJet had reported a net loss of Rs 934.8 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 998.3 crore in 2020-21. It has reported a net loss of Rs 1,291 crore in the first two quarters of the current financial year. Akasa Air Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-backed new airline Akasa Air on Wednesday said it has signed an agreement to purchase CFM LEAP-1B engines to power its Boeing 737 MAX airplanes and the overall deal is estimated to be worth $4.5 billion. Akasa Air had on Tuesday ordered 72 737 Max aircraft from Boeing to launch its service in India. The pact was signed with CFM at the ongoing Dubai Airshow. The deal includes spare engines and long-term service agreement. “We are pleased to partner CFM International as we embark on an exciting journey to launch the greenest, most affordable and most dependable airline in India,” Akasa Air CEO Vinay Dube said. Our partnership with CFM will ensure that we adhere to the world's highest standards of maintenance and deliver the industry's best technical dispatch reliability," Akasa Air CEO Vinay Dube said. Akasa Air, owned by SNV Aviation, is expected to start flying next summer. It has already received a no-objection certificate from the civil aviation ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-11-2021||Business||Charitable trusts liable to pay 18% GST on grants and donations||Charitable trusts are liable to pay 18 per cent GST on grants and non-philanthropic donations received by them, the Maharashtra AAR has ruled. Jayshankar Gramin Va Adivasi Vikas Sanstha Sangamner, a charitable trust registered under the Maharashtra Public Charitable Trust Act 1950, had approached the Maharashtra bench of the Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR), seeking clarity on whether it is liable to pay GST on the amounts received in the form of donations/grants from various entities, including the central and state governments. The trust is also registered under the I-T Act as a charitable trust. It offers shelter, education, guidance, clothing, food and healthcare to 50 orphans and homeless children. The Maharashtra women and child welfare department pays a sum of Rs 2,000 per month per child. Other expenses for children are made from donations. In its ruling, the AAR said the trust would be charged 18 per cent Goods and Services Tax for grants received by it. In the case of donations, the AAR said if the purpose of the donation is philanthropic and leads to no commercial gains and is not an advertisement, then it would not attract GST. In all other cases, donations too would attract an 18 per cent GST. AMRG & Associates senior partner Rajat Mohan said charitable trusts could end up paying GST since July 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-11-2021||Business||Vedanta Ltd plans to demerge and list three businesses||Anil Agarwal-led Vedanta Ltd on Wednesday said it plans to demerge and list its aluminium, iron & steel and oil & gas businesses. The three businesses had a combined turnover of around Rs 18,000 crore during the quarter ended September 30, 2021 against a consolidated turnover of Rs 30,048 crore. In a regulatory filing after market hours on Wednesday, Vedanta said it has constituted a committee of directors to evaluate and recommend options and alternatives such as demergers, spin-offs or strategic partnerships. A PTI report quoting chairman Agarwal said Vedanta and the three businesses would operate in parallel. Agarwal added that the model being evaluated will provide natural avenues for growth and enhance shareholder value in all the three businesses. A shareholder of Vedanta will own four times more shares once the plan is approved and implemented. These include the share of the company and those in the three businesses, Agarwal said. Analysts warned that Vedanta had announced similar plans in the past only to abandon them later. Vedanta said the exercise was meant to simplify and streamline the corporate structure, unlock value for all stakeholders and create businesses that are positioned better to capitalise on their distinct market positions and deliver long-term growth and enable strategic partnerships. The board has appointed various advisers to assist in evaluating the options. “It is anticipated that the board and advisers will complete their evaluation and consider the way forward as soon as practically possible. Appropriate announcements and public disclosures in accordance with Sebi listing rules will be made as and when required.” According to Agarwal, over the past few years, the group has materially improved the operational performance of the businesses, increased cash flows, reduced debt while also focusing on accelerating investments in energy transition, health and safety, diversity and ESG in general. Cairn pact Cairn Oil & Gas on Wednesday said it had entered into a partnership with Baker Hughes. Under the alliance, Cairn is looking to increase its recoverable reserve to 250 mmboe (million barrels of oil equivalent) from 45 mmboe now. The company is the oil and gas arm of Vedanta. According to a statement, the partnership will be across three phases covering technical assistance and conceptual design, detailed technical evaluation and pilot execution, and full field development planning and execution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-11-2021||Business||Telecom levy to hook  up 7,300 villages||The government on Wednesday cleared the utilisation of the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) for the provision of mobile connectivity in 7,287 uncovered villages across five states at an estimated cost of Rs 6,466 crore. Briefing media on the cabinet decisions, information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said these uncovered villages of 44 districts across five states of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Odisha will get 4G-based mobile services. “A total of 7,287 uncovered villages will get telecom towers and services, and lakhs of people will get connectivity,” Thakur said. The estimated cost of implementation of Rs 6,466 crore includes operational expenses for five years. The project would be funded by the USOF, and would be completed within 18 months of signing of the agreement, an official release said. The work would be awarded through an open competitive bidding process according to extant USOF procedures. The move would also enable establishment of enterprises and e-commerce facilities, provision of adequate support to educational institutes for knowledge sharing and availability of job opportunity, while fulfilling the vision of Digital India. “The present proposal for provisioning of mobile services in the remote and difficult uncovered areas of aspirational districts across five states of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Odisha will enhance digital connectivity useful for self-reliance, facilitate learning, dissemination of information and knowledge, skill upgradation and development, disaster management, e-Governance initiatives," the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-11-2021||Business||LIC IPO expected to hit markets in Jan-Mar quarter of current fiscal||The much awaited mega-IPO of Life Insurance Corporation is expected to hit the markets in the January-March quarter of the current fiscal as the Centre goes on the overdrive to meet the selloff target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore in the fiscal. The government also plans to call for financial bids to privatise 5 to 6 public sector undertakings (PSUs), including BPCL, in December-January, and close the transactions in this fiscal itself. The initial public offering (IPO) of LIC is on track and is likely to hit the market in the first quarter of 2022 (calender year), department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said on Wednesday. Speaking at CII’s Global Economy Policy Summit, Pandey said: “After 19 years, we would possibly see 5-6 privatisations this year. Not only Air India but BPCL is also in the due diligence stage. BEML, Pawan Hans, NINL, these are the transactions in which financial biddings can take place in December-January.” Some reports have suggested that the state insurer’s IPO is expected to raise between Rs 40,000 crore and Rs 1 lakh crore. The government might allow foreign direct investment in the state insurer to enable a diversified and stronger demand across a varied group of investors. The investment bankers plan to file the draft prospectus with market regulator Sebi by the first week of December after deriving the embedded value of the insurer. On BPCL, Pandey said that the process was in the due diligence stage. Three bidders have reportedly shown interest in acquiring the oil marketing company. “While financial bidding of BEML, Shipping Corp, Pawan Hans, Central Electronic and Neelachal Ispat can take place in December-January, their transaction is expected in the current fiscal,” he said Pandey said besides ministerial level consultations, the cabinet secretary also held a meeting to simplify the process. The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government in meeting its disinvestment target. So far this financial year, Rs 9,330 crore has been mopped up through minority stake sales in PSUs and the sale of SUUTI (Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India) stake in Axis Bank. On Air India, Pandey said the government aims to complete the handover of the national carrier by December. “We are moving towards a situation in privatisation, where it is not only in policy but also in action,” Pandey said. FM views Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman addressing the CII event asked India Inc to be a lot more risk-taking, build capacity and understand what the country is looking for. “We want the Indian Industry to come forward and expand. Whether you are building a road or mass housing, you need to be scaling up and speeding up and it is that work which would gain traction in government policy and in the government’s funding initiative,” she said. Department of economic affairs secretary Ajay Seth said at the CII meet that India needed to double the capital expenditure in the medium term from about 5-6 per cent of the GDP. Efforts, he added, have to be made to channelise all avenues of savings for garnering resources to step up investment in infrastructure. Economic growth has to come from a virtuous cycle of private investment with the private sector having a larger economic role, while the government’s role would be that of a facilitator, Seth said. He further said that the Indian capital market has to mature to enable investors to attract long-term funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
