19-11-2021||Business||Paytm makes disastrous stock market debut on Thursday||Digital payments firm Paytm made a disastrous stock market debut on Thursday as investors clobbered the scrip and gouged more than 27 per cent off its issue price amid mounting concerns over lofty valuations and the business model. One97 Communications Ltd, the parent company of Paytm, had raised Rs 18,300 crore from the country’s largest-ever initial public offering (IPO) that had barely squeaked through because of lingering doubts over the loss-making company’s path to profitability. The stock, which had been priced at Rs 2,150, tumbled to Rs 1,955 at the start of a rocky day of trading on the Bombay Stock Exchange, before plunging to a low of Rs 1,564 at 3pm when trading was stalled after it struck the lower circuit breaker. The circuit breaker is generally activated when the newly listed stock dips or rises by 20 per cent from the day’s opening price to give investors the chance to catch their breath. Narrower circuit-breaker thresholds are set for smaller stock issues. The stock closed at Rs 1,564.15, which meant that investor wealth worth Rs 38,000 crore had been wiped out on the very first day. CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma, who cried with joy at the opening ceremony, later said he was unperturbed by the slide. “One day does not decide what our future is,” he said. “It is simply an opinion of a few buyers and sellers of that day.” The comment failed to quell investor concerns that boiled over after foreign brokerage Macquarie put out a report that gave the stock an underperform rating and set a target price of Rs 1,200 — which implies a further 23 per cent fall from Thursday’s closing price and 44 per cent lower than the issue price. Paytm, backed by China’s Ant Group and Japan’s SoftBank, cranked up its digital payments business after the Narendra Modi government’s controversial demonetisation exercise in November 2016. It famously courted controversy by taking out full-page advertisements with the Prime Minister’s photograph welcoming the decision to shred 86 per cent of all the currency circulating at that time and had to apologise for the unauthorised use of Modi’s picture. The company had posted losses of Rs 382 crore on revenues of Rs 891 crore in the first quarter ended June 30. For the year ended March 31, 2021, it recorded a net loss of Rs 1,701 crore on revenues of Rs 2,802 crore. Sharma and his deputy Madhur Deora bristled when grilled on a television channel about the Macquarie report which said loss-making Paytm would never make money unless it actually lent money and stopped being a mere distributor. “We are not going to comment on a random report by a broker who is not in on the deal, probably does not understand our business model and has never spoken to us,” said Deora. Sharma added: “People will take time to understand the business model. The fact that a payment company can do financial services like private insurance and wealth is something new to the Indian stock market.… Over the period, it will show up what this business model and scale is.” He recalled that very few people understood how the digital payments system worked when Paytm was launched. Cab-hailing service Uber was among the first to accept Paytm payments. Macquarie analysts Suresh Ganapathy and Param Subramanian said in their note that Paytm’s business model lacked focus and direction. They added that achieving scale and profitability would be a big challenge for the cash-guzzling company. “Most things that Paytm does, every other large ecosystem player like Amazon, Flipkart, Google, etc, are doing. Paytm has to lend, i.e, use its own balance sheet to make loans and to do that profitably for which it needs a banking licence, credit underwriting experience and collection infrastructure all of which are lacking at present in our view,” the report said. “Dabbling in multiple business lines inhibits Paytm from being a category leader in any business except wallets, which are becoming inconsequential with the meteoric rise in UPI payments. Competition and regulation will drive down unit economics and/or growth prospects in the medium term,” the brokerage report said. Mahindra’s tweet Industrialist Anand Mahindra tweeted: “My heart goes out to individual IPO investors who must be rattled (by the stock price fall) but I’m sure Paytm will find its right level. There is, however, a silver lining to this sobering debut: it could moderate the casino-like feeding frenzy for IPO listings & help restore the hunt for true value.” Paytm’s rout on debut fanned concerns about the fate of the IPO market which has attracted frenzied investment from people who have been fretting over paltry returns from traditional avenues of investment including bank deposits. It could now pose risks for rival Mobikwik and hotel aggregator Oyo as investors and brokerage start to scrutinise the numbers in the issue prospectus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-11-2021||Business||Escorts Ltd and Kubota Corporation announce deal||Farm machinery major Escorts Ltd and Kubota Corporation on Thursday announced a deal under which the Japanese partner will acquire an additional 5.9 per cent stake in the Indian firm for Rs 1,872.74 crore, paving the way for the latter to become a majority stake holder for which it could invest nearly Rs 10,000 crore. In a multi-structured deal, Kubota will increase its stake in Escorts to 14.99 per cent after a preferential issue of 93.64 lakh equity shares at an issue price of Rs 2,000 per share, aggregating to Rs 1,872.74 crore. It will become a joint promoter in Escorts. Kubota, which currently has a 9.09 per cent stake in Escorts, will then make an open offer to the public shareholders to acquire up to 26 per cent of the share capital in accordance with Sebi regulations at the same price as the preferential issue, Escorts said in a statement. In a separate regulatory filing, Escorts said Kubota Corporation is making an open offer to its public shareholders to acquire up to 3.75 crore fully paid-up equity shares representing 26 per cent stake at a price of Rs 2,000 per share, aggregating to Rs 7,498.31 crore assuming full acceptance. In the event of the open offer being fully subscribed, Kubota’s stake in Escorts would increase to 44.80 per cent after the first capital reduction. As part of the deal, there will be selective share capital reduction of the firm by cancelling and extinguishing all the residual equity shares currently held by the Escorts Benefit and Welfare Trust, a promoter entity, without payment of any consideration to the aforesaid trust, the company said in a regulatory filing. Kubota Corporation will become a joint promoter along with Escorts’ existing promoter Nanda family, who currently hold an 11.6 per cent stake in the company but are not selling any of their shares under the deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-11-2021||Business||Srei creditors may consider joint insolvency proceeding||Financial creditors of two non-bank finance companies of the Srei group — Srei Infrastructure Finance (SIFL) and Srei Equipment Finance (SEFL) — may evaluate the prospect of a consolidated insolvency proceeding. The corporate insolvency resolution process has been initiated in the two companies separately and two cases have been admitted with the Calcutta bench of the NCLT after the RBI superseded their boards  on October 4, 2021. A consolidated insolvency proceeding may garner more interest among potential bidders than individual companies. Sources said the lenders are keen to look into all possibilities that will benefit all the stakeholders. The total liabilities are around Rs 18,000 crore of bank loans and another Rs 10,000 crore of external commercial borrowings and bonds. The corporate insolvency resolution process will help the lenders recover debt but there are concerns over haircut. According to insolvency professionals a consolidated proceeding will allow the discovery of true value of assets which are stacked in different companies. Moreover, with one resolution professional the decisions will be more holistic. The issue emerges from a 2019 decision where the board of directors of the two NBFCs approved the transfer of lending business, interest earning business and lease business of SIFL as a going concern through a slump sale to SEFL in exchange of fully paid up equity shares and SEFL became a wholly owned subsidiary of SIFL. The rationale at that point was to strengthen the asset books of SEFL with equipment finance being the focus area of the group. The lenders were wary of the slump exchange and the credit rating agencies had also expressed concern as the advances of SIFL were to companies which are involved in the execution of infrastructure projects which is different in nature to equipment financing. RBI also in its inspection report and risk assessment report for the year ended March 31, 2021 had identified 'certain parties’ as probable connected/related companies. The creditors would have to approach NCLT for a judicial approval with a majority but there could be varying views. A consolidated insolvency proceeding would imply that the lenders would have to factor in the slump sale, to which they were not in favour. Moreover, NCLT courts are wary on allowing group insolvency. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India had constituted a working group to evaluate group insolvency and a framework has been recommended to facilitate insolvency resolution and liquidation of companies in a group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-11-2021||Business||Apple letting some iPhone users fix their own phones||Apple is letting some iPhone users fix their own phones, a sharp turnaround for a company that has long prohibited anyone but company-approved technicians from fiddling with its proprietary parts and software. The company said Wednesday that it will enable users of two of the newest iPhone models and eventually some Mac computers to get access to genuine Apple parts and tools for consumer repairs. The shift reflects a strengthening “right to repair” movement embraced by President Joe Biden and affecting everything from smartphones to cars and tractors. It’s a reaction to the infusion of software into more everyday products and the practices of manufacturers who have increasingly made those products difficult — and often expensive — to repair. Apple is launching an online store for self-service repairs early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-11-2021||Business||Narendra Modi sounds caution note on cryptocurrency||Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged cooperation between the world’s democracies to ensure cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin do not “end up in the wrong hands”, delivering the comments while his government drew up new rules for digital currencies. Modi did not elaborate on those fears in his speech delivered virtually to the Sydney Dialogue, a forum focused on emerging, critical and cyber technologies. But authorities in India and elsewhere have flagged the dangers of cryptocurrencies being used by terrorist groups and organised crime, and the destabilising risk they posed to national economies. After extolling the opportunities presented by cyber age technology, Modi sounded a note of caution regarding digital currencies. “Take cryptocurrency or Bitcoin. It is important that all democratic nations work together on this and ensure it does not end up in the wrong hands, which can spoil our youth,” Modi said. Modi added that democracies must invest together in the research and development of future technology, create a trusted manufacturing base and supply chains and work to  prevent manipulation of public opinions. Modi’s comments came in the midst of growing global concerns over China’s use of new-age technologies to advance its strategic agenda. He said the biggest strength of democracy is its openness and a few vested interests should not be allowed to misuse it, noting that the digital age has redefined politics, economies and societies besides raising new questions on sovereignty, governance, ethics, rights and security. Indian officials currently drafting regulations are likely to propose a ban on all transactions and payments in cryptocurrencies, while letting investors hold them as assets like gold, bonds and stocks, news reports said on Wednesday. Modi chaired a meeting to discuss India’s approach to cryptocurrencies on Saturday, and news reports had said his cabinet could receive the draft regulations for review within two to three weeks. In September, regulators in China banned all cryptocurrency transactions and mining of cryptocurrency. Bitcoin, the world’s biggest cryptocurrency, is hovering around the $60,000-level, having more than doubled its value since the start of this year. India’s digital currency market was worth $6.6 billion in May 2021, compared with $923 million in April 2020, according to blockchain data platform Chainalysis. Modi said India is investing in developing indigenous capabilities in diverse areas, including in 5G and 6G for the telecom sector. “We are at a historic moment of choice. Whether all the wonderful powers of technology of our age will be instruments of cooperation or conflict, coercion or choice, domination or development, oppression or opportunity,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-11-2021||Business||Videocon CoC requests NCLAT to allow fresh bids for company||The committee of creditors (CoC) of Videocon Industries on Thursday asked the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) to allow fresh bids for the company. In September, the lenders had approached the appellate tribunal for new proposals after they came under criticism for accepting a bid that led to recoveries of just 4 per cent of their dues, or a haircut of almost 96 per cent. At the hearing on Thursday, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta reportedly told the NCLAT that the commercial wisdom of the creditors panel under the bankruptcy code has full immunity from court interference. A BloombergQuint report quoted him as saying that it is up to the CoC to check the feasibility of a resolution plan. If a plan is not viable, the committee can even reconsider its decision. He said maximising the value of the corporate debtor’s asset is an important feature of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code and that the lenders cannot escape this responsibility. The lenders had approached the NCLAT after a division bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in June had approved the resolution plan proposed by Anil Agarwal-controlled Twin Star Technologies. The plan was earlier approved by the creditors panel in December 2020. Out of the total claim amount of Rs 71,433.75 crore by the various creditors in Videocon Industries, claims that were admitted stood at Rs 64,838.63 crore. The resolution plan proposed a payment of Rs 2,962.02 crore, amounting to a total haircut of 95.85 per cent to the creditors. However, this order was stayed by the appellate tribunal on July 19 following petitions filed by two dissatisfied creditors of the Videocon Group — Bank of Maharashtra and IFCI Ltd. Subsequently, State Bank of India, the leading lender of Videocon Industries, approached the NCLAT urging that the insolvency process should be renewed. It urged the tribunal to permit the resolution professional to seek fresh expression of interest of the 13 companies of the debt-ridden group. SBI in its plea had cited the strong observations made by the NCLT against the winning bid by Twin Star. The lender on behalf of assenting creditors of Videocon, represented 94.98 per cent voting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-11-2021||Business||GoM on GST rate rationalisation to discuss raising revenue neutral rate||The Group of Ministers on GST rate rationalisation is likely to discuss measures to increase the rates to ensure the revenue neutral rate which has fallen over the past four years to around 11.6 per cent is pushed up. Sources said the panel would discuss not only reducing the rate slabs but also take steps to ensure the revenue neutral rate is brought to around 15 per cent which would ensure that the states get adequate revenue. The panel would also consider the studies done on the impact of the rate reduction and its benefits to the end consumers. Sources pointed out that some studies have indicated that the consumers did not benefit from the rate cuts and the companies have been the main beneficiaries. “The GoM is exploring the possibilities of bringing down the GST rate structures from 5  per cent, 12 per cent, 18 per cent and 28 per cent to only 3 rates i.e 5 per cent, 15 per cent and 28 per cent. “They are looking at the possibility of merging the 12 per cent and 18 per cent rate to a common rate of 15/16 per cent. The impact on cash flows is being verified,” Parag Mehta, partner, NA Shah Associates said. He said GST rate rationalisation is a very sensitive issue as many goods and services are in the range of 5 per cent to 12 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-11-2021||Business||India weighs US request to release crude oil from strategic reserves||India is studying a rare Biden- administration request to release crude oil from its strategic reserves in a co-ordinated manner with other major consuming countries to keep a lid on prices. The US has asked some of the world’s largest oil consuming nations — including China, India and Japan — to co-ordinate the release of crude stockpiles to lower global energy prices. Sources said India, which imports about 80 per cent of its crude, may agree to the US request as rising prices can significantly impact the recovery from the pandemic. However, no final decision has been taken on the matter. Besides, it is not clear how such a co-ordinated action can reduce prices. In the short term it could bring down prices marginally, the sources said. The real issue is the fundamental demand-supply mismatch: demand has surpassed the pre-Covid levels, but supplies have not kept pace. The release of reserves poses other strategic risks, which needs to be considered before a decision is taken. India is drawing up a co-ordinated crude buying strategy, with its state and private refiners joining hands for better bargaining with the oil cartel. The sources said this could win greater support with other oil consumers taking up the approach. The Biden request follows the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec)-plus group ignoring requests of the US and India to boost output as fuel prices continue to scale new highs. The world’s major oil consumers are the US, China, India, Japan and South Korea. The strategic petroleum reserves are typically state-funded and aimed at tackling emergencies. The reserves at about 3.5 million tonnes  is equivalent of less than a week of India’s consumption. The country has a total strategic storage capacity of 5.33 million tonnes across Mangalore, Visakhapatnam and Padur. Some of these tanks have been leased out to Abu Dhabi’s Adnoc or emptied to make space for commercial use and support state-owned oil refining companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-11-2021||Business||SC upholds Centre’s decision to sell stake in Hindustan Zinc Limited||The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld the Centre’s decision to sell its residual 29.54 per cent stake in Hindustan Zinc Limited (HZL) even as it ordered a CBI probe on the terms in which the Centre sold its majority stake in HZL to Sterlite. The apex court said after it sold off its majority stake to Sterlite and held the residual 29.54 per cent stake, the Centre was just a shareholder and not the owner anymore. “While considering the ambit of the present controversy, it is necessary to note that the challenge in the petition under Article 32 (violation of fundamental rights) is to the proposal of the Union government to sell its residual stake in HZL, by the sale of the remaining 29.54 per cent equity. “Neither is the validity of the initial divestment of 24.08 per cent equity which took place in 1991-92, nor is the subsequent divestment of 26 per cent in terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, challenged in these proceedings,” the Supreme Court said. “As a consequence of the divestment on 27 March 2002, HZL ceased to be a government company within the meaning of Section 617 of the Companies Act 1956 since its shareholding fell below 51 per cent,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who authored the judgment, said. The bench, also comprising Justice V.Nagarathna, was dealing with a PIL filed by the National Confederation of Officers Association of Central Public Sector Enterprises and certain other employees of HZL. The petitioners said the Centre cannot sell its residual stake as it was a government company and the sale of the stake  involves precious natural resources. Justice Chandrachud said the HZL issue cannot be compared with the judgments of the apex court in 2003 when it ruled divestments in HPCL and BPCL cannot be done without amending the provisions of the Nationalisation Act 1976.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-11-2021||Business||RBI recommends central legislation to prevent illegal lending on apps||A Reserve Bank of India (RBI) working group has recommended a central legislation to prevent illegal lending activities through apps after its study revealed an astonishing fact that more than 50 per cent of the digital lending apps on the Android store were illegal. The panel chaired by Jayant Kumar Dash, executive director, RBI, has suggested the lending app players should set up a self-regulatory organisation. There should also be a nodal agency in consultation with the stakeholders to verify the technological credentials of the players. The central bank in January had constituted the working group to study all aspects of digital lending activities in the regulated financial sector as well as by unregulated players. The RBI set up the working group after it received complaints about various fringe digital entities and their dubious business conduct. According to the working group, there were around 1,100 lending apps available for Indian Android users from January 1-February 28, 2021 of which around 600 or 54 per cent were illegal loan apps. The panel pointed out technological innovations have led to marked improvements in efficiency, productivity, quality, inclusion and competitiveness in the extension of financial services, particularly in the area of digital lending. There have been unintended consequences as well on account of a greater reliance on third-party lending service providers mis-selling to unsuspecting customers, concerns over breach of data privacy, unethical business conduct and illegitimate operations, the report said. Though its current share in the overall credit pie of the financial sector is not huge to affect financial stability, digital lending’s growth momentum has compelling stability implications. The panel recommended data should be collected with prior informed and explicit consent of the borrower which can be audited. Further, the user interface should not facilitate ‘‘trick consent’’. The borrower should be provided with an option to revoke consent granted to collect their personal data and if required, make the app delete or forget the data. After the uninstallation of the app, there should not be any trace of access permission from the phone, the working group report said. Loan servicing or repayments should be done in the bank account of the lender, while disbursements should be made in the account of the borrower. Data collected by the panel showed lending through the digital mode is still at a nascent stage. Bank lending through the digital mode was Rs 1.12 lakh crore against Rs 53.08 lakh crore through the physical mode, as on March 31, 2020. In NBFCs, digital lending had a higher share at Rs 0.23 lakh crore compared with Rs 1.93 lakh in the physical mode. Private sector banks had a 55 per cent share in digital lending, while NBFCs had a 30 per cent share. Credit offered through digital channels by public sector banks is mostly secured whereas for their private sector and foreign peers, most of the digital lending portfolio is unsecured. The third-party app sourced loans in private sector banks are unsecured, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
