20-11-2021||Business||Paytm’s dismal stock market debut to put damper on future IPOs||Paytm’s dismal stock market debut this week is likely to put a damper on future offerings after the IPO of the digital payments firm ranked among the worst-performing in Indian history, six analysts and bankers said on Friday. Indian companies have raised a staggering $9.7 billion through initial share sales in the first nine months of 2021, for the highest such tally in any of the corresponding periods of the last two decades, said accountants EY. But offerings planned for later this year, such as those by payments rival MobiKwik and hotel aggregator OYO, will face questions after Paytm’s debut plunge of more than 27 per cent, as investors turned queasy at its lack of profits and lofty value. “This episode should hopefully bring some realism to valuations that promoters expect from the public markets,” said Kristy Fong, a senior investment director at fund manager abrdn, based in Singapore. Investors and analysts who expressed concern over the IPO valuation of the loss-making Paytm at about $18.7 billion had cautioned that “frothy” valuations with unclear business models might not end up well in the current market. “It will take three to four months for people to forget Paytm and that it destroyed wealth,” said Jimeet Modi, founder of Mumbai-based brokerage Samco Securities. “Until that time, it’s going to be tough for all super-expensive IPOs.” However, the debut of Paytm, which is backed by Ant Group and SoftBank, was in stark contrast to that of food delivery firm Zomato , which surged 66 per cent in July after raising $1.2 billion. Similarly, shares in FSN E-Commerce, which owns cosmetics-to-fashion platform Nykaa, jumped 80 per cent on their debut this month. Now analysts fear that even approaching IPOs which have seen huge demand may take a beating on listing. “This will put spokes in the market ... even the ones that have seen huge subscriptions will see a drop in the premiums,” Arun Kejriwal, founder of KRIS, told Reuters. LIC in the wings All eyes are turning to plans for India’s biggest-ever IPO, that of state-owned life insurance behemoth LIC, which is expected by the end of March 2022 and could raise more than $10 billion if the government offers a stake of 10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-11-2021||Business||Flipkart to acquire Calcutta-based online pharmacy SastaSundar||Walmart-backed e-commerce platform Flipkart is acquiring city-based online pharmacy SastaSundar as it looks to foray into the growing e-commerce healthcare segment. The development comes at a time rival Amazon India has entered the category last year. The online pharmacy sector has also seen acquisitions by Indian industry majors with Reliance Retail acquiring Netmeds and Tata Digital buying online pharmacy 1mg. Flipkart on Tuesday said it has signed a definitive agreement with SastaSundar Marketplace, which owns and operates SastaSundar.com, for a majority stake but did not disclose the size of the deal. SastaSundar was valued at around $100 million at its last round of funding in 2019. Flipkart said with this agreement it has launched Flipkart Health+ which will leverage the pan-India reach and technology capabilities of the Flipkart Group and SastaSundar’s expertise to provide consumers end-to-end offerings in the health-tech ecosystem. Besides e-pharmacy, there will be healthcare services such as e-diagnostics and e-consultation over time. Flipkart Health+ will report to Ajay Veer Yadav, senior vice president and Flipkart veteran, the e-commerce platform said on Friday. SastaSundar, which is supported by a network of more than 490 pharmacies, has raised a cumulative funding of around $48.2 million according to data from Tracxn. The two existing Japanese investors - Mitsubishi Corporation and Rohto Group - are expected to remain in the company. Sastasundar Ventures scrips at Rs 487.30 were up 2.48 per cent at the Bombay Stock Exchange. “The consumer internet ecosystem in India is growing rapidly as consumers recognise the opportunities and convenience that digital adoption is enabling in their lives. With growing awareness and focus on health heightened by the pandemic, there is a large opportunity and demand for affordable healthcare and ancillary offerings," said Ravi Iyer, senior vice president and head of corporate development at Flipkart, said. “Through this partnership with Flipkart, we see an opportunity to further grow and reach a larger consumer base, using complementary technologies and logistics infrastructure,” said B.L. Mittal, founder and chairman, SastaSundar Healthbuddy Ltd. Online pharmacies account for around 5 percent of the USD 19 billion India pharma market. It is expected to have 15-16 per cent share in next 10 years according to market reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-11-2021||Business||PhonePe announces buyback of ESOPs worth Rs 135 crore||PhonePe, the digital payments platform, on Friday announced a buyback of employee stock options (Esops) worth Rs 135 crore. Such a liquidity event is not new to the start-up universe as entities such as Razorpay, Zerodha, Swiggy, Acko, Licious, Meesho and CRED have come up with similar buybacks. While such a programme is expected to help in retaining and attracting talent, it is generally offered during appraisal, hiring or a reward programme. In a statement, the Walmart-owned company said the buyback offer follows a three-tier model based on seniority. The company’s founders —Sameer Nigam and Rahul Chari and Burzin Engineer —will not be participating in the buyback. However, the top leadership can sell up to 10 per cent of their vested stock. All other current employees can sell up to 25 per cent of their vested stock. The company currently has over 2,500 employees. “Last December, we launched a new PhonePe ESOPs plan and issued Esops to 100 per cent of our employees across levels, functions and grades. All these employees will complete the one year cliff of their stock vesting next month, so it’s a great time to offer some liquidity to everyone,” PhonePe head of HR Manmeet Sandhu said while commenting on the rationale behind this buyback. Sandhu added that almost 75 per cent of PhonePe’s current workforce is eligible to participate in the current buyback offer, and “for most it is the first time in their careers that they’ve either owned Esops or had a chance to liquidate them”. It was in December last year that PhonePe launched its ESOPs programme, under which it allotted the instrument to all its 2,200 employees cumulatively, which is worth Rs 1,500 crore. PhonePe has over 33.5 crore registered users in the country. Using PhonePe, users can send and receive money, recharge mobile phones, make various kinds of payments, and invest in gold and silver. It ventured into financial services in 2017. PhonePe is also accepted at over 2.2 crore merchant outlets across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-11-2021||Business||Mercedes-Benz India expands AMG portfolio with A 45 S 4MATIC+||Mercedes-Benz India on Friday expanded its AMG portfolio with the addition of the A 45 S 4MATIC+, calling it the “world’s most powerful turbo-charged four-cylinder engine series production car”. The vehicle will retail for Rs 79.5 lakh. Martin Schwenk, managing director & CEO of Mercedes-Benz India, said, “We are strengthening our A-Class portfolio with this launch. “With the launch of the most powerful and most dynamic new generation sports car in our portfolio, we are strongly reinforcing the importance of this segment in our overall growth strategy. “ “India’s fastest hatchback is a thoroughbred performance machine eagerly awaited by our AMG customers and performance purists. It underscores our commitment towards introducing the most desirable products from our global portfolio for our discerning customers in India,” he added. Tuned for out-and-out performance, the Mercedes-AMG A 45 S 4MATIC+ has a reinforced body shell, powerful engine, range of driving modes from ‘drift’ to ‘race’ and reworked suspension. The four-cylinder turbocharged motor sprints from zero to 100 km/hour in only 3.9 seconds. The top speed is electronically limited to 270 km/hr. The new engine is entirely assembled by hand. To this end, a newly designed production line was constructed in Affalterbach, Germany.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-11-2021||Business||Govt mulling changes in I-T laws to bring cryptos under tax net||The government is mulling changes in the income tax laws to bring cryptocurrencies under the tax net, with some changes that could form part of the budget next year, a top official said. Revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said in terms of income tax, some people are already paying capital gains tax on the income from cryptocurrency, and in respect of Goods and Services Tax (GST) also the law is “very clear” that the rate would be applicable as those in case of other services. “We will take a call. I understand that already people are paying taxes on it. Now that it has really grown a lot, we will see whether we can actually bring in some changes in law position or not. But that would be a budget activity. We are already nearing the budget, we have to look at that point of time,” Bajaj told PTI in an interview. Asked if a provision of TCS (tax collected at source) could be introduced for crypto trading, the secretary said “if we come up with a new law then we will see what is to be done”. “But yes, if you make money you have to pay taxes... We have already got some taxes, some have treated it as an asset and paid capital gains tax on it,” he said. Asked whether people involved in cryptocurrency trading would be categorised as facilitator, brokerage and trading platform and how the taxation would be done under GST, Bajaj said “there would be such things available in other services also. So whatever GST rate they are taxed at, that will be applicable on them”. “They have to get themselves registered. The GST law is very clear. If there is an activity, if there is a broker who is helping people and charging brokerage fee, GST would get charged,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-11-2021||Business||Sundaram AMC gets Sebi approval to acquire Principal AMC||Sundaram Asset Management Company on Friday said it has received the approval of the Securities and Exchange Board of India to acquire Principal Asset Management Company Pvt Ltd . Sundaram AMC, which is a subsidiary of Sundaram Finance, will acquire the schemes managed by Principal India and 100 per cent of the share capital of Principal Asset Management Pvt Ltd, Principal Trustee Company Pvt Ltd and Principal Retirement Advisors. Sundaram and Principal had announced the deal in January, though they did not put any figure . For the half year ended September 30, 2021, Sundaram AMC had assets under management of Rs 43,057 crore of which around 80 per cent was in equity. Profits in the asset management businesses grew from Rs 19 crore in the first half of last year to Rs 48 crore in April-September 2021. Final regulatory approvals have been received from the capital markets watchdog and also the Competition Commission of India (CCI), a Sundaram AMC release said. As per regulatory requirements, there will be an “exit load free window” for investors to redeem their investments, where such exit load is applicable. Schemes managed by Principal India and Sundaram will either be merged or renamed as Sundaram schemes, while investors and distributors of Principal India schemes will become investors or distributors of Sundaram. The total combined investor base is 20 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-11-2021||Business||Farm laws report by SC-appointed panel to be made public||A report on the farm laws prepared by a Supreme Court-appointed panel will now be made available to the public, one of the authors of report said. Miffed by the Centre's U-turn on the laws,Shetkari Sanghatana president Anil J. Ghanwat said the report will be made available in the public domain, if the apex court does not do so. Ghanwat said the panel's report was in “favour of farmers”. The panel will decide next week on releasing the report in the public domain. The three-member Supreme Court-appointed committee — after studying the three farm laws and consultation with stakeholders — had submitted its report to the apex court on March 19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation this morning announced the repealing of the three central farm laws. Criticising the move of the Prime Minister, Ghanwat  said Modi chose politics over farmers’ betterment. “Our panel had submitted several corrections and solutions over the three farm laws, but instead of using it to solve the impasse, Modi and BJP chose to backtrack. They just want to win elections and nothing else.” The court appointed committee report has not been made public yet despite Ghanwat having requested the Chief Justice of India in a letter dated September 1, to release the report in the public domain saying its “recommendations will pave the way to resolve the ongoing farmers' agitation”. “If these three farm laws are withdrawn, this report has no sense at all. ...If the apex court does not make it public, I will make it public.” The committee has spent three months preparing the report. “This should not go into the dustbin. It should not happen. I will make it public,” he said. The committee will meet on Monday and will take the views of all the three members on releasing the report in the public domain, he added. Ghanwat said, “the other members are academicians and professionals and they don’t have anything to do with the farmers’ movement. But I am a farmers’ leader. I have to take care of farmers. I will take the initiative of releasing the panels’ report in the public domain in the interest of farmers. The farmers, Press and the government should know recommendations made by the panel, Ghanwat said. He said the report was in favour of farmers.  “The report will be a good reference for framing future laws on agriculture.” Apart from Ghanwat and Gulati, the other members of the committee are Pramod Kumar Joshi who is an agricultural economist and director for South Asia at International Food Policy Research Institute. Asked what will be the fate of the report, the panel’s other member Ashok Gulati (agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural) said, “It is the prerogative of the Supreme Court whether it wants to make it public or not.” With the government's decision to repeal new farm laws, the purpose of the report ends, he said. “It’s been over a year now that farmers are protesting at Delhi border against the three central farm laws At least now, farmers don’t have a case to keep agitating. Farmers’ demand in any case has drifted away from the farm laws to make the minimum support price (MSP) legal,” he added. The apex court had suspended the implementation of three farm laws and constituted a committee to report on these laws on January 12 this year. Reforms loss Calcutta-based Bharat Chamber of Commerce (BCC) claimed that withdrawing the laws will act as a break in the reform chain, “Scrapping firms laws would act as a serious break in the reform chain that the agri and food processing sectors have been envisaging during the pandemic to come back strongly. During the Covid period, agro-food export increased significantly. The multiplier effects of schemes like Productivity Linked Incentives and others would not be realised, as estimated,” BCC president Ramesh Kumar Saraogi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-11-2021||Business||Farmers vow to fight for MSP on all crops||The farmers have decided to ratchet up pressure on the Narendra Modi-government by vowing to continue the fight for a guaranteed minimum price support (MSP) for all agricultural produce. The sudden decision by Prime Minister Modi to back down on the three farm laws, which is being read as the first sign of the BJP’s vulnerability ahead of crucial Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, has emboldened the farmers to push for acceptance of their other big demand: a statutory guarantee on remunerative prices for crops. When announcing the decision to scrap the three controversial farm laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020; and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 — Modi said a committee would now be set up comprising representatives of the Centre, the state governments, farmers, agricultural scientists, and agricultural economists to make MSP more effective and transparent. Farm leaders said Modi's statement fell short of their demand for a legally-backed MSP for all crops. Rakesh Tikait, who has been spearheading the agitation in western Uttar Pradesh, said the agitation would not be withdrawn until the law on MSP was enacted. “(We) will fight and we will win; make a guarantee law on MSP,” he said in a tweet. "We will wait for the day when the agricultural laws are repealed in Parliament. The government should talk about MSP as well as other farm-related issues,” Tikait added. At present, MSP is fixed for 23 farm commodities based on the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP). The products covered by MSP include seven cereals (paddy, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, barley and ragi); five pulses (gram, tur, moong, urad, lentil), seven oilseeds (groundnut, rapeseed-mustard, soyabean, sesamum, sunflower, safflower, nigerseed), and four commercial crops (copra, sugarcane, cotton and raw jute). Back to the mandis The volte face on farm law reforms means that the hegemony of the mandis will now be restored with all the imperfections that currently exist, which is likely to spark another clamour for amendments in the law governing the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) system under which these markets operate. “There are pitfalls in the existing mandi system which needs to be addressed and they have been highlighted by several committees. We need a legally-protected minimum support price for farm produce, which would provide income support measures for the farmers. “Whether the produce is sold through the APMC mandis or otherwise, the MSP would provide the real boost to the sector,” agriculture expert Devinder Sharma told The Telegraph. Sharma added: “We have about 7,000 APMC-regulated mandis. What we need in this country is 42,000 mandis within a 5-km radius. That is the kind of infrastructure we have to create so that farmers can sell their produce easily.  If you have a good network of mandis laid out, then the mechanism of MSP delivery becomes easy.” Under the APMC Act, the states can establish these agricultural markets, popularly known as mandis. The sale of agricultural commodities can occur only in the mandis through auction. The sales process is regulated through commission agents (CAs) who mediate between the farmers and traders. The farmers have in the past raised their voice against the mandi system because of lower price realisation, exploitation by CAs, lack of transparency in the trading process, collusion among traders, price cartelisation, delay in payments and low quality of mandi infrastructure. Some agriculture experts said Modi’s reversal was unfortunate because the reforms would have brought new technology and investment. “It’s a blow to India’s agriculture,” said Sandip Das, a New Delhi-based researcher and agricultural policy analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-11-2021||Business||RIL, Aramco to re-evaluate O2C biz investment||Reliance Industries and Aramco have scrapped their agreement under which the Saudi oil giant was supposed to pick up a 20 per cent stake in the oil-to-chemical business – a deal that the two sides have pursued since August 2019. The announcement signalling the decision to abandon the non-binding letter of intent that the two sides signed two years ago came late Friday night. Reliance has also decided to drop plans to spin off the O2C business and will now withdraw the proposal filed before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) which was the first step to seek approvals for the separation. The announcement said both parties have decided to ‘re-evaluate’ the proposed investment in the O2C business. Under the terms of the agreement, Aramco was supposed to acquire the 20 per cent stake in the O2C business for $15 billion, thereby valuing the demerged business at $75 billion. Talks dragged on between the two sides even after the global pandemic broke out amid speculation that Aramco had started to baulk at the price even as it reviewed its investment strategy in India. Oil prices had fallen sharply after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and this had cast a cloud on the deal. But hopes were re-ignited in the middle of this year when reports suggested that the two sides had resumed discussions. With oil prices starting to rally once again, there was a sense of optimism that the deal would finally go through – a view that gained credence when Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir al-Rumayyan was appointed as an independent director on the RIL board. The RIL statement said that over the past two years, both sides had made significant efforts in carrying out a process of due diligence despite Covid restrictions. “Due to the evolving nature of RIL’s business portfolio, Reliance and Saudi Aramco have mutually determined that it would be beneficial for both to re-evaluate the proposed investment in O2C business in light of the changed context. Consequently, the current application with the NCLT for segregating the O2C business from RIL is being withdrawn,” it added. RIL, however, added that it would continue to be Aramco’s preferred partner for investments in India’s private sector. Reliance will continue to collaborate with Aramco and its subsidiary Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC), the chemical manufacturing company, for investments in Saudi Arabia and isn’t ruling out a partnership at a later date. The key assets that were to be part of the O2C business were RIL’s refining and petrochemical plants, fuel retail marketing joint venture (in which BP holds 49 per cent and RIL the rest), and other midstream businesses. RIL had filed application for the demerger with the NCLT on February 3 and approval was expected shortly. Analysts at Bernstein had recently valued the O2C business of RIL at a relatively lower valuation of $ 69 billion. Sources said the latest development should also be seen in the context of RIL announcing ambitious plans in new energy and materials segments which are also linked to the O2C business. They added that RIL may have been demanding a higher valuation for these businesses and that could have been the stumbling block that led to the cancellation of the O2C deal. They added that RIL could now look to bring in other partners into its downstream business. At its annual general meeting, RIL chairman Mukesh D. Ambani had announced the development of Dhirubhai Ambani Green Energy Giga complex at Jamnagar facility, which incidentally was to be part of the 02C business. It will rank among the largest integrated renewable energy manufacturing facilities in the world with an integrated solar photovoltaic module factory for the production of solar energy, an advanced energy storage battery factory for the storage of intermittent energy, an electrolyser factory for the production of green hydrogen and a fuel cell factory to convert hydrogen into motive and stationary power. Market circles added that the RIL stock could come under pressure when trading resumes on Monday as investors were anticipating Aramco’s investment in the O2C business once the two sides resolved the sticking point over valuation. The RIL stock has been under pressure in recent days with observers suggesting that there were no other near-term upside triggers for the stock barring the Aramco deal. On Thursday, the RIL stock ended at Rs 2472.75, a gain of 0.35 per cent over the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
