21-11-2021||Business||Centre to exceed FY22 tax collection target, direct tax mop-up at Rs 6 lakh crore till Oct: Official||With the net direct tax collection till October closing in on Rs 6 lakh crore and average monthly GST mop-up likely around Rs 1.15 lakh crore this fiscal, the government's tax collection kitty will surpass budget estimates this financial year, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said.  In an interview with PTI, Bajaj said the relief in excise duty on petrol and diesel and customs duty on edible oil will cost the exchequer about Rs 80,000 crore this financial year, and the revenue department will start calculating the tax mop-up position vis-a-vis budget estimates for this fiscal after the December advance tax number.  "After refunds also, we have touched almost Rs 6 lakh crore till October in direct taxes... It is looking good. Hopefully, we should exceed it.  "Though we have given a lot of relief in indirect taxes in petrol, diesel and edible oil, also there are some sunset that have come in customs duty where the total benefit would be about Rs 75,000-80,000 crore, but still I think we should exceed the budgeted estimates on both direct and indirect taxes," Bajaj said.  The government has budgeted a 9.5 per cent growth in tax collections at Rs 22.2 lakh crore for 2021-22 fiscal (April-March). In the last fiscal, the mop-up was Rs 20.2 lakh crore.  Of this, revenues from direct taxes are estimated to be around Rs 11 lakh, including Rs 5.47 lakh crore from corporate tax and Rs 5.61 lakh crore from income tax.  With regard to the goods and services tax (GST) revenues, Bajaj said the collections in November will also be good numbers but December mop-up will be little lukewarm. The pick-up in collections will be visible again in the March quarter.  "The revenues are looking good, GST revenues are also good. We crossed Rs 1.30 lakh crore (in October). This month, I think we should get a good GST number. This was Diwali, our GST revenue will keep changing.  "But, i think the run rate should not go below Rs 1.15 lakh crore. Overall, we should do well in GST, excise duty and customs duty, also we will achieve our budgeted estimates. So, overall, we will exceed," Bajaj said.  Customs collection in the current fiscal is budgeted at Rs 1.36 lakh crore, excise duty at Rs 3.35 lakh crore. Besides, Centre's GST revenues, including compensation cess, are pegged at Rs 6.30 lakh crore. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-11-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India rules out getting back into diesel segment||Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) has ruled out getting back into the diesel segment as it believes sale of such vehicles would further come down with the onset of the next phase of emission norms in 2023, according to a senior company official. The country's largest carmaker believes the next phase of emission norms would jack up the cost of diesel vehicles, thus further impacting their sales in the market which for the last few years has seen a gradual shift towards petrol cars.  "We are not going to be in the diesel space. We had indicated earlier that we will study it and if there is customer demand we can make a comeback. But going forward, we will not be participating in the diesel space," MSI Chief Technical Officer C V Raman told PTI in an interaction.  He cited the upcoming stricter emission norms as a primary reason to avoid diesel-powered cars.  "In 2023 the new phase of emission norms will come which is likely to drive up the cost. So we believe that diesel percentages may further come down. We do not know about the competition but as MSI we do not have any intention to participate in the diesel space," Raman noted.  As per industry estimates, the share of diesel vehicles is currently less than 17 per cent of the overall passenger vehicle (PV) sales. It is a massive reduction from 2013-14 when diesel cars used to account for 60 per cent of the overall sales.  Already many of the automakers in the country have junked diesel trims of their respective portfolios with the onset of the BS-VI emission regime from April 1, 2020.  MSI had discontinued diesel models from its portfolio with the onset of the stricter BS-VI emission norms.  The company's entire model range is currently powered by BS-VI compliant 1 litre, 1.2 litre and 1.5 litre gasoline engines. It also offers CNG trims across seven of its models.  Raman said the company would focus on improving its existing petrol powertrains in terms of fuel efficiency and going ahead, may also look at a new family of engines to power its product portfolio.  "We have said that we will improve our existing powertrains which is already happening. The new K10-C engine in Celerio is one improvement. Similarly, the 1.2 litre engine has undergone some change. So from a fuel efficiency perspective, we will improve our internal combustion engine technology," he stated.  As per the company, its recently introduced all-new version of Celerio returns a fuel efficiency of 26.68 km/litre, which it claims is the highest for any petrol-powered car in India.  Raman said the company would also enhance electrification aspects in its cars like start-stop technology.  "We already have the mild hybrid technology at the higher end. Besides, we are propagating more CNG because of the low running cost. Seven out of 15 models already have the CNG trims. In future, more brands will come with the technology," he added.  There would be hybrid technologies and electric vehicles (EVs) going ahead, so there is going to be a lot of change from powertrain perspective, Raman noted.  Commenting on other alternate fuels, he said the company already is ethanol 10 per cent (E10) compliant and as per the fuel availability, 2023 onwards E20 will be made available.  "So we will also make all our vehicles compliant to E20 from 2023. In terms of flex fuels, yes we will study, but there are issues in terms of fuel availability.  "We are not very sure about when it will be available and its pricing as well. But we will obviously study that. Such engines require certain lead time for development and customer acceptance is also a factor," Raman said.  He noted that the company is aware of the changes that are taking place in the industry in terms of technologies and features.  "We will also be there to meet whatever is the customer's need in terms of design, in terms of performance, in terms of comfort, convenience, features and technology," he said.  When asked about MSI's upcoming products, he declined to share details but added that the company has a robust product plan.  On safety aspects of MSI cars, with many of its models not faring well in the Global NCAP crash tests, Raman said during the product development stage a lot of internal tests are conducted on its cars.  "The vehicles are tested with various kinds of impacts, not just side but offset as well..the criteria of internal tests is very stringent. Obviously, we meet all the mandated safety norms of India," he added.  He noted that industry body SIAM has written to the government to have Bharat NCAP, so that there is uniformity and standardised protocols for everyone in the industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-11-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries board gives nod to raise up to Rs 2,500 crore||BK Birla Group flagship Kesoram Industries’ board on Saturday approved a plan to raise up to Rs 2,500 crore to lower the cost of borrowings to replace high-cost NCDs and OCDs. The company had raised about Rs 1,900 crore non-convertible debentures (NCDs) and optionally convertible debentures (OCDs) in the past for bank debt restructuring at nearly 20 per cent interest rate through a private placement. The company may raise the fresh funds by way of equity, bond or foreign currency floats. One of the options the company could be looking at closely is an overseas bond issue. Even if fully hedged, the interest cost to Kesoram would be in the range of 10 per cent, thereby bringing down finance cost almost by half. The management believes there would be appetite for a bond sale of a cement company from overseas investors. The company recently had a rights issue of Rs 400 crore. With Rs 200 crore raised as part payment from the rights offer, the working capital issue has been largely resolved, officials said. The remaining Rs 200 crore will be collected later. “The company is expected to be Rs 550-600 crore EBITA (earnings before interest taxes and amortisation) company in FY’22. And this will rerate the company in terms of borrowing capabilities,” the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-11-2021||Business||Jindal Steel & Power Limited to start building coal mine in Botswana in 2022||India’s Jindal Steel & Power Limited (JSPL) will start building a coal mine in Botswana’s southeastern Mmamabula coalfields in 2022, aiming to supply the export market and a planned coal power plant, a company official said. The Indian industrial giant aims for the mine to produce 4.5 million tonnes of coal per year. “Work will start next year and develop in phases over two to three years. Regional demand is increasing and the South African market has appetite for Botswana coal,” Jindal Botswana country head Neeraj Saxena told Reuters. Despite the global shift from coal, Botswana is pushing ahead with developing its estimated 212 billion tonnes of coal resources. In April, it shortlisted Jindal, Minergy Ltd, African Energy Resources and Maatla Resources in a tender to build a 300 MW coal-fired power plant. At the COP26 climate conference this month Botswana signed up to a global commitment to reduce the use of coal, but opted out of a pledge to stop issuing new coal mining licences. A last-minute intervention by India and China just before the conclusion of the climate talks changed a requested coal “phase out” to a “phase down”. The bidding for the 300MW power plant tender is down to three after Maatla Resources pulled out, citing challenges in accessing funding among other reasons. Australia’s African Energy Resources is still in the bidding. The company plans to spin off its coal operations into an unlisted entity. Minergy, which owns the country's only operating privately-owned coal mine, has also said it will go ahead with the bid. Botswana aims to increase renewable energy's share of its electricity to 18% from the current 2% over the next 20 years, and the coal plant is its only currently planned fossil fuel based power project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-11-2021||Business||Centre puts on sale MTNL, BSNL assets worth about Rs 1,100 crore||The government has kicked off its asset monetisation programme by inviting bids to sell six assets of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) and Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd (MTNL) through its new asset monetisation portal at a reserve price of around Rs 1,100 crore. “Non-core asset monetisation commences with the first set of six properties of BSNL/ MTNL bid out on the MSTC portal,” DIPAM secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. BSNL properties located in Hyderabad, Chandigarh, Bhavnagar and Calcutta have been posted for sale at a reserve price of around Rs 800 crore. The DIPAM website has listed MTNL assets located in Vasari Hill, Goregaon in Mumbai for sale at a reserve price of around Rs 270 crore. MTNL’s 20 flats located in Oshiwara have also been put up for sale as part of the asset monetisation plan of the company. The flats include two units of 1-room set, 17 units of 1 bedroom hall and kitchen (BHK) and one unit of 2 BHK. Their reserve prices range from Rs 52.26 lakh to Rs 1.59 crore. The asset monetisation plan is part of the Rs 69,000 crore revival scheme for MTNL and BSNL, which was approved by the government in October 2019. Both the public sector firms were to identify and monetise assets worth Rs 37,500 crore by 2022. The idea is to put idle land parcels of state-owned entities to use and realise their value. The effort is on the lines of the National Monetisation Pipeline — where the government aims to monetise under-utilised assets, non-core assets. Unlike the NMP, in case of PSUs’ land sale, the ownership of assets will be transferred. The government is reportedly looking to monetise land parcels worth Rs 10,000 crore through the new e-bidding platform. The pipeline of land assets has been prepared after discussions with consultants appointed by DIPAM, which include CBRE South Asia, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India, Boston Consulting Group, JLL Property Consultants (India) and Knight Frank India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
21-11-2021||Business||EPFO to invest in private bonds||The central board of trustees of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Saturday approved the government’s proposal to allow the retirement fund body to invest up to 5 per cent of its annual deposits in alternative investments funds, including the infrastructure investment trusts (InvITs). However, this will be on a case-to-case basis and on approval from the Finance Investment and Audit Committee. The investments will initially be restricted to public sector funds only, labour and employment secretary Sunil Barthwal said after the 229th meeting of the central board of trustees (CBT). The government said if the EPFO wants to give a high rate of return to its subscribers, it will have to follow the investment pattern notified by the finance ministry. K.E. Raghunathan, an EPFO trustee, told The Telegraph that the CBT decided to “lift the restrictions on investing in private corporate bonds”. He said the FIAC  would consider the various risk factors and mitigation of such risks to recommend an opportunity if there is adequate risk cover and good yield. Under the existing notified investment pattern, the EPFO invests between 45-50 per cent of its incremental deposits in government securities, 35-45 per cent in debt instruments, between 5-15 per cent in equities and up to 5 per cent in short-term debt instruments. EPFO’s monthly deposits range between Rs 15,000 crore and Rs 16,000 crore. The annual figure is around Rs 1.8 lakh crore to Rs 1.9 lakh crore. Ananth Narayan of SPJIMR said: “We need to channel more of our long-term savings into productive long-term infrastructure investments such as the government’s ambitious National Infrastructure Pipeline. This would not only enhance the returns for savers, but also ensure that the country achieves sustainably higher growth.” “Currently, there are severe restrictions on where pension funds, provident funds and insurance companies — the main aggregators of very long term savings — can invest. Over time, rather than restrict the nature of investments via prescriptive regulations, more autonomy should be given to professionally run investment committees of these organisations to manage the risk and return, within the ambit of principle-based regulations,” he added. Recently, the government allowed up to 5 per cent investment in asset-backed, trust-structured and miscellaneous investments, including the alternative investment funds, real estate investment trusts and units of infrastructure investment trusts. The CBT is a tripartite body involving government, workers and employers’ representatives and its decision is binding on the EPFO. It is headed by the labour minister. The meeting also decided to constitute four sub-committees, comprising members of the board from employees’ and employers’ side as well as representatives of the government. Two committees on establishment related matters and futuristic implementation of Social Security Code will be headed by the Minister of State Labour and Employment. The remaining two committees on digital capacity building and pension related issues will be headed by the Union Labour and Employment Secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
