22-11-2021||Business||Market in bear grip: Sensex nosedives 1,170 points||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 1,170 points on Monday, dragged by losses in Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and Kotak Bank. The 30-share BSE index ended 1,170.12 points or 1.96 per cent lower at 58,465.89. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 348.25 points or 1.96 per cent to 17,416.55. Among top losers, Reliance Industries (RIL) sank over 4 per cent, after the company shelved a proposed deal to sell a 20 per cent stake in its oil refinery and petrochemical business to Saudi Aramco for an asking of USD 15 billion. Other laggards included Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, NTPC, SBI and Titan. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Asian Paints, PowerGrid and IndusInd Bank were the gainers. "Finally the bears got their act together after a long wait as a series of events over the weekend gave them the upper hand with almost all the sectoral indices barring the metal index plunging, said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. The repealing of the agriculture laws had an impact on the PSU stocks while the O2C deal not going through left a 4.5 per cent cut on Reliance, he noted. Further, he said that even as IPO investors come to terms with the reality, the inflationary impact on demand across several sectors continues to worry the street. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong ended with losses, while Tokyo, Shanghai and Seoul were positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely positive in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.34 per cent to USD 79.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-11-2021||Business||Paytm shares continue to decline for second day||Shares of newly-listed One97 Communications, Paytm's parent company, continued to decline for the second day in a row on Monday, tumbling nearly 14 per cent. The counter continued to bear a deserted look as the stock declined 13.66 per cent to Rs 1,350.35 on BSE. On NSE, it tumbled 13.39 per cent to Rs 1,351.75. Shares of One97 Communications Ltd on Thursday made a weak market debut and tumbled over 27 per cent from the issue price of Rs 2,150. According to market analysts, concerns over valuation weighed on the stock. Ant Group-backed Paytm's Rs 18,300 crore IPO, India's biggest share sale, was oversubscribed 1.89 times earlier this month. This was greater than miner Coal India's Rs 15,000 crore offer a decade back. Incorporated in 2000, One97 Communications is India's leading digital ecosystem for consumers and merchants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-11-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 1,100 points in mid trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged over 1,100 points in mid trade on Monday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance amid a weak trend in global markets and persistent foreign fund outflows. The 30-share index was trading 1,120 points or 1.88 per cent lower at 58,516 at around 12.30 PM. Similarly, the Nifty fell 326 points or 1.83 per cent lower to 17,439. Reliance Industries (RIL) was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent after the company shelved a proposed deal to sell a 20 per cent stake in its oil refinery and petrochemical business to Saudi Aramco for USD 15 billion. It said its energy portfolio has changed with the foray into a new energy business, which would require a re-evaluation of the deal. Other laggards include Maruti, Bajaj Finance, Kotak Bank, HCL Tech and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid, Asian Paints, IndusInd Bank and ITC were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 372.32 points or 0.62 per cent lower at 59,636.01. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 133.85 points or 0.75 per cent to 17,764.80. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,930.62 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. Equity markets were closed on Friday on account of 'Guru Nanak Jayanti'. Nifty has corrected around 4.5 per cent from the all-time high. The risk-off mood in global markets may gather strength on fresh COVID cases in Europe and lockdowns in countries like Austria, said VK Vijaykumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The dollar index rising above 96 is another concern while the decline in crude is positive for India, he said, adding that the disastrous listing of Paytm may bring sanity to the exuberant IPO valuations. FIIs are likely to accelerate selling in this risk-off environment. Retail investors need not rush in to buy on declines. Partial profit booking and raising the cash level in the portfolio may be considered, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.06 per cent to USD 78.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-11-2021||Business||boAt looking at bigger share of manufacturing made in the country||Warburg Pincus-backed lifestyle consumer electronics startup boAt is looking at a greater market  share. The brand, which is operated by Imagine Marketing, raised $100 million earlier this year. Vivek Gambhir, who has joined Imagine Marketing as its CEO from his previous role as the CEO and MD of Godrej Consumer Products, said the company which is a little over five years old has been able to garner market share in the personal audio segment in a short span and will explore expansion and acquisitions as it looks to scale up the business. “The intent is for the company to become a multi-category, multi-brand, and multi-channel and multi-geography player. We still see there is a tremendous opportunity in the personal audio segment, but we also see opportunities in home audio, accessories, wearables and smartwatch, personal care products,” he said. The company, which has backing from Qualcomm Ventures, Innoven Capital among others, is looking to expand its distribution channels. “Historically, we have largely been focused in the online marketplaces. Our website now is gaining traction and even the offline business is around 15 per cent of our revenue. So we do see an increasing opportunity for omnichannel play. While so far the focus has been completely on India, we are also evaluating opportunities to go beyond India,” Gambhir added. The company does not have any immediate plans to have its manufacturing but will expand the contract manufacturing scope as it adds more products, he said. “By the end of this year, we are targeting about 10 per cent of our volume to be made in India. This can be expanded to 30 per cent in the next three years. We are working with eight different manufacturing partners. The intent is not to own our manufacturing but partner with contractors,” he said. The latest funding has opened opportunities to support inorganic expansion. “Thanks to the investment we have from Warburg we now have the balance sheet to look at strategic acquisitions. The focus will be on organic growth while making a few acquisitions,” he said. According to Counterpoint Research, Indian TWS (true wireless stereo) shipments reached a record 8 million during the third quarter of 2021 with boAt holding a 35.8 per cent market share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-11-2021||Business||Skoda sets monthly and yearly sales target for new sedan Slavia||Skoda India hopes to sell 3,000 units every month and 30,000 units a year of its new sedan Slavia. The Czech company, which sells premium sedans such as the Octavia, Laura and Superb, believes the sedan market can grow providing there are exciting products. It launched a mid-size SUV Kushaq this year as part of its India 2.0 programme where it is bringing fresh, new products built on a localised platform. “India is a significant partner in Skoda Strategy 2030. We have a line-up of strong products for India. The first of the four products for 2021 was the Kushaq, which has ushered in a new phase of growth. We hope the Skoda Slavia, which  is affordable and offers space and tech will be successful too,” said Thomas Schafaer, CEO of Skoda Auto. The company has posted triple digit growth in sales and is approaching 2 per cent market share, Zac Hollis, director ( sales, service and marketing), Skoda Auto India told The Telegraph. “There has been a 300 per cent growth in sales in September compared with September 2020,” he said. Asked if the sedan segment was contracting, Hollis said:  “The reason for that is there are no interesting products and not that people aren’t interested. There are a number of exciting products in the SUV segment and that is the reason why it is growing.” The Octavia, which was launched 21 years ago, has a 40 per cent market share while the Superb has a 30 per cent market share. The company will be discontinuing the Rapid, its entry sedan in India. Talking about Kushaq’s success, Hollis said: “We have 20,000 bookings in India. We are delivering 2000 to 3000 cars per month.” Asked if the company plans to bring back its hatchback Fabia, a new generation of which will be in the global portfolio, Hollis said: “We are looking at every body style. With a versatile platform at our disposal we can build anything.” Asked if the semi-conductor issue is a damper in its growth, Hollis said: “The semi-conductor crunch will affect us. Hopefully, it will be resolved by the middle of next year. The Volkswagen Group is giving us priority in supply since India is a launch market.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-11-2021||Business||Suzuki Motorcycle India to launch electric and flexi-fuel two-wheelers||Suzuki Motorcycle India Pvt. Ltd. (SMIPL), the two-wheeler subsidiary of Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corporation, plans to launch electric two-wheelers as well as flexi-fuel two-wheelers . “Carbon neutral is mandatory. So we will explore not just EVs but also bio-fuel and flex fuel. We have to work with the government on this,” Satoshi Uchida, managing director, Suzuki Motorcycle India Pvt Ltd, said He was speaking at the launch of the 125 cc scooter Suzuki Avenis: When asked about the demand for two-wheelers, Devashish Handa, vice-president, SMIPL, said: “The basic demand remains and we will recover very soon in the future. There is a big potential for motorcycles.” Sales for the financial year 2020-21 were 5.90 lakh. The financial year 2021-2022 would be slightly better, Handa said. “If the supply of chips is better we will do reasonably better but if supply is constricted, we will be able to meet last year’s volumes,” he added. The Avenis, retailing at Rs 86,700 for the Connect edition and Rs 87,000 for the Race edition, gives a sporty ride equipped with a 125cc engine with FI technology and a lightweight body of 106kgs to deliver the power of 8.7 PS @ 6750 rpm and torque of 10Nm@5500rpm. The high power and low kerb mass add a feeling of zipping to the ride The Bluetooth 3d enabled digital console coupled with the Suzuki Ride Connect application lets the customer sync his mobile phone seamlessly with the Suzuki Avenis providing features such as turn-by-turn navigation, incoming call, SMS and WhatsApp alert display, missed call and unread SMS alert, speed exceeding warning, phone battery level display and the estimated time of arrival. The big and bold turn-by-turn navigation ensures riders will never go off track from their destination. Suzuki Motorcycle India has also introduced a new external hinge type fuel cap for ease of fuelling and features such as large under-seat space and front box with USB socket in Suzuki Avenis to provide maximum convenience to the rider. Advanced sporty styling, motorcycle inspired rear indicators, body mounts, bright LED headlamp, and LED tail lamp will add to the style quotient of the scooter. Suzuki Avenis has been developed by Suzuki Engineers & Designers keeping the young Indian generation in mind, who want high performance with the convenience and latest technological features in a scooter to match up to their pace of life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-11-2021||Business||Snag in Aramco deal weighs on Reliance stock||The decision of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) and Saudi Aramco to re-evaluate their proposed $15billion deal may turn out to be a near-term negative for the RIL stock as it does away with a key trigger and also adds some element of uncertainty on value-unlocking at its energy business. At the same time, the development could open up multiple opportunities for Reliance as it could bring different strategic partners in segments such as refining, specialty chemicals, petrochemicals or even in the new energy and materials business. Late on Friday evening, RIL and Saudi Aramco announced they had decided to re-evaluate the proposed investment in the former’s oil-to-chemical (O2C) business. In August 2019, both the companies had signed a letter of intent that would have seen the Saudi oil giant picking up a 20 per cent stake in RIL’s O2C business for an enterprise value of $75 billion. A RIL statement said the decision was taken because of the evolving nature of its business portfolio. The O2C business that was to be segregated covered refining, petrochemicals, fuel retail (the majority interest of RIL), aviation fuel and bulk wholesale marketing businesses. Observers said the latest development should be seen in the context of RIL’s ambitious plans in the new energy business (which was not outlined in 2019) and its better financial position that now reduces its dependence on financial and strategic investors to cut debt. Reliance has now become a net debt-free company after it unlocked value in digital services, and in the organised retail and fuel retail business. The company also undertook a rights issue. Speaking to The Telegraph, market analyst Ambareesh Baliga said the proposed transaction offered a good opportunity for RIL to encash part of its stake, particularly in refining that is being seen as a sunset industry in the decades ahead. He said RIL may now find it difficult to get fresh investments into this vertical at a higher valuation, given the expected shift towards electric vehicles. Baliga pointed out that though RIL has rightly decided to focus on green energy, the sector requires huge investment and returns will not accrue immediately. “The way, the proposed deal (with Aramco) was getting delayed, it was becoming more and more clear that it may not happen. We saw crude oil prices falling to below $30 to a barrel and now boiling at over $80 per barrel. We also saw the petchem prices hardening. Yet the parties didn’t find a meeting point for the transaction to materialise,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-11-2021||Business||PNB server vulnerability exposed personal data of 180m customers||A vulnerability in the server of Punjab National Bank allegedly exposed the personal and financial information of its about 180 million customers for about seven months, according to cyber security firm CyberX9. CyberX9 has claimed that the vulnerability provided access to the entire digital banking system of PNB with administrative control. Meanwhile, the bank has confirmed the glitch but denied any exposure of critical data . PNB said “customer data, applications are not affected due to this” and “server has been shut down as a precautionary measure”. “PNB kept severely compromising the security of funds, personal and financial information of over 180 million (all) its customers for about the last seven months. PNB only woke up and fixed the vulnerability when CyberX9 discovered the vulnerability and notified PNB through CERT-In and NCIIPC,” CyberX9 founder and MD Himanshu Pathak said. He said the CyberX9 research team discovered a very critical security issue in PNB which was leading to admin access to internal servers so exposing a massive number of banks’ systems nationwide open for cyber-attacks for the last about seven months. The vulnerability was found in an exchange server  interconnected with other exchanges and shares all access, including  email IDs. When contacted, PNB said the server had no sensitive or critical data. “The server wherein the vulnerability was reported, was being used as one of the multiple Exchange Hybrid servers used to route emails from on-prim to Office 365 Cloud. There is no sensitive/critical data in this server,” PNB said. The bank denied CyberX9’s claim on the impact of the vulnerability on customers’ data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-11-2021||Business||DoT to provide details of spectrum availability to TRAI||The department of telecommunications (DoT) plans to provide the details of spectrum availability to the Telecom Regulatory of Authority by this month, which will form the basis of the telecom regulator’s terms and conditions for the 5G auctions expected in another six months. Trai had asked the the DoT a specific set of queries, as part of the preparatory work for 5G auctions. Sources said the regulator had sought a clear road map around spectrum availability, usage by government entities and other players like broadcasters as well as the notification of various bands. The regulator wants clarity on all aspects of spectrum before coming out with a consultation paper for the upcoming auction. Communications and IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw recently said the 5G spectrum auction was likely to take place around April-May next year. Sources said the telecom department was preparing a national frequency allocation plan (NFAP) which would give clarity on the spectrum bands that would be provided to different stakeholders such as mobile operators, satellite players and broadcasters . NFAP 2018 is being revised and the updated one could form the basis of the next round of radio wave auction. “The 5G services with its enhanced capabilities have relevance cutting across industry verticals. To take advantage of 5G services for Digital India, the millimetre bands viz. 24.25, 27.5, 31.8, 37 GHz and bands below 6 GHz are under active consideration subject to co-existence studies and global deliberations,” NFAP 2018 had said. DoT’s reference seeks views of Trai on base price, quantum and all other modalities for spectrum across multiple bands. These include bands such as 700Mhz, 800Mhz  , 900Mhz, 1800Mhz, 2100Mhz, 2300Mhz, 2500Mhz bands as also 3,300-3,600 Mhz bands that were not put up for auctions in the last round, and millimetre-wave bands, 24.25-28.5Ghz. The DoT has sought recommendations on reserve price, block size, band plan, and the amount of spectrum for auction. High spectrum prices have been a long-standing grouse of the telecom industry and the issue has been flagged time and again by prominent players. The last round of spectrum auction in March this year had fetched the Centre over Rs 77,800 crore for 855.6Mhz of spectrum. Telecom future Technological innovations with 5G will redefine the future of telecom in India, while the amalgamation of telecommunications services with upcoming industries and tech enablers will reorient the sector from being a “service provider to a service enabler,” a CII-Deloitte report said. The report “Digital reset – touching a billion Indians” launched by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP along with the CII, underlines the role of 5G technology as a key enabler and contributor to the success of the enterprise business and in easing the lives of the common man. Peeyush Vaish, partner and telecom sector leader, DTTILLP, said, "The rollout of high-speed broadband through 5G and satellite broadband will see the convergence of the telecom ecosystem and significantly affect the lives of a billion Indians. It will pave the path for bridging the urban-rural divide across sectors, including banking, healthcare, and education.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-11-2021||Business||Tatas face action in Darjeeling tea row||The Union commerce ministry has directed the Tea Board to enquire into complaints that Tata Consumer Products (formerly Tata Tea) violated regulations by blending Nepal tea in its packet teas without adequate disclosures. The Board has been asked to take action if these allegations are proven. The ministry, headed by Piyush Goyal, has written to the deputy chairman of Tea Board on November 3, in response to a number of letters that Trinamul Congress Rajya Sabha MP Shanta Chhetri sent to Prime Minister Modi and Goyal highlighting the plight of Darjeeling tea industry in the wake of unchecked tea imports from Nepal. Chhetri’s letters on August 28 and September 22 drew attention to the fact that TCPL was blending Nepal teas in their popular brand, Tata Gold, without mentioning the country of origin, the name and address of the importer, and the premises where the tea was packed. The three-time MLA from Kurseong claimed that a specific complaint had been made to the Tea Board by Ringtong tea estate owner Sanjay Choudhury but no action had been taken. “The Board is also requested to take necessary action as per rules to protect the Darjeeling GI (geographical indication) and also enquire into the complaint of violation on part of TCPL as mentioned by Smt Shanta Chhetri, Hon’ble MP, in her letter and necessary action be taken as per rules under intimation to this department,” said the letter from the ministry, which has been reviewed by this newspaper. The Board was also asked to constitute a committee of senior officials to examine the issue in detail, conduct site visits, examine the records of the importers and trace their use. A five-member committee was later constituted as per the directive of the ministry. It could not immediately be ascertained whether the Board has initiated a probe into the allegations against TCPL. The company said it has “not received any intimation of any enquiry from the Tea Board”. However, the Tea Board has initiated a raft of measures designed to check import of sub-standard teas into India after receiving the ministry’s directive earlier this month. Apart from issuing circulars, the Board has started to crack the whip to ensure compliance by picking up samples of imported tea and sending them to multiple labs for testing. Tea Board actions On November 11, the board issued two circulars to check imports of inferior quality of tea. Under the prevailing law, an importer must obtain a licence and a clearance certificate from the Tea Council to import tea. All entities importing tea for the purpose of distribution are required to inform the place of storage within 24 hours to the Board which will collect random samples to test quality. Moreover, the origin of the tea must be mentioned in the sales invoice of the import. While the Board reiterated this position, which falls under the provisions of Tea (Distribution & Export) Control Order, 2005, it has tacked on a new directive which said “the label should clearly indicate on the packaging that the contents of the blended tea are imported giving the source of the origin of the imported tea irrespective of whether the imported tea has been brought directly by the seller or through (an) intermediary from the date of issuance of this notification. Failure to comply with this direction shall invite action as deemed fit.” Prabhat Bezboruah, chairman of the Tea Board, said there was no law that prevented import of tea but cautioned that quality should be maintained. “It should not spoil the name of Indian tea,” he said. He argued no individual entity should be singled out and the industry must collectively deal with the surge in imports rise of mostly substandard teas. He did not  confirm whether the Board had ordered an enquiry into the allegations against TCPL. Tata response TCPL had earlier maintained that it did not directly import the tea from Nepal. “All tea procurement for our India brands is only from teas traded in the India domestic markets which meet FSSAI regulations. This could include a small amount of teas produced in Nepal and available in the local market as per government regulations. This tea is available to, and purchased by, a cross section of buyers and packers in the country, including Tata Consumer Products,” the company had told this newspaper in September. On Saturday, the company said it was aware of the recent notifications issued by the Tea Board. “We are analysing the impact of the same on our business and evaluating various options available. As previously stated, we remain committed to supporting and promoting the Indian tea industry, through our significant purchases of Darjeeling and other Indian teas and through our speciality blends,” a TCPL spokesperson said. Industry sources suggested packs sold in India must disclose the country of origin on the label. Ministry’s move The day it wrote to the Board asking it to act on Chhetri’s complaint, the ministry wrote to Central Board of Indirect Tax & Customs, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade and Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) asking them to take action to protect Darjeeling tea from  import of Nepal tea. During the three years up to March 31, 2020, India imported 60.35 million kg out of which only 23.43 million kg was re-exported. This underscores the fact that 36.92 million kg was distributed in the country, adding to the glut of tea in the country. “Such imported tea, the majority of which is from Nepal, is sold in India as if produced in India,” the ministry wrote to the FSSAI. It requested the food regulator to issue import clearances for import of tea into India through a single land custom station and also insist on the production of sanitary and phytosanitary certificates. Import from Nepal surged in 2017 when the GJM forced a strike in the hills, destroying the first flush completely and second flush partly in Darjeeling. The customs department was asked to ensure strict and mandatory compliance with FSSAI regulations and insist on valid certificates issued by the Tea Board and compliance certificate issued by Tea Council before teas from Nepal were permitted to enter the country. Industry sources said at least two consignments of teas have been held up at the border following the directive from Goyal’s ministry. Tea from Nepal comes close to Darjeeling tea, which arguably produces the finest black tea in the world in terms of flavour and aroma. Darjeeling tea is protected by the GI tag which means tea from other origins cannot be passed off as the real thing. However, packers are said to be blending Nepal teas in an effort to lower costs. Some European importers also mix Nepal tea and characterise them as Himalayan blends. TCPL is one of the largest buyers of Darjeeling tea, procuring close to 1 million kg a year and thereby supports the 87 gardens there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
