23-11-2021||Business||India to release 5 mn barrels of crude oil in tandem with US, China, Japan||India will release 5 million barrels of crude oil from its emergency stockpile in tandem with the US, China, Japan, and other major economies to cool international oil prices, the government announced on Tuesday. This is the first time ever that India, which stores 5.33 million tonne or about 38 million barrels of crude oil in underground caverns at three locations on the east and west coast, is releasing stocks for such purposes. Of this, about 5 million barrels will be released. "India strongly believes that the pricing of liquid hydrocarbons should be reasonable, responsible and be determined by market forces," a government statement said. "India has repeatedly expressed concern at the supply of oil being artificially adjusted below demand levels by oil-producing countries, leading to rising prices and negative attendant consequences." While the statement did not give the date for release, an official privy to the matter said the stock could be released as early as 7-10 days. The stocks will be sold to refineries of Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL), which are connected by pipeline to the strategic reserves. The US had last week made an unusual request to some of the world's largest oil-consuming nations, including China, India and Japan, to consider releasing crude stockpiles in a coordinated effort to lower global energy prices. This after members of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies rebuffed repeated requests to speed up their production increases. "India has agreed to release 5 million barrels of crude oil from its Strategic Petroleum Reserves. This release will happen in parallel and in consultation with other major global energy consumers including the USA, People's Republic of China, Japan and the Republic of Korea," the statement said. India has been the most forceful about flexing its muscles as a major oil consumer, cutting shipments from Saudi Arabia by about a quarter after OPEC+ extended production cuts. Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri last week in Dubai had said high prices will undermine the global economic recovery. India is the world's third-largest oil consumer and importing nation and has been severely impacted by the relentless rise in international oil prices. OPEC and other ally producers -- including Russia, known collectively as OPEC+ -- have been adding around 4,00,000 barrels per day to the market on a monthly basis, which many see as not sufficient to cool prices that had been rising as demand returns to pre-pandemic levels. The threat of a coordinated release, along with new coronavirus-related lockdowns in Europe, has knocked the wind out of crude oil's rally. Brent crude fell to USD 78 per barrel this week, from USD 86.40 a barrel peak hit on October 26. Oil prices, however, inched up on reports that OPEC+ could adjust plans to raise oil production if large consuming countries release crude from their reserves or if the coronavirus pandemic dampens demand. Brent crude is trading at USD 79.24 per barrel. Just like the US, India also believes that high prices are starting to produce unwanted inflation and undermine recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. Retail petrol and diesel prices shot up to record levels earlier this month before the government cut taxes, costing it Rs 60,000 crore in revenue this year. While China has said it is working on a crude release, Japan has also signalled its readiness. The statement said the Centre reduced excise duty on petrol by Rs 5 per litre and that on diesel by Rs 10 and states cut VAT "despite the high fiscal burden on the government" in order to provide relief to citizens. India has built 1.33 million tonne of storage at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, 1.5 million tonne at Mangaluru and 2.5 million tonne at Padur (both in Karnataka). The official said the stocks from the reserves will be released in tandem with other countries. "Dates, etc are being worked out," he said. ADNOC of the UAE has leased half of the Mangalore storage, while the remaining is with state-owned Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL). State-owned firms and the government have stocked oil at the other facilities. While the US stocks 727 million barrels, Japan holds 175 million barrels of crude and oil products as part of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-11-2021||Business||Will get back all money taken away from banks as govt actively pursuing cases of loan defaulters: FM||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said all the money taken away from the banks will be taken back as the government is actively pursuing the cases of loan defaulters, irrespective of whether they are in India or outside the country.  She said the central government is working in close coordination with the J&K administration to ensure that not only the Prime Minister's Development Package (PMDP) but every centrally sponsored scheme benefits every citizen of the Union territory to ensure that the region also catches up in the growth with the rest of the country.  She was addressing a function after launching new schemes and handing over orders to various beneficiaries under the financial inclusion and credit outreach programme here.  Sitharaman said that while the government is generously putting all its resources to make J&K work well in a transparent way, "any wrongdoing that has happened in the banks, any loans which have been taken away and not repaid till now, I am sure our system will work in such a way that the wrongdoers and the money..will be brought back."  The finance minister said that is what has been happening in the entire country.  "The non-performing assets (NPAs) of the banks had been a cause for worry when Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014. In order to bring down the NPAs, a specific '4Rs' strategy of recognition, resolution, recapitalisation and reforms showed immediate results," she said.  Sitharaman reached Jammu on the second leg of her two-day tour from Kashmir and also inspected various stalls put up by various beneficiaries of government schemes.  She said the government pursued the defaulters who took away the loans and let it become the NPA and did not pay back the taxpayers' money that is what is in the banks, whether they are in this country or gone away from India.  The government ensured that their properties are attached, and through a legal process, sold or auctioned out and that money have been paid back to the banks, she added.  "This shall continue to happen, irrespective of where the NPAs holders are and irrespective of where their accounts were. Every NPA shall be pursued actively and that shall apply to J&K as well," she said adding "we shall get back all the money taken away from the banks".  The Union finance minister lauded J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who was also present on the occasion, for the development of the Union Territory in a "speedy, efficient and transparent" manner.  She assured the people of Jammu and Kashmir that the Centre will work in close coordination with the local administration to ensure that not only the PMDP is implemented but every scheme that is launched is also brought to the Union Territory and benefits every beneficiary who deserved to be served.  "After 2019 (reorganisation of J&K), we have seen the UT of J&K go through a rapid progression. The projects that have been waiting for a long time are getting implemented and sections of the society that have never had the opportunity of receiving any assistance from the government are getting it.  "And, genuine business that has no other way of getting or accessing credit is also being provided credit," the finance minister said.  She said the schemes for the poorer sections that benefited the people across the country from a collective infusion of credit through farmer producer organisations or self-help groups are now seeing the light of the day in J&K.  As a result of this, the people feel they may be small but they can also access some kind of help from the government and credit from the banks, the minister added.  Seeking the cooperation of the people in facilitating outsiders to set up their units in Jammu and Kashmir, she said a lot of people want to come and set up industry here and take benefit from the industrial package of the government.  "I will invite more youth to come forward to set up their businesses in J&K. Of course, with more activities on the ground, we may attract people from everywhere else to partner with you (youth of J&K)," she said.  Sitharaman added, "I would certainly underline this fact that when people partner with you, they are not going to displace you or remove you but are strengthening you."  "You have your strengths but you need more help from resources coming from banks and elsewhere. Today banks alone cannot bring in that kind of equity for activities here," she said, growing activities on the ground would draw people that ultimately boost the economy of J&K.  Referring to the various initiatives of the J&K administration, she said, "I think it is important for two-way participation good schemes and good delivery from the government and good participation from the people and both are all equally required."  She said she will ensure more banking activities take place in J&K and credit help to the people in setting their businesses.  "Regarding budgetary support. I had a lot of discussion with the lieutenant governor and I shall like the chief secretary to meet officials in the finance ministry to work out any proposal for the next budget which we will definitely do," she said.  She also talked about the reforms in the taxation regime and said a new post of principal commissioner for income tax is being created as "we are able to serve the people of J&K better."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-11-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds 198 points to close at 58,664||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 198 points higher on Tuesday, tracking gains mainly in power, telecom and pharma stocks. After plunging over 700 points in early trade, the 30-share index pared all losses to settle 198.44 points or 0.34 per cent higher at 58,664.33. Similarly, the NSE Nifty rose 86.80 points or 0.50 per cent to 17,503.35. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by NTPC, Tata Steel, Bharti Airtel, Sun Pharma and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Asian Paints, Infosys, Bajaj Auto and Maruti fell up to 2.59 per cent. "Domestic equity market clawed its way out of the recent downslide boosted by metal, PSU bank and pharma stocks with mid and small caps outperforming the benchmark indices," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. "US markets witnessed a late sell-off yesterday despite the re-nomination of Jerome Powell as the Fed chair. Oil and gas indices remained under pressure amid reports of the US releasing its emergency oil reserves to keep the rising crude oil prices under control," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended with losses, while Shanghai and Tokyo were positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.02 per cent to USD 78.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-11-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 700 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged over 700 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid persistent foreign fund outflows. After touching a low of 57,718.34 in the opening session, the 30-share index pared some losses to trade 264.20 points or 0.45 per cent lower at 58,201.69. Similarly, the Nifty was trading 89.05 points or 0.51 per cent down at 17,327.50. It touched a low of 17,216.10 in initial deals. Infosys, the top loser in the Sensex pack, shed around 2 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, HUL, Bajaj Auto, Reliance Industries and TCS. On the other hand, Tata Steel, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance and ITC were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 1,170.12 points or 1.96 per cent lower at 58,465.89, and Nifty fell 348.25 points or 1.96 per cent to 17,416.55. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,438.76 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. "The market heavyweight RIL re-evaluating the Aramco deal, Paytm's disastrous listing, resurgence of COVID in parts of Europe, RBI's warning of stretched valuations, foreign brokerages downgrading India and the roll back of farm laws created the perfect storm that spooked the market," said VK Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. This is a much needed correction which will make the market healthy, he said, adding that Paytm's fiasco is a reality check on the froth in the primary market and will restrain the irrationally exuberant newbie investors. "While Nifty has corrected 6.4 per cent from the peak, Nifty Bank has corrected 12.4 per cent from the peak indicating weakness in the banking sector even though valuations are not stretched in banking. "Sustained selling by FIIs will continue to be a negative sentiment in the market. The retail investor response to the correction should be watched," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Tokyo were positive. Stock exchanges in the US largely ended in the red in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.45 per cent to USD 79.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-11-2021||Business||Fourteen companies approach govt to settle retro tax row||As many as 14 companies against whom retrospective tax demands were raised have approached the government to settle cases, revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said. The government in August enacted a law to end all retrospective taxation imposed on indirect transfer of Indian assets. The rules under the law seek to withdraw tax demands made using a 2012 retrospective legislation to tax the indirect transfer of Indian assets and also refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest. Bajaj said of the 17 companies against whom retrospective tax demand was raised, barring three or four entities, all have given an undertaking to the government to resolve the cases. “All of them have approached. There were 17 cases, out of which 3/4 had no trace. We had also sent the order in email, we never got a response. “The remaining 14, baring 1 odd, which still has time to file, the remaining have filed ... Cairn, Earlyguard have come (for settlement),” Bajaj added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-11-2021||Business||India working on ways to release crude oil from strategic storages||India is working on ways to release crude oil from its strategic storages in tandem with other major economies to dampen prices, a top government official said on Monday. The US had last week made the unusual request to some of the world’s largest oil-consuming nations, including China, India and Japan, to consider releasing crude stockpiles in a co-ordinated effort to lower global energy prices. This after members of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) and its allies rebuffed repeated requests to speed up their production increases. “We are working on releasing stocks from our strategic reserves,” the official, who wished not to be named, said. He did not give a timeline but said officials were in touch with other major oil users for a co-ordinated move. India is the world’s third-largest oil consumer and importing nation and has been severely impacted by the relentless rise in international oil prices. Since the US move, global oil prices are on the decline. Brent crude was trading at $78.72 per barrel, down from $81.24 a barrel 10-days back. On October 26, it had hit a multi-year high of $86.40. Just like the US, it also believes that high prices are starting to produce unwanted inflation and undermine recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. Retail petrol and diesel prices shot up to record levels earlier this month before the government cut taxes, costing it Rs 60,000 crore in revenue this year. India has 5.33 million tonnes of underground crude oil storage at two places on the east and the west coast. While China has said it is working on a crude release, Japan has also signalled its readiness. Oil output Weeks after its second-highest-ranking official asked ONGC to give away its largest producing oil and gas fields to foreign companies, the petroleum ministry on Monday clarified that production from existing fields has to be increased through all means including technology and involvement of private sector companies in a transparent manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-11-2021||Business||Auto manufacturers geared up to introduce flex engines in India ||Nitin Gadkari, Union minister of road transport and highways, on Monday said leading automobile manufacturers are geared up to introduce flex engines in India that can run vehicles on alternative fuels such as ethanol. The move to introduce flex engines comes at a time petrol prices have crossed Rs 100 per litre. There is also a challenging global commitment to become net zero in terms of carbon emission by 2070. Flexible fuel vehicles have an internal combustion engine and are capable of operating on gasoline and any blend of gasoline and ethanol. Brazil, US and Canada are among the countries where vehicles are permitted with flex engines. “Toyota, Hyundai, Maruti are ready to launch these vehicles. It will result in savings for the consumer,” said Gadkari at the annual session of Indian Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-11-2021||Business||RBI announces draft amalgamation scheme of PMC Bank||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday announced a draft amalgamation scheme of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank with Unity Small Finance Bank Ltd (USFB), which has been promoted by Centrum Financial Services and Resilient Innovation Pvt Ltd, the parent of BharatPe. Under the amalgamation scheme, USFB  will pay off the depositors in phases, will full repayment in 10 years. The scheme envisages the takeover of the assets and liabilities of PMC Bank by USFB. The small finance bank will first pay all the depositors holding up to Rs 5 lakh, which is the amount insured by Deposit Insurance & Credit Guarantee Corporation The RBI said above Rs 5 lakh, the depositor will get up to Rs 50,000 within two years of the Centre notifying the amalgamation scheme. This will go up to Rs 1 lakh after three years, Rs 3 lakh after four years, Rs 5.50 lakh at the end of five years. If there is still any amount due, the entire sum will be paid after 10 years. Interest on deposits will not accrue after March 31, 2021. No interest will be given to depositors for the first five years from the appointed date of amalgamation. After five years, the small finance bank will offer an interest rate of 2.75 per cent on outstanding deposits. As regards institutional investors, the central bank has suggested that 80 per cent of their uninsured deposits will be converted into perpetual non-cumulative preference shares (PNCPS) of USFB with dividend of one per cent per annum payable annually. After 10 years from the appointed date, USFB may consider additional benefits for such PNCPS holders either in the form of providing a step up in coupon rate or a call option, upon receipt of approval from the RBI. The RBI disclosed that the remaining 20 per cent amount of the institutional deposits will be converted into equity warrants of small finance bank at a price of Re 1 per warrant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-11-2021||Business||SC gives NCLT two months to decide on Jaypee Infratech insolvency||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to decide within two months the insolvency proceedings of Jaypee Infratech after some of the aggrieved homebuyers complained of undue delay in the resolution process. A bench of Justice A.M.Khanwilkar and Justice C.T.Ravi Kumar passed the direction while dealing with a plea of the Jaypee Kensington Welfare Association. The association said the interests of the homebuyers were getting affected because of repeated delays in the proceedings before the NCLT. The homebuyers through advocate Shashank Manish submitted that no decision had been taken despite this year’s March 24 order of the apex court granting 45 days extension to the resolution professional Anuj Jain to complete the resolution plan. It was pointed out that on June 23, the resolution plan floated by Suraksha  Group of Industries was approved by the resolution professional against a plan proposed by public sector NBCC to complete the 20,000 flats left unconstructed by the debt ridden Jaypee group. According to the homebuyers, though the committee of creditors (CoC) had given their approval for the resolution plan of Suraksha, there has been undue delay on the part of the resolution professional to seek official approval and implementation of the plan from the National Company Law Tribunal due to repeated adjournment on various grounds. Hence the homebuyers sought a direction for early implementation of the plan. Justice Khanwilkar heading the bench asked the NCLT to complete the process of resolution within two months. In September 2017, the apex court had asked the NCLT appointed interim resolution Professional (IRP) to take over the management of  Jaypee Infratech Ltd to protect the interests of an estimated 32000 home buyers and Rs 10,000 cr money reportedly owed by the real estate company to various private sector banks led by IDBI. Around 32,000 persons had booked flats in 27 various Jaypee Infratech projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
23-11-2021||Business||Jerome Powell appointed for second term as Federal Reserve chair||President Joe Biden announced Monday that he’s nominating Jerome Powell for a second four-year term as Federal Reserve chair, endorsing Powell’s stewardship of the economy through a brutal pandemic recession in which the Fed’s ultra-low rate policies helped bolster confidence and revitalise the job market. Biden also said he would nominate Lael Brainard, the lone Democrat on the Fed’s board of governors and the preferred alternative to Powell among many progressives, as vice chair. The President said he will fill the three remaining slots on the board, including a vice chair for supervision, a bank regulatory post, in early December. Biden’s decision strikes a note of continuity and bipartisanship at a time when surging inflation is burdening households and raising risks to the economy’s recovery. In backing Powell, a Republican who was first elevated to his post by President Donald Trump, Biden brushed aside complaints from progressives that the Fed has weakened bank regulation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
23-11-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel jacks up tariffs across pre-paid plans||Bharti Airtel on Monday jacked up tariffs across its pre-paid plans as the Sunil Mittal-company looks to ramp up its average revenue per user and generate funds for its 5G charge. Airtel announced 20-25 per cent tariff hikes for various prepaid offerings, including tariffed voice plans, unlimited voice bundles and data top-ups. The new rates will come into effect from November 26. In tariffed voice plans, the rates have been hiked 25.2 per cent to Rs 99 from Rs 79, with 50 per cent more talktime. In a statement announcing the revised mobile tariffs, Airtel said the average revenue per user (ARPU) had to rise to Rs 200 a month — and eventually to Rs 300 — in order to ensure a healthy return on capital that was critical to support a healthy business model. “We also believe that this level of ARPU will enable the substantial investments required in networks and spectrum. Even more important, this will give Airtel the elbow room to roll out 5G in India,” the Airtel statement said. Airtel has an user base of 32.3 crore and its ARPU at the end of the second quarter is Rs 153. Shares of Bharti Airtel on Monday gained nearly 4 per cent. In the unlimited voice bundle, the tariffs have been jacked up to Rs 179 from Rs 149 with  benefits such as 100 SMS/day, 2 GB data. At the top end, the Rs 2,498 plan has been hiked to Rs 2,999 and comes with 365 days of unlimited calling, 100 SMS/day and 2 GB/day data. For data top-ups, the Rs 48 plan would now cost Rs 58, offering 3GB data; while the Rs 98 plan has been increased to Rs 118 with 12GB data. Airtel also announced a tariff hike in Rs 251 data top-up plan, which will now cost Rs 301 with 50 GB data. Vodafone Idea CEO Ravinder Takkar, during a recent investor call, had asserted that tariff hike remains critical for continued revival of the sector. He said the company has started working on raising tariffs, and it is expected to be in place soon. Subscriber gain Bharti Airtel added 2.74 lakh subscribers in September even as larger rival Reliance Jio lost 1.9 crore users and Vodafone Idea lost 10.77 lakh subscribers during the month, according to telecom regulator Trai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
23-11-2021||Business||Paytm shares suffer losses for second straight session||Paytm parent One97 Communications’ shares extended losses for the second straight session and tanked over 13 per cent. For those who had subscribed to the IPO and are still holding on to the shares, almost Rs 51,000 crore of market value has been eroded even as the total losses to the investors stand at almost 40 per cent over the issue price. However, founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma has compared the company to Tesla Inc and told employees that the electric vehicle maker also had to face a poor run at the markets initially and later went on to become well-recognised globally. Sharma also told them to not get worried about the poor listing and concentrate on expanding the business. While many have questioned the expensive valuations of the IPO, Ashneer Grover of BharatPe has hit out against Sharma. Speaking to CNBC TV18, he said the public float was a cumulative failure of the company’s management and the investment bankers and that its fall is ‘category killing’. The One97 Communications scrip on Monday ended at Rs 1,360.30 on the BSE, a drop of 13.03 per cent or Rs 203.85 over the last close as investors remained wary about its business model. This led to its market capitalisation falling below the Rs one lakh crore to Rs 88,184.67 crore. It may be recalled that at the upper end of the IPO price band of Rs 2150 per share, the company would have been valued at Rs 1.39 lakh crore. This close means that around Rs 50,815 crore of its market value has been wiped out. Today’s sharply lower also takes the total loss to the issue price to 37 per cent. The weakness in the counter came despite Paytm saying that the strong operating performance continued in the month of October, with increasing numbers of consumers and merchants transacting on its ecosystem. It disclosed that the growth momentum in gross merchandise value (GMV) continued in the month driven by festive season spends, as well as an increase in number of merchants and consumers, adoption of new products, transactions for both online and in-store merchants, and in deployed devices. GMV processed through its platform aggregated to Rs 83200 crore a rise of 131 per cent over the month of October 2020. Just ahead of its listing, brokerage Macquarie initiated coverage on the stock with an underperform rating and a target price of Rs 1200 which was sharply lower than the issue price. Its analysts said in a note that Paytm’s business model lacks focus and direction and that achieving scale & profitability is a big challenge for the cash guzzling company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
23-11-2021||Business||Brokerages give mixed views to RIL shelving Aramco deal||Brokerages have given mixed views to Reliance Industries (RIL) shelving a proposed plan to sell a 15 per cent stake in its oil-to-chemical business to Saudi Aramco. This comes even as the Saudi oil giant said on Sunday that it will continue to look for investment opportunities in India. Analysts at Credit Suisse said the development is a negative surprise. “We expected several synergy benefits from the stake sale. RIL’s procurement from Saudi Aramco could have increased...it could have also provided Reliance with access to technology for its chemical business and help boost oil to chemicals conversion to 75 per cent,” Nomura said in a note. However, analysts at Bernstein said the failure of the transaction is unlikely to limit Reliance’s ability to fund growth in clean energy, though they admitted that it could trigger a negative stock reaction in the short term. The brokerage said the latest development does not alter the investment case for RIL. “While the news could be sentiment-negative for RIL’s stock price, we see limited financial impact, given the de-leveraging achieved in the past 18 months,’’ a JP Morgan note said. While the stock markets on Monday gave a thumbs-down to the announcement, analysts were a divided lot with some saying that it is a negative surprise and others pointing out that the deal cancellation will not make much difference to RIL’s financial position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
23-11-2021||Business||Benchmark indices suffer worst single-day drop in seven months||Benchmark indices suffered their worst single-day drop in more than seven months wiping out Rs 8,21,667 crore of investor wealth as the market reacted with alarm to Friday’s announcement that the Reliance-Aramco deal had collapsed, Paytm’s IPO debacle and the U-turn on farm laws. While the 30-share Sensex plummeted 1170.12 points or 1.96 per cent to end below the 59000-mark at 58465.89, the broader Nifty crashed 348.25 points to settle at 17416.55. The mayhem in Dalal Street on Monday has reignited fears about market returns after a good show for most part of the year, with  questions raised about the future participation of retail investors. Analysts fear the confidence of the retail investors — who  contributed to the record-breaking run —  may take a knock from the poor show of Paytm and the recent losses in the secondary markets. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have already turned cautious because of concerns over rich valuations. Provisional data showed they sold stocks worth Rs 3,900 crore on Monday. Market circles pointed to multiple reasons for the crash: investors saw negative news flow last Friday — the markets were closed on account of Guru Nanak Jayanti — as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the Centre would repeal the three farm laws, leading to fears of the reform process getting derailed. Later that day, there was another negative surprise: heavyweight RIL announced it was re-evaluating a potential $15 billion deal with Saudi Aramco, seen as a major upside for the stock. The shares of RIL cracked  4.42 per cent on Monday to Rs 2,363.40. Financial stocks were also swept away by the bear run with counters such as Bajaj Finance and Bajaj Finserv losing up to 5.74 per cent. Others such as Kotak Mahindra Bank, State Bank of India, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank lost nearly 3.50 per cent. Only three stocks gained with Bharti Airtel, up 3.90 per cent, leading the pack after it announced a hike in tariffs. Analysts said weak global factors  played its role, with fears central banks such as the US Fed raising rates on account of inflation. A fresh rise in Covid-19 cases and lockdowns in some of the countries are also causing unease among investors. “Valuations concerns have resurfaced amongst FPIs even as the new age IPOs come under severe selling pressure.  Concerns over Government taking a step back on its reform agenda on the farm laws front, negative news flow from Reliance and Paytm’s relentless fall spooked sentiments in a market where the other worries of inflation and interest rates are already taking a toll,’’ Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities said. He added that a resurgence of coronavirus outbreaks in the US, Europe and some other regions is also weighing on investor sentiment. Comments by advisers to the Chinese central bank about risks of stagflation have reinforced concerns about inflationary pressures. The Sensex which opened in the green at 59710.48 came under pressure few minutes into trade and suffered deep losses post noon trades when it slumped  1624 points to hit a day’s low of 58011.92. The Sensex there after recovered some ground to close at 58465.89 — a fall of 1170.12 points or 1.96 per cent. The Nifty ended at 17416.55, a drop of 348.25 points. Analysts said stocks would continue to react to news flow in the absence of other major triggers. Brokerage Morgan Stanley projected the Sensex could hit 70000 by December 2022. It, however, added India’s relatively better performance to emerging markets is likely to halt in 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
