24-11-2021||Business||Centre releases IT refunds worth Rs 1.23 lakh cr issued to 1.11 cr taxpayers in FY22||The Income Tax Department on Wednesday said it has issued refunds of over Rs 1.23 lakh crore so far this fiscal year. This includes 75.75 lakh refunds of Assessment Year (AY) 2021-22 amounting to Rs 15,998.31 crore. "CBDT issues refunds of over Rs. 1,23,667 crore to more than 1.11 crore taxpayers from 1st Apr, 2021 to 22nd November,2021," the department tweeted. This includes personal income tax refunds of Rs 41,649 crore issued in 1.08 crore cases and corporate tax refunds of Rs 82,018 crore issued in 1,81,218 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
24-11-2021||Business||Crypto industry urges govt to take nuanced approach||The cryptocurrency industry on Wednesday urged the government to take a nuanced approach towards regulating crypto assets in India and asked investors in the country to remain calm and not arrive at a rushed conclusion, a day after the government listed for introduction a Bill to ban all such cryptocurrencies, with some exceptions. 'The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021', to be introduced in the winter session of Parliament beginning November 29, seeks to "create a facilitative framework for creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India. The Bill also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India, however, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses". BuyUcoin CEO Shivam Thakral said it expects the Bill to accommodate the aspirations of Indian crypto owners, Indian crypto entrepreneurs, and investors who have put their faith in India's crypto growth story. "The crypto Bill should be flexible enough for young blockchain projects to flourish and we strongly believe that there is a strong case for a standard process for new cryptocurrencies before they get listed on any exchange in India for trading. "I think popular crypto-assets like Bitcoin and Ethereum will be pre-approved by the regulators for getting listed on the exchange. We also request the government to give immediate clarity on the taxation and filing of crypto assets," Thakral said. CoinSwitch Kuber founder and CEO Ashish Singhal said the industry has been actively communicating with all stakeholders keeping investor protection at the forefront. "Our discussions in the last few weeks indicate there is a broad agreement on ensuring that customers are protected, financial system stability is reinforced and India is able to take advantage of the crypto technology revolution. "As of now, I urge all crypto asset investors in the country to remain calm, do their own research before arriving at a rushed conclusion," said Singhal, who is also the co-chair of the Blockchain and Crypto Assets Council (BACC). Cryptocurrency exchange CoinDCX's spokesperson said a well-assessed and thought-through regulation will pave the way for greater adoption of the technology and will help millions of Indians embrace this new-age asset class. OKEx.com CEO Jay Hao said India is home to the highest number of crypto owners in the world and the onus lies on the government to protect the interest of a large number of crypto investors in the country. "We urge the government to take a nuanced approach towards regulating crypto assets in India. With the positive outcome of the cryptocurrency Bill, India will embark on an exciting journey of becoming the global leader in crypto, Defi, and NFTs," Hao said. Currently, there is no regulation or any ban on the use of cryptocurrencies in the country. Against this backdrop, Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this month held a meeting on the cryptocurrencies with senior officials, and indications are that strong regulatory steps could be taken to deal with the issue. There has been a rising number of advertisements, featuring even film stars, promising easy and high returns on investments in cryptocurrencies in recent times, amid concerns over such currencies being allegedly used for luring investors with misleading claims. Last week, the Standing Committee on Finance, chaired by BJP member Jayant Sinha, met the representatives of crypto exchanges and BACC, among others, and arrived at a conclusion that cryptocurrencies should not be banned, but it should be regulated. The RBI has repeatedly reiterated its strong views against cryptocurrencies saying they pose serious threats to the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country and also doubted the number of investors trading on them as well as their claimed market value. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has also reiterated his views against allowing cryptocurrencies saying they are a serious threat to any financial system since they are unregulated by central banks. The RBI had announced its intent to come out with an official digital currency, in the face of proliferation of cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin about which the central bank has had many concerns. Private digital currencies/ virtual currencies/ cryptocurrencies have gained popularity in the past one decade or so. Here, regulators and governments have been sceptical about these currencies and are apprehensive about the associated risks. On March 4, 2021, the Supreme Court had set aside an RBI circular of April 6, 2018, prohibiting banks and entities regulated by it from providing services in relation to virtual currencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
24-11-2021||Business||Sensex plunges 323 points in late sell-off||Market benchmark Sensex tumbled over 323 points after an intense last-hour sell-off on Wednesday, triggered by losses mainly in index heavyweights Infosys, Reliance and HDFC. After trading in the green for most part of the session, the BSE gauge settled 323.34 points or 0.55 per cent lower at 58,340.99 -- marking its fifth decline in the last six days. Likewise, the NSE Nifty fell 88.30 points or 0.5 per cent to end at 17,415.05. On the Sensex chart, Maruti, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, ITC, Reliance, L&T, UltraTech Cement and HDFC were the major losers, dropping as much as 2.62 per cent. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, NTPC, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, and PowerGrid closed with gains. Of the Sensex constituents, 22 shares ended in the red. Elsewhere in Asia, stock markets closed with moderate to deep losses, tracking a rise in US bond yields and volatility in global crude oil prices in the wake of price-cooling efforts by the US and other countries. Offloading of shares by foreign institutional investors continued on Tuesday, as they sold shares worth Rs 4,477.06 crore on a net basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-11-2021||Business||Paytm shares extend gains on value-buying after catastrophic IPO trading debut||Paytm’s shares climbed nearly 13 per cent on Wednesday, extending gains from yesterday, and partially erasing losses from a selloff that wiped out nearly a third of the digital payment company’s startup value last week. Analysts said investors were taking a longer-term bet on the financial technology firm’s prospects. The shares were still 20 per cent off their Initial Public Offer issue price of Rs 2,150 but some analysts suggested they might reach that level soon if the “value-buying” kept up. Says one analyst confidently: “Paytm will be above the issue price soon. India is the last bastion of great hope and fabulous returns in the long term.” Still, last week’s catastrophic trading debut by Paytm, blamed on an overheated valuation, has shaken up the outlook for forthcoming IPO issues. In particular, the underwhelming market reception given to Paytm’s IPO is expected to make investors scrutinise more closely fundamentals like revenues, profits and business models in forthcoming flotations. While foreign heavyweight investment funds like Black Rock and the Canada pension plan subscribed heavily to India’s biggest-ever IPO, analysts said the issue was stratospherically overpriced for a cash-guzzling company with falling revenues and no profits in sight. On the first day of trading alone, investors in the IPO lost nearly Rs 5,000 crore. Horribly priced “The Paytm IPO was horribly priced. Everyone knew it from Day 1. And that was evident in the way the offering got a tepid response from both the public and local institutions,” said one Chennai-based analyst. Paytm’s valuation of 43 times price-to-sales was exorbitant when global companies like Paypal are at 7.55 times, he said. Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma’s desire to stage India’s biggest IPO may have contributed to the expensive pricing, analysts say. But the bigger long-term issue is Paytm’s revenue. “Paytm has had a problem of falling revenues for the last three years and a lack of profitability. In the financial year 2021, when Indians moved online en masse, revenues fell 10 per cent when they should have risen steeply,” the analyst added. One97, Paytm’s parent, reported a $230 million loss in the last financial year on revenue of $430 million. So what’s gone wrong with Ant-backed Paytm’s business model? There’s a simple answer for that too: Competition. Paytm was once the unchallenged king of the financial payments jungle. Punishing competition Nowadays, though, Paytm faces punishing competition from other payments companies like GooglePay and PhonePe which have built their business on the high-convenience United Payments Interface (UPI) interface technology. In a crowded market, even companies with strong name recognition like WhatsApp Pay are struggling. “My gardener and my milkman will only take GooglePay. They have not heard about anything else, including WhatsApp pay. UPI is costing Paytm big time,” said a Mumbai strategist. Wind back the clock to November 8, 2016, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi stunned the nation by announcing demonetisation. Industrialist Harsh Goenka, who was with Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma on the night of the announcement, recalled in a tweet that the Paytm founder “nearly danced with joy” at the news. This was the bonanza moment for Paytm which took out full-page advertisements in all the country’s top dailies the very next morning. Overnight, it became a giant and founder Sharma established his position as one of the Indian start-up world’s pin-up stars. “They had this nice spike at that time and became a megacompany on the back of demonetisation because they were the only game in town,” said the strategist. “They became famous with that scan code plastered all over town. Now, post-Covid who is going to come near you and scan your code? Paytm has become irrelevant in the payments sphere,” he said. An also ran? Recognizing its extremely weak position in payments, the decade-old start-up has been styling itself as India’s answer to Chinese super-apps like Ant, branching out from digital payments to insurance, gold trading and mobile gaming but is the leader in none of the segments and is unlikely to become one.“Most things Paytm does, every other large ecosystem player like Amazon, Flipkart, Google etc are doing,” research house Macquarie noted. The other startups that have come to market and have fared well like food-delivery giant Zomato and insurer Policybazaar “have zooming revenues,” said the strategist. Online beauty portal Nykaa which was listed earlier this month not only has climbing revenues but profits as well, a rare thing in the startup world. Also, all the other IPOs rose on their first day. Zomato paved the way for the other IPOs with a startling 80 per cent leap on the day it was listed. Zomato’s huge success triggered a rush to the market by other start-ups that had been waiting in the wings. Insurance aggregator Policybazaar climbed 17.35 per cent on its opening day. Nykaa shot up 96 per cent on its listing day, turning its founder ex-banker Falguni Nayar into India’s richest self-made woman overnight. Foreign investors saved the day But it was evident that the Paytm IPO, the biggest since Coal India’s flotation in 2010, was in trouble from the day it opened for subscription. It was undersubscribed by both domestic investors and domestic institutions who should be the backbone of any issue. Finally, it was rescued by foreign institutional investors. While foreign heavyweight investment funds like Black Rock and the Canada pension plan subscribed heavily to India’s biggest-ever IPO, local retail investors and financial institutions largely kept away. Paytm’s issue ended up being subscribed just 1.89 times. Nykaa, by contrast, got 82 times more applications than there were shares on offer. Says a market analyst: “They managed to scrape through the IPO on the back of foreign investors. All the other start-up IPOs were oversubscribed in every category.” When demand was so weak for the Paytm issue -- it was subscribed just 1.89 times (Nykaa by contrast got 82 times more applications than there were shares on offer) -- analysts suspected it might mean that the company’s trading debut would not be stellar. But Paytm’s first day of trading went far worse than anyone had expected. The company’s share price tumbled 27 per cent on the first day. On its second day, the stock fell another 12.5 per cent. Now, the Paytm issue may be having a chill effect on other fintech players. Mobikwik, another payments company that had planned to list in the very near future, announced Tuesday it will “launch at the right time”. Whether the investor jitters will last and hurt prospects for other looming IPOs remains to be seen. India has been on an IPO tear with more than 50 companies raising a record $15 billion so far this year. SoftBank-backed Oyo wants to raise $1.1 billion via an IPO. Ride-sharing company Ola, which posted its first operating profit in the 2020-21 financial year, also wants to list to raise at least $1.5-2bn. Online education provider Byju may also seek to raise funds via an IPO along with logistics company Delhivery. Sharma pep- talk In a bid to repair shattered employee morale after Paytm’s shares plunged, Sharma compared the firm to Tesla. The electric vehicle-maker, he reminded employees at a four-hour town-hall meeting, had been the world’s most shorted stock for a few years before its market capitalisation soared to reach the $1.1 trillion level where it stands now. Sharm’s pep-talk was a nice encouragement for employees. But many analysts say the day when Paytm’s shares take off could be a while coming. Piyush Nagda, who heads investment products at Prabhudas Lilladher, expects Paytm shares to remain subdued for the short-to-medium term as IPO investors will try to sell the stock when it rises and new investors will steer clear until the sentiment towards the company changes. Macquarie remains bleak on Paytm, assigning the company a 12-month target of Rs 1,200 per share: "Paytm has been a cash-burning machine, spinning off several business lines with no visibility on achieving profitability,” Macquarie said in a report. Some analysts, though, are upbeat about Paytm’s prospects. They point out that institutional investors like the Canada pension plan and BlackRock hold 87 per cent of the issue and are likely in for the long haul, giving Paytm time to get its act together. Says one analyst: “A new segment of Internet-based companies is getting created in India. We don’t know what valuations will work: It’s all a work in progress and the learning curve is both steep and unforgiving.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-11-2021||Business||Benchmark indices rise in opening trade||Market gauges Sensex and Nifty started on a positive note on Wednesday as participants showed keen interest in telecom, power and energy shares. The BSE Sensex was trading higher by 187.89 points or 0.32 per cent at 58,852.22 in early trade, while the NSE Nifty rose 59.85 points or 0.34 per cent to 17,563.20. On the Sensex chart, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid, NTPC, Sun Pharma and Reliance Industries were major gainers rising as much as 2.04 per cent. On the other hand, Bajaj FinServ, Tech Mahindra, Maruti, Asian Paints and Infosys were among the major laggards. Analysts said the telecom sector is in focus as the sector majors initiated rate hikes which will enhance profitability. In the previous session, the BSE Sensex settled 198.44 points or 0.34 per cent higher at 58,664.33 and the NSE Nifty rose 86.80 points or 0.50 per cent to 17,503.35. Elsewhere in Asia, stock markets were trading with moderate to deep losses tracking a rise in US bond yields and volatility in global crude oil prices in the wake of price-cooling efforts by the US and other countries. Offloading of shares foreign institutional investors continued on Tuesday as well, as they sold shares worth Rs 4,477.06 crore on a net basis. Brent crude futures, global crude oil benchmark, rose 0.15 per cent to trade at USD 82.30 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-11-2021||Business||The young trader Sahil Ali talks about six main characteristics of a pro trader||Success doesn’t come easy, especially not to the traders. For them, it is working out a jigsaw puzzle whose pieces are strewed all over the area. Therefore, being a trader is a complex and backbreaking task. But if you desire to be one, there are a few qualities that you should possess to be a trader. To converse about these characteristics, no one but Sahil Ali can decipher it better. Being a prominent player on the forex trade ground, undoubtedly he is the definition of a prosperous trader. Here are the six basic facets of a pro trader shared by Sahil Ali, 1. Pantomath Gaining in-depth knowledge before entering the ground is the foremost step in trading.  A pro trader cannot be a raw player, he/she should know everything and anything about the trading world believes Sahil. 2. Tech-savvy Being the biggest technophile, Sahil surmises a skilled trader to be a tech-savvy person. A dealer with sharp skills will easily comprehend the influence of technology on market and thus reckon about the future possibilities. 3. Persistence No arena has even the remotest corner for the people who take shortcuts. A masterly trader that heeds the path of utter hard work and pours into his sheer dedication is the one who aces the market. 4. Consistent Trading is a dynamic field, the elbow rooms are always backed by sharp fences and if your strategy survives the conditions then no one can stop you from being a proficient trader. A good trader looks for consistency and not for quick profits. 5. Patient Talking about profits, Sahil says that if you are here for a quick-rich scheme then you landed on a wrong comet. An aced trader has a tremendous amount of patience which helps him to discern the trends clearly. 6. Risk-bearer When we talk about trading, no market exists that doesn’t involve risk. Having the courageous heart to bear the risk and learn from it is the most convincing quality of a pilot trader. Sahil Ali and his company Costafx Technologies Pvt. Ltd. are achieving new heights in the world of trading and forex world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-11-2021||Business||UK and Germany flag concerns about  Deocha-Pachami coal block||The United Kingdom and Germany have flagged concerns about the development of the Deocha-Pachami coal block amidst a global effort to transition from fossil fuels in the wake of the unfolding climate crisis. Earlier this month, the Bengal government announced a rehabilitation package for purchasing land as a precursor to start mining from the block in Birbhum district. Allotted to a state-run power producer, the mine is said to have 2.1 billion tonnes of coal, which can potentially meet Bengal’s requirement of electricity for years. The announcement of the Rs 35,000 crore project coincided with the COP26 meet in Glasgow, Scotland, where nations sought to create a roadmap to move away from fossil fuels such as coal. India, however, stood firm on the use of coal, committing to ‘phase down’ use of coal instead of ‘phase out’. “We read over the last few weeks about Bengal’s plans to develop what is believed to be the world’s second largest coal mine, which makes (us) slightly uncomfortable. It was something we did not really discuss in COP26,” Nick Low, British deputy high commissioner in Calcutta, said. He was speaking at a Ficci meeting where the consular corps of the city, including the US and French, were present to hear Rajiva Sinha, chairman of West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation. “I don’t expect you (Sinha) to answer but it would be really useful if there is a presentation on that specific project, because I think there will be lot of interest as we try to transition to an economy away from fossil fuels... to hear  what the plans are,” Low said. The German consul general in Calcutta Manfred Auster said: “I share Nik’s concern about the exploitation of fossil fuels and we are looking forward to see what can be done to develop in a sustainable and green way.” “My sense is that my new government ... will be putting more emphasis on the environment and the fight against the climate crisis. Therefore, I guess all sectors that will help overcome that crisis are those that we should try to attract in Bengal for various reasons,” the German consul said. Australia, however, appeared to have a different opinion. Rowan Ainsworth, consul general of Australia said: “Half the relationship we have with India is from Australian mining companies because we are a big mining country. We have a lot of companies that support that sector which has a high technology in terms of meeting environmental requirements and that is an area that we are working on with India.” In his closing remarks, Sinha reminded that COP 26 could not come to a conclusion on fossil fuels. “We are waiting and watching to see as to what is happening,” Sinha said. Perception Diplomats present at the meeting urged the Bengal government to address the negative perception the state has about industry and business climate. Japan’s consul general Nakamura Yukata reminded that there is competition among states to attract industry. While Sinha explained Bengal’s investment over last 10 years in social sector, which has created a conducive business environment, Japanese consul said he would like to hear more on what the state would like to do for industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-11-2021||Business||CJI N.V. Ramana adjourns Amazon-Future row to December 8||The Supreme Court on Tuesday adjourned the hearing in the Amazon-Future Retail case to December 8. Chief Justice N.V. Ramana told the parties to file short compilations for the consideration of the court and castigated them for filing as many as 21-23 volumes. The court was dealing with two separate leave petitions filed by Future Coupons and Future Retail Ltd against an earlier Delhi high court single judge order directing attachment of the companies’ properties and those of its promoter Kishore Biyani. The employees of Future Retail have now asked the Supreme Court to allow the company to sell its assets and rule against Amazon in an ongoing dispute, citing risks to 27,000 jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-11-2021||Business||NCLAT stays Rs 200 crore penalty imposed by CCI on Maruti Suzuki||Appellate tribunal NCLAT has stayed the Rs 200-crore penalty imposed by the Competition Commission on Maruti Suzuki but directed the car maker to deposit 10 per cent of the total amount within three weeks. The amount has to be deposited with the Registrar of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). A three-member NCLAT bench stayed the demand notice issued on October 27 to the car maker, subject to the condition of depositing 10 per cent of the penalty amount. Passing an order, the appellate tribunal has also directed to list the petition filed by Maruti Suzuki India against the regulator “for admission” on December 15. On August 23, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) imposed a penalty of Rs 200 crore on MSIL for restricting discounts offered by its dealers and directed the country’s largest car maker to cease and desist from indulging in unfair business practices. Scrappage unit The Maruti-Toyota joint venture to scrap cars was inaugurated on Tuesday. Maruti Suzuki Toyotsu India Pvt Ltd’s 10,993 square metre facility has a capacity to scrap and recycle over 24,000 ELVs (end of life vehicles) annually. According to the company’s statement, built with an investment of over Rs 44 crore, the facility uses modern and technologically advanced machines to dismantle and scrap ELVs . Maruti Suzuki Toyotsu  was established in 2019 as a 50:50 joint venture between Maruti Suzuki India Ltd and Toyota Tsusho Group and Toyota Tsusho India Pvt Ltd. The plant is located in Noida.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-11-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea announces hike in pre-paid tariffs||Cash-strapped Vodafone Idea on Tuesday announced a hike in pre-paid tariffs, a day after rival Bharti Airtel jacked up rates. India’s No. 3 telecom player said it would increase mobile call and data tariffs across plans by 18-25 per cent for prepaid customers with effect from November 25. “The new plans will start the process of ARPU (average revenue per user) improvement and help address the financial stress faced by the industry,” Vi  said. Analysts believe Jio will also now increase tariffs. Vodafone Idea has increased the minimum value of recharge by 25.31 per cent for 28 days to Rs 99 from Rs 79. In the popular unlimited talktime plans, the rates have been hiked in the range of 20-23 per cent. The lowest plan bundled with 1GB data per day with 28-day validity will cost Rs 269 from November 25, from Rs 219 at present. The price of the 84-day validity plan with 1.5 GB per day data limit will cost Rs 719 instead of Rs 599. The 365-day plan with 1.5 GB per day data limit will go up 20.8 per cent to Rs 2,899. It is now priced at Rs 2,399. The company has also increased the price of low-value data top-up by 20 per cent. The Rs 1,499 annual prepaid plan, which comes with a fixed data limit of 24GB at 4G speed, will go up by 20 per cent to Rs 1,799 from November 25. Prices of other data top-up plans have been increased in the range of 18 per cent to 21 per cent. The 3GB and 12GB top-up will be at Rs 58 and 118, respectively, instead of Rs 48 and Rs 98,  at present. Top-up  of 50GB and 100GB will be Rs 298 and Rs 418, respectively, instead of Rs 251 and Rs 351 at present. The company has overall announced an increase in tariff across 16 mobile services plans. Vodafone went ahead with the hike despite steadily losing customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-11-2021||Business||Impressive debut for Latent View Analytics at stock exchanges||Shares of Latent View Analytics on Tuesday  made an impressive debut on the stock exchanges as it opened at a premium of 169 per cent and later settled with gains of 148 per cent to the issue price. The strong listing should come as a relief particularly after Paytm parent One97 Communications disappointed on the bourses. However, in Tuesday’s trade, the Paytm share closed with gains of 9.90 per cent, or Rs 134.65, at Rs 1,494.95, leading to a market cap of around Rs 96,914 crore. The IPO of Latent View Analytics had come in a price band of Rs 190-197 per share and it had closed for subscription on November 12. Its offering was a roaring success with the firm witnessing a record subscription of 338 times and investors had put in bids worth Rs 1.13 lakh crore. The Latent View Analytics share opened at Rs 530 on the BSE and hit an intra-day high of Rs 548.75 — a gain of 178 per cent to the issue price. The share later closed at Rs 488.60, a premium of 148 per cent. Similarly, on the NSE, it opened at Rs 512.20 and ended at Rs 487.95. Meanwhile, shares of RIL were also back in the green after being battered on Monday for calling off a proposed deal with Saudi Aramco. On the BSE, the RIL share ended with gains of around a per cent at Rs 2,386.15. Despite the Aramco news, most of the analysts have maintained their current rating and price target on the stock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-11-2021||Business||IndusInd Bank to not relieve Shalabh Saxena and Ashish Damani||In a rare event of two listed firms squabbling over senior executive appointments, IndusInd Bank on Tuesday said it cannot relieve Shalabh Saxena and Ashish Damani from its subsidiary Bharat Financial Inclusion Ltd (BFIL). It comes only a day after Spandana Sphoorty Financial Ltd (SSFL) had announced their appointments. Referring to the announcement by the micro-lender, IndusInd Bank said as certain transactions relating to BFIL are the subject matter of a review, the presence of both Saxena and Damani at BFIL is critical to the closure of the process. Therefore, they cannot be relieved from the services of BFIL till the review is completed. While Saxena is the managing director and CEO of BFIL, Damani dons the role of executive director and chief financial officer. IndusInd Bank hinted that there are non-compete clauses in their contracts which it may activate should they leave. Earlier this month, IndusInd Bank had disclosed that BFIL had disbursed 84,000 loans without consent due to a technical glitch. The private sector lender had initiated an independent review to see if there is any process lapse or accounting failure at its subsidiary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
24-11-2021||Business||India to release 5 million barrels of crude from strategic reserves||India on Tuesday said it would release 5 million barrels of crude from its strategic reserves and soon after, the US said it would release 50 million barrels from its stockpile, kicking off an unprecedented global effort to tamp down on crude oil prices that threaten to derail the nascent global economic recovery from the pandemic. South Korea said details on the amount and timing of the release from its oil reserves would be decided after discussions with the US and other allies. Japanese media said Tokyo would announce its plans on Wednesday, while the UK said it would allow the voluntary release of 1.5 million barrels of oil from privately-held reserves. Benchmark Brent was trading above $80 a barrel on Tuesday, up from levels before the announcement but still well below last month’s three-year high of more than $86. The effort by Washington to team up with major Asian economies to lower energy prices sends a warning to Opec and other big producers that they need to address concerns about high crude prices, up more than 50 per cent so far this year. “India has agreed to release 5 million barrels of crude oil from its Strategic Petroleum Reserves. This release will happen in parallel and in consultation with other major global energy consumers including the USA, People’s Republic of China, Japan and the Republic of Korea,” an oil ministry statement said. India stores 5.33 million tonnes (mt)  or about 38 million barrels of crude oil in underground reserves at three locations on the east and west coast. This is the first time it is releasing oil for such a purpose. While the ministry did not give the date for release, an official said the stock could be released within 7-10 days. The stocks will be sold to Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL) and the refineries of Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL), which are connected by pipeline to the strategic reserves. Members of  Opec and its allies have repeatedly rebuffed requests to speed up their production increases. “India strongly believes that the pricing of liquid hydrocarbons should be reasonable, responsible and be determined by market forces. India has repeatedly expressed concern at the supply of oil being artificially adjusted below demand levels by oil-producing countries, leading to rising prices and negative attendant consequences,” the oil ministry said. India has built 1.33 million tonne (mt) of storage at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, 1.5 million tonne (mt) at Mangalore and 2.5 million tonne (mt) at Padur (both in Karnataka). While the US stocks 727 million barrels, Japan holds 175 million barrels of crude and oil products as part of a strategic petroleum reserve . New Delhi has been the most forceful in opposing the Opec moves on crude supply and has even cut shipments from Saudi Arabia by about a quarter after the oil cartel extended their production cuts. India is the world’s third-largest oil consumer and importing nation. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
24-11-2021||Business||Govt to bring bill in winter session to bar private cryptocurrencies||The government is likely to bring a Bill in the ensuing Winter session of Parliament to bar all but a few private cryptocurrencies and create a framework to regulate digital currency issued by the RBI. The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, is listed for introduction in the Lok Sabha in the Winter session, scheduled to begin from November 29. The bill seeks to “create a facilitative framework for the creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India. It also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India. However, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses”, says the bill listed for introduction on the Lok Sabha website. At present, there is no regulation or ban on the use of cryptocurrencies in the country. Against this backdrop, Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this month held a meeting on cryptocurrencies with senior officials, and indications are that strong regulatory steps could be taken to deal with the issue. Recently, there have been a rising number of advertisements, featuring even film stars, promising easy and high returns on investments in cryptocurrencies, amid concerns such currencies being allegedly used for luring investors with misleading claims. Last week, the Standing Committee on Finance, chaired by BJP member Jayant Sinha, met the representatives of crypto exchanges, blockchain and Crypto Assets Council (BACC), among others, and arrived at a conclusion that cryptocurrencies should not be banned, but regulated. The Reserve Bank of India has repeatedly reiterated its strong views against cryptocurrencies, saying they pose serious threats to the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country and also doubted the number of investors trading on them and their claimed market value. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had earlier reiterated his views against allowing cryptocurrencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
