25-11-2021||Business||Sensex surges 454 points to close at 58,795||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded 454 points on Thursday, boosted by gains in index heavyweight Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index ended 454.10 points or 0.78 per cent higher at 58,795.09. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 121.20 points or 0.70 per cent to close at 17,536.25. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring over 6 per cent, followed by ITC, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, Titan, Bharti Airtel and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Maruti, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, HUL and L&T were among the laggards. Indian markets opened on mixed note following mixed Asian market cues as investors digested Bank of Korea raising rates along with resurgence of COVID-19 cases in Europe, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. "During the afternoon session market recovered and gained momentum to enter into green terrain. Sentiments were upbeat as Moody's expects India's economic growth to rebound strongly, pegging GDP growth of 9.3 per cent and 7.9 per cent in fiscal year 2022 (ending on 31 March 2022) and fiscal 2023, respectively," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.38 per cent to USD 81.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
25-11-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points to open at 58,215||Equity benchmark Sensex slipped over 100 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and ITC amid persistent foreign fund outflows. Despite starting slightly higher, the 30-share index turned red to trade 125.54 points or 0.22 per cent lower at 58,215.45. Similarly, the Nifty was trading 30.15 points or 0.17 per cent down at 17,384.90. ICICI bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by NTPC, Bajaj Finserv, HUL, Asian Paints, ITC and HDFC. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank and Infosys were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex settled 323.34 points or 0.55 per cent lower at 58,340.99, and Nifty fell 88.30 points or 0.5 per cent to end at 17,415.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 5,122.65 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "In the bull-versus-bear fight going on in the market now, fodder for bears is the sustained selling by FIIs who have sold equity worth around Rs 18,000 crore during the last six days. This sustained selling is in sync with the view of most foreign brokerages that valuations are stretched," said VK Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The strategy of 'buy-on-dips' which worked well since April 2020, is not working now, he said, adding that valuations remain high even after this correction. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were negative. Stock exchanges in the US largely ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.01 per cent to USD 82.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
25-11-2021||Business||Central Bank and Indian Overseas Bank shares rally on bourse||Shares of Central Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) on Wednesday rallied on the bourses, notching up gains of up to 13 per cent on reports that they may be privatised. While the two counters also recorded heavy volumes, the lenders clarified to the stock exchanges that they were not aware of any privatisation move by the Centre and that they have not received any information either from the Department of Financial Services or the government in this regard. The rally came after a report on CNBC TV-18 which said that both of these PSU lenders have been shortlisted by the government for divestment, though it was quick to add that the privatisation is unlikely to happen in this financial year. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had in her Budget for 2021-22 said that apart from IDBI Bank, the Centre will take up privatisation of two PSU banks and a general insurance company. On the BSE, shares of Central Bank ended sharply higher at Rs 22.70 — a rise of 10.46 per cent over the last close. During intra-day trades, it had hit a high of Rs 23.65 — a rise of over 15 per cent. More than 47 lakh shares were transacted on the exchange, which was more than the two week average of 10.20 lakh shares. The IOB scrip settled 13.10 per cent higher at Rs 22.45 after touching a day’s high of Rs 23.80, a gain of almost 20 per cent over the previous close. Close to 53 lakh shares were transacted against the two week average of 10.66 lakh shares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
25-11-2021||Business||Ipca Labs to acquire more than 26 per cent of Lyka Laboratories||Ipca Laboratories is acquiring more than 26 per cent of Lyka Laboratories, a move that will see the former enter into the lucrative lyophilised injectables business in India and the rest of the world markets. Following this acquisition, Ipca Laboratories will make a open offer to acquire 26 per cent additional equity of Lyka from its public shareholders. It currently holds around 9.8 per cent in Lyka. The fresh shares were acquired through a block deal on the BSE. The transaction saw Ipca buying 48 lakh shares at an average price of Rs 130.40 apiece. The sellers included Shruti Shah and Prasham Shah from whom 15 lakh shares each were bought. Another 18 lakh shares were bought from Mayank Shah. Ipca had received a letter on November 24 from its non-promoter public shareholders offering and agreeing to sell up to 48 lakh shares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
25-11-2021||Business||Star Health and Allied Insurance Company plans IPO||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-backed Star Health and Allied Insurance Company will test the stock market waters with its maiden public offer amid high Covid claims and no underwriting surplus. The insurer has set a price band of Rs 870-900 per share with an issue size of Rs 7,249 crore at the upper price band. The IPO, which opens on November 30, will be a mix of a fresh issue of equity shares and an offer for sale by existing shareholders . From the promoter group, Safecrop Investments India llp, Konark Trust and MMPL Trust are looking to lower their stakes in the company. Apis Groth 6 Limited, Mio IV Star, University of Notre Dame Du Lac, Mio Star, ROC Capital Pty Ltd, Venkatasamy Jagannathan, Sai Satish and Berjis Minoo Desai are among the other selling shareholders. Jhunjhunwala will retain his stake of around 14 per cent in the company. The public offer comes at a time the profitability of the general insurance industry and the standalone health insurers are under stress on account of  high Covid claims. However, most insurers have seen a growth in new business premiums as policy sales picked up with increased awareness. “In the first half of the current fiscal, 28 per cent of the claims incurred and 41 per cent of the claims outgo amounting close to Rs 1,750 crore was on account of Covid pandemic. There was no underwriting surplus in the first half of the fiscal,” said S. Prakash, managing director, Star Health and Allied Insurance. The insurer has seen 7.5 lakh claims only during the first six months of the fiscal year whereas in the whole of 2020-21 there were 8.25 lakh claims. Prakash, however, said with rising vaccinations, the impact of Covid claims is expected to come down towards the fourth quarter which will have a positive impact on the bottomline. In 2020-21, the insurance company posted a net loss of Rs 825 crore against a profit of Rs 268 crore. The recent weak listing of Paytm has raised concern over IPO pricing, but the company’s management said that the insurer’s business model, market position and growth prospects will make it a prospective investment. The public offer includes a reservation of shares worth Rs 100 crore for employees. Proceeds from the fresh issue would be used to augment the company's capital base. About 75 per cent of the issue size has been reserved for qualified institutional buyers (QIBs), 15 per cent for non-institutional investors and the remaining 10 per cent for retail investors. Investors can bid for a minimum of 16 equity shares and in multiple thereof. At present, SBI Life Insurance Company, HDFC Life Insurance Company, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company and ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company are the few insurance companies which are listed on the stock exchanges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
25-11-2021||Business|| Niti Aayog proposes setting up of full-stack 'digital banks'||The Niti Aayog on Wednesday proposed the setting up of full-stack “digital banks” which would principally rely on the internet and other proximate channels to offer their services and not physical branches. The move is meant to increase credit penetration, particularly among MSMEs. Surprisingly, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which is the banking regulator, was not involved with the discussion paper. The government think-tank collaborated with Black Dot Public Policy Advisors and received inputs from the Department of Financial Services of the finance ministry and the representatives of public sector banks including SBI. The paper suggested a three-step approach to kickstart the process. In the first stage, the RBI could grant a restricted digital business bank licence. In the next stage, the applicant holding a restricted licence will be allowed to commence operations within a regulatory sandbox. Finally, the restrictions can be relaxed to upgrade the entity to a full stack digital business bank licence. Digital banks or DBs mean banks as defined in Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Niti Aayog paper added that these entities will take deposits, give loans and offer the full suite of services that Banking Regulation Act empowers commercial bank to offer to its customers. As regards the entities that can set up these banks, the discussion paper said that given the “digital-native” nature of banks , the licence may require one or more controlling persons of the applicant entity to have an established track record in adjacent industries such as e-commerce, payments, technology like cloud computing. Entry at Rs 20 crore The discussion paper has also proposed capital requirement and other conditions:  the minimum paid-up capital should be Rs 20 crore in the restricted phase. The capital should be Rs 200 crore for a full-stack digital business bank, equivalent to small finance banks. The digital bank licence and ambient regulation should be technologically agnostic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
25-11-2021||Business||India and US agree for transitional approach on equalisation levy||India and the US have agreed for a transitional approach on equalisation levy or digital tax on e-commerce supplies beginning April 1, the finance ministry said on Wednesday.  The final terms of the agreement for the digital tax — also called Google tax — will be ready by February 1. On October 8, 136 countries, including India, have agreed to an overhaul of global tax norms to ensure that multinationals pay taxes wherever they operate and at a minimum 15 per cent rate. On October 21, the US, Austria, France, Italy, Spain and the UK reached an agreement on a transitional approach to existing unilateral measures “India and the US have agreed that the same terms . shall apply between the US and India with respect to India's charge of 2 per cent equalisation levy on e-commerce supply of services and the US’s  trade action regarding the said Equalisation Levy.  “However, the interim period that will be applicable will be from April 1, 2022, till implementation of Pillar One or March 31, 2024, whichever is earlier,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
25-11-2021||Business||Centre to extend free supply of 5kg foodgrains per month||The Centre on Wednesday decided to further extend the free supply of 5kg foodgrains per month under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Yojana for four months till March 2022, a decision that will cost an additional Rs 53,344 crore to the exchequer. The decision, which will benefit over 80 crore ration card holders covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), was taken in the Cabinet meeting headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Free foodgrains under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) scheme, announced in March last year to provide relief to the poor during the Covid pandemic, is over and above the normal quota provided under the NFSA at a highly subsidised rate of Rs 2-3 per kilogram. The PMGKAY has been extended several times, and the previous extension was valid till November 30. The total cost of the PMGKAY would touch about Rs 2.6 lakh crore, including all five phases of this ongoing programme. Food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said: “It is a pro-active measure to support people when they are in the process of recovery.” Asked if this decision was taken to help the Uttar Pradesh government, which had announced early November the extension of this scheme till Holi, the secretary said, “The decision has not been taken for one state, it is for the entire country.” Power distribution The government on Wednesday approved the formation of a special purpose vehicle to privatise the electricity distribution business in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. A meeting of the cabinet also approved the sale of equity shares of the newly formed special purpose vehicle for the company to the highest bidder and formation of trust(s) for serving employees' liabilities. The said privatisation process will improve services to over 1.45 lakh consumers of the Union Territory in terms of operational improvements and functional efficiencies in distribution and provide a model for emulation by other utilities. A single distribution company — DNH-DD Power Distribution Corporation — would be incorporated as a wholly-owned government company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
25-11-2021||Business||RIL to transfer gasification business into wholly-owned subsidiary||The board of Reliance Industries has decided to transfer its gasification business into a wholly-owned subsidiary. The gasification project at Jamnagar was set up with the objective to produce syngas to meet the energy requirements as refinery off-gases, which earlier served as fuel, were re-purposed into feedstock for the refinery off gas cracker. This enables production of olefins at competitive capital and operating costs, the company said in a late night press release. Syngas as a fuel ensures reliability of supply and helps reduce volatility in the energy costs. Syngas is also used to produce hydrogen for consumption at Jamnagar unit. RIL is aiming to create a portfolio which is fully re-cyclable, sustainable and net carbon zero. As RIL progressively transitions to renewables as its primary source of energy, more syngas will become available for upgradation to high value chemicals including C1 chemicals and hydrogen. The Reliance board approved a scheme to transfer the gasification undertaking as a going concern on a slump sale basis for a lump sum consideration equal to the carrying value as on the appointed date. The scheme will allow RIL to evaluate ways to unlock the value of syngas with a collaborative and asset light approach. The company will be looking to induct investors in the gasifier subsidiary and capture the value of upgradation in RIL through partnerships in different chemical streams. The appointed date for the implementation of the scheme has been fixed as March 31 next year. It will require the approval of stock exchanges, creditors, shareholders, national company law tribunal (NCLT) and other regulatory authorities, the note said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
25-11-2021||Business||Raghuram Rajan says ban on crypto currencies may not work ||Former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan on Wednesday said a ban on crypto currencies may not work as they operate beyond the pale of regulations. In an interview to a TV channel, Rajan said out of the 6,000 odd crypto currencies, only or two or at best a handful would survive. The Centre is set to introduce a crypto currency bill in Parliament that seeks to ban most digital currencies. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das has been firm in his opposition to crypto currencies. Rajan said that while Das was right to be worried about the adverse uses and consequences of crypto currencies, both the government and the regulators should see how the underlying blockchain technology be put to best use. Comparing the current craze to the tulip mania in the Netherlands back in the 17th century, Rajan said crypto currencies may pose the same problem as unregulated chit funds which take money from people and go bust. “A lot of people holding crypto assets are going to be aggrieved.” Rajan added that in the US, cryptocurrency is a $2.5 trillion problem that nobody wanted to regulate. “In part, regulators don’t fully understand this industry and how to regulate it’’. If a large part of the sector can escape the clutches of the regulator, it creates even more confusion among people, Rajan said. He said the major area of concern for the RBI is whether these unregulated digital currencies would be accepted as a medium of exchange, which can even affect the rupee’s value. However, a strong central bank can maintain the value of a fiat currency and ensure that it is not substituted by crypto currency. “What governments can insist on is getting information from crypto entities, when they get too big, the government can examine them more closely to ensure there isn't any outright fraud. This is a situation where at best you can send warnings to the broader public,’’ he said. The former Reserve Bank  governor observed the central government must allow the underlying blockchain technology to flourish in the Indian ecosystem. One of the advantages is that the blockchain ways of transacting are much cheaper particularly across borders. Threat looms Duvvuri Subbarao, who preceded Rajan as RBI governor, said in a article that the digital currency particularly the stable coins which are backed by the dollar could pose serious challenge to fiat currencies such as the rupee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
25-11-2021||Business||Cryptos like Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Dogecoin tumble by more than 10%||Crypto currencies like Bitcoin, Ethereum and Dogecoin tumbled by more than 10 per cent as investors scrambled to unwind positions, spooked by reports that the Narendra Modi government was readying to introduce regulations that may ban or severely restrict the operation of crypto exchanges in the country. The government is planning to introduce The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021 in the Winter session of the Lok Sabha which starts later this month. The slide in the crypto currencies was sharp and persisted throughout the day as investors and other stakeholders tried to make sense about the likely impact that a regulatory regime would have on an investment avenue that has yielded blowout returns for investors over the past few years. Meanwhile, speculation swirled that the Modi government could leave a small door open for crypto currencies by agreeing to treat them as a financial asset and permitting only a minimal investment in digital currencies. None of this could be confirmed. The talk of some wiggle room for crypto currency trades did not, however, soothe the nerves of panicky investors. Even Tether, the crypto currency whose tokens are backed by an equivalent amount of dollars, was down 8.63 per cent at Rs 74.33 at 5:15 PM. An outright ban will send shock waves through this fledgling market and place a question mark on the fate of the investments made by an estimated 15-20 million crypto currency holders in India. There are more than 10 crypto currency exchange platforms in India. Several exchanges were facing deposit and withdrawal challenges amid high transaction volumes and a sharp spike in concurrent users and traffic. Earlier in the day, WazirX said on its official Twitter account said that it was investigating delays faced by users of the app and the website which was later fixed. The founders and CEOs of crypto exchanges scrambled to calm the panic among investors. “This is not the end but the beginning of crypto regulations in India. Industry has the opportunity to present. Law makers understand the growing market. There are ways to curb the bad activities and promote innovation. Don’t panic,” said Nischal Shetty, founder and CEO of WazirX India. Coin DCX co-founder and CEO Sumit Gupta said cryptocurrency prices are governed by market demand and not based on geographies as they are inherently decentralised and distributed. “Due to this news, we are witnessing significant discounts only in the Indian markets. Global markets remain unaffected,” the CoinDCX  chief said. “We shall follow the directions provided by the government. For now, I urge all crypto asset investors in the country to remain calm, do their own research before arriving at a rushed conclusion,” said Ashish Singhal, founder and chief executive officer, CoinSwitch Kuber. “There is no need to panic at this point. Funds are safe and ZebPay has and will adhere to all laws and regulations on this matter,” said Avinash Shekhar, co-CEO, ZebPay. Industry officials were cautious in their comments and are waiting for the bill to be tabled to see how the government defines a private crypto currency and how it intends to regulate them. “We have to wait and watch, especially to see how the government defines private crypto currency. The government’s focus is primarily to reinforce financial stability and prevent money laundering,” a source said. Sources said crypto currencies were not being use to make payments in India as they are not a recognised currency in the country. Industry mavens said that if crypto investments are treated as assets instead of means to make payments, then a blanket ban may be avoided and the country can take advantage of the underlying technology. A blanket ban may also be difficult to enforce as certain crypto currencies offer users the ability to send and receive money anonymously and it is also a challenge to monitor and trace transactions conducted through private networks. Globally some countries have already started cracking down on crypto currencies. China’s central bank has already announced that all transactions of crypto currencies are illegal. South Korea has brought in strict regulations while Turkey’s central bank has banned the use of crypto currencies for payments. In July this year, the RBI  said it was working on plans to introduce a central bank digital currency that will act as a legal tender and will have the same characteristics as a fiat currency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
