26-11-2021||Business||New Covid strain: US stocks fall amid fears of slow recovery||U.S. stocks slid as a post-Thanksgiving sell-off spread to global markets over fears that a new variant of the coronavirus, B.1.1.529, identified in South Africa could trigger new epidemics and undermine a fragile economic recovery. Haven’s assets surged. Stock indices fell across the board, with cyclicals and small caps taking the toll of the sales. The S&P 500 Index fell 1.9% while the Dow Jones Industrial Average and Russell 2000 fell at least 2.5%. Travel and leisure stocks fell, while home stay stocks rose. This helped soften the losses of the Nasdaq 100, which was still down 1.5%. “This is terrible news,” said Ipek Ozkardeskaya, senior analyst at Swissquote, in comments sent via email. “The new Covid variant could hit the economic recovery, but this time central banks will not have enough room to act. They cannot fight inflation and stimulate growth at the same time. They have to choose. Treasuries surged, lowering the 10-year yield by 13 basis points, as traders pushed back expectations for rate hikes. The Japanese yen became the main safe haven currency for the day, with the dollar falling. Oil fell to $ 70 a barrel in New York and gold soared. The World Health Organization and scientists in South Africa are reportedly working “lightning fast” to determine how quickly variant B.1.1.529 can spread and whether it is resistant to vaccines. The new threat comes on top of the wall of concern investors already face in the form of high inflation, monetary tightening and slowing growth. Carnival Corp. and Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. lost at least 9% each, while United Airlines Holdings Inc. lost 10%. Zoom Video Communications Inc. and Peloton Interactive Inc. rose at least 5%. “It’s a big shock to the people who wake up (and) see the news,” said Carl Dooley, trade manager for Europe, Middle East and Africa at Cowen. “Uncertainty and fear will remain high and maybe we will not return to new heights just yet.” The sell-off comes after global markets have taken a Jekyll-and-Hyde stance for months, with stocks rallying to new highs even as concerns have escalated over a toxic combination of high inflation and slower growth. Investors invested nearly $ 900 billion in long-term and exchange-traded funds in 2021, exceeding the combined total of the past 19 years. “At these valuations, any kind of headline is going to cause that pullback,” said Brian Vendig, chairman of MJP Wealth Advisors, in an interview with Bloomberg TV. “You certainly don’t want to be 100% in risky assets – be it its interest rate risk, its inflation risk, its political risk and now another clue of the healthcare crisis causing us all know that we are not out of the pandemic.” Traders pushed back the planned timeline of a first 25 basis point rate hike by the Federal Reserve to September from June, while briefly pricing any further hikes in 2023. They are also betting on an increase of less than 10 basis points for the Bank of England next month, up from 35 basis points projected a month ago. They called for a seven basis point tightening of the European Central Bank by December 2022 from the nine basis points seen on Thursday. The yen and Swiss franc found offers from safety-conscious traders, while the dollar posted a modest loss. A gain for the euro, the largest component of the Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index, also held back the greenback. MSCI Inc.’s Asia-Pacific stock gauge fell to its lowest since early October, with gauges in Japan and Hong Kong falling at least 2% each. Some of the most affected assets were in emerging markets. The currency of South Africa, where the virus strain was identified, lost 1% and the Turkish lira fell 2.4%. The MSCI EM Currency Index fell to its lowest level in six weeks. As sales continued unabated, some investors said it was important not to get carried away by short-term nervousness. “The markets have grown very strongly over the past 12 months so it’s not surprising to see such a reaction,” said Dan Boardman-Weston, chief investment officer at BRI Wealth Management. “If this is to push the world back from a Covid point of view, then it is likely that inflation will ease and monetary policy will remain looser for a long time, which should be positive for markets over the medium term.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
26-11-2021||Business||Sensex nosedives 1,688 points amid global selloff||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 1,688 points on Friday, tracking a massive selloff in global markets as concerns over a new COVID-19 variant spooked investors across the world. The 30-share index ended 1,687.94 points or 2.87 per cent lower at 57,107.15. Similarly, the NSE Nifty plunged 509.80 points or 2.91 per cent to 17,026.45. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking over 6 per cent, followed by Maruti, Tata Steel, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, HDFC and Titan. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's and Nestle India were among the gainers. Markets saw sharp correction this week amid renewed concerns pertaining to COVID-19. Sensex and Nifty declined close to 4 per cent this week and are down around 8 per cent from their highs, said Shrikant Chouhan, Head of Equity Research (Retail), Kotak Securities. "The new variant of COVID-19 is presenting challenges in the form of lockdowns and travel bans. Apart from COVID-related concerns, inflation remains a worry for countries across the globe. FIIs have been net sellers this week. Equity markets in the near term will closely follow the impact of new COVID variant, inflation data, and central bank policies," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo sank as much as 2.67 per cent. Stock exchanges in Europe too plunged up to 3.51 per cent in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude tanked 5.62 per cent to USD 77.60 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
26-11-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 800 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted over 800 points in early trade on Friday, on heavy across-the-board selling amid a negative trend in global markets and unabated foreign fund outflows. The 30-share index was trading 810.29 points or 1.38 per cent lower at 57,984.80. Similarly, the Nifty plunged 245.15 points or 1.40 per cent to 17,291.10. Maruti was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Kotak Bank, HDFC, Bajaj Finance and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's and Sun Pharma were the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 454.10 points or 0.78 per cent higher at 58,795.09, and Nifty surged 121.20 points or 0.70 per cent to close at 17,536.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,300.65 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. According to VK Vijayakumar, Chief investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, when a stock which has more than 10 per cent weight in Nifty surges by 6 per cent, it will trigger a strong upmove in the index. This happened on Thursday, when the spurt in RIL moved the Nifty up by 121 points. "But this uptrend is unlikely to sustain and can easily reverse when the headwinds for the market turn stronger," he said. He noted that the new headwind is the latest variant of the virus detected in South Africa, Botswana and Hong Kong. "This along with sustained selling by FIIs for the seventh consecutive day are major sentiment negatives for the market," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo fell up to 2.68 per cent in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US ended largely positive in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 2.02 per cent to USD 80.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
26-11-2021||Business||Amit Shah asks industry to explore NorthEast for fresh investment||Union home minister Amit Shah implored Indian industry to explore the NorthEast for fresh investment, asserting that peace and political stability have been established in the region. “I know deploying capital is a big deal. It is not done by emotion. But I want to assure you that the atmosphere needed to make investments has been created in the past seven years and now it is in place. The parameters to set up industry are on a par with the rest of the country,” Shah said at the annual general meeting of the Indian Chamber of Commerce. The minister said close to 4,000 extremists have laid down arms and returned to the mainstream and the number of civilian casualties has drastically come down, especially in the last two years. Shah’s comments on Thursday came less than two weeks after a colonel of Assam Rifle and his family were killed in an ambush in Manipur. Incidents such as this show that sporadic violence continues to rock the region even though the Centre and the states has spent Rs 12,000 crore in rehabilitation of extremist groups. Infra push The minister, who joined the industrialists from a virtual platform, said his government has worked hard to connect the NorthEast with the rest of India and listed out the infrastructure push provided by the Centre from 2014. “Next time when we go to seek people’s mandate in 2024, capitals of all states will be connected by an airport and seven out of eight states will have rail connectivity,” the minister said. The government is also spending big sums in expanding the road network within the region and also creating connectivity with neighbouring countries, especially Bangladesh, to provide the landlocked region with ports. While creating physical infrastructure, the Centre has also set up top class academic institutions to harness the human capital of the region, the minister said. Shah also highlighted the tourism and agro forestry potential of the states and exhorted industry to look for opportunities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
26-11-2021||Business||US Federal Reserve to double pace of tapering bond purchases||The US Federal Reserve will likely double the pace of tapering its monthly bond purchases from January to $30 billion, and wind down its pandemic-era bond buying scheme by mid-March, Goldman Sachs strategists said in a daily note on Thursday. “The increased openness to accelerating the taper pace likely reflects both somewhat higher-than-expected inflation over the last two months and greater comfort among Fed officials that a faster pace would not shock financial markets,” analysts led by Jan Hatzius said in a client note. Goldman expects the Fed to start raising interest rates only from June for a total of three times in 2022. The U.S. investment bank is one of the several banks which have recently raised their interest rate hike expectations for 2022 to three from two. Minutes of the central bank’s November 2-3 policy meeting showed that various policymakers said they would be open to speeding up the taper of their bond-buying programme if high inflation held and would move faster to raise rates. San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank President Mary Daly said on Wednesday she would be open to accelerating the pace of the central bank's tapering of asset purchases if inflation remained elevated and jobs growth stayed strong. “If things continue to do what they’ve been doing, then I would completely support an accelerated pace of tapering,” Daly said. Daly said she was “open” to the idea, but would like to see more economic reports on inflation and hiring and discuss the approach with her Fed colleagues before deciding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
26-11-2021||Business||JSW Energy approves reorganisation of green and grey businesses||The board of JSW Energy has approved the reorganisation of green (renewable) and grey (thermal) businesses, the company said on Thursday. As a result of this re-organisation, all the existing and upcoming renewable energy businesses will be housed under ‘JSW Energy Neo Limited’, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, JSW Energy said in a statement. This is in line with the announcement made by the company on July 30, 2021 stating that the board had approved the evaluation of re-organisation of Green and Grey businesses, it stated. This move will help the company in building and streamlining its renewable portfolio and setting up a holding structure which is efficient for fund-raising and unlocking value for shareholders, it stated. In May 2021, JSW Hydro Energy had issued green bonds of $707 million, which was the largest hydro green bond issuance in Asia. Prashant Jain, joint managing Director and CEO of JSW Energy, said, “JSW Energy has laid out a growth plan to reach 20 GW of power generation capacity by 2030, with about 85 per cent of this capacity via renewable energy. “With our healthy balance sheet and proven project execution expertise, we are one of the best positioned companies in the sector to undertake robust growth plans in the renewable energy space.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
26-11-2021||Business||Reliance Industries stock jumps 6 per cent||Shares of Reliance Industries (RIL) jumped on Thursday after the oil-to-telecom giant announced that it would transfer the gasification undertaking to a wholly owned subsidiary and induct investors to unlock the value of the business. The scrip rose sharply by 6.10 per cent, or Rs 143.50, to close at Rs 2,494.40 on the BSE, while it gained 6.36 per cent to settle at Rs 2,501 on the NSE. The surge in the RIL counter was one of the key reasons behind the Sensex ending higher by 454.10 points at 58795.09 and the Nifty gaining 121.20 points to end at 17536.25. Market circles said this could mark the beginning of RIL re-purposing assets in its portfolio and monetising them. Morgan Stanley said there could be value creation opportunity of up to $60 billion for RIL ahead as it takes the decarbonisation path. For RIL shareholders, the latest development should come as a major boost||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-11-2021||Business||Airtel conducts first 5G trial on 700Mhz spectrum||Bharti Airtel on Thursday said it has conducted the first 5G trial on 700Mhz spectrum on the outskirts of Calcutta. The trial, in partnership with Nokia, was also the first for 5G in the eastern part of the country. The telecom operator has been allotted test spectrum in multiple bands by the Department of Telecommunications for the validation of 5G technology and its applications. The 700Mhz band did not find any takers in the last auction in March because of its high reserve price in spite of its good propagation characteristics that enable it to play a crucial role in 5G deployment. Airtel in March had said it had acquired 355.45Mhz of spectrum for Rs 18,699 crore. The telecom major had acquired 21.6Mhz of spectrum for the Bengal circle in the 900, 1800, 2100, 2300 Mhz bands. The 21.6Mhz spectrum was later deployed in July taking Airtel’s total deployment in Bengal circle to 65 Mhz. “Back in 2012, Airtel had launched India’s first 4G service in Calcutta. Today we are delighted to conduct India’s first 5G demo in the coveted 700Mhz band in the city to showcase the power of this technology standard. We believe that with the right pricing of 5G spectrum in the upcoming auctions, India can unlock digital dividend and build a truly connected society with broadband for all,” said Randeep Singh Sekhon, CTO, Bharti Airtel. Airtel did not reveal the outcome of the test but officials said the initial results were good. The test was able to achieve high speed wireless broadband coverage of 40km between two 5G sites in real life condition. Airtel used Nokia’s AirScale radios and standalone core. “5G deployment using 700Mhz spectrum is helping communications service providers across the world to cost-effectively provide mobile broadband in remote areas, where typically it is challenging for them to set up the network infrastructure. Nokia is at the forefront in the development of the global 5G ecosystem and we look forward to supporting Airtel,” said Naresh Asija, VP and head of Bharti CT, Nokia. Bharti Airtel in January tested live 5G service on its existing 1800Mhz liberalised spectrum over a commercial network in Hyderabad. 5G and 4G had operated concurrently within the same spectrum block indicating the technology is available to deploy 5G within the current bands by the operator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-11-2021||Business||Asian Paints denies charges of poor corporate governance standards||Asian Paints Ltd (APL) on Thursday denied charges of poor corporate governance standards with regard to several related party transactions (RPT) between the company and Paladin Paints & Chemicals (Paladin), a private company owned by the promoter Dani family. The clarification came after a report from proxy advisory firm InGovern alleged conflict of interest between the promoter directors who own Paladin and other companies supplying goods to Asian Paints. InGovern had also said that the board of the company had failed to act decisively to mitigate the conflict of interest and there was inadequate disclosure of the value of related party transactions and logic thereof, thus leaving the issue a “bit cloudy”. Calling upon Sebi to investigate, InGovern  said the company needs to present details of the transactions with Paladin and other related parties. Its report said that even after informing on April 22, 2015 that the Dani family had acquired controlling interest in Paladin, the family members continue to be associated with Asian Paints . It further disclosed that APL’s 2015-16 annual report lists Paladin as a related party from April 22, 2015, but the company, unlike most others, does not list out the value of related party transactions. In 2019-20, the proxy advisory firm said that Asian Paints procured over 5.8 per cent of its raw materials from companies controlled by promoters. This stood at 6.6 per cent in the preceding fiscal and 6 per cent the year before . In a clarification issued to the bourses on Thursday, APL said that the report contained certain factually incorrect information. It said that out of Rs 553.88 crore of purchases from related parties during 2019-20, purchase from Paladin was Rs 1.3 crore which is lower than 0.2 per cent. It said that it has in the past also “adequately" responded to all aspects on transactions with Paladin. “The company had received e-mail enquiries from the Sebi and the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd, seeking details of the said transactions with Paladin, and the company has provided all necessary details and explanations sought by the said authorities, along with an overview of the processes followed for approval of related party transaction,’’ it said. APL further pointed out that all the transactions involving related parties are undertaken in strict compliance with the provisions of law and necessary disclosures have been made in accordance with the applicable disclosure norms which also included that made in the Annual Report on related party transactions. ``The Indian Accounting Standards - 24 on Related Party Disclosures states that items of a similar nature (nature of trade) needs to be disclosed at aggregate value as opposed to the statements made in the quoted report. Additionally, the company has been disclosing transactions with each of the related parties where the transaction value is more than 10 per cent of the total transactions of the same type with related parties during the year’’, it said. According to the company, all the transactions with related parties are also approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with the provisions of law. This committee comprises of majority of independent directors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-11-2021||Business||Amazon letter to independent FRL directors alleging irregularities||The battle between Amazon and Kishore Biyani-owned Future Retail Ltd (FRL) boiled over on Thursday after Amazon sent a letter to the independent directors of FRL alleging “significant irregularities” in the retail player’s related party transactions with group entities that warrant “a thorough and independent examination”. Amazon said it was bringing these facts to the attention of the independent directors so that they could — “consistent with their statutory and fiduciary obligations” — evaluate and investigate these issues in detail in the interests of public shareholders, creditors, bankers and third party suppliers of FRL. Amazon’s letter puts the independent directors in a quandary since they had written to the Competition Commission of India recently in which they claimed that Amazon had concealed material information about their deal with the Future group while seeking approvals for its investment in Future Coupons Ltd in August 2019. The stack of agreements with the Biyanis had given Amazon a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons and an indirect stake of 9.82 per cent in Future Retail. While writing those letters, the independent directors said they were driven by their fiduciary responsibilities in urging the CCI to revoke the approval it granted to the Amazon-Future Coupons deal which, they claimed, violated foreign direct investment (FDI) rules, provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act and Sebi’s takeover regulations. If the CCI withdraws its approval, Amazon will no longer be able to block the Rs 24,713 crore deal that Future Retail struck with the Reliance group in August 2020 by seeking to enforce an order handed down by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre that went in favour of the Jeff Bezos-owned retailing giant. Earlier in the day, the legal and regulatory battle between the two sides grew even more complicated after the Supreme Court admitted a plea filed by Amazon to stay an order that the Delhi High Court issued on a petition by the Confederation of All India Traders directing the CCI to issue a ruling in the Amazon-Future Retail battle by November 29. The Supreme Court has set the hearing on the latest Amazon petition for November 29. Epistolary broadside FRL has asserted the US e-commerce major has no locus to address its letter and that Amazon's communication was “nothing but an after-thought and a counterblast” to a showcause notice issued by the CCI. Amazon, in its letter dated November 24 to the independent directors, said FRL has consistently entered into “Significant Related Party Transactions” with various Future Group entities, including Future Enterprises , Future Supply Chain Solutions , Future 7-India Convenience and others, and that some of these related parties predominantly depend on FRL for their business. “...the audit committee members (present and past members) have expressed concerns about financial management of FRL, including related party transactions, despite substantial equity and debt fund mobilisation through December 2019 and January 2020,” the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-11-2021||Business||As many as 40 items of exports evade US retaliatory tariffs ||As many as 40 items of exports including basmati rice and shrimps have evaded US retaliatory tariffs with the Centre and the Biden administration agreeing to a transitional approach on digital taxes. The tariffs would have come into effect from November 29 if the two nations had failed to reach an agreement on the digital tax — a 2 per cent equalisation levy imposed by India on tech giants such as Google and Amazon . Washington had announced the 25 per cent retaliatory tariff from June on imports of some of the goods from six countries — India, Austria, France, Italy, Spain and UK. It then immediately suspended the duties to allow time for international tax negotiations. The office of the US Trade Representative had valued the tariffs at $55 million equivalent to the digital levy paid by the US corporations. But Indian exporters said the cost was much higher at $118 million. The levy would have impacted 26 categories of goods including basmati rice, cigarette paper, cultured pearls, semi-precious stones, certain gold and silver jewellery items and specific types of furniture products. “United States Trade Representative’s (USTR) is proceeding with the formal steps required to terminate this Section 301 trade action, and in coordination with US Treasury, will monitor implementation of the agreement (transition arrangement on digital tax) going forward,” according to a release issued by the USTR’s office. Under the terms of the global tax deal, as many as 136 countries in October have agreed on the reallocation of additional share of profit to market jurisdictions — Pillar 1 agreement — and levying multinationals a minimum tax of 15 per cent in all jurisdictions, which is the Pillar 2 agreement. As part of the Pillar 1 agreement, countries would would have to drop unilateral measures  such as India’s digital tax.; otherwise, the US  would  slap the retaliatory tariffs on exports. India and the US have now agreed on a transitional approach to the digital tax that will be applicable will be from April 1, 2022, till implementation of Pillar One or March 31, 2024, whichever is earlier. The terms for the transitional approach would be framed by February 1, 2022. “The US and India have broadly agreed to similar terms the US announced on October 21 with 5 other key trade partners. Essentially the terms call for a status quo on any retaliatory measures pending the implementation of the Pillar 1 solution,” according to Rohinton Sidhwa, partner, Deloitte India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-11-2021||Business||Crypto ban may lead to wrong use, warns industry body||A blanket ban on crypto currencies will only lead to its use for harmful purposes, an industry body has warned. Such a ban will encourage non-state players to use it for their transactions, leading to more unlawful use of such currencies, the Blockchain and Crypto Assets Council (BACC) said. The body represents crypto exchanges in India and is an affiliate of the Internet and Mobile Association of India. It said it supported the use of crypto-currencies only as an asset. The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021 would be tabled in Parliament at the Winter Session starting Monday. According to the Bill, India is set to prohibit all private crypto-currencies. However, it will allow some exceptions to promote the underlying technology. The decision has led to confusion among crypto investors. “The Council has always argued in favour of prohibiting the usage of private cryptocurrencies as a currency in India by law since usage as currency is likely to interfere with monetary policy and fiscal controls,” the BACC said. “On the other hand, the Council has advocated their use only as an asset. The Council believes that a smartly regulated crypto assets business will protect investors, help monitor Indian buyers and sellers, lead to better taxation of the industry, and limit illegal usage .” The BACC said it had listed several negative outcomes of a ban such as zero accountability and traceability of the origin and end usage of the cryptocurrencies, besides a complete evasion of taxes. A ban will also adversely impact retail investors. “Crypto exchanges based in India offer an effective instrument of monitoring and are dedicated to creating an ecosystem that guarantees investor protection besides bringing both the investors and exchanges under proper tax laws,” the BACC said. “The Council believes that the efforts of the exchanges should be supported by a law that should enable them to provide safer services to investors and fair taxes to the government,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-11-2021||Business||Paytm founder & CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma may foray into crypto||Paytm founder ad CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma has thrown his hat into the crypto currency ring amid a looming ban on their operations in the country. Sharma said he was open to take the Paytm brand abroad stepping forward to counter charges by brokerages that the business model of his company was not scalable. Shares of One 97 Communications Limited, the parent company of Paytm, on Thursday extended their gains for the third straight day ending at Rs 1,796.55, up 2.48 per cent, on the BSE. Sharma has backed the crypto currency technology and is interested to explore business opportunities. The Centre will table a bill in Parliament in the Winter Session that seeks to prohibit private crypto currencies . Sharma on Thursday urged the government to take a stand on the regulation which in turn will give clarity to the crypto currency businesses and allow the fence-sitters to take the plunge. “Crypto will become a mainstream techn in 5 years and will have use cases that we cannot live without just like we cannot live without the internet today,” he said at the annual session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce. “I fundamentally believe the government should officially take a stand because after that we all who are thinking about it, for them the problem will be solved,” he said. Replying to a question on whether he will consider setting up a crypto exchange, Sharma said, “The answer is 100 per cent. It’s a question like do you believe in smart phone or do you believe in the internet,” he said. He said the long-term plan was to take the Paytm brand to the overseas markets having already supported PapPay in Japan, where it has a joint ownership with SoftBank. “We have gone to Japan and will go to a few more countries. I have told my team the day we cross a revenue milestone of $1 billion, when we will be Ebitda break even, we will get a formal ticket to go overseas,” Sharma said. He added that contrary to certain market views, Paytm’s business model is scalable and will generate revenue. Research house Macquarie had earlier pointed out that the  model lacks focus and direction. “It will take some time for people to understand the model. But I am totally hopeful,” Sharma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
