27-11-2021||Business||Kumar Mangalam Birla predicts upsurge in capital expenditure ||Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman of Aditya Birla Group, has predicted an upsurge in capital expenditure spanning across the public and private sectors over the next decade. The country would benefit from the $1.5 trillion national infrastructure pipeline proposed by the Centre. The private sector would also play its part after shedding bad debts. “I believe, we have upon us a forthcoming decade of capex mahotsav,” Birla told the members of the Indian Chamber of Commerce. While the infra push such as NIP would lead to government spending, rise in capacity utilisation and healthy balance sheets of banks and corporate India is going to spur a private sector capex revival which would last for decades, Birla felt. The chairman of ABG picked five broad markers that could shape the Indian economy  in the future. In 2021, the government initiated several reforms such as  the consolidation of labour laws into a modern code or fixing legacy issues in power and telecom. Introduction of the GST or insolvency code have also started yielding results. “I believe 2021 is the new 1991.” He also predicted a deepening of the digital economy and a proliferation of the green economy based on renewable energy such as solar and hydrogen, which could be a tremendous growth driver. Pointing out that Indians consume over 12GB of data per sim card per month, higher than Korea, China, Japan or the UK, he predicted 40 per cent of the economy could revolve around digital. The boldest prediction the chairman of the $45 billion group by revenue made was imagining India, which imports 80 per cent of crude oil,as a net exporter of energy. This could be achieved by harnessing solar power from the 350 days of annual sunshine and the use of hydrogen as fuel. Noting that the production cost of hydrogen would fall just as it happened for solar, Birla said, “A combination of solar and hydrogen has the promise of making India energy independent, or even an energy exporter.” He feels the flowering of entrepreneurial talent, manifesting itself in a proliferation of start-ups and the transition of the informal economy to a formal economy are two new dimensions in the economy. However, he also wondered if the market was over-valuing the digital economy and warned there could be some bubbles. During an interaction with ICC members, Birla argued that basic metrics of business —  cashflow and unit economics — remained unchanged be it manufacturing, services or digital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
27-11-2021||Business||ITC Ltd acquires minority stake in personal care start up||ITC Ltd has acquired a minority stake in an ayurvedic and natural personal care start up, deepening the company’s engagement in the fast growing direct-to-consumer (D2C) segment. The company spent Rs 20 crore for the 16 per cent stake in Mother Sparsh, which has a wide range of baby and mother care products. This investment is in line with the ‘ITC Next’ strategy, articulated by chairman Sanjiv Puri, which aims to build a future ready organisation with a digital first culture. Mother Sparsh recorded a revenue of Rs 15.44 crore in 2020-21. Sameer Satpathy, chief executive, personal care products business, ITC, said: “We believe that this investment provides an exciting opportunity which is in alignment with our aspiration to have a significant play both in the naturals and ayurvedic segment as well as in the D2C channel.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
27-11-2021||Business||Amazon eyes Apollo Hospitals pharmacy business||The US e-commerce giant Amazon is reportedly in talks with Apollo Hospitals for a partnership in the latter’s pharmacy business. According to a report in Moneycontrol, Amazon & Apollo HealthCo (its subsidiary which houses the pharmacy business) are looking at a partnership that could sharpen the omnichannel experience of its pharmacy business. For the US giant which has been in the news for the legal dispute with the Future group, such a tie-up would pitch it against Reliance Industries (RIL) and the Tata group. The report added that Apollo Hospitals is also in talks with several private equity funds for a minority stake sale in the pharmacy business and that it could sell up to 20 per cent stake in their pharmacy subsidiary. Shares of Apollo Hospitals Enterprise on Friday closed at 5,684.40 — a marginal fall of 0.52 per cent over Thursday’s  close. In August, Apollo Hospitals had sought the approval of its shareholders to transfer the business of procurement of pharmaceuticals and other wellness products, including private label products. The deal would include transferring wholesales and supply of such products, including its investment in the pharmacy retail business apart from the operation and management of the online platform Apollo 24/7, to its wholly owned subsidiary Apollo HealthCo Ltd. This proposal was passed by its shareholders. In August last year, RIL had announced the acquisition of a majority stake in Netmeds, the Chennai-based online pharmacy, for a cash consideration of around Rs 620 crore. Similarly, in June this year, Tata Digital had said it will acquire a majority stake in 1mg Technologies Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
27-11-2021||Business||Sebi proposal to relax preferential issue norms||Sebi on Friday proposed to relax pricing norms and lock-in requirements to make it easier for companies to raise funds through the preferential allotment of shares. In addition, the regulator has proposed to allow the pledging of shares allotted to promoter or promoter groups under preferential issue during the lock-in period. The pricing formula for allotment of shares under preferential issue should be the volume-weighted average price (VWAP) of weekly highs and lows for 60 trading days or 10 trading days, whichever is higher, the watchdog said in a consultation paper. At present, the pricing formula in a preferential allotment is the VWAP of the last two weeks or the last 26 weeks, whichever is higher. Moreover, any preferential issue allotment resulting in change in control should be done following a reasoned recommendation from a committee of independent directors, according to Sebi. The paper also comes against the backdrop of PNB Housing Finance’s proposed allotment of preference shares to US-based Carlyle Group and a clutch of other investors hitting a roadblock. Sebi had questioned PNB Housing Finance’s rationale behind the fixing of the issue price in that deal which was later shelved. In the wake of the Covid  pandemic, a temporary relaxation in pricing was allowed to make preferential allotment by using 12 weeks’ VWAP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-11-2021||Business||New Covid variant triggers panic selling in global markets||The detection of a new Covid variant in South Africa on Friday triggered panic selling in the global markets with domestic stocks also getting sucked into the whirlwind. While the Sensex plummeted 1688 points and investor wealth eroded almost Rs 7.36 lakh crore, the rupee crashed 37 paise against the dollar. The fear over the new strain was visible in the global markets with the Dow Jones crashing more than 800 points in early trades on Friday. During the day, indices  in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo crashed as much as 2.67 per cent, while the FTSE 100 index was trading lower by three per cent. Oil prices also came under pressure with Brent crude falling below $80-per-barrel mark. Investors feared fresh restrictions and lockdowns that would hurt recovery. The Indian economy was also reviving quickly  though stocks were on a wobble on account of lofty valuations, selling by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) and rising input prices. “ The markets are expected to remain volatile with reports of surging infections in the next wave of the pandemic especially in some of the European countries,’’ Joseph Thomas, head of research, Emkay Wealth said. In Friday’s trading, the 30-share Sensex opened sharply lower at 58254.79 and fell below 57000 mark to hit the day’s low of 56993.89 — a drop of 1801 points. It later closed at 57107.15, crashing 1,687.94 points or 2.87 per cent. The NSE Nifty plunged 509.80 points or 2.91 per cent to 17026.45. Barring four stocks in the Sensex, the rest ended with losses of up to 6 per cent. Indiabulls jumps Shares of Indiabulls Housing Finance rallied around 9 per cent on reports the promoter group is likely to bring down their stake to below 10 per cent from around 22 per cent and it may look at a QIP issue in this regard. On Thursday, BNP Paribas Arbitrage and Societe Generale had sold 1.1 per cent of the company’s equity through open market transactions. The scrip ended at Rs 246.40 on the BSE — a rise of 8.76 per cent or Rs 19.85 over the last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-11-2021||Business||Tata group in talks with three states to set up  semiconductor unit||India’s Tata group is in talks with three states to invest up to $300 million to set up a semiconductor assembly and test unit, two sources familiar with the matter said as part of the conglomerate’s push into high-tech manufacturing. The Tatas are talking to the southern states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana and scouting for land for the outsourced semiconductor assembly and test (OSAT) plant, the sources said, declining to be identified as the matter is not public. While Tata has previously said it would likely enter the semiconductor business, this is the first time news about the group’s foray into the sector and its scale has been reported. An OSAT plant packages, assembles and tests foundry-made silicon wafers, turning them into finished semiconductor chips. Tata has looked at some potential locations for the factory, one of the sources said, adding a venue was likely to be finalised by next month. “While they (Tata) are very strong on the software side of things ... hardware is something they want to add to their portfolio, which is very critical for long-term growth,” the source said. The Tata group and the three states did not respond to requests for comment. The Tata group’s push will bolster the Narendra Modi government’s ‘Make in India’ drive for electronics manufacturing, which has already helped turn the South Asian nation into the world’s second-biggest maker of smartphones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-11-2021||Business||RBI raises bank promoter holding capital from 15% to 26%||The Reserve Bank of India has raised the ceiling for long-run promoters’ holding in banks at 26 per cent of the paid-up equity share capital from 15 per cent earlier but ducked a decision on a controversial recommendation made by an internal working group to permit corporate houses to enter the arena of banking. The banking regulator has decided that there will be no fixed cap on promoter’s stake in a bank during an initial period of five years. But this will have to be whittled to 26 per cent after the bank has completed 15 years of operation. While accepting 21 of the recommendations put forth by an internal working group headed by P.K. Mohanty in its report submitted in October last year, the RBI said there will be no intermediate sub-targets for promoters’ holding between 5 and 15 years. Promoters who had trimmed their stake stake to comply with the existing 15 per cent ceiling will be allowed to raise their holding to the new 26 per cent ceiling. The internal working group (IWG) had said that large corporates and business houses should be allowed to establish banks after making requisite amendments to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 – a suggestion that has been supported by veteran banker K.V. Kamath but bitterly opposed by former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan and ex-deputy governor Viral Acharya. The issue has been vigorously debated in the past and eluded consensus amid concerns raised about the risks of connected lending and exposures between the banks and other financial and non-financial group entities. The RBI today said the IWG had made 33 recommendations but only 21 have been accepted – some of them with slight modifications. The rest are under “examination”. The Narendra Modi government is expected to move amendments to the Banking Regulation Act in the upcoming winter session. Experts anticipate that it will lower government holding in public sector banks to 26 per cent. But it is not known if it is considering any proposal to allow business houses to set up banks. The 26 per cent ceiling will be uniform across all types of promoters, the RBI said. “The promoter, if he/she so desires, can choose to bring down holding to even below 26 per cent, any time after the lock-in period of five years,” it added. At present, promoters are required to have a minimum stake of 40 per cent in a bank for the first five years of its operation. There will be no change in this rule. However, when the banking licenses are issued, the promoters will have to present a clear roadmap for dilution of their stake. They will also have to achieve and report agreed milestones, which will be monitored by the regulator. The shareholding of non-promoters will be capped at 10 per cent of the paid-up equity capital in the case of natural persons and non-financial institutions or entities. A higher ceiling of 15 per cent will be allowed for “all categories of financial institutions/entities, supranational institutions, public sector undertaking or Government.” Capital rules The banking regulator accepted the recommendation that the minimum initial capital requirement should be doubled to Rs 1000 crore in the case of universal banks. In the case of small finance banks, the capital requirement has been fixed at Rs 300 crore – up from Rs 200 crore at present. It also indicated its preference for a non-operative financial holding company (NOHFC) structure for all new universal banks. However, this structure will be mandatory only in cases where the individual promoters, promoting entities or even converting entities have other group entities. The RBI added that banks currently under NOFHC structure will be allowed to exit from this structure if they do not have other group entities within their fold. The IWG report’s suggestion for small finance banks was accepted with a modification. The group had said that these banks should be listed on the stock exchange within six years from the date of reaching a net worth equivalent to prevalent entry capital requirement prescribed for universal banks or ten years from the date of commencement of operations, whichever is earlier. The RBI however, said that in case of SFBs to be set up in future, they would have to list within eight years from the date of starting operations. The full-service universal banks, on the other hand, will have to list within six years of commencement of operations. The promoters will not be allowed to pledge their shares during the lock-in period that will be in place for the first five years of operations. When a pledge is invoked for over 5 per cent of the paid-up capital, the RBI will restrict the voting rights of the pledgee till he or she applies for the regularization of the share acquisition. It also said that it would introduce a reporting mechanism for promoters of private sector banks seeking to pledge their shares. The regulator said it might put in place a tighter, bank-like regulatory framework for large non-banking finance companies. It also said that whenever a new licensing guideline is issued, the benefit of any relaxation in the rules would be extended to existing banks immediately. If the new rules are tougher, the legacy banks will have to comply but a transition path will be finalized with the banks to ensure regulatory compliance is achieved in a non-disruptive manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
