28-11-2021||Business||ED summons Amazon and Future Group officials||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned senior executives of Amazon India, including its country head Amit Agarwal, and that of the Future group for questioning in a foreign exchange violation probe linked to the disputed deal between the two conglomerates, official sources said on Sunday.  The executives have been summoned along with documents for the coming week under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), they said.  Amazon India head Agarwal, some other senior officials of the company and those of the Future Group have been called, the sources said.  The investigation is being conducted under various sections of the FEMA after the federal agency received a communication from the Commerce Ministry early this year seeking "necessary action" against e-commerce players like Amazon and Flipkart pertaining to certain multi-brand retail businesses and an observation made by the Delhi High Court in relation to Amazon.  The HC had said that the attempt made by the US-based firm to control Future Retail through a conflation of agreements it has with an unlisted unit of the Indian company will be considered as violative of the FEMA and foreign direct investment (FDI) rules.  The executives have been asked to join so that investigation can be taken forward. The agency has gathered details from the documents submitted by the companies earlier and other sources over the last few months, agency sources said.  An Amazon spokesperson said they were examining the ED summons.  "We are in receipt of summons issued by the ED in connection with the Future Group. As we have just received the summons, we are examining it and will respond within the given time frame," the spokesperson said in a statement.  The Kishore Biyani-led Future Group did not respond to the queries over the development.  Amazon and Future Group have been battling it out in courts after the Kishore Biyani-led group in August last year agreed to sell its assets to billionaire Mukesh Ambani's Reliance Retail on a slump sale basis for Rs 24,500 crore.  Amazon is objecting to the sell-off plans, accusing Future Group of breaching its 2019 investment pact. Future Coupons was founded in 2008 and is engaged in the business of marketing and distribution of gift cards, loyalty cards, and other rewards programmes to corporate customers. The US-based company had approached the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) as well as in Indian courts.  Earlier this month, a promoter entity of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) had been asked by the ED to provide documents pertaining to the 2019 deal with Amazon. FRL had noted that it has not received any direction to provide any document.  The independent directors of FRL have approached the Competition Commission of India (CCI), urging it to revoke the approval it had given to the Amazon-FCPL deal in 2019, alleging the e-commerce major of making false statements before it.  Amazon has also written to the independent directors of FRL, alleging "significant financial irregularities", and said this warrants a "thorough and independent examination" of relevant facts and related party transactions between FRL and other Future Group entities.  It has also reached out to CCI, requesting it to "act in aid of the binding injunctions operating against FRL, FCPL and the Biyanis, in terms of the EA (emergency arbitrator) Order and the Order on Vacate Application and recall the Observation Letters forthwith".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-11-2021||Business||Macro data, Omicron updates to drive stock markets this week: Analysts||Stock markets this week will be driven mostly by updates related to the new coronavirus variant that sent equities tumbling globally on Friday, macroeconomic data announcements and auto sales numbers, analysts said.  A World Health Organisation panel has named the new COVID strain 'Omicron' and classified it as a highly transmissible variant of concern, the same category that includes the Delta variant.  The potentially more contagious Omicron was first reported to the WHO from South Africa on November 24, and has also been identified in Botswana, Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel. Many countries have introduced travel bans and restrictions on southern African countries in an effort to contain Omicron's spread.  "New COVID variant, FIIs' behaviour along with macro numbers will be key factors to drive the market this week. COVID related developments will remain key triggers for the market where the market will remain keenly interested to know the efficacy ratios of various vaccines against a new variant of COVID whereas restrictions-related news across the globe will also cause volatility," said Santosh Meena, Head of Research, Swastika Investmart Ltd.  The Sensex nosedived 1,688 points on Friday amid concerns over the new coronavirus variant that also led to rout in global markets.  Yesha Shah, Head of Equity Research, Samco Securities, said, "Post Q2 result season, Dalal Street will look towards macros for hints to move the needle in broader markets. Inflation being a key factor will be at the centre of all news in the next two weeks since the RBI MPC meet is scheduled in December. November monthly auto sales number can be a trigger to drive some movement this week."  Among macroeconomic data, PMI numbers for manufacturing and services sectors would also be tracked.  "Equity markets in the near term will closely follow the impact of new COVID variant, inflation data, and Central Bank policies," said Shrikant Chouhan, Head of Equity Research (Retail), Kotak Securities Ltd.  During the last week, the BSE benchmark plunged 2,528.86 points or 4.24 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-11-2021||Business||WhatsApp wins approval to double payments offering to 40 million users in India||WhatsApp has won regulatory approval to double the number of users on its payments service in India to 40 million, a source with direct knowledge told Reuters. The company had requested that there should be no cap on users of its payment service in India. Instead, the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) this week told the company it could double the user base to which it can offer its payment service — currently restricted to 20 million — the source said. WhatsApp is owned by Facebook, which recently changed its name to Meta. The source said the new cap would still hinder the company’s growth prospects given that WhatsApp’s messenger service has more than 500 million users in India, the company’s biggest market. It was not clear when the new cap would come into effect. Meanwhile, the Indian government has advised people against subscribing to Starlink Internet Services, a division of billionaire Elon Musk’s SpaceX aerospace company, as it does not have a licence to operate in India. A government statement said Starlink had been told to comply with regulations and refrain from “booking/rendering the satellite internet services in India with immediate effect”. Starlink registered its business in India on November 1. It has begun advertising, and according to the government, it has started pre-selling its service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-11-2021||Business||Paytm Q2 losses widen 11 per cent to Rs 481.70 crore ||Consolidated losses at One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, widened 11 per cent to Rs 481.70 crore for the quarter ended September 30 compared with a loss of Rs 435.5 crore a year ago as expenses climbed. This is the first time that the company is reporting earnings after its dismal listing last week. Paytm, which is backed by China’s Ant Group and Japan’s SoftBank, had posted a loss of Rs 376.6 crore in the quarter ended June 30. The net loss attributable to owners of the company rose to Rs 472.9 crore against losses of Rs 437.4 crore in the same period of the previous year and Rs 380.2 crore on a sequential basis. This came as total expenses at the fintech firm rose to Rs 1,599.4 crore from Rs 1,166.8 crore in the year ago period — a rise of 37 per cent. During the period, consolidated revenue from operations increased 64 per cent to Rs 1,086.4 crore from Rs 663.9 crore a year ago and Rs 890.8 crore in the April-June quarter. Of this, the revenues from payments and financial services stood at Rs 842.6 crore — a rise of 69 per cent over Rs 497.8 crore in the July-September 2020 period. The company said this was driven by 52 per cent growth in non-UPI payment volumes (in terms of gross merchandise value or GMV).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-11-2021||Business||India could emerge as largest diamond trading hub in world: Piyush Goyal||India could emerge as the largest diamond trading hub in the world, Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. He asked the sector to focus on areas such as design, diversification of its export basket and lab grown diamonds to boost shipment and job creation. “We have established ourselves as the largest player in diamond cutting & polishing, we can become the largest international diamond trading hub... superior quality of our manufacturers has enabled us to penetrate markets such as Dubai-UAE, USA, Russia, Singapore, Hong Kong and Latin America,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-11-2021||Business||WTO postpones ministerial meet in Geneva for indefinite period ||The World Trade Organisation has postponed the ministerial level meet, scheduled from November 30 in Geneva, for an indefinite period because of an outbreak of a particularly transmissible strain of the Covid-19 virus. According to a WTO statement, no date has been set for the rescheduling of the 12th Ministerial Conference. The announcement of travel restrictions and quarantine requirements in Switzerland and many other European countries led to the General Council Chair Ambassador Dacio Castillo (Honduras) calling a meeting on Friday night of all WTO members to inform them of the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-11-2021||Business||Opec+ may drop plan to raise output||Opec+ is monitoring developments around the new coronavirus variant, sources said, and is inclined to ditch its plan to raise output next week. The 23-nation group led by Saudi Arabia is leaning toward abandoning a plan for a modest production hike scheduled for January when it meets on December 1 to 2. The group was already considering a pause after the US and other consumers announced the release of emergency oil stockpiles on Monday. The Opec is under pressure from the United States to release more oil stocks as part of an effort to cool prices. However, a source said Russia, a key Opec+ member, was not concerned about the virus variant yet. Opec+ has resisted US calls to do more to lower oil prices, continuing to unwind last year’s record output curbs by adding 400,000 barrels of supply per day every month since August. Global authorities reacted with alarm to news of the B.1.1.529 variant, with the EU, Britain and India among those announcing stricter border controls. Oil plunged more than 10 per cent, the largest one-day drop since April 2020. “Not good as it adds bearishness to an already weak outlook,” said an Opec delegate about the new variant, asking not to be identified. Another said this could be the case, although it was too early to say. Saudi Arabian energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman has warned that global crude markets are poised to return to surplus next month, and that demand is at risk from new infections. Opec’s internal research shows a substantial excess forming early next year, that will only balloon if the US and its associates tap their strategic reserves. Another Opec delegate, while noting the slide in oil prices on Friday, said it was not yet clear how significant an impact the variant would have. Oil demand has been recovering and is expected by Opec to return to the pre-pandemic rate of 100 million bpd in 2022. “I am very concerned,” he said. “There are many unknowns at the moment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
