29-11-2021||Business||RBI to start insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings of Reliance Capital, supersedes board||The Reserve Bank on Monday superseded the board of Anil Ambani promoted Reliance Capital Ltd (RCL) and will shortly initiate bankruptcy proceedings against the debt-ridden NBFC in view of payment defaults and serious governance issues.  Nageswar Rao Y (Ex-Executive Director, Bank of Maharashtra) has been appointed as the administrator of the company, the RBI said in a statement.  Meanwhile, the company in a statement welcomed the RBI's move to resolve its debt under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code.  "The Company will co-operate fully with the Administrator appointed by the RBI for the expeditious resolution of its debt in the best interests of all stakeholders," it said.  This is the third large NBFC against which the central bank will initiate bankruptcy proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code recently.  The RBI has initiated similar proceedings against Srei Group NBFCs and Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL). While the proceedings against DHFL has been completed, the Srei issue is still pending.  "...the Reserve Bank has today (Monday) superseded the Board of Directors of M/s Reliance Capital Ltd (RCL) in view of the defaults by RCL in meeting the various payment obligations to its creditors and serious governance concerns which the Board has not been able to address effectively," the central bank said.  It further said the Reserve Bank will shortly initiate the process of resolution of the company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Insolvency and Liquidation Proceedings of Financial Service Providers and Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2019.  "Reserve Bank will also apply to the NCLT, Mumbai for appointing the Administrator as the Insolvency Resolution Professional," it said.  In September, Reliance Capital in its annual general meeting (AGM) had informed shareholders that the company's consolidated debt was Rs 40,000 crore.  The company reported a consolidated loss of Rs 1,156 crore for the second quarter this fiscal against Rs 6,001 crore income. During 2020-21, the company had posted a loss of Rs 9,287 crore on a total income of Rs 19,308 crore.  Reliance Capital in its statement said the "complexity of litigation" initiated by certain secured and unsecured lenders, resulting in the pendency of over 10 cases in various fora -- including the Supreme Court, Mumbai High Court, Delhi High Court and DRT -- has effectively stalled the resolution of the company's debt, despite its best efforts for the past over two years.  "The Company owns profitable and valuable operating businesses, through its 100 per cent shareholding in RGIC and 51 per cent shareholding in RNLIC (a JV with Nippon Life Co. of Japan), which represent the majority of the value of the Company being a Core Investment Company (CIC), besides other financial investments," it said.  Reliance Capital further said it has "no outstanding loans from banks" and approx 95 per cent of its debt is in the form of debentures.  The company looks forward to expeditious resolution of its debt and continuation as a well capitalised going concern through the IBC process, in the overall interests of all its stakeholders, including lenders, customers, employees and shareholders, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
29-11-2021||Business||Sensex advances 153 points amid Omicron worries||Benchmark BSE Sensex advanced by 153 points on Monday following gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries and TCS, even as investors remained cautious over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus spreading to more countries. In a volatile session, the 30-share Sensex closed higher by 153.43 points or 0.27 per cent to 57,260.58. The index had tanked more than 500 points or over 1 per cent in opening trade in line with weak global cues. The broader NSE Nifty edged higher by 27.50 points or 0.16 per cent to end at 17,053.95. Reliance Industries rose by 1.26 per cent after its telecom arm Jio announced a hike in prepaid tariffs from the next month. Bharti Airtel also advanced on reports that the recently announced tariff hikes would boost the financials of telecom firms. Kotak Bank rose the most among Sensex scrips, spurting 2.92 per cent amid reports that LIC will up its stake in the private lender to 10 per cent. Gains in HCL Tech, TCS, Infosys, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance and Titan helped Sensex close in the green. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, NTPC, Axis Bank, Nestle, Bajaj Auto and SBI were among major losers. Asian stock markets declined further after governments imposed travel controls due to the spread of the new coronavirus strain. The Nikkei 225 in Tokyo fell 1.7 per cent after Japan announced an entry ban on foreigners from Tuesday. The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.4 per cent and the Hang Seng in Hong Kong tumbled 1.2 per cent. The Kospi in Seoul declined 0.9 per cent and Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 fell 0.5 per cent. Meanwhile, Brent crude jumped USD 2.82 to USD 74.41 per barrel in London. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market on Friday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 5,785.83 crore, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
29-11-2021||Business||No proposal to recognise Bitcoin as a currency, says Sitharaman||The government has no proposal to recognise Bitcoin as a currency in the country, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a reply to the Lok Sabha on Monday. She also informed the House that the government does not collect data on Bitcoin transactions. Whether the government has any proposal to recognise Bitcoin as a currency in the country, the Finance Minister said "No, sir". Bitcoin is a digital currency that allows people to buy goods and services and exchange money without involving banks, credit card issuers or other third parties. It was introduced in 2008 by an unidentified group of programmers as a cryptocurrency as well as an electronic payment system. It is reportedly the first decentralised digital currency where peer-to-peer transactions take place without any intermediary. Meanwhile, the government plans to introduce the Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill 2021 in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament. The Bill seeks to ban all but a few private cryptocurrencies to promote underlying technologies while allowing an official digital currency by RBI. In reply to another question, Sitharaman said, ministries and departments have spent Rs 2.29 lakh crore as capital expenditure during the April-September period of the current fiscal. This is 41 per cent of the Budget Estimate (BE) of Rs 5.54 lakh crore for 2021-22. The actual expenditure during current fiscal is about 38 per cent higher than the corresponding expenditure in FY 2020-21, she said. To accelerate capital expenditure for creation and upgradation of infrastructure in the economy, Government of India had launched the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) with projected infrastructure investment of Rs 111 lakh crore during the period 2020-2025 to provide world-class infrastructure across the country, and improve the quality of life for all citizens. NIP was launched with 6,835 projects, which has expanded to over 9,000 projects covering 34 sub-sectors. NIP is expected to improve project preparation, attract investments into infrastructure, and play pivotal role in economic growth, she said. National Monetization Pipeline (NMP) was also launched on August 23, 2021 to unlock the value of investments in public sector assets by tapping private sector capital and efficiencies for delivering infrastructure services, she said, adding, the monetization proceeds are envisaged to be ploughed back to augment existing/ create greenfield infrastructure to boost the economy. Subsequently, she said, Gati Shakti (National Master Plan for Infrastructure Development) was launched on October 13, 2021 as a digital platform to bring Ministries/Departments together for integrated planning and coordinated implementation of infrastructure connectivity projects. It will also facilitate the last mile connectivity of infrastructure and also reduce travel time for people, she added. On inflation, the Finance Minister said price situation of major essential commodities is being monitored by the government on a regular basis and corrective actions are taken from time to time. "The uptrend in inflation has been largely led by exogenous factors viz. increased international prices of crude oil and edible oils which have an impact on domestic inflation due to India's import dependence on these items," she said. The rise of WPI inflation is also mostly driven by 'fuel and power' and manufactured products inflation, once again driven by increased global prices of crude oil and increase in international commodity/input prices, she said. Several supply-side measures have been taken by the government to curb the inflationary pressures, she said. To check the petrol and diesel prices, Sitharaman said, the central government has reduced Central Excise Duty on Petrol & Diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10 respectively with effect from November 4, 2021. "In response many states governments have also reduced Value Added Tax on petrol and diesel. Consequently, retail prices of petrol and diesel have sobered down," she said. As an additional measure to control prices, India has agreed to release 5 million barrels of crude oil from its Strategic Petroleum Reserves, she said, adding, this release will happen in parallel and in consultation with other major global energy consumers including the USA, People's Republic of China, Japan and the Republic of Korea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-11-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty decline over 1 per cent in opening trade on Covid worries||Key stock indices Sensex and Nifty declined by more than 1 per cent in the early trade on Monday due to deep losses in financials, IT and auto stocks amid lingering worries over the emergence of the new COVID variant Omicron. The 30-share BSE Sensex tumbled by 585.22 points or 1.02 per cent to 56,521.93 points with 25 of its components trading in the red. The broader Nifty of the National Stock Exchange tanked 191.40 points or 1.12 pc to 16,835.05 as Adani Ports, Tata Motors and Hero MotoCorp dropped. Among Sensex stocks, HDFC fell by 1.61 per cent, HUL by 1.22 per cent, and Maruti by 0.88 per cent. Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto, UltraTech Cement, ITC, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Infosys, and SBI were among the major losers. Bucking the trend, IndusInd emerged as the lead gainer rising by more than 1 per cent after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) allowed promoters to hold 26 per cent stake in private banks after 15 years. Bharti Airtel and RIL also advanced, limiting losses in the index. FII investors were net sellers in Indian stocks as they sold equities worth Rs 5,785.83 crore on net basis last Friday. Asian markets were also down as investors continued to assess the risks to the economic recovery posed by the new COVID variant Omicron. Japan's Nikkei 225 dropped 0.47 per cent, Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index declined by 0.34 per cent and China's Shanghai Composite was down 0.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-11-2021||Business||Prospects of structured products with underlying cryptocurrencies gaining interest globally||The prospects of ETFs, fund of funds, hedge funds and other structured products with underlying crypto currencies are gaining interest globally leading to S&P Dow Jones launching its cryptocurrency indices in May. But the success of financial investment products themed on cryptocurrencies in India will depend to a large extent  on how the regulations in the country take shape. In October, ProShares, an ETF service provider, launched its first bitcoin linked ETF in the US. Since its launch, the fund has mopped up $1.29 billion assets under by November 26. “Crypto today is an emerging asset class and a lot of its prospects will depend on how the regulatory stance is taken in each country. It is a space to wait and watch and see how it rolls out,” said Koel Ghosh, head of South Asia, S&P Dow Jones. S&P Dow Jones Indices in a report has said its cryptocurrency indices seek to provide market participants a tool to measure and assess the emerging asset class. “Our analysis demonstrates that cryptocurrencies are not monolithic and may yield outperformance relative to conventional asset classes, though not without potential risk,” the report said. While the S&P Bitcoin Index has given an annualised one year return of 303.29 per cent, for the year ended August 31, 2021, the annualised volatility was 72.56 per cent. Globally cryptocurrencies held a market cap of $2.1 trillion as of August 31, 2021. While the 12-year-old bitcoin is most prominent, there are currently over 10,000 different cryptocurrencies. Passive growth Even as cryptocurrencies have caught the eye of some investors, Ghosh said the wider investment community is more comfortable with plain vanilla  equity, with passive investment through index funds gaining momentum. “In passive, investors need not worry about the set of stocks that are going in or out because there is a set methodology. Markets are turning more efficient and the difference that an active fund manager can make to a very organised large cap space is very minimal. There is also the low cost aspect to passive investing,” said Ghosh. Coinstore foray Singapore-based virtual currency exchange Coinstore has begun operations in India at a time the Centre is preparing rules to effectively bar most private cryptocurrencies. Coinstore has launched its web and app platform and plans branches in Bangalore, New Delhi and Mumbai which will act as its base in India , reports Reuters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-11-2021||Business||Visa Inc complains promotion of RuPay hurts US giant||Visa Inc has complained to the US government that India’s “informal and formal” promotion of domestic payments rival RuPay hurts the US giant in a key market, memos seen by Reuters show. In public Visa has downplayed concerns about the rise of RuPay, which has been supported by public lobbying from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that has included likening the use of local cards to national service. But the US government memos show Visa raised concerns about a “level playing field” in India during an August 9 meeting between US Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tai and company executives, including CEO Alfred Kelly. Mastercard Inc  has raised similar concerns privately with the USTR. Reuters reported in 2018 that the company had lodged a protest with the USTR that Modi was using nationalism to promote the local network. “Visa remains concerned about India’s informal and formal policies that appear to favour the business of National Payments Corporation of India”, the non-profit that runs RuPay, “over other domestic and foreign electronic payments companies,” said a USTR memo prepared for Tai. Visa, USTR, Modi’s office and the NPCI did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-11-2021||Business||AMNS maps out expansion plan in Gujarat, Odisha||AMNS India, the joint venture between ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel, is on the cusp of a major breakout. The company, which owns and operates the erstwhile Essar Steel plant, is taking up a Rs 12,000 crore project to expand value added steel capacity and debottleneck the existing unit. Simultaneously, the company is doing preparatory work to take the capacity to 15mt by 2025. AMNS India CEO Dilip Oommen speaks to The Telegraph about the company’s roadmap in India, which includes significant investment in renewable energy to reduce carbon footprint. An edited excerpt: We see a divergent trend in the India steel sector. Taking advantage of the buoyancy in steel prices resulting in strong cash flow, some are repairing the balance sheet, the rest are fast tracking expansion. Where does AMNS see itself? Fortunately, we are not very heavily leveraged.  Our debt to EBIDTA ratio is healthy and it stands at 1.5. Our cost of capital is also under control. The focus of AMNS is to expand its footprint in Gujarat and  Odisha, growing both upstream and downstream. I understand the plan is to take Hazira capacity to 8.6 million tonne and then to 15mt. Where do you stand now? Work on the debottlenecking and expansion of value added products range are going on right now. Simultaneously, the preparatory work such as engineering, selection of OEM suppliers, construction agency are being done as we speak even for the second phase up to 15mt. What will be the investment in the first phase? It will be about Rs 12,000 crore —- the downstream units in itself will cost about a billion dollar. What are the downstream units coming up at Hazira? Several units are coming up. Cold rolling mill, galvanising plant, coated product, continuous annealing line. These units will be ready within two years (2023). We are looking at higher grades of automotive steel. When do you expect the second phase to be ready and what will be the investment? By 2025. It will cost about Rs 24,000 crore because the project is almost like a new plant. We have carved out an area for this project. AMNS also committed to put up a 12mt plant in Kendrapara in Odisha and another 6mt at Paradip. How soon are they likely to materialise? We have our own land in Paradip. But there is some rehabilitation to be done. Kendrapara could take a little more time. The pace of growth is likely to be faster at Hazira but we are also simultaneously putting effort in Odisha to start work. The government is undertaking a disinvestment programme in the steel sector. Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd (NINL), NMDC steel plant at Nagarnar and RINL in Vizag will be sold off in phases. Will you bid? We have kept all the three on our radar. We will evaluate all the opportunities that may come up. How do you plan to finance such large ambition? First priority will be to use our own accruals. But there will be some shortfall. This will be met by debt. We will see how to keep the cost of capital lowest. Any plans for an IPO? None as of now. How do you foresee expansion to align with the goals to reduce carbon footprint? You know that AM and Nippon Steel are frontrunners in production of green steel and reduction in CO2. AMNS will thus have access to the best of technologies available globally. Up to 14mt, the pace of CO2 reduction will be slower as the production would be based on traditional methods. But even in the blast furnace, we will use the best technology to achieve high efficiency standards. Beyond that, we will look at technology which has a low CO2 footprint. Eventually we might even look at phasing out Corex because it is not very efficient in CO2 emission. Our final aim is to go to hydrogen, to use it both as the fuel and a reductant. Apart from hydrogen, we will also look at renewable energy. We are making a foray into the space of renewable energy. Could you take us through this? We will have a big requirement of renewable energy with the expansion which is taking place. The ultimate requirement, because to produce hydrogen you require electricity, will be a combination of our requirement for production of steel as well as hydrogen so that it can be used at the steel plant. What kind of capacity are you looking at? We are looking at 5,000 megawatt of renewable energy to meet the requirement of AMNS India. This will include production of hydrogen. But we will do it in phases, 500MW to begin with and then see how soon it can be ramped up. However, there are other ways to ramp up fast. Acquisitions? No comment. How soon will renewables come up? We are incentivised to get into the renewable space by 2025. The government has announced a waiver of transmission charges for renewable and storage energy. Our aim is to keep the cost below Rs 4 per unit. Is production of hydrogen commercially viable now? Cost of production of hydrogen is high. Right now it is about $3.5 a kg. This has to come down to $1-1.25 a kg to make it commercially viable. AMNS has also secured iron ore mines in Odisha in auction. How much does the company plan to mine in the next 12 months? About 10mt. When the two mines are fully ramped up, the production will reach 15mt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-11-2021||Business||BMW India to launch extensive portfolio of battery electric vehicles ||German luxury carmaker BMW India is going to launch an extensive portfolio of battery electric vehicles (BEV) in the next six months. The company will launch three EVs in the next 180 days, with one EV in every segment, according to Vikram Pawah, president and CEO, BMW India. “In a month, we will launch a fully electric Sports Activity Vehicle, the iX, followed by an electric car from the Mini brand in three months and finally an electric sedan i4 in six months. BMW will be the only luxury brand in India to offer such an extensive line-up in EVs, three electric vehicles in a short period,” Pawah told The Telegraph. The iX will take on the Mercedes Benz EQC, the Audi e-tron and the e-tron Sportback, and the Jaguar I-Pace. The i4 sedan will not have any major  rivals in its segment . Globally 50 per cent of BMW’s sales will be fromEVs by 2030 but in India, the company is not sure how much of its sales will come from its electric portfolio. The company will have 25 electrified vehicles by 2023 in its global portfolio with half of them fully EV. In India, only BEVs will be brought. The company also plans to sell 10 million EVs between 2019 and 2030, globally. The company hopes to cash in on its learning from its earlier foray into the EV space way back in 2013. BMW had globally as well as in India launched the i3, an electric hatch, and the i8, an electric sedan. They sold only a few of them in India then. They sold in a few numbers in India then. Now, with the government push in the EV sphere and with GST relaxation for EVs, BMW India hopes to do better. Talking about EV penetration, Pawah said: “Globally, 50 per cent of BMW’s sales will be electric by 2030. We hope India contributes to this but we cannot predict how many EVs we will sell in India because we cannot see the roadmap to electric mobility in India, even for the coming 10 years. We do not know, for example, how the charging infrastructure will develop, or whether the GST incentive for EVs will continue. The government aims to have 30 per cent electrification in mobility by 2030. That is quite achievable if there is a clear roadmap. We can contribute to this. We know that our customers here want the technology.” The company, on its part, is taking a three-point action on creating charging infrastructure for its customers. “Every EV will be sold with a wall charging kit which will be installed at the customer’s place where he can charge his car overnight or during the day.  It will be an 11 kW AC charger capable of 100 per cent charge in about seven hours with 100km added range in 2.5 hours which can be installed either at home or office. Secondly, every dealer in 35 cities will have 50 kilowatts DC fast chargers, and thirdly we are tying up with power companies to create more infrastructure,” said Pawah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-11-2021||Business||Cars should undertake mandatory fitness test every 3 years: Maruti||Cars should undertake a mandatory fitness test every three years which will supplement the scrappage policy, Maruti Suzuki said. At the inauguration of the government-approved vehicle scrappage unit in Noida this week, MSIL managing director and CEO Kenichi Ayukawa, said: “In addition to scrappage policy, we need a fitness policy also.” The scrappage policy announced by the government requires both private and commercial vehicles to undergo mandatory fitness tests once their registration certificates have expired. Thus, over 15 years old commercial vehicles and over 20 years old personal vehicles that do not pass such fitness and emission tests will be seized and scrapped. Ayukawa said 15 years (when the registration certificates expire for commercial vehicles) is too long a time to wait to test vehicles for fitness. The rationale “When we make cars in our factory, we design and manufacture them for the highest level of safety and environment friendliness and robust testing methodology. However, when cars are on the road, they undergo all kinds of use and abuse and are exposed to all types of environment,” Ayuka sad. “It is important to keep checking regularly for example that the brakes, the lights, the horn, the emissions, and the exhaust system are all working properly. If we do not check regularly it is putting in danger the life of the people both in the car and outside the car,” Ayukawa said. He added: “It is important to regularly check the road worthiness and environment friendliness of these vehicles so that we are sure that the car is safe for use on the road. For this, it may not be recommended to wait for 15 years. Like in all other major automobile markets, we need a detailed policy that requires vehicles to be inspected and certified to be road-worthy every three or four years or a sciettific-based frequency.” Maruti Suzuki Toyotsu India Private Limited (MSTI), a joint venture between Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) and Toyota Tsusho Group, formed on October 22, 2019, has set up the scrappage and recycling unit. The 10,993 square metre scrappage facility offers customers an organised, transparent and environment-friendly dismantling of End-of-Life Vehicles (ELV)s. MSTI plans to build more such facilities across the country “based on demand”. The facility can scrap and recycle over 24,000 ELVs annually. Built with an investment of over Rs 44 crores, the facility follows globally approved quality and environment standards. These include complete solid and liquid waste management ensuring zero discharge of liquid and gases from the ELVs. Inaugurating the facility, the Union minister for road transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari said: “I would request Maruti and other stakeholders to build and create an ecosystem of similar scrapping and recycling units across the country. This would make the roads safer, air cleaner, and the raw material cheaper for their cars.” For the customer, the scrappage unit will offer end-to-end hassle-free scrapping including vehicle pick up to complete documentation. He will be issued a ‘Certificate of Destruction. The pricing is transparent and payment is digital. To incentivize the purchase of new vehicles against the scrapping certificate of the old vehicles, the government has proposed that state governments offer a road tax rebate of up to 25 per cent, and waiver of registration fees, and a five per cent discount from manufacturers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-11-2021||Business||GST rate structure can be simplified by having three slabs||The GST rate structure could be simplified without much loss of revenue by having three slabs — 8 per cent, 15 per cent and 30 per cent, a government think tank said. The study by the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy said merging the 12 per cent and 18 per cent rates into a rate lower than 18 per cent may result in a revenue loss. The government can fix three rates 8 per cent, 15 per cent and 30 per cent for revenue neutrality. “In all scenarios, we assume that status quo in special rates will be maintained.” In the present structure of the GST, there are seven different rates apart from “zero” or nil rate. There are three  special rates — diamonds and precious (semi-precious) stones attract 0.25 per cent and gems and jewellery, 3 per cent; and 0.1 per cent for the supply of goods to merchant exporters. There are four standard GST rates – 5 per cent, 12 per cent and 18 per cent and 28 per cent. There is a low rate of tax of 5 per cent on essential items and the top rate of 28 per cent on cars. Besides, a cess is imposed on the highest slab of 28 per cent on luxury, demerit and sin goods. NIPFP associate professor Sacchidananda Mukherjee who authored the study on the rate slabs  said merging the 12 per cent and 18 per cent rates into any rate lower than 18 per cent may result in a revenue loss. The 18 per cent slab makes up 40 per cent of the GST collections against 12.3 per cent by the 12 per cent slab. If the merged tax base attract 15 per cent,  there will be a revenue loss, and the highest slab needs to be increased to 38 per cent to compensate for the loss. Alternatively the council can increase the lowest slab to 8.81 per cent from 5 per cent. The council can also consider a three rate structure by adopting 8 per cent, 15 per cent and 30 per cent and it may help to achieve revenue neutrality. “In all scenarios, we assume that special rates will continue as prevalent at present. Sequencing the transition to new GST rate structure will be important to minimise the costs associated with tax compliance, tax administration and economic distortions. Consultations of stakeholders would be another important aspect before introducing new GST rate structure,” Mukherjee said. “As we move closer to the completing five years of GST, it is essential to review rates for products and aim to reduce the number of slabs. “Ideally there should be three rate slabs with a standard rate for the majority of products and a lower rate for essentials and a higher rate for demerit goods. This will ensure movement to a revenue neutral rate of 15 per cent over a period of time,” M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said. “The Group of Ministers under the convenorship of Karnataka chief minister is exploring the possibilities of bringing down the GST rate structures from 5 per cent, 12 per cent, 18 per cent and 28 per cent to only 3 rates i.e 5 per cent, 15 per cent and 28 per cent.  They are looking at the possibility of merging the 12 per cent and 18 per cent rate to a common rate of 15-16 per cent.  The impact on case flows of the said changes is being verified,” Parag Mehta, partner, N.A.Shah Associates said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-11-2021||Business||Reliance Jio announces tariff hikes in pre-paid segment ||Reliance Jio on Sunday announced tariff hikes in the pre-paid segment of up to  21 per cent, after rivals Bharti Airtel and Vodafone announced hikes last week. The revised structure will be effective from December 1. Bharti Airtel had raised pre-paid rates  by 20-25 per cent which came into effect from November 26. After this move by the Sunil Mittal-led company, Vodafone Idea jacked up pre-paid tariffs by 18-25 per cent. The higher tariffs is expected to improve the average revenue per user (ARPU) of the three operators which will be reflected fully during the January-March 2022 quarter. The pre-paid segment accounts for a significant share of the wireless revenues. During the second quarter ended September 30, Jio had reported ARPU of Rs 143.6 per subscriber. In a press statement on Sunday, Jio claimed the new tariffs will provide the best plan in the industry. It revised the entire stack of pre-paid tariffs from Rs 75-2,399 and also the data add-on plans. The base plan of Rs 75 has been raised to Rs 91 and it will come with 3GB data per month and valid for 28 days. Tariffs for the Rs 129 prepaid plan has been raised by Rs 26 to Rs 155 whereas the Rs 149 prepaid plan will now come at Rs 179-a Rs 30 hike. On the other hand, the Rs 199 plan will be costlier by Rs 40 at Rs 239. At the other end, the Rs 1,299 plan (336 days validity) will be Rs 1,559, while the Rs 2,399 plan that comes with a validity of 365 days will now cost Rs 2,879.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-11-2021||Business||Amazon tells CCI to annul RIL-Future deal||Amazon has asked the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to revoke its approval for the Rs 24,713cr deal between Reliance Retail and Future Retail Limited (FRL). Future Retail has countered by alleging the US retail giant attempted to browbeat the CCI by walking out of a hearing. The fresh development comes even as the Supreme Court will hear on December 8 two separate leave petitions filed by Future Coupons and FRL against an earlier Delhi high court single judge order directing the attachment of the companies’ properties and those of its promoter Kishore Biyani. The employees of Future Retail, citing risks to 27,000 jobs, have also asked the top court to allow the company to sell its assets to Reliance Retail and rule against Amazon in the dispute. According to a Reuters report, Amazon said that the CCI should revoke the deal between the Future group and Reliance as it was “illegally obtained” and had violated an order that had suspended the transaction. It further said approval for the deal was a nullity in the eyes of law as the order by the emergency arbitrator in Singapore International Arbitration Centre was still in force. The independent directors of FRL had recently written two letters to the CCI to revoke an approval given by the body in 2019 due to which Amazon picked up a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons the promoter group entity. In March, Future Coupons had complained to the CCI that Amazon made misrepresentations and false representations while seeking its approval from the regulator for its investment in the company. Following this, the CCI issued a show-cause notice to Amazon in June 2021. FRL on Sunday said that on November 24 a hearing was held at the CCI. It alleged that Amazon tried to stall the personal hearing on the plea that they had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court against a Delhi High Court order of November 16, in response to a petition filed by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT). The Delhi High Court had given the CCI two weeks time till November 29 to take a decision on the matter. Future Retail added that while the CCI refused to postpone the hearing and continued with the exercise, Amazon’s counsels chose to stay on and participate in the hearing during the submissions by Future Coupons. However, when their turn came, its counsel stated that Amazon has not been given as much time as Future Coupons and sought more time . “The CCI, after internal consultation, told Amazon that postponement cannot be given and to make their oral submissions. At this stage, the counsels to Amazon, in utter disregard to the norms and in utter disrespect to the Indian statutory regulatory authority refused to argue the matter and walked out of the proceedings in an attempt to browbeat the CCI. FRL firmly believes that the CCI will not be intimidated by this arrogance of Amazon and will take action on its SCN against Amazon in accordance with law and regulations,’’ Future Retail said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
