30-11-2021||Business||How To Choose The Right Health Insurance Plan For Your Needs||The recent COVID-19 pandemic brought the spotlight squarely on how each of us handles health emergencies when they strike. Most people were initially caught unawares in terms of the scale of infection and the level of devastation the virus can inflict. But they were also caught up short in terms of lack of financial planning to combat a health disaster of this kind. The only positive effect of the novel Coronavirus was that it spurred most people to think of investing in health insurance for themselves and their loved ones. Concurrently, COVID-19 specific health plans were also launched, which took care of hospitalisation and treatment costs for those insured. If you are now mulling over the idea of buying a health insurance plan, you could be forgiven for being a little confused about where to begin. This article offers a simple guide with a few points to get you started: Start by choosing the best health insurance provider. Whatever health insurance plan you ultimately buy for the preferred premium and other factors, the indelible fact remains that the insurance provider must be a great one. You don’t want to deal with a provider that is lax with customer service, has only a few plans to showcase, has a reputation for late claim settlement, is on the list of unpreferred cashless mediclaim providers, and so on. Instead, you should deal with an insurance provider that has a spotless reputation, an array of health insurance plans that can even be customised as per need, easy online purchase and renewal methods, a range of benefits and features that offer comprehensive coverage, quick and easy claim settlement process, a big list of network hospitals for cashless hospitalisation, and so on. Dealing with a good insurance provider ensures that you get excellence across all touchpoints. Look for plans that are comprehensive in nature. Health insurance plans may be individual or family plans. There are also group health insurance plans more suited to companies, among others. When one considers a family health insurance plan, one must look for plans that are comprehensively designed. This means that the plan covers as many bases and eventualities as possible. It should cover hospitalisation and treatment costs for a range of illnesses and injuries due to accidents, as also inpatient and outpatient procedures, doctor consultations, medicines, ambulance costs, etc. Please check the policy document in detail to know all the features and benefits ingrained in the plan before you buy. One of the best and most comprehensively designed health insurance plans in India today is the ManipalCigna ProHealth Insurance Plan (more on this in a latter section). Check on the waiting period and other mandatory clauses. Every health insurance policy comes with a set of mandatory inclusions and exclusions. Most people focus on the former without due diligence of the latter. It is important to know these exclusions and other clauses before you sign up for the policy, to avoid situations of dispute later on. First off, check on the waiting period. This is a period of time before which the policy benefits do not take effect, counted from the date of purchase. Also study the list of network hospitals if you buy cashless health insurance. Yet another point to check is if the plan offers a cooling off period, in which you can withdraw from the policy after paying the first premium. Also check if the policy covers treatment abroad or not. Check on the benefits offered. Unless you have the health insurance plan with a wide range of comprehensive benefits, there really is no point signing up for the policy. Let us illustrate what constitutes one of the best health policies, by citing the ManipalCigna ProHealth Insurance plan as an example. It offers benefits such as offering the complete sum insured for the costs incurred if you are under 65 years of age, no sub-limits based on the disease you suffer from, 60 days pre- and 180 days post-hospitalisation coverage, 100% claim restoration against the sum insured multiple times in a year, coverage for procedures requiring less than 24 hours hospitalisation, coverage for domiciliary and also treatments under alternative medicine like Homoeopathy, Unani, Ayurvedic, Siddha, etc. You might choose a family health insurance plan at a certain sum insured today – but what if that amount is insufficient for the future? For example, suppose the sum insured on the plan is Rs 7 lakh. This seems adequate for a relatively young family of four with no pre-existing health conditions. But suppose you add aged parents to the plan, and they require multiple hospitalisations. The sum insured for the year might be completely exhausted for their treatment, while the other participating family members are left vulnerable in case any of them needs treatment and/or hospitalisation. This situation can easily be remedied by taking a top up plan to supplement the health coverage of the primary plan. But please note that the top up plan coverage can be used only once in a year. If you think that multiple hospitalisations may be required in a year for one or more family members, you are better off buying a super top up health insurance plan. The super top up health insurance plan can be purchased at the time of policy renewal, and it is quite affordable when purchased from a reputed insurer. Are you still on the fence about buying health insurance? Don’t be – it could literally be the difference between life and death!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
30-11-2021||Business||Zomato launches platform to help restaurants raise funds||Online food delivery platform Zomato has announced the launch of Zomato Wings, a platform to connect investors with restaurants, to help them raise funds. There are thousands of budding restaurants that may not have the expertise or focus to fundraise at the right time from the right investors. This is where Zomato wants to help, Zomato Founder and Chief Executive Officer Deepinder Goyal said in a blog. "We are excited to announce the launch of Zomato Wings, a platform to connect investors with restaurants. Just like ambitious restaurant entrepreneurs look for investors, investors also hunt for brands and teams that have the potential to become the next big chain," he added. By curating a set of restaurants and cloud-kitchens that could become rocketships if fuelled with equity capital, Zomato hopes to build the go-to platform for venture capital firms, angel investors, family offices, etc. that are looking to make private investments in restaurants and cloud-kitchens, Goyal said. "As we partner with more investors by connecting them with enterprising restaurants, more budding restaurants would use this platform for fundraising, and the platform's flywheel would create a win-win for restaurants and investors, and by extension, for Zomato'' he added. Goyal however pointed out that Zomato's role would be limited to being a facilitator of fundraising for restaurants. It will help restaurants position their story and metrics in the right manner and connect them with the right investors, Goyal said. "We hope to give wings to at least 100 restaurant brands in the next three years join us in this exciting growth story!" he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
30-11-2021||Business||Sensex drops 196 points to close at 57,064  ||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 196 points on Tuesday, hit by fag-end selling in auto and metal stocks following sluggish investor sentiment in global markets. The selling pressure was triggered after European markets opened in the negative territory amid concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, traders said. After rallying over 900 points, the 30-share BSE index surrendered all gains to settle 195.71 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 57,064.87. Similarly, the NSE Nifty declined 70.75 points or 0.41 per cent to close below the 17,000-mark at 16,983.20. Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Bajaj Auto, M&M, Bharti Airtel, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank and Maruti. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Titan, Bajaj Finserv, Nestle India and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses, while Shanghai was positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the rupee closed 10 paise lower at 75.17 (provisional) against the US dollar. International oil benchmark Brent crude tumbled 3.12 per cent to USD 71.15 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors remained net sellers in the capital market on Monday, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,332.21 crore, according to exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
30-11-2021||Business||New Bill on cryptocurrency after Cabinet approval: Sitharaman in Rajya Sabha||The government will soon bring in a new Bill on cryptocurrency after it is approved by the Union Cabinet, said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday in the Rajya Sabha. A Bill on Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency for introduction in the Lok Sabha has been included in the Lok Sabha Bulletin-Part II, as part of the government business expected to be taken up during the ongoing winter session. The Bill seeks to create a facilitative framework for the creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for the ongoing winter session of Parliament. It also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India, however, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses. Replying to a series of questions in the Rajya Sabha, Sitharaman said, "This Bill, once the Cabinet clears, will come into the house". The government had also listed a similar Bill for the last Parliament session (monsoon) but it was not taken up. "The earlier attempt was definitely to come up with a Bill that the house can consider. But, later, because rapidly a lot of things had to come into play, we had started working on a new Bill. This is the Bill that is now being proposed," she said adding that there was a "genuine attempt" to bring the Bill even during the monsoon session. The minister informed the house that the proposed legislation is likely to be introduced soon. On asked if the government proposes to ban misleading advertisements in media, she said the guidelines of Advertising Standards Council of India are being studied and their regulations are also being looked into "so that we can take, if necessary, some kind of position or a decision to see how we can handle it". The minister also said cryptocurrencies are unregulated in India and the government does not collect data on transactions in cryptocurrency. Sitharaman also said the government, RBI and Sebi have been cautioning people about the cryptocurrencies that could be a "high risk" area and "more can be done" to create awareness. A study was conducted by the government through a research firm on 'Virtual Currencies: An Analysis of the Legal Framework and Recommendations for Regulation' in July 2017. Thereafter, the government constituted an interministerial committee (IMC) in November 2017 under the chairmanship of the secretary (economic affairs) to study the issues related to virtual currencies and propose specific action to be taken in this matter. The committee, inter-alia, recommended that all private cryptocurrencies be prohibited in India. The panel also recommended that it would be advisable to have an open mind regarding the introduction of an official digital currency in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
30-11-2021||Business||Why is the Right SIP Amount Important to Build a Corpus? Explained in Detail ||To define financial goals, one has to decide what needs to be taken up on priority and the first step towards it is deciding how much to invest and where to invest which would give you maximum returns. There are various priorities in one's life like accumulating capital for emergency fund or buying a car or house or children's education. Whatever the case might be, it is advisable to invest early and consistently to make sure your goals are met, and you have funds in time of need. So what is the best way out which can help you manage your finances in the right way? According to experts at ETMONEY, SIPs are one of the best investment options ever available in present time as it gives you the advantage of investing smaller sums according to your capabilities which steadily grow into large numbers with time. Investment Amount in SIPs Depend from Person to Person: When we talk about what is the right amount to invest in SIPs, we are almost blank in our minds as there's no fixed formula to decide the right SIP amount. One of the major reasons is that every individual’s financial goals are different, including their earning capabilities. So, there are no set rules when wanting to invest in SIPs according to industry experts. Analyzing Your Financial Goals is Very Important: A goal-based investment approach is one of the major reasons for succeeding in your journey. Before deciding on investing in SIPs one needs to analyze their goals and be clear about their investments which would yield maximum benefits and then proceed with the SIP amount accordingly. Goals can be classified into short, medium and long term and the amounts can be bifurcated as per the goals. Which is the Best Way to Calculate SIP Returns? There are many tools available in the market which help you find the right SIP amount, but amongst all we found ETMONEY's SIP Calculator Tool to be the best as it gives the exact projected amount of returns on your SIP investments. It is one of the best SIP Calculator in India owing to its ease of use. So, if you want to know the exact figures your investments would yield after consistently investing in SIPs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
30-11-2021||Business||Manthan Ganatra building extraordinary houses and spaces of dreams through his innovative sense of designing||Houses give you a glimpse of current and future peace. This is a place that makes you feel secure and comfortable after a long day. Home is just not four walls, it's also the interior illusions that try to calm you through a hard day. Manthan Ganatra, a well-known face in the interior designing world is building extraordinary houses of dreams through his innovative sense of designing. Manthan has been highly influenced by his family aesthetics and believes in delivering with precision. Since his family has been in the infrastructure business for a long time, he wanted to make it count. He learned all minor and major tricks and tips for building spaces from his family. This led him to grow interested in the field; however, he chose to enhance the ideas in his way. He developed excellent proficiency over 3D visualization, animation, and graphics by self-learning alongside his academics. His projects range from building corporate offices, homes, and even high-end buildings. His interest in understanding colors, shapes, and forms helped him move his interest mostly into designing custom spaces for his clients. Manthan has been able to crack more than 100 projects including much commendable work like Orange - the salon, Luvkush 4 apartments, Param Logistics Park, Greenwoods, Greenwoods Retreat, Manobhavna Residence, Shah's Residence, KP house, and AIICME amongst many others. He is even working on projects like Satkriti Apartments and Gwala Infrastructure Office including a wide range of projects like apartments, commercial offices, retail outlets, logistics, healthcare, space planning, facade designing, brand designing, and even logo designing. Manthan Ganatra's dream was to make it big as business runs in his family's blood. He eventually came up with his venture 'Allaboutspaces' defining the idea of innovation through spaces. Manthan is a true mastermind in his field making dreams come true.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
30-11-2021||Business||BT shares jump on report Reliance mulling takeover bid for British telecommunications giant ||BT’s shares leapt by as much 9 per cent following a report that Reliance Industries might bid for the British telecommunications giant, a move that could set the stage for a takeover battle between Indian magnate Mukesh Ambani and French tycoon Patrick Drahi. The Economic Times said Monday that Ambani’s Reliance might make an unsolicited offer for either a controlling stake or to buy into Britain’s biggest broadband and telecoms group. The newspaper said Reliance, which owns Jio Infocomm, India’s biggest mobile operator, might also seek to partner with BT’s fibre optic arm, Openreach, and help fund the division’s planned 15-billion-pound expansion which is expected to deliver good, long-term returns. The oil-to-telecom conglomerate in a statement later to the stock exchange later denied the report as “speculative and baseless". But British Telecom’s (BT) shares still closed up 6.2 per cent at 163-½ pence, valuing the company at 16.2 billion pounds, with analysts saying that BT has been increasingly mentioned as a takeover target as its shares have dropped by more than half over the last five years. Report of the possible Reliance bid came two weeks before the ban on Franco-Israeli billionaire Drahi making a bid for the British telecom group expires. Drahi was revealed as BT’s largest stakeholder in June with a 12.1 per cent holding in the company. Drahi’s Altice is the second-largest telecoms operator in France. Drahi had denied in June that he was planning to bid for BT, a statement that under British takeover rules meant that he could not make an offer for six months. However, analysts believe he’s interested in hiking his state further in BT to take advantage of Openreach’s full-fibre network expansion. Analysts believe it would be too much for Drahi to make a full-blown takeover bid for BT but that he could seek to build his stake incrementally. The British government also considers BT to be a “national asset” and analysts believe it would be uncomfortable about the company being taken over by a foreign rival. Deutsche Telekom which has a representative on BT’s board is seen as a potential kingmaker in any takeover battle. Deutsche Telekom’s chief executive Tim Hottges said in November that “all options” were open with the “shareholder side… changing rapidly.” Ambani, who has been seeking to diversify the Reliance conglomerate, cannot now bid for BT for six months under UK takeover rules after having “categorically” denied any interest in the company. But analysts speculate that Ambani wants a slice of the European telecoms action. Reliance was outbid in an attempt to buy the Dutch division of T-Mobile two months ago by the private equity consortium Warburg Pincus and Apax Partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
30-11-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 500 points in opening session||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 500 points in early trade on Tuesday led by gains in index majors TCS, Infosys and Bajaj Finance. The 30-share index was trading 504.75 points or 0.88 per cent higher at 57,765.33 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty rose 149.65 points or 0.88 per cent to 17,203.60. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 5 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, TCS and Infosys. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's was the only Sensex constituent trading with losses. In the previous session, the 30-share BSE index gained 153.43 points or 0.27 per cent to finish at 57,260.58. And the broader NSE Nifty edged higher by 27.50 points or 0.16 per cent to 17,053.95. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they sold shares worth Rs 3,332.21 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul stock exchanges were in the red. Stock exchanges in the US ended with gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.72 per cent to USD 73.97 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
30-11-2021||Business||Indian-origin exec Parag Agrawal replaces Jack Dorsey as Twitter CEO||Jack Dorsey is stepping down as chief executive of Twitter, the social media site he co-founded in 2006 and guided through the tumultuous years of the Trump administration. Twitter announced  Dorsey’s departure on Monday. He is being replaced by Parag Agrawal, the company’s current chief technology officer. Dorsey’s plans were first reported by CNBC. A Twitter spokeswoman did not respond to a request for comment. Dorsey’s exit will mark a significant shift at the company, which has navigated years of pressure from investors and increasing criticism from Washington, particularly Republican lawmakers who complain Twitter has contributed to a stifling of conservative voices in social media. The most prominent of those voices was that of former President Donald Trump, who used his Twitter feed to threaten enemies and keep his allies in line. Twitter banned Trump shortly after the January 6 attack on the Capitol last year. Dorsey, who is also the chief executive of the payments company Square, was fired from the top job at Twitter in 2008 but returned in 2015. His leadership has been questioned by employees and investors who believed that he was unfocused and spent too much of his time on Square and other passion projects. His departure comes a year and a half after Dorsey survived an attempted ouster from the activist investor Elliott Management. Chief among Elliott’s concerns was that Dorsey’s attention was divided between the two companies he led. The firm believed that Twitter had fallen behind social media rivals in increasing its stock price and adding innovative new products. Some employees rallied around Dorsey during the attempt to force him out, using the hashtag #WeBackJack as a rallying cry. In March 2020, Elliott Management struck a deal with Silver Lake, one of Silicon Valley’s biggest investors in technology companies, that allowed Dorsey to stay on at Twitter. The deal also gave Jesse Cohn, the Elliott executive who oversaw the Twitter campaign, a seat on Twitter’s board, which he relinquished in June. After the takeover attempt, Twitter’s stock began to climb, and in February, Dorsey announced an ambitious plan to double Twitter’s revenue by the end of 2023. But some of Twitter’s stock market gains have slipped away in recent months, with the stock now worth roughly the same as it was a year ago. In the third quarter, Twitter said its revenue grew 37 per cent from a year ago to $1.28 billion, but that it incurred a loss of $537 million. NYTNS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-11-2021||Business||Centre blames external factors for surge in retail, wholesale inflation||The Modi government on Monday blamed external factors — increased international prices of crude and edible oils — for the surge in retail and wholesale inflation. “The uptrend in inflation has been largely led by exogenous factors viz. increased international prices of crude oil and edible oils which have an impact on domestic inflation due to India's import dependence on these items,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman informed the Lok Sabha. She said retail inflation based on the consumer price index (CPI) in October at 4.48 per cent is well within the tolerance limit of 2-6 per cent set for the RBI. The rise in wholesale inflation to 12.54 per cent in October was mostly driven by “fuel and power’’ and manufactured products. The Centre has taken several supply side measures to curb inflationary pressures.The finance minister said the Centre planned to keep a buffer stock of 23 lakh tonnes of pulses to stabilise their prices. The government has also imposed stock limits on some pulses to prevent hoarding. Moreover, tur and urad have been brought under the free category for imports till December 31. Tariffs on edible oils have been rationalised and stock limits imposed up to March 31 next year to prevent hoarding. Sitharaman said the central government has reduced the central excise duty on petrol & diesel prices by Rs 5 and Rs 10, respectively with effect from November 4, 2021. “In response many state governments have also reduced value added tax on petrol and diesel” she said. . Consequently, retail prices of petrol and diesel have sobered down,” she said. As an additional measure to control prices, India has agreed to release 5 million barrels of crude oil from its strategic petroleum reserves, she said, adding, this release will happen in parallel and in consultation with other major global energy consumers including the US, China, Japan and Korea. Crude rebound Oil rebounded by more than 5 per cent on Monday to above $76 a barrel as some investors viewed Friday's slump in oil and financial markets on concern about the Omicron coronavirus variant as overdone, according to Reuters.. Top officials from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, known as OPEC+, which meets this week, echoed that view, with the Saudi energy minister quoted as saying he was not worried about Omicron. Omicron has created a new challenge for Opec+, which meetson December 2 to discuss whether to proceed with a scheduled oil-output hike for January. OPEC+ has postponed technical meetings this week to gain time to assess its impact. Also on the oil market's radar this week, talks on reviving the 2015 Iran nuclear accord, that could add to global supply if a deal is reached, are resuming on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-11-2021||Business||Loan write-off charge against Centre in Parliament||The Centre ducked a tricky question in Parliament when asked whether the scheduled commercial banks had written off loans worth Rs 1.5 lakh crore in the first nine months of the year. Minister of state for finance Bhagwat Karad said the banks had written off Rs 46,382 crore in the first six months. Under Section 45E of the RBI Act, the banks were prohibited from publicly disclosing credit information relating to large corporate borrowers and these had to be treated as “confidential”, Karad said. The minister said non-performing loans, including, inter-alia, those in respect of which full provisioning has been made on completion of four years, are removed from the balance-sheet of the bank concerned by way of write-off.. Banks evaluate/consider the impact of write-offs as part of their regular exercise to clean up their balance-sheet, avail of tax benefit and optimise capital, in accordance with the RBI guidelines and policy approved by their boards. The borrowers of written-off loans continue to be liable for repayment and the process of recovery of dues from the borrower in written-off loan accounts continues. Banks continue to pursue recovery actions initiated in written-off accounts through various recovery mechanisms available, such as filing of a suit in civil courts or in Debts Recovery Tribunals, action under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enxforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002. Other steps include the filing of cases in the NCLT under the IBC 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-11-2021||Business||Telecom firms to face higher spectrum liabilities in Asia||Global rating agency Moody’s Investors Service on Monday said that telecom firms in Asia’s emerging markets will face higher spectrum liabilities over the next couple of years and their leverage may weaken, but these essential costs will have limited immediate impact on their cash flows and liquidity. It pointed out in a new report that the ratings of Asia-Pacific (APAC) telecom companies in emerging markets can tolerate the increased deferred spectrum liabilities at current levels, if these essential costs are the main driver of high debt or weaker leverage. It projected that for emerging markets — China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Philippines — spectrum liabilities to gross debt will increase to more than 16 per cent in 2021 and 2022, from 11.6 per cent in 2020 and 9.3 per cent in 2018, assuming India completes its 5G spectrum auction in 2022. According to the rating agency, if Bharti Airtel spends up to Rs 37,000 crore ($5 billion) at the 5G auctions, deferred spectrum and adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liabilities could make up about 55 per cent of its adjusted consolidated debt. “Deferred spectrum liabilities are distinct from bank or capital market debt and are not subject to refinancing. Moreover, in exceptional circumstances, governments are likely to provide more payment buffers, which can alleviate cash flow pressure for some telcos,’’ Nidhi Dhruv, Moody’s vice-president and senior analyst, said. Moody's added that that despite an increase in debt, deferred spectrum payments have limited immediate impact on operators’ liquidity and cash flow. Further, spectrum liabilities are long-dated and they do not have maintenance or incurrence covenants, which support the companies’ financial flexibility. Shares of Bharti Airtel on Monday ended with marginal gains at Rs 739.70 on the BSE even as the Vodafone Idea scrip rose over three per cent to Rs 11.20. The Reliance Industries counter also witnessed good buying support after it announced an hike in pre-paid tariffs on Sunday. The scrip today settled at Rs 2442.50 in the BSE- a gain of 1.26 per cent or Rs 30.25 over the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-11-2021||Business||Supreme Court grants Amazon two weeks for CCI hearing||The Supreme Court on Monday granted two weeks more time to e-commerce giant Amazon to appear and argue before the Competition Commission of India (CCI) on the matter of revoking Amazon’s deal with Future Coupons that would have a massive bearing on Reliance Retail’s takeover of Kishore Biyani’s Future Retail. The Supreme Court declined Amazon’s plea for  an adjournment of hearing by the CCI as directed by the Delhi high court on November 16 on a petition filed by traders body CAIT. Amazon had filed a special leave petition in the apex court against the high court ruling that wanted Amazon to to appear before the CCI on November 29. A bench of Chief Justice N.V.Ramana, Justice Surya Kant and Justice Hima Kohli passed the directions after briefly hearing senior advocates Gopal Subramanium for Amazon, Mukul Rohatgi for Future Group and Krishan Venugopal who appeared for the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT). The court said that it would not go into the merits of the case and would rather like to give some more time, over and above the time granted by the Delhi high court, to the US firm to put forth its case before the CCI. “We are not going into the details. We will grant two more weeks' time. You use the time and appear and argue before the Commission (CCI). You raise all your objections,” the bench said and disposed of the appeal of Amazon against the Delhi high court verdict. A letter by the directors of Future Retail on November 7 to the CCI seeking revocation of the Amazon-Future Coupon deal prompted CAIT to first move the CCI and then the Delhi court against the deal. The retailers’ body argued that it wanted to protect around 6,000 traders who had supplied goods to the Future group amounting to Rs 10,000 crore and to recover the money from the group. Future Coupons Pvt Limited had  earlier filed a complaint against Amazon before the CCI accusing the US  company of indulging in unfair trade practices and misrepresentation when the e-commerce giant had entered into the agreement with it in 2019. The CCI in July had issued notices to Amazon. Amazon and Future have been locked in a bitter legal tussle after the  e-commerce giant dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre in October last year, arguing that Future Retail had violated a contract by entering into the deal with Reliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-11-2021||Business||RBI premits LIC to hike Kotak Bank stake||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Monday said that Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) has received permission from the Reserve Bank of India to raise its stake in the private sector lender to 9.99 per cent. The life insurer had a stake of 4.96 per cent at the end of quarter ended September 30, 2021. The approval from the RBI is valid for a year. Under the current norms, prior approval of the RBI is needed if an entity wants to have a shareholding of over 5 per cent in a private sector bank. Shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank rallied at the stock exchanges on Monday on the development. On the BSE, the scrip hit a day’s high of Rs 2,043.55 — a gain of over 4 per cent. It later ended at Rs 2,020.20-marking a rise of Rs 57.25 or 2.92 per cent over the last close. At close, the private sector bank had a market cap of Rs 4,00,657.98 crore as per BSE data. Last Friday, the RBI had accepted some of the proposals made by an internal working group. One such proposal pertained to the non-promoter shareholding in banks. Here, the central bank said that they will be capped at 10 per cent of the paid-up voting equity share capital, in case of natural persons and non-financial institutions or entities. However, the ceiling will be at 15 per cent in case of all categories of financial institutions or entities, supranational institutions, public sector undertaking or government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-11-2021||Business||No move to recognise Bitcoin as currency: Govt in Parliament||The government in its first terse statement on cryptocurrencies in Parliament said there was no move to recognise Bitcoin as a currency. “No, sir,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in the Lok Sabha on Monday. She was replying to a question in the Lok Sabha on whether there is a proposal to recognise the virtual currency. The Modi government plans to introduce the Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill 2021 in the Winter session which began on Monday. Sitharaman also informed the House that the government does not collect data on bitcoin transactions. However, the government gave no indication about whether it would allow crypto transactions – and if so, in what form. In response to a separate question on whether the government has any proposal to introduce central bank digital currency (CBDC) in the country, junior finance minister Pankaj Chaudhary said that a proposal from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) was received in October 2021. Chaudhary added that the proposal was to amend the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 to enhance the scope of the definition of “bank note” to include currency in digital form. “RBI has been examining use cases and working out a phased implementation strategy for the introduction of CBDC with little or no disruption,” Chaudhury said. “Introduction of CBDC has the potential to provide significant benefits, such as reduced dependency on cash, higher seigniorage due to lower transaction costs, reduced settlement risk. Introduction of CBDC would also possibly lead to a more robust, efficient, trusted, regulated and legal tender-based payments option,” Chaudhary said.. Bill status The Bombay High Court on Monday directed the Union government to apprise it on January 17, 2022 about the introduction of the bill on cryptocurrency and what further action has been taken on the issue. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M S Karnik said it cannot direct the parliamentary legislation to enact a law. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Aditya Kadam, seeking directions to the central government to formulate laws to govern the use and trade of cryptocurrency within the country. Kadam said the unregulated business of cryptocurrency in the country affects the rights of the investors as there is no mechanism in law to redress their grievances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
30-11-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India supersedes board of Reliance Capital Ltd||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday superseded the board of Reliance Capital Ltd, heaping further ignominy on beleaguered industrialist Anil Ambani who has seen his once-feted business empire crumble on his watch. The banking regulator said it had been forced to act because of RCL’s mounting debt obligations and serious governance concerns that the company’s six-member board with Anil Ambani as chairman had failed to address effectively. It appointed Nageswar Rao Y, the former executive director, Bank of Maharashtra, as the administrator of the company. The regulator said it would would shortly launch an insolvency process against Reliance Capital under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Insolvency and Liquidation Proceedings of Financial Service Providers and Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2019. It will also apply to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Mumbai seeking the appointment of Nageswar Rao as the Insolvency Resolution Professional (IRP) for Reliance Capital. Reliance Capital, which is registered as a core investment company with the RBI, is only the third non-bank lender against whom insolvency proceedings will be initiated under a special window of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. The other two cases involved Dewan Housing Finance and two entities of the Srei group. Besides Ambani, the RCL board included independent directors Chhaya Virani, Rahul Sarin, and Thomas Mathew, and two Anil Ambani group officials, A.N. Sethuraman and Dhananjay Tiwari, who was the CEO. In a statement issued late in the evening, Reliance Capital said it welcomed the RBI’s move “to resolve the company’s debt in accordance with the IBC Code”. It added that it would fully co-operate with the administrator appointed by the RBI to resolve the debt in the best interests of all stakeholders. The problem is that it isn’t quite clear how much debt exists on the books of the company. RCL said in its statement: “The company has no outstanding loans from banks and approximately 95 per cent of its debt is in the form of debentures.” That assertion doesn’t seem to square with the numbers on the books of the company – a wide discrepancy that opens the doors for legal quibbles and squabbles. A confetti of numbers are being tossed around: one report suggested that RCL had total financial liabilities of Rs 79,031 crore including debt securities worth Rs 18,320 crore, other financial liabilities of Rs 49,220 crore, and borrowings worth Rs 8,585 crore at the close of the second quarter ended September 30. Other reports suggest it has a consolidated debt of over Rs 40,000 crore – most of that housed in its operating subsidiaries and associates in areas like finance and investments, general insurance, life insurance, and commercial finance. These reports suggest that RCL defaulted on debt worth Rs 8,000 crore. The company has consistently argued that it is “prohibited from making any payment to secured or unsecured creditors and to dispose off, alienate, encumber either directly or indirectly or otherwise part with the possession, of any assets except in the ordinary course of business such as payment of salary and statutory dues” because of orders passed by the Debt Recovery Tribunal, two other orders passed by the Delhi High Court, and three orders passed by the Bombay High Court. The ring fence around debt repayment will continue because of the debt moratorium that will kick in as soon as it is propelled into the IBC process and until an acceptable debt resolution plan is on the table. Reliance Capital, which had at one point of time even contemplated an entry into banking, had posted a consolidated loss of Rs 1,190 crore in the quarter ended September 30, 2021  against a loss of Rs 2,598 crore in the year-ago quarter. It reported a loss of Rs 981 crore in the April-June period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
