01-03-2020||Editorials||Coronavirus pandemic has roiled global markets | HT Editorial||The gross domestic product (GDP) data released on Friday — for the third quarter ended December — has only served to muddy the economic narrative. GDP growth came in at 4.7%, which is higher than the 4.5% growth seen in the September quarter, except that because of revisions in older data, the September quarter growth has also been revised — to 5.1%. Simply put, the growing narrative that the economy had bottomed out — indicated by some high frequency data — no longer holds. In fact, growth only seems to have slowed further, from 5.1% in the September quarter to 4.7% in the December quarter. Economists have pointed out that significant revisions of data make it difficult for them to assess the health of the economy and that’s something the government would do well to remember. Irrespective of the revision, the narrative of the worst being over was anyway beginning to wear thin. That’s because of the coronavirus. The World Health Organization may be loath to call it a pandemic, but it is clearly one, and the virus is now displaying some alarming features (including community transmission). So far, the virus has also not shown the unsustainability and unviability that other such viruses did in the past — their growth pretty much petered out over time. The coronavirus seems to be slowing in China, but marching through Europe, West Asia, the United States, and Africa. India has been lucky so far. Concerns about the pandemic have already roiled global markets, and it is clear that the pandemic will have an impact on global trade and supply chains, global and local economies, and also on the free movement of people. This quarter, the fourth of financial year 2019-2020 is likely to bear the brunt of this, which means that there is little chance of the Indian economy showing a recovery in the three months ending March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/coronavirus-pandemic-has-roiled-global-markets-ht-editorial/story-6ipL04LwwqBeMzp8TvLaQL.html
01-03-2020||Editorials||Victims of Delhi riots must get speedy justice | HT Editorial||The one thing that must not be denied to the Delhi riot victims is speedy justice, something that will hopefully help them put their broken lives back together. With better technology and a proactive media and civil society, gathering evidence, framing cases and initiating the prosecution process should not be as tough and time consuming as it once was. It is a blot on our criminal justice system that in the case of communal riots, justice has been allowed to slide in so many instances. Whether it is the Hashimpura massacre in 1987, the Mumbai riots of 1993, the Gujarat riots of 2002, the Sikh riots of 1984 and the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 (and countless others), there has been inordinate delay in bringing the accused to trial.The recommendations of the Justice Srikrishna Commission report into the Mumbai riots are still to be implemented. The longer the delay in prosecuting these cases of communal violence, the greater the chance of political pressure being brought upon witnesses. This could be in the form of inducements or intimidation. In many cases, the victims have to continue living in the same vicinity as the accused, making it difficult for them to even attend hearings without fear. At the heart of the process is the efficiency of the police in framing cases and the recent conduct of the police in Delhi inspires little confidence. Riot cases must be investigated in a timebound manner by a Special Investigation Team which is under no political pressure. These cases should be tried in fast-track courts so that there is no scope for judicial delays. The delay in justice has a catastrophic effect on its survivors ranging from health problems to severe emotional trauma. Most of all, the victims, often poor and vulnerable, cannot afford to put their lives on hold and pursue court cases for years. The recent Delhi riots could have been contained much earlier had the police and the political establishment moved with greater speed and resolve. They did not. Now, the criminal justice system should move with clarity, efficiency and speed to bring closure to those who have lost their relatives, property and livelihoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/delhi-riot-victims-must-get-speedy-justice-ht-editorial/story-qLSarlUM05BEV5sScXi0TM.html
