02-03-2020||Editorials||Ensuring peace in Delhi will remain a challenge | HT Editorial||A week after Delhi witnessed communal riots in the north-eastern parts of the city, the Capital was again on the edge over the weekend as rumours of tension in the city’s south-east and west districts spread like wildfire, mainly on social media platforms and WhatsApp groups. This led to the closure of seven metro stations for an hour, shops downing shutters, panic and fear across localities, and people rushing home to ensure that they were not caught in the violence. The situation, however, did not spiral out of control because the Delhi Police quickly, and proactively, denied these rumours. Senior officials posted clips urging calm. The police said that they were closely monitoring social media accounts, which were allegedly spreading the rumours, engaged with the media to quell rumours, and reassured citizens that the law and order situation in Delhi was completely under control. This was followed by an appeal to all the residents in the national Capital to act responsibly and help in maintaining peace. While Delhi Police must be praised for acting quickly on Sunday night to quell rumours, which, as one senior police officer correctly said , is the “biggest enemy” at this point of time for the city, the force must not slide into complacency. The rumours, and the subsequent public response, laced with fear, showed that the city is still on the edge and the situation remains fragile. The police’s proactive approach over the weekend was also in stark contrast to their actions last week, when they did not act for hours even as the city burnt. Delhi Police have a new leader in SN Shrivastava. He has started well, but must ensure rigorous and independent probe into the riots, bring the guilty to book, ensure peace, and rebuild trust between the police and citizens and between communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/delhi-ensuring-peace-will-remain-a-challenge/story-BZIHC10rCEGGj6MENQ2jPN.html
02-03-2020||Editorials||What India can do in Afghanistan | HT Editorial||The new peace agreement is the beginning of the end, or a new beginning, of the United States’ (US) war in Afghanistan. The US and the Taliban deal could see US troops ending their 20-year military presence in 14 months. What it is designed to do is symbolically fulfil President Donald Trump’s electoral promise of ending Washington’s most expensive overseas war ever. One can expect many a slip between the cup and the lip, given how little spadework has been done. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s block on the first step in the agreement, the release of 5,000 Taliban prisoners, is a reminder that many stakeholders are not party to the deal. India may be unhappy, but this the treaty has been in the offing for over a decade. President Barack Obama tried repeatedly to get the US to leave Afghanistan. The noise from the US presidential campaign indicates a strong and bipartisan desire for a troop withdrawal. The only difference is that Mr Trump seems less concerned about the regional consequences of such an action. In the past, this would have puffed up the Pakistan military and their terrorist cohorts and spelt trouble for India. Today, New Delhi has far less to worry about given the economic weaknesses and international isolation of Islamabad. A trickier debate is whether the Taliban, and Afghanistan as a whole, have evolved to becoming more resistant to manipulation by Rawalpindi and its terrorist cohorts. A lot will depend on a set of variables that will play out over the next few years. One of these will be the Indian-backed Chhabahar port and its promise of economic independence from Pakistan. New Delhi knew, for several months, that a US withdrawal was more than likely, only the timetable was uncertain. Talk of India attempting to fill the spaces that the US may leave is hubris. India lacks the financial and military capacity and geographical proximity to do so. India can only seek to make the withdrawal process more drawn-out and Kabul’s role in the negotiations more robust. A more useful goal would be to restore the democratic process in Kashmir as fast as possible before it becomes a chink in the country’s external armour once again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/what-india-can-do-in-afghanistan/story-zkrESB81Cu0o8LRQpRb5DI.html
