04-03-2020||Editorials||Discuss Delhi in Parliament||The budget session resumed after a short recess earlier this week. But both Houses of Parliament have been unable to transact business. After a series of productive sessions over the past nine months in accordance with parliamentary processes, the conflict between the Treasury and Opposition benches has now brought Parliament to a grinding halt. This standoff has its roots in protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the larger climate of political polarisation. But the trigger for the current stalemate is straightforward. The Opposition wants a debate on the Delhi riots and violence immediately; the government was initially reluctant and now has offered to have the debate after Holi (March 10). Neither side is ready to budge. The onus of breaking the impasse rests on the government. The Delhi violence was among the most disturbing episodes in recent years in India. It exposed deepening communal fault lines in the country; the inadequacy of public institutions such as the police in responding; the irresponsibility of a section of politicians in stoking hate; the dangerous role of fake news and rumours, disseminated through social media platforms; and the culture of impunity that enabled the violence in the first place.Parliament is the ideal forum to discuss all these issues, for they go to the heart of the flaws in India’s governance systems and social relations. The Opposition is right in asking for a debate, even if it is extreme in asking for the resignation of top leaders (which appears more like a rhetorical demand in any case). If the government is willing to discuss this next week, why not do so immediately instead of letting precious time go waste? Once there is a full discussion on the violence, Parliament needs to go back to legislating and passing the Finance Bill — and ensuring strong legislative oversight on both the growing economic crisis and public health crisis due to the coronavirus. India has urgent challenges. It is time for the sovereign house to get back to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/discuss-delhi-in-parliament/story-QHnXlkecKcmXk4Q3p5mgeM.html
04-03-2020||Editorials||The Supreme Court is right on cryptocurrency||The Supreme Court has rightly ruled that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s effective ban on cryptocurrencies is disproportionate, and quashed it. Well-meaning as the central bank’s decision may have been, and despite the defence that it merely sequestered the entire banking and finance system that it oversees from the whole uncertainty around cryptocurrency, its move in 2018 was a ban, and pretty much threw out the baby with the bathwater.The baby in this case was Blockchain, the underlying technology behind cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin (which was the bathwater). RBI’s problem with Bitcoin is understandable, even if not legitimate — the inability to regulate currency which was not a sovereign one — but there’s a lot to be said about the distributed ledger premise underlying Blockchain. Apart from making transactions more transparent and secure, Blockchain also has the ability to reduce the cost of cross-border transactions, including remittances. India is the highest recipient of remittances in the world, and much of this comes from expat Indian workers. And the cost of remittances is high, 5-7% in some cases. One of the Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations is to reduce this to 3% by 2030. Technologies, such as Blockchain, may be able to make this possible. Cryptocurrencies also hold the promise of providing an alternative global currency to the dollar — something developing countries such as India would do well to explore. And there’s nothing to stop RBI itself from issuing its own cryptocurrency (Mint once suggested that it could be called Bharatcoin) so as to take advantage of the medium, albeit with adequate regulations and safeguards.While cryptocurrency companies will cheer the verdict, they have legitimate cause for concern — the government has signalled on several occasions that it shares the central bank’s views on cryptocurrencies. There has also been talk of a law banning them altogether. Before it enacts the legislation, the government would do well to understand the benefits of cryptocurrencies. It should allow their use, and work towards creating an effective regulatory regime for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-sc-is-right-on-cryptocurrency/story-ERn5ahYjccQGRu3OdU1TCM.html
04-03-2020||Editorials||How India must fight coronavirus | HT Editorial||India must rapidly escalate preparedness in anticipation of a cluster of infection after two new novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases, one each in Delhi and Hyderabad, were confirmed. Both individuals interacted unprotected with their families, friends, colleagues and their children’s classmates. The highly contagious Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, is primarily transmitted through respiratory droplets from, and from close contact with, infected persons. With both new cases developing symptoms several days after getting infected in Italy and Dubai, the chances of their having inadvertently infected many others are high. With a long incubation period of 14 days and a high ability to survive in the environment, the virus is far more dangerous than flu viruses such as H1N1, which survive on surfaces for two to eight hours. Infected people spread the disease even when they themselves don’t have symptoms (fever, cough, breathing difficulties), or have a very mild form of the disease, or develop symptoms late in disease progression. This means that airports screening passengers from affected countries can at best delay, not stop, the spread of infection.In a move reminiscent of China’s secrecy and delay in reporting the Cobvid-19 outbreak, India’s ministry of health and family welfare has banned hospital staff and health workers tasked with diagnosing and treating Covid-19 from speaking about the disease in a misplaced effort to stop panic. It should, instead, become uber transparent and share information to empower people to protect themselves. Secrecy fuels conspiracy theories and drives panic. This is counterproductive to containing escalating outbreaks that need trust and active public participation in prevention, particularly through home quarantine, regular hand washing and cough hygiene. Public awareness, active surveillance for early detection and isolation of cases, rapid identification and daily monitoring of close contacts, and clinical care have helped India isolate and cure three imported cases of Covid-19 in students in Kerala. Now, with community transmission of the infection very likely, clusters are likely to be reported. India must also rapidly increase its operational labs for rapid diagnosis, equip hospitals, and train medical staff for isolation and treatment of those infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/how-india-must-fight-coronavirus-ht-editorial/story-6U2w5dtE5PYEILH1SJJRDI.html
