05-03-2020||Editorials||Delhi riots offer a warning||The Delhi riots have shown the fragility of inter-community ties in India at the moment. What happened in the north-eastern part of the city was sparked off by local events, but also against a backdrop of the overall political and social polarisation that has gripped the country in the wake of the passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), the decision to embark on a revised National Population of Register (NPR), and the speculation over a possible National Register of Citizens (NRC). But even as it is essential to get to the root of the Delhi violence, and hold the guilty to account, it is a warning that the current mood can translate into trouble elsewhere. This is particularly true of three states which will witness assembly elections over the next year-and-a-half. Bihar goes to polls first at the end of 2020. While there has been no outbreak of violence in the state so far, it has had a history of inter-community tensions. There is intense opposition to the CAA-NPR-NRC package, reflected in the massive rallies held in Muslim-dominated areas of Seemanchal, in the response to Communist Party of India’s young leader, Kanhaiya Kumar’s tour across the state, and in the Bihar assembly’s resolution that calls for a return to the NPR under the old format. The more worrying situation is, however, in West Bengal, home to over 25% Muslims and the epicentre of a fierce political battle between the incumbent, Mamata Banerjee, and the challenger, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Indeed, many believe that the CAA was brought in primarily with an eye on state elections here. The state also has a history of political violence, with weak rule of law. Both the BJP and Trinamool Congress have to walk the extra mile in calming tempers — though all signs are that as polls approach, the competition will get more shrill and possibly violent. The third state is Assam, which goes to polls next year too, and is where the entire issue actually emerged. The flawed NRC process in the state has already caused great disenchantment, with 1.9 million people staring at an uncertain future; the CAA has led to an upsurge in Assamese sub-nationalism; and relations between Assamese Hindus and Bengali-speaking Muslims are tense. Delhi has shown the perils of inflammatory political rhetoric, especially from BJP leaders before polls; the partisan role and incompetence of the police; and the dangerous use of social media. Patna, Kolkata and Guwahati would be well advised to nip the brewing tensions before they escalate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/delhi-riots-offer-a-warning/story-MZhZ0fBnlI7zS3OrrbiAnO.html
05-03-2020||Editorials||There is progress, but gender parity is still far off||The gains made by women and girls in the 25 years since the historic Beijing conference on women’s rights are impressive. But equally worrying are the huge impediments they still face across the world. A New era for girls: Taking stock on 25 years of progress, a report brought out by Unicef, Plan International and United Nations Women, shows that the promises made by governments to eliminate harmful practices against women at that time have only been realised in part. More girls are going to school than before, and while this should translate into greater empowerment, many still face an unequal and violent environment. One in every 20 girls in the age group of 15-20 has experienced rape, both within and outside marriage. Women are also disproportionately the victims of trafficking. In India, the rate of drop-outs for girls in schools has gone down from 20% in 2008 to 13.5% in 2018, but this does not automatically translate into economic and social empowerment. Many are married by the time they finish school, perpetuating the dependency syndrome, and leaving them vulnerable to violence from their partners. The female workforce participation has been declining from 36.9% in 2008 to 26.7% in 2019. While the focus of government schemes is largely on the girl child and women, adolescents tend to fall through the cracks. Early marriage, discriminatory practices within the family, and lack of access to reproductive health have a profound effect on their well-being. The government must aggressively focus on policies for adolescents, especially when it comes to gender-based violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/there-is-progress-but-gender-parity-is-still-far-off/story-QDWbV23w5P6y7SPaQZq2VI.html
