08-03-2020||Editorials||States should not put a cap on family size | HT Editorial||The idea of “control” appeals to our politicians. So it is no surprise that Uttar Pradesh (UP) is planning a new population policy to control numbers and deny welfare benefits to those with more than two children. Other states such as Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh too have instituted schemes to de-incentivise people with more than two children, including barring them from entering the state service and standing for panchayat elections. But this is to deny people the right of choice with regard to the size of their families. The national population policy does not contain any incentives or disincentives and should be a template for the states. Disincentives will hurt the poor and marginalised the most. The preference for sons has led, according to the Economic Survey 2018, to 21 million unwanted girls. If a two-child norm is imposed, women will become more vulnerable to forcible sterilisations and sex selection. Instead of restrictions, the State must increase the scope of reversible contraceptive choices and provide better health services to people. The family planning programme could be made more effective if it were to involve more men, and also focus on men. In a patriarchal society, it is men who decide the family size. Most workers in the family planning outreach are women and they find it difficult to address men on the need for contraception. If there were more male health workers, this could change. The southern states have been successful because they have focused on maternal and child health, which has translated into healthier mothers and fewer pregnancies. States should make health care accessible through primary health centres. The Centre must undertake advocacy programmes on the benefits of having a smaller family for the individual. The government should concentrate on taking care of people, in which case population will take care of itself, as the southern states demonstrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/states-should-not-put-a-cap-on-family-size-ht-editorial/story-w77SioiZqsx7P7he31gneM.html
08-03-2020||Editorials||Decoding the YES Bank crisis | HT Editorial||The tragedy at YES Bank has been averted — all depositors of the bank have been assured by the government that their money is safe, and the State Bank of India (SBI) has been asked to step in as a white knight — but the crisis at one of India’s largest lenders is far from over. There’s work to be done in terms of recapitalising the bank; SBI is to hold a maximum of 49% in the bank (for which it will pay around Rs 11,760 crore), and existing shareholders are seeing a significant dilution in their holding to 11%, so other investors will have to be found to pump in around Rs 9,600 crore. While some State-controlled companies and corporations will, no doubt, be conscripted to do this, the government should ensure that banking remains attractive to investors. With YES’s restructuring plan writing down to zero, the value of so-called additional tier-1 bonds (there are reports that bond-holders may seek legal recourse), it’s not going to be easy for Indian banks to raise money through this route any more. There’s also the painstaking process that the bank’s new management will have to undertake of sifting through all the lenders’ loans to see whether there are any hidden surprises. Even as this is being done, investigative agencies have been tasked with probing the role the bank’s founder and former chief Rana Kapoor played in fostering the crisis. Mr Kapoor sold his and his family’s entire stake in the bank after being told, in 2018, that he could no longer remain chief of the bank. While it is clear that many of YES’s loans were to companies with questionable abilities to repay — around Rs 30,000 crore of its book is junk-rated debt — the question to be asked is whether this was a result of poor risk-assessment practices, herd mentality (everyone, including many State-owned banks were lending to some of these companies), or plain old-fashioned kickbacks. YES’s aggressive lending wasn’t a secret operation — it has been known for sometime. That, the Reserve Bank of India’s treatment of Mr Kapoor, and the promoters’ promptness in selling their stake in the bank, are all issues that need investigation, as do other financial transactions involving Mr Kapoor and his family. Meanwhile, both the finance ministry and RBI would do well to assess whether the latter did all that was necessary, and when it was required. In hindsight, Mr Kapoor and YES Bank may have been given too long a rope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/decoding-the-yes-bank-crisis-ht-editorial/story-zqAxCEsPNlQvOXFGBL8DhN.html
