09-03-2020||Editorials||What the dip in oil prices means | HT Editorial||The world’s number two and three oil producers are going to war with each other over how to tackle the number one oil producer, the United States. The result: Bloodletting in the world’s energy markets but a huge windfall for India, the world’s number two oil consumer. The expectation of an oil price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia has already driven oil prices below $ 35 a barrel. If the two fail to come to an understanding soon, both countries will pump millions of barrels of extra oil and keep black gold in the red zone all through this year. A $20 drop in oil prices reduces India’s balance of payments deficit by $30 billion. Most of these savings will accrue to the government, providing more than 20% top off to its expected receipts this year. There will be some minuses as well: the value of Indian oil and gas companies will be impacted, remittances from the Persian Gulf will reduce, and the price tag for a privatised Bharat Petroleum will dip. But, overall, it will be a major fillip for a government struggling with falling revenues and rising deficits. Over the past three years Russia (the third largest producer) and Saudi Arabia have held up oil prices by cutting production. However, Moscow was increasingly unhappy with this strategy because it failed to address its real problem: the US shale oil industry. Buoyed by windfall profits and increased market share, the US industry was going from strength to strength. Washington also used this clout to impose sanctions against the Russian energy industry. These geopolitical concerns were not shared by Saudi Arabia (second largest producer). The fall in demand because of the coronavirus was the last straw. Moscow decided to unilaterally adopt an alternative strategy of increasing production and driving down prices, with the idea of driving high-cost oil producers and US shale out of business. But this would also wreck the Saudi-led Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Riyadh’s response is to threaten to drive prices to such a low point that Russia will be forced back to the negotiating table. If this game of hydrocarbon chicken plays through the year, India will count its blessings. But it must recognise that eventually prices will stabilise at a higher level. New Delhi must safeguard its renewable energy sector and redouble its efforts to gassify its economy. These continue to be the best bets to power India into a more secure and green future. The present instability in the global oil market further underlines the need to move away from the energy sources of yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/what-the-dip-in-oil-prices-means/story-lD0DL3lD5CANK7JzljWGoK.html
09-03-2020||Editorials||A new experiment in Kashmir | HT Editorial||Ever since the nullification of Article 370 and the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) last August, political activity in the new Union Territory (UT) has stalled, with detention of leaders and restrictions (now substantially eased) in communication and connectivity. In this backdrop, the formation of a new political party in J&K merits attention. Former PDP leader, Syed Altaf Bukhari, has set up the J&K Apni Party, with the stated goal of bringing relief to the residents of the UT, and building confidence with Delhi. In a democracy, setting up a political party is a right, and the exercise of this right in the existing vacuum in J&K, is welcome. But the future of Apni Party will depend substantially on whether it can actually represent the views, voices, grievances and aspirations of the people of J&K. There is speculation that Mr Bukhari has Delhi’s political support. This will pose, for him, a credibility crisis, for the politics of Kashmir have often revolved around taking a strong position against Delhi. This is not necessarily good — and Kashmir itself has lost a lot because of this binary. But if Apni Party is perceived as a voice of the Indian State, rather than being seen as a voice of Kashmiris, it will not succeed in winning popular support. The fact that Mr Bukhari has been allowed to set up a party — even as three former chief ministers remain in detention — adds to the perception that Delhi is playing favourites and is seeking to engineer a particular political outcome. The Centre must allow political ideas and formations to evolve organically, even as it creates an environment where all democratic leaders are free and can espouse their ideas in J&K— even those unpalatable to New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-new-experiment-in-kashmir/story-DmCxZrfN5PlStLGiGXI0eO.html
