10-03-2020||Editorials||Climate crisis: Land is the key | HT Editorial||A recent report by the Union ministry of earth sciences (MOES), Observed Rainfall Variability and Changes, has found that seven Indian states — Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Nagaland — have witnessed significant decreasing trends in annual rainfall in the last 30 years. Alarmingly, many other parts of the country have also seen an increase in the number of dry days during the monsoon season. This, the report added, has adversely affected groundwater recharges in these rain-deficit regions. This rain deficit and its impact on groundwater can be attributed to the climate crisis, government officials acknowledge. The impact of an erratic monsoon on agriculture — and farmers — is direct. This is because between 50% to 60%of the country’s agriculture is still rainfed, without access to any form of irrigation. The 2017-18 Economic Survey said the climate crisis could reduce annual agricultural incomes in the range of 15-18% on an average, and up to 20-25% for unirrigated areas. Other than having a negative impact on agrarian production, the climate crisis also impairs the land’s ability to act as carbon sink. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s 2019 Climate Change and Land report, therefore, warned of massive impact of changing weather patterns on soil fertility, increase in arid and desertified zones, and contraction of polar climate zones and biodiversity. This exacerbates the climate crisis, while the climate crisis, in turn, exacerbates land degradation in different ways. While micro-planning, as India’s state climate action plans are supposed to do, and providing farmers with better seeds, climate information, land quality management and irrigation are critical, it is also important to use the knowledge of farmers on these issues. This is because they hold vital local knowledge and practices on how to avoid, improve or adapt to a changing climate. Catalysing this with climate science could have a real impact on framing effective climate action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/climate-crisis-land-is-the-key-editorial/story-PIeSapbEeYVN5vvDDm5bIK.html
10-03-2020||Editorials||Battling coronavirus, with innovative messaging | HT Editorial||While the world watched in disbelief, as a novel strain of coronavirus rapidly spread across continents, two Vietnamese dancers took to TikTok with a groovy, well-choreographed dance, that became, for want of a better word, viral. The video highlighted the importance of hand-washing as a simple, yet important, precaution against the virus. And the messaging worked. People were listening. From panicking about a virus they knew little about, people began to take small, but significant, steps to protect themselves. And it helped that the song was a catchy one. In the age of social media, with information, both true and false, flooding our timelines every few seconds, this trend of using different platforms to spread information — audio, visual and textual — to the public, shows the power of new technologies if used well. Concerns, symptoms and precautions of the coronavirus that caught the world unprepared were being addressed. Coronavirus has affected over 100,000 people across 95 countries, and killed at least 3,600, since it first appeared in China’s Wuhan region late last year. India has also been affected, with cases reported in different parts of the country. Since the outbreak, the World Health Organization (WHO) has found itself in a difficult position, having to quickly respond to, and dismiss, misinformation. But then, WHO also realised the potential of social media in getting out as much accurate information on protection, hygiene, and the impact of the virus, and started its own TikTok account. The world is already battling to contain the epidemic, with no cure in sight. It doesn’t need an “infodemic” to battle alongside it. As active participants of the information age, individuals must stop the spread of conspiracy theories, rumours and general misinformation. Since finding the cure for the virus remains elusive, the least that can be done is to act responsibly in the spread of information. Wash your hands off rumours and clean up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/battling-coronavirus-with-innovative-messaging/story-2YUGuFOE3YHdSTSOt1XIVN.html
