12-03-2020||Editorials||The Democrats veer towards the centre||The Democrats prefer a candidate who can save the Oval Office over a candidate who can save America. Former vice-president, Joe Biden, has a near hammerlock on the Democratic Party candidacy following a slew of primary victories over the past six weeks. The only other serious candidate, Bernie Sanders, will continue to soldier on, but will require a miracle to win. They represent two different strands within the party. One is a pragmatic centrist, closely associated with Washington; the other is an avowed socialist, calling for the dismembering of the United States political and corporate establishment. Mr Biden’s support comes from black Americans and middle-class white liberals. Mr Sanders dominates the youth and does well with working-class whites and Hispanics. The deciding factor for Democratic voters has been simple: Which candidate has the best chance to defeat Donald Trump? The Democrats had two schools of thought on how to bring down Mr Trump. Mr Biden — and candidates like Pete Buttegieg and Michael Bloomberg — argued the party base was suitably mobilised and needed to focus on the 30 to 40% of voters unaffiliated to either party. Many of these are Republicans repulsed by Mr Trump, and would consider backing a centrist Democrat. Mr Sanders and Elizabeth Warren represented the alternative school. Underlying socioeconomic problems afflicting the white working class were the drivers behind the voter revolt that brought Mr Trump to victory. An anti-establishment figure, touting radical solutions such as universal health care and an anti-Wall Street attitude, would resonate with this class — and actually resolve some of their problems as well. There was evidence to support both points of view. In the end, it is the centrist position which has come out on top. But Mr Biden would do well to take a closer look at the policy agenda of the Democratic left if he wants to stitch together a winning platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-democrats-veer-towards-the-centre/story-w2bX89UO6GQSb8EbF8cyzH.html
12-03-2020||Editorials||The battle against Covid-19||India’s tough decision to virtually ban all foreigners from entering the country for a month, and ask everyone, including Indians, to defer travel unless necessary, came an hour before the World Health Organization (WHO) finally declared the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) a pandemic on Wednesday. While WHO lingered over whether to call Covid-19 a pandemic on the grounds that it may fuel panic, India proactively adopted an agile and aggressive disease-control approach that involved daily inter-ministerial reviews and updated advisories, weeks before the first cases were reported in Kerala. All overseas travellers now risk undergoing a two-week quarantine, even as the home ministry has invoked Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, and Disaster Management Acts 2005, to empower the Centre and state governments to forcefully segregate, test and isolate suspected cases. Such disease containment efforts have prevented, so far, the community transmission of Covid-19, with the disease being limited to people who got infected overseas or their contacts in India.The inconvenient truth is that the world, including India, is not prepared for a coronavirus epidemic and draconian public health measures need to be taken. An epidemic can easily overwhelm India’s already overburdened health system. This makes it imperative to rigorously enforce travel restrictions, surveillance, contact tracing, social distancing, and sharing updated information with the public to stop panic and prevent the spread of infection. With the window of global containment of the virus closing fast, the government is right in adopting assertive infection-control measures, even if these measures cause short-term public inconvenience, restrict personal freedom, and lead to the possible cancellation of popular events. India must treat the pandemic as a threat to social security that will, if it spirals out of control like it did in China, Italy, South Korea and Iran, destabilise the economy and wreck health systems. United States President Donald Trump’s decision to ban travel from most of Europe is a case of doing too little too late. India must maintain its lead in containment and stop the disease from gaining a foothold within its borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-battle-against-covid-19/story-skDXkRlPTu3AtgcqpxdygI.html
