16-03-2020||Editorials||Covid-19: The world must work together | HT Editorial||The video conference between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the other leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) to discuss a common response to the novel coronavirus is a welcome change from the global pattern of raising drawbridges. South Asia has reason to work together. The region is fronted by China and Iran, two key centres of transmission, and its borders are so porous as to be non-existent. Epidemiologists have predicted for years that pandemic influenza would be the most likely source of a global health crisis. These studies also called for an international response, arguing piecemeal national policies would be ineffective. Despite this, all governments have responded with panicked isolation, often driven by political considerations. The Saarc effort will hopefully mark a reversal, at present symbolic, of this trend. Earlier outbreaks, like Sars and Ebola, inspired international civil society initiatives. This has had some limited success. But they have received only half-hearted interest from governments. Even the World Health Organization has struggled with funding. When the present crisis is over, the world needs to find a new collective mindset regarding pandemics. A multilateral surveillance and prevention health system should be the first priority. Second, consideration should be given to creating an international public-private partnership focused on vaccine development and coordinating emergency medical supply production. Third, protocols on cross-border movement of people, goods and the like during a pandemic should be worked out. The present response has been marked by arbitrariness. Finally, governments must be persuaded about the need to be fully transparent about health problems. India, given its own health care experience, pharmaceutical capacities and reasonable record in handling disease-related emergencies, can well play a leading role in this regard. Saarc is a suitable first step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-the-world-must-work-together-ht-editorial/story-8iBNngMh0UGrQkzGgpbpUM.html
16-03-2020||Editorials||Covid-19 and its economic impact||Economies can also get ill from viruses. While the priority remains health security, New Delhi must give thought to the economic fallout of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The immediate impact is visible: a sharp contraction in sectors such as transport, entertainment, tourism and, most damagingly, goods and services export. Uncertainty has led to an exodus of foreign capital from the stock market. In the medium term, especially if the virus continues to spread both within and outside India, the existing slowdown in investment and consumption will be exacerbated. More importantly, a drawn-out pandemic will savage India’s service sector, the single-engine that has kept the economy going. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development has estimated India will lose nearly $350 million in trade. The Asian Development Bank’s worst-case scenario is an economy nearly $30 billion poorer. But these are largely educated guesses. The coronavirus’s future spread, capacity for creating panic, and its impact are still unknown. However, there are some potential pluses amid the gloom. One, the economy is less integrated with China, and the world. Its early isolation from China was notable for its minimal economic damage. Two, in a post-pandemic world many companies and governments will seek security from diversity and will put India back in the investment spotlight. New Delhi has other priorities now, but it should complete the policy package with which it intends to woo firms fleeing China. Three, New Delhi should benefit from the global oil price war. The expected windfall in revenue should be used judiciously, with an eye to fill in gaps the virus will leave in the economy. If this windfall proves elusive, New Delhi should be prepared to loosen its fiscal belt a bit. The pandemic will be accepted by the markets as an acceptable reason to be financially expansive. On a somewhat longer time horizon, India must contemplate a new age of constrained globalisation. The international political economy has been geared to ever-closer integration and the lowering of barriers since World War II. The impact of technological change, the United States’ moves to decouple its economy from China, nativist politics in the developed world, and, now, the barriers that will follow the present pandemic point to a new paradigm. India, long a reluctant globaliser, will find this new environment less disconcerting than others, and should plan means to leverage this advantage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-and-its-economic-impact/story-DSkL0CqDekLDNm0BrgQnuO.html
16-03-2020||Editorials||The importance of archiving||In March 14, 1931, Alam Ara, India’s first- ever talking film, was released. It is a historic film, not least because of the pioneering efforts of those involved in making it. Having no soundproof stages, the film had to be shot almost entirely at night when the noise from the nearby rail tracks would be minimal; actors sang their own songs to live music; and large, bulky mikes were hidden close to the actors to be able to record the sound. The great tragedy of the film, however, is that it has been lost forever since no print of the first-ever talking film made in India has survived.This is not just the problem of Alam Ara. India has a poor record in preserving most of our heritage films. According to experts, more than 1,500 silent films were made in India, of which only about five can be found in the National Film Archive of India (NFAI). The state of regional films is even worse. Of over 100 films made in the silent era in erstwhile Madras, it is believed that only one remains. India has a rich film tradition, and the loss of archives is not just a loss of an image but of an era of culture and history. Films are more than just entertainment; they are a record of our culture, a testimony to the evolution of society, and sometimes even time capsules of our fraught histories. Archiving is one of the most important ways of preserving our history and heritage — not just so that future generations may take pleasure from old films, but so that we may learn from that which has already been built; for we may only look into the future by standing on the shoulders of giants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-importance-of-archiving/story-6IBTKZnLoG6YT2qqCrqZFK.html
