17-03-2020||Editorials||Ramp up testing, now | HT Editorial||India’s hesitation in adopting mass testing for coronavirus (Covid-19) even as it spreads is jeopardising the lives of millions who may be infected but don’t know it. India has, so far, limited testing to those with travel history from affected countries, their contacts, and symptomatic health workers dealing with Covid-19 patients. The government has argued that it is not possible to test everyone. It has plans to scale up diagnostic laboratories doing Covid-19 tests from 63 to 121, and is putting in place mechanisms to allow 51 private labs to test. Officials have suggested that if India begins testing people with symptoms, the system will not have enough capacity to test, once community transmission begins.The government, however, must reconsider its approach. A new analysis of data from China shows that for every confirmed case, there are another five to 10 people in the community with undetected disease. Many people with mild or no symptoms remain undiagnosed but infect others. In China, this led to nearly 80% of the new cases. Random community testing of 1,100 patients in intensive care units, as India is doing, is too small a sample for a population of 1.37 billion. The first 500 random cases have tested negative, but this should not make the government complacent. To deal with the issue of capacity, there is only one way out — involve the private sector substantially. The government is considering the option now, but it should move fast. India has procured one million diagnostics kits, but the overstretched government sector does not even have the human resources to scale up to a few thousand tests. Even when a little over 10% of its diagnostic capacity of 6,000 tests a day is being used at the Indian Council of Medical Research labs, the diagnostic reports for tests take several days to be generated. Rapid mass testing in South Korea has brought down new infections and death rates to less than 1%, compared to the world average of close to 4%. Makeshift fever clinics in China, offering rapid testing, brought down new cases on Monday to 21, compared to 62 in the United States and 344 in Italy, where the epidemic spiralled out of control because of delayed diagnosis. The World Health Organization has urged countries to test every suspected case. India must redefine its outdated testing parameters to permit walk-in testing. It has allowed two labs to do rapid testing, but this is not enough. This is the biggest health emergency in living memory. As long as quality and infection control measures are in place, it should not matter whether testing is done in public or private hospitals, for it saves lives. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/ramp-up-testing-now-ht-editorial/story-Kzy1k0TGZ8N1tn2gcLrIoJ.html
17-03-2020||Editorials||Gogoi’s nomination sets a wrong precedent | HT Editorial||President Ram Nath Kovind has nominated former Chief Justice (CJ) of the Supreme Court (SC), Ranjan Gogoi to the Rajya Sabha. The nomination, which is meant for eminent personalities who have excelled in their fields and can contribute to national public life, happens as per the advice of the government. But Mr Gogoi’s nomination, just four months after his retirement, has, rightly, sparked concerns.The entire edifice of constitutional governance rests on separation of powers. The legislature is popularly elected where the sovereignty of the people resides; the executive is accountable to the legislature; and the judiciary is the upholder of the Constitution and, along with its other duties, provides a check against executive excesses, arbitrariness, and unlawful steps. To perform its task, the judiciary has to be entirely, and fiercely, independent — insulated from pressures and inducements. ALSO WATCH | Opposition questions Ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi’s nomination to Rajya SabhaTo be sure, the Congress, too, has, in various forms, provided positions to SC judges, including, most egregiously, to former CJ Ranganath Mishra — who was nominated to the Rajya Sabha on a party ticket. But just as that was wrong, so is the decision to nominate Mr Gogoi. It undermines the credibility of judgments he had delivered during his tenure. It lends itself to a perception of a quid pro quo. It distorts incentives for judges, who may be tempted at the prospect of post-retirement positions and allow it to influence their decisions — once again, an older trend that gets reinforced with the new decision. It threatens the very principle of an independent judiciary, which is the bedrock of democracy. And it erodes the faith of citizens in the idea of justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/gogoi-s-nomination-sets-a-wrong-precedent-ht-editorial/story-YCEuP7dwdu0QO0DSCQnJRP.html
