23-03-2020||Editorials||Targeting fellow citizens from the Northeast is unacceptable||The outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has led to uncertainty, forced people to reshape their lives, strained the health care system and disrupted economic livelihoods. In all of this, citizens are victims. But there is one other consequence, for which a set of citizens have been responsible — the spurt in racist attacks, particularly against fellow citizens from the Northeast. A man on a motorbike, most recently, spat on a young woman from Manipur, in Delhi’s Vijay Nagar, called her “corona”, before speeding away. This follows other incidents, in Kolkata, Pune, and other parts of the country, where those from the Northeast have been called “corona” or “coronavirus”. Prejudice against those from the Northeast has been a deeply disturbing, unfortunate, and unacceptable feature in the past. This has often taken the form of slurs, physical attacks and stigmatisation. But the depth of prejudice that still exists is apparent in these recent attacks. Here is how the perpetrators seem to think — the virus originated in China; the Chinese are responsible; those from the Northeast “look like” the Chinese; and so, they are responsible and must be attacked. This line of thinking and mindset reflect deep ignorance at many levels, and outright racism. This must be condemned in the strongest terms possible.But mere condemnation is not enough. Legal consequences must follow. Anyone who engages in discriminatory and racist behaviour is acting unconstitutionally. The authorities must act. Racism is unacceptable at any time. And at a moment when the country must come together to battle the pandemic, to stigmatise an entire group of fellow citizens because of their physical features is criminal. Stop this, now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/targeting-fellow-citizens-from-the-northeast-is-unacceptable/story-UAYS7msrJQSmzXsxJUsUOI.html
23-03-2020||Editorials||The lockdown is the right step||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked citizens for a “few weeks” in his address to the nation on Thursday. He hinted quite clearly that the people’s curfew on March 22 would serve as a test for the future. Restrictions on mobility have kicked in over the past week. And that is why, perhaps, it did not come as an outright surprise when the Centre and various states decided to go in for a more strict lockdown — across states, urban centres, affected districts — in the last 48 hours. Citizens must follow the directives, and exercise a high degree of responsibility. On Sunday, after the 5 pm applause for those who are on the frontline of battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and those still keeping essential services going, in many pockets, there were large congregations. On Monday, in key cities, there was a resumption of movement on a scale that was potentially dangerous. There is no doubt that the lockdown is inconvenient. But citizens must realise that they are not merely staying home for themselves — they are doing it for their families and for the larger community, given the high rates of transmission. In fact, they must begin preparing for a longer period of lockdown that extends beyond March 31. The impact of the lockdown will not be discernible immediately. Instead, expect a spike in cases for now — because of the time lag between getting infected, showing symptoms, and getting tested. But if the lockdown is successful and social distancing is practised, in a few weeks, India may see, first, a slower rate at which cases are increasing, and then the flattening of the curve. For this to succeed, the government needs to, simultaneously, implement the following measures. One, get ready to extend the lockdown beyond March 31 if there’s reason to do so. And then review the situation. Two, based on the recognition that this lockdown is extracting a huge economic toll, especially for the poor, come up with an economic plan — which entails cash transfers. Three, use this period to build up hospital capacity, source key items which will be needed for severe cases, and transport it to key centres. And four, ramp up the capacity of district hospitals — because with many migrant workers having returned home, it is likely that the infection will now spread to rural India. The lockdown is the first step in a long battle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-lockdown-is-the-right-step/story-0qDvi0BXm9NgoW2ZLukGiP.html
23-03-2020||Editorials||Coronavirus outbreak: Time to prepare for Stage 3 | HT editorial||The outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has meant that society has to redefine the fundamental principles which have governed it. India introduced travel restrictions and social distancing measures to ensure that the disease was restricted to those with travel history and their immediate contacts. But the country is now at a crossroads, with a spike in the number of positive Covid-19 cases. Looming ahead is a phase that experts have been warning about: Stage 3, which is community transmission. This occurs when a person with no travel history to an affected country or direct contact with a confirmed case tests positive for Covid-19. It is an indication that the undiagnosed and likely asymptomatic carriers are spreading it, and makes breaking the chain of transmission increasingly tough.As India approaches this stage, expect a rapid spike in cases, an increase in fatalities, and a corresponding set of hard measures. Travel restrictions have already got extended, with the suspension of passenger train operations, inter-state buses, and metro services till March 31. Various states have imposed Section 144, which restricts gatherings of more than five people. There is a lockdown in 75 affected districts. Other consequences will follow. From India restricting international flights, the rest of the world will get wary of allowing flights from India. There will be more extended periods of the people’s curfew. If self-quarantine measures are not implemented, legal consequences may follow. Economic activity will get even more adversely affected, hitting the poorest the hardest. And the burden on the health system will increase. Also Watch | Coronavirus: 80 districts across India under lockdown as cases cross 365This is not meant to induce panic. But it is meant to prepare citizens for what lies ahead. Stage 3 will require citizens to exercise a greater degree of responsibility. Social distancing will have to be accompanied by social solidarity and care for the more vulnerable sections. Employers will need to be even more sensitive towards their staff. Patients will need empathy, not stigmatisation. And the government, even as it is held accountable, will need support, as it introduces more measures to both battle the virus and introduce measures to minimise the distress. Things may get worse before they get better. India must stay united.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/time-to-prepare-for-stage-3/story-eXafqRVGoAfMjXJtDsDJSJ.html
