25-03-2020||Editorials||The mechanics of the lockdown | HT Editorial||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Tuesday, announced the most radical, disruptive measure taken anywhere globally to battle the coronavirus pandemic. He announced a three-week lockdown for the entire country, and warned citizens strictly not to exit their homes for the next 21 days. Given that this applies to over 1.3 billion citizens, in all states and Union Territories, spans all sectors except essential services, the scale of the lockdown is unprecedented, not just in India, but the world. Other countries have resorted to lockdowns which have been more limited either in space or duration.The lockdown is essential. As Mr Modi said, there is no way to battle the pandemic but through strict social distancing. In India, relying on only voluntary distancing is insufficient — it needs to be backed by State authority. It is also true that once the virus spreads, given India’s poor health infrastructure, it will be very difficult to contain. It is important to temper expectations though. India will continue to see an increase in cases for now, as testing increases and many — who slowly developed symptoms — turn out positive. But if the lockdown is successful, as the PM said, India may succeed in breaking the chain of human transmission — and flattening the curve.But while the onus rests on citizens to follow the government’s directive, the government has to do the following. One, the lockdown cannot be enforced with extra legal measures. This has been visible in the form of police brutality across the country or in Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao suggesting shoot-at-sight orders against violators. Respect the law, and be proportionate and sensitive in responses. Two, law enforcement authorities need to be clearly instructed to allow the supply of essentials, and not impede movement. Three, the government needs to communicate more clearly with citizens — and assure them that it will ensure that basic needs will be met. Four, it needs to immediately come up with an economic plan for daily wage workers, migrant workers, and those in the unorganised sector, who have no means to sustain themselves for such a long duration given the disruption to their livelihoods. Five, it needs to use this time to ramp up health systems — by enhancing testing, creating dedicated facilities, providing protective equipment for health workers, and sourcing ventilators and other medical essentials. And finally, it needs to draw up a medium-term economic plan since incomes and jobs will be severely hit. As citizens fulfil their duties, it is time for the State to do its bit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-mechanics-of-the-lockdown-ht-editorial/story-ezXq1AY1OuQjIZkzQn3EDK.html
25-03-2020||Editorials||Ramp up geriatric care to battle Covid-19 | HT Editorial||As the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) spreads, the elderly appear the most vulnerable. To be sure, young people have got infected, and even got severely sick. But senior citizens, with co-morbidities and compromised immune systems, find it harder to battle the disease. In India, over 20% of the population is above the age of 60. The elderly lack mobility and economic power as well as access to authentic information about how to keep themselves safe in these times. Given the lack of hospice facilities, the elderly will largely have to be cared for at home. This means that families have to be educated about how to keep older people isolated in order to protect them from infection, not easy in crowded joint family systems. The needs of the elderly are not always a priority as families, indeed society, view them as non-productive, even a burden on an overwhelmed health care system. The government must be more proactive — by providing a degree of social security for the aged and ensuring mobile geriatric health services. As Kerala is doing, states must examine how provisions and medicines can be delivered at home to the elderly who do not have family support systems. A helpline should be instituted, specifically for the elderly. The National Policy on Older Persons, 1999, prescribes a number of provisions such as monthly stipends, free home health care and palliative care for the aged. These measures could help the elderly tide over the crisis. Covid-19 is a wake-up call. Institute geriatric care systems as the population ages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/ramp-up-geriatric-care-to-battle-covid-19-ht-editorial/story-6xr2WfBDPHUH326SCfkNKM.html
