30-03-2020||Editorials||Supply protective gear to medical fraternity||As India steps up its battle against the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), the medical fraternity — which is at the forefront of the battle — is facing an acute shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE), which includes clothing, helmets, goggles, or other garments or equipment designed to protect the wearer’s body from injury or infection. Several doctors took to social media to complain about the lack of PPE or their poor quality. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has consistently lauded doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, and all those who are in the frontlines; yet, India’s efforts to ensure that they remain safe fell short in the initial weeks of the pandemic. That is why the government’s decision to ramp up the manufacture of PPEs, efforts to source it from outside the country, and ensure its supply is important and laudable. Securing PPEs is most critical, because without it, those who need to treat patients can get infected. According to an internal government note, accessed by Reuters, India needs at least 38 million masks and 6.2 million pieces of PPE. While the government has now contacted suppliers for PPEs, reports said despite the World Health Organization’s guidelines on February 27, advising all countries to stockpile medical equipment, the export of protective gear like masks and gloves continued from India.To be fair to the government, the shortage of PPE is a global problem. But the Centre must now ramp up its procurement of good quality PPEs and make it available to the medical fraternity because, without them, this battle is lost. They are true warriors, and India owes it to them to ensure that everything is done to keep them safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/supply-protective-gear-to-medical-fraternity/story-UPpu5Bn7qJTYMXAfgcfXUN.html
30-03-2020||Editorials||Living in isolation is hard... but it’s not without benefits, writes Abhilash Tomy||I have spent 275 days in total isolation under trying circumstances.My exposure to solitude was the result of volunteering to voyage alone at sea, one of which even resulted in a debilitating spinal injury and being stranded in a remote corner of the planet for three days waiting for rescue.This gave me an opportunity to study my own behaviour and response to prolonged isolation and also develop mechanisms that would help me cope with and survive it. My thoughts, therefore, do not flow as if it were from an expert or academic but from experience.In a society our lives are defined by our relationships with others and by the devices we construct to establish order- time, hierarchy, morals etc to name a few. Needless to say, withdrawal from society entails a breakdown of such devices and the compass we look at for orienting stops pointing in any particular direction. The first such device to breakdown in isolation is the sense of time. Sleep and meals become irregular and a few days later one can’t tell if it is a Monday or a weekend. Not that it matters if you have been doing nothing all through the week but it does help to have a routine to orient you in time. Getting your routine right is also the easiest to hack.Social isolation also can lead to a certain kind of loss of sense of self or identity. I am particularly speaking about the identity that is derived from one’s relationship with others - relatives, colleagues, subordinates, etc, in fact anyone one comes in contact with. In my case, only prolonged isolation has any effect on the sense of self. I deal with it at deeply philosophical level but for anyone experiencing isolation for the first time, the easiest way is to remain in regular contact with friends, relatives and colleagues.Loss of short term memory could be another effect of isolation but I don’t see this being of any negative consequence to one’s mental health. What could be worrying are conditions such as depression, anxiety, boredom and emotional instability which creep in despite one’s best efforts. But then that is only natural given that humans have evolved to think adaptively rather than logically in many contexts and negative emotional responses are part of our defensive system. A certain amount of these emotions are necessary for survival but if they take charge and cause grief, a few simple steps can get you out. I commonly use chanting and focusing on breath as the first steps to get the mind under control. It doesn’t matter what you chant as long as it is a repetitive sound, and while you focus on your breath ensure that the breathing is slow and measured. At the beginning it is a struggle, but in some time you can see your anxiety levels drop and mood elevate. It might not be euphoric but you can get your mind to a state where you can dictate more or less what to feel.Once I reach that stage I resort to another trick which is to shift perspective. The same situation can be seen from various perspectives and there is at least one perspective where everything makes sense, at least for the time being. Humour is a perspective which rarely fails in my case.I have also experienced three distinct phases in isolation. In the first phase I tend to stay in touch with people and seek out communications. In the second phase I become indifferent and in the third phase I even become suspicious of outsiders. Towards the end of the period of isolation, there is a renewed vigour and a sense of relief but I have also learnt to exercise particular caution during this time since sailboats are notorious for not arriving at their destination on time.I stop looking at the destination and take each moment as it comes so that I can spend indefinite time at sea all by myself in my own silence. Take each day as it comes because you can never tell when the finish line is shifted.Living in isolation is not without benefits. It is a time to blow the dust off those books and read, to make those calls which you have been deferring, to practise a hand at cooking, to make paper planes and to pursue those innumerable things that you postponed because you felt you never had the time. It is also a time for shutting out the outside world and explore the universe inside you. Who knows, you might even fall in love with solitude and discover a different kind of freedom that is not defined by freedom of action, speech and movement but by freedom of thought. In a voyage that lasted 151 days, there was only one moment where I felt depressed and miserable. I was at the mid point of the journey and I realised I had only 75 days of solitude left!Solitude can be that endearing.(Commander Abhilash Tomy is a naval officer and a decorated sailor).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/living-in-isolation-is-hard-but-it-s-not-without-benefits-writes-abhilash-tomy/story-wuQZQYtqJrDFxsOV8gMdhK.html
