01-11-2020||New Delhi||Over 5k new COVID-19 cases recorded for 5th consecutive day in Delhi||The national capital recorded 5,664 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the infection tally to over 3.92 lakh, even as the positivity rate jumped to nearly 13 per cent, authorities said.According to the Delhi government’s latest health bulletin, the death toll rose to 6,562 with 51 more fatalities.This is the fifth day on the trot that the city has reported over 5,000 new cases amid festivities and rising pollution in the city.A total of 5,062 new cases were reported on Saturday, 5,891 on Friday—the highest so far, 5,739 on Thursday and 5,673 on Wednesday.The number of deaths reported on Sunday was the highest in the last five days. The city reported 41 deaths on Saturday, 47 on Friday, 27 on Thursday, 40 on Wednesday, 44 on Tuesday and 54 on Monday.Of the 3,92,370 cases reported in Delhi so far, 3,51,635 have either recovered, been discharged or migrated out, the bulletin said.As many as 44,623 tests were conducted to detect COVID-19 infection on Saturday, of which 14,347 were RTPCR tests and 30,276 rapid antigen tests.A total of 47,25,318 tests have been conducted in the national capital so far – 2.48 lakh tests per million population.The cumulative positivity rate was 8.30 per cent. The average death rate for the last 10 days stands at 0.83 per cent. The number of active cases was 34,173 on Sunday, of which 20,732 are under home isolation.Of the 15,775 hospital beds in the city, 9,314 are unoccupied, the bulletin said.The number of containment zones in the city is 3,359. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/over-5k-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-for-5th-consecutive-day-in-delhi-164462
01-11-2020||New Delhi||Do not get tired of wearing masks: Satyendar Jain urges Delhiites||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday has urged people not to get tired of wearing masks till a vaccine for COVID-19 is available.Jain also said aggressive contact tracing was the primary reason behind the spike in new cases.“Some people are tired of wearing masks. They are fatigued. I urge them to continue wearing masks, do not get tired of it,” he said.“It has been around nine months already. I hope a vaccine will be available in another two to three months. Till then, continue wearing marks,” Jain added.The health minister said earlier authorities were tracing and conducting tests on around six to seven close contacts of a positive case. The number is now over 15.“The number of new cases is increasing, but this only because we are doing aggressive contact tracing,” he said.Jain said the out of 2,900 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds reserved for COVID-19 patients across Delhi, around 1,200 ICU beds were unoccupied.Delhi recorded 5,062 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the infection tally in the city to over 3.86 lakh.The positivity rate jumped to nearly 11.5 per cent amid the festive season and rising pollution in the city. It was the fourth consecutive day when over 5,000 cases were reported. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/do-not-get-tired-of-wearing-masks-satyendar-jain-urges-delhiites-164441
01-11-2020||New Delhi||Frothing in Yamuna: Detergents in untapped sewage major reason||Visuals of toxic froth floating on the surface of the Yamuna river near Kalindi Kunj in Delhi made their way back to social media over the past few days, with experts citing detergents as one of the major reasons behind the pollution.Majority of the detergents in the country don’t have a certification by the ISO (International Organisation for Standardisation), which has capped the concentration of phosphates in the chemical substance, an official of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said.The primary reason behind the formation of the toxic foam was high phosphate content in the wastewater because of detergents used in dyeing industries, dhobi ghats and households, according to the official.“A large number of unbranded detergents are also used in households and dyeing industries. The wastewater containing high phosphate content reach the river through untapped drains,” he said.These detergents and other organic matter get deposited in the riverbed when the river is flowing normally. When more water is released upstream, it falls from a height on reaching the Okhla Barrage, leading to turbulence and churning which causes froth.The solution is that every household is connected to the sewer network and treatment of the wastewater, he said.“If 100 per cent of the wastewater is treated, there will be no such problem at all. The capacities of STPs (sewage treatment plants) are underutilised and the standards are not met,” the CPCB official said.Another reason, but not a major one, for the frothing is the release of certain gases when a specific kind of bacteria become active in anaerobic conditions—when there is no or little oxygen is available.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/frothing-in-yamuna-detergents-in-untapped-sewage-major-reason-164424
01-11-2020||New Delhi||Public buses resume plying with full seating capacity in Delhi||The DTC and Cluster buses resumed plying with full seating capacity on Sunday, with Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot urging travellers to wear masks and observe COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.In a tweet, the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) said intra-state movement of buses had been permitted with full seating capacity on a trial basis, subject to the condition that no passenger will travel standing and without mask.Owing to closure of offices, the number of passengers who travelled on buses on Sunday was relatively low.However, at some crowded bus stands such as ITO and Dhaula Kuan, drivers and conductors had to struggle to manage the commuters who were trying to board the buses.“It is difficult to maintain the required social distance of six feet in a bus even if no one is standing in the corridor because seats are very close.“But there is no other option because how long can you sit at home and not go out to earn for your family,” said Ram Sajivan, a daily wager, who was travelling in a bus from Anand Vihar to Badarpur Border.Gahlot tweeted: “I would appeal to all passengers to wear mask and observe COVID-appropriate behaviour.”The number of passengers is likely to increase on Monday when more people use public transport buses to commute to work and other purposes.The Delhi government on May 20 directed that a maximum of 20 passengers in public transport buses will be allowed in view of maintaining proper social distance to check the spread of coronavirus.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in its order on Saturday said movement of buses would be permitted on trial basis up to November 8 or till further orders, whichever is earlier, subject to the condition that no passenger will be allowed to travel in a standing position and without mask and all other stipulations of standard operating procedure.However, the move to resume operation of the DTC and Cluster buses with full seating capacity comes at a time when the city is witnessing a surge of COVID-19 cases with upwards of 5,000 new infections being reported daily for the past few days.As per the standard operating procedure issued by the DDMA, in case more persons than seating capacity board the bus, the driver and conductor will request the extra passengers to de-board the bus with the help of marshal.In case, the extra passengers refuse to comply with the order, the driver and conductor would seek police assistance, it said.The DDMA order states in case, the driver of any DTC or Cluster bus is found carrying passengers more than the seating capacity of the vehicle, strict disciplinary action will be taken against him and he will also be liable for prosecution action under Disaster Management Act 2005.The DTC and Cluster buses can seat up to 40 passengers. There are around 3,800 buses run by the DTC and over 2,600 run under Cluster scheme of Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/public-buses-resume-plying-with-full-seating-capacity-in-delhi-164406
01-11-2020||New Delhi||At 40 pc, stubble burning contribution in Delhi’s pollution soars to season’s high||The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution rose to 40 per cent on Sunday, the maximum so far this season, according to a central government air quality monitoring agency.The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said 3,216 farm fires were spotted over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Saturday.   The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution was 40 per cent on Sunday, the maximum so far this season. It was 32 per cent on Saturday, 19 per cent on Friday and 36 per cent on Thursday, the second highest this season so far.Last year, the stubble contribution to Delhi’s pollution had peaked to 44 per cent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.NASA’s satellite imagery showed a large, dense cluster of fire dots covering Punjab and parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.      SAFAR said air quality has not improved much despite improved ventilation due to high stubble-related intrusion and trapping of pollutants during night time due to low wintertime boundary layer height.“However, it has not deteriorated further despite favourable North-North-Westerly boundary level wind direction. The highly favourable conditions for fire-related intrusion in Delhi is expected to continue,” it said.SAFAR predicted better ventilation for the next two days but said the AQI is likely to improve only marginally, depending on farm fires. It is set to deteriorate slightly on November 3, it said.The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 370 at 3 pm. The 24-hour average AQI was 367 on Saturday. It was 374 on Friday, 395 on Thursday, 297 on Wednesday, 312 on Tuesday and 353 on Monday.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/at-40-pc-stubble-burning-contribution-in-delhis-pollution-soars-to-seasons-high-164398
01-11-2020||New Delhi||At 11.4°C, Delhi records season’s lowest temperature||The National Capital recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday morning, the lowest this season so far, according to the India Meteorological Department.Normally, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, records a minimum of 15 to 16 degrees Celsius in the first week of November. The mercury dips to 11-12 degrees Celsius by the last week of November, it said.Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of IMD, said the absence of cloud cover was the major reason for the low minimum temperature.     Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. Another reason is calm winds, which allow formation of mist and fog, Srivastava said.         There hasn’t been much snowfall in the hills, so cold winds from that region are yet to start affecting Delhi’s weather, he added.The month of October was the coolest in 58 years in the national capital, according to IMD.         The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962, when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius, it said.Normally, Delhi records a mean minimum temperature of 19.1 degrees Celsius in October. The city recorded a mean minimum temperature of 17.5 degrees Celsius in October 2007, according to IMD.  On Thursday, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.5 degrees Celsius—the lowest in October in 26 years.The last time Delhi recorded such a low temperature in October was in 1994. The national capital had recorded a minimum of 12.3 degrees Celsius on October 31, 1994, according to IMD data.       The city recorded the all-time lowest temperature (9.4 degrees Celsius) on October 31, 1937, Srivastava said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/at-11-4%C2%B0c-delhi-records-seasons-lowest-temperature-164332
01-11-2020||New Delhi||Delhi's air quality remains 'very poor' due to 'unusually high' farm fires||The national capital's air quality remained “very poor” on Sunday with an “unusually high” number of farm fires negating the effect of better ventilation, according to a government forecasting agency.  However, the situation is likely to get better by Monday.  The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 366 at 8:30 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 367 on Saturday, 374 on Friday, 395 on Thursday, 297 on Wednesday, 312 on Tuesday, and 353 on Monday.  An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitoring agency, SAFAR, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 32 per cent on Saturday, the second-highest this season so far.  It was 19 per cent on Friday and 36 per cent on Thursday -- the maximum so far this season.  According to the central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the fire count increased to an unusual high on Friday over Punjab (approx 4,266), Haryana (155), Uttar Pradesh (51) and Madhya Pradesh (381) impacting air quality in Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India.  NASA's satellite imagery showed a large, dense cluster of fire dots covering Punjab and parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.  SAFAR said Delhi's AQI did not improve much despite better ventilation, mainly because of highly favourable north-north westerly boundary level wind direction and perfect wind speed for the intrusion of pollutants from farm fires.  “Increased local surface wind speed with faster dispersion conditions are counteracting with increased fire-related emission and associated intrusion. But still, AQI is likely to improve for the next two days as dispersion will eventually play a lead role,” it said.  According to the India Meteorological Department, the predominant wind direction was northwesterly and the maximum wind speed was 15 kilometres per hour on Sunday.     Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.  The city's ventilation index – a product of mixing depth and average wind speed – was expected to be around 8,500 metre square per second on Sunday – favourable for dispersion of pollutants.  Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed.  A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhis-air-quality-remains-very-poor-due-to-unusually-high-farm-fires-164325
01-11-2020||---||Free vaccine promise not code violation: Election Commission||New Delhi, October 31The Election Commission (EC) today held that the BJP’s promise of providing free Covid-19 vaccine in its manifesto for the Bihar Assembly elections “is not a violation of the model code of conduct”.The order came on a complaint filed by Mumbai-based RTI activist Saket Gokhale, who had alleged that the promise was discriminatory and amounted to misuse of power.Sources said the poll panel cited certain guidelines contained in Part VIII of the MCC to conclude that the free vaccine promise was not in violation of the norms.“The Directive Principles of State Policy enshrined in the Constitution enjoin upon the state to frame various welfare measures for citizens. Therefore, there can be no objection to the promise of such welfare in an election manifesto,” the EC is learnt to have said, adding that the trust of voters can be sought “on promises which are possible to be fulfilled”.It’s welfare measure: poll panelThere can be no objection to the promise of such welfare in an election manifesto… The trust of voters can be sought on promises which are possible to be fulfilled. Election CommissionReacting to the order, Gokhale tweeted: “The ECI shockingly ignored the fact that the Union Government promised the vaccine for a specific state particularly when election atmosphere is vitiated.”Earlier this month, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had released the BJP manifesto for the Bihar elections, which promised free Covid-19 vaccine once it was cleared by the ICMR.Nath moves SC on star campaigner statusCongress leader and former Madhya Pradesh CM Kamal Nath on Saturday moved the Supreme Court challenging an Election Commission order revoking his “star campaigner” status for violations of the model code while campaigning for the byelections in 28 Assembly constituencies in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/free-vaccine-promise-not-code-violation-election-commission-163851
01-11-2020||New Delhi||Fatality rate declines below 1.5%||India’s Covid case fatality rate (CFR) fell below 1.5% (1.49%) on Saturday, the Union Health Ministry said, crediting the Centre-led strategy of ‘test, trace, track and treat’ for keeping deaths low and within manageable numbers.Deaths per million population in the country stand at 88, it said. The ministry said 23 states and union territories in the country have a CFR lower than the national average, while 65 per cent of the total deaths so far have been recorded in five states — Maharashtra (36.04%), Karnataka (9.16%), Tamil Nadu (9.12%), Uttar Pradesh (5.76%) and West Bengal (5.58%). There is a steady decline in the number of daily deaths, the ministry said.Also read: National coronavirus caseload crosses 81-lakh mark with 48,268 new casesAssam has decided to exempt foreign dignitaries and top officials from Covid test and quarantine rule. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain has said it is “impossible to wipe off” Covid through a lockdown as the virus has “spread through community” and people should treat wearing a face mask as a vaccine till medication is made available.Meanwhile, the wife and six family members of Union Minister Santosh Gangwar have tested positive. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/fatality-rate-declines-below-1-5-163877
