05-07-2020||New Delhi||106-year-old Delhi man who was child during Spanish Flu survives COVID-19||A centenarian man from Delhi, who was four years old during the 1918 Spanish Flu, has survived COVID-19 and recovered faster than his son, in his 70s, at a dedicated COVID-19 facility here, doctors said.The 106-year-old patient (name withheld), a resident of Old Delhi, was discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) recently after recovering, they said.His wife, son and another family member, who were also infected by COVID-19, have recuperated, the doctors said.The man was brought to the RGSSH, a dedicated COVID-19 facility of the city government in east Delhi, in mid-April and discharged early May, a senior doctor said.When asked about the details of his wife and the other family member, the doctor only said: “The 106-year-old man and his son, in his 70s, had recovered at our hospital, but the rest two recuperated at another COVID facility.”Another senior doctor told PTI: “Perhaps, he is the first reported case of COVID-19 in Delhi who also went through the dreaded Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918 which like COVID-19 had also ravaged the world.” “And, he not only recovered from COVID-19, he recovered faster than his son, who is also very old,” the doctor said.The Spanish Flu was a pandemic which hit the world 102 years ago and affected nearly one-third of the global population at that time.“The 1918 influenza pandemic was the most severe pandemic in recent history. It was caused by an H1N1 virus with genes of avian origin. Although there is no universal consensus regarding where the virus originated, it spread worldwide during 1918-1919,” according to the Centre for Diseases Control (CDC) in the US.A family member of the centenarian man, who did not wish to be named, said: “At his age of 106, he has defeated coronavirus, and he was a kid during the Spanish Flu. He’s a corona warrior, and he’s doing fine now.”According to experts, the situation during the Spanish Flu pandemic was very similar to the current COVID-19 situation, with directions issued on social distancing, stay-at-home orders and use of masks bring prescribed.In the US, it was first identified in military personnel in spring 1918. It is estimated that about 6,75,000 deaths occurred in America, the CDC said.According to a World Health Organisation (WHO) report, the pandemic of 1918-1919 called the Spanish Flu was particularly virulent, and killed an estimated 40 million people worldwide.In India, the disease is believed to have been brought in by the soldiers returning from World War I conflicts.The first cases of Spanish Flu were reported in areas which are major ports of entry, such as Mumbai (then Bombay), Kolkata (Calcutta), Delhi and Chennai (Madras), where a large number of people returned from abroad.The casualty count in India from the Spanish Flu is believed to be nearly one-fifth of the entire fatalities in the world, though the statistics for mortality in India are too wide-ranging and debatable.Doctors at RGSSH were amazed to see the recovery of this centenarian patient from the novel coronavirus, even though he was highly vulnerable to the infection.“We don’t know whether he was affected by the Spanish Flu or not. We haven’t seen much documentation on the situation back then as far as Delhi is concerned, but very few hospitals were there at that time. It is amazing this 106-year-old showed the will power to survive,” a senior doctor, who monitored his situation, said.But what is more interesting is that he recovered faster than his son. So, he lived through the Spanish Flu and now survived COVID-19. Hence, he lived through two pandemics, he said.“RGSSH has treated more than 1,000 COVID-19 patients so far, and on Monday it is marking the milestone with a symbolic event where Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia and Heath Minister Satyendar Jain are slated to participate,” hospital authorities said.Delhi recorded 2,244 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the tally in the city to 99,444, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,067, authorities said.The national capital, at present is the worst-hit city in the country, from the pandemic.According to the Sunday bulletin, 71,339 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/106-year-old-delhi-man-who-was-child-during-spanish-flu-survives-covid-19-108999
05-07-2020||New Delhi||Delhi’s COVID-19 tally nears one lakh-mark with 2,505 more cases||Delhi recorded 2,505 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally close to the one lakh-mark while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,067, authorities said.The national capital recorded 63 new fatalities on Sunday, a Delhi health Department bulletin said.The bulletin said the death toll from COVID-19 had risen to 3,067 while the total number of cases mounted to 99,444.On June 23, the national capital had reported its highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases.  However, in the last five days, the number of fresh cases has oscillated.The death toll from COVID-19 in Delhi stood at 3,004 on Saturday.According to the bulletin, 71,339 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while the number of active cases stood at 25,038.As many as 6,43,504 tests have been conducted so far. The number of containment zones in the city on Saturday stood at 456. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhis-covid-19-tally-nears-one-lakh-mark-with-2-505-more-cases-108982
05-07-2020||New Delhi||Number of COVID patients needing hospitalisation lowering, more getting cured at home: Kejriwal||The number of COVID-19 patients requiring hospitalisation in Delhi is decreasing as more and more of them are getting cured while staying in home isolation, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday.The number of patients in hospital has gone down and there are 9,900 COVID beds currently vacant, he said.“Less and less people in Delhi are now requiring hospitalisation, more and more people are getting cured at home,” said Kejriwal in a tweet.“Whereas there were around 2,300 new patients daily last week, no of patients in hospital has gone down from 6,200 to 5,300. Today, 9,900 corona beds are free,” he added in his tweet.The Chief Minister also thanked the Union government for the DRDO building a 1000-bed COVID-19 hospital in Delhi.“The DRDO corona hospital of 1000 beds is ready. Thanks to the Central government on the behalf of Delhi people. It has 250 ICU beds that are much needed in Delhi,” he said in another tweet.According to the Delhi government's health bulletin on Saturday, there are over 25,000 active COVID-19 patients in Delhi out of which over 16,000 are in home isolation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/number-of-covid-patients-needing-hospitalisation-lowering-more-getting-cured-at-home-kejriwal-108965
05-07-2020||New Delhi||COVID-19: Delhi’s 1st female plasma donor says more women should come forward; no reason to hesitate||The first female plasma donor in the national capital on Sunday asked more women to donate their ‘antibody-rich’ plasma and contribute towards the fight against COVID-19.Bhumika Kohli (20), a journalism student and resident of Rohini in north-west Delhi, tested positive for the virus on May 30. Her brother Arpit Kohli was diagnosed on May 25.The brother-sister duo donated their plasma at the country’s first plasma bank at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences here on Saturday.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had inaugurated the facility on Thursday to ease access to plasma being used as a trial to treat COVID-19 patients. The bank coordinates with patients who have recovered from the disease, and are eligible to donate plasma.Bhumika said AAP MLA Raghav Chadha inspired her and her brother to donate plasma.“We were given a pick-up and drop option. It was completely hassle-free. A few tests were conducted to ascertain if we were fit to donate plasma. The entire process took only 45 minutes,” Arpit said.The doctors at the facility are very helpful and listen to you patiently, he said.Bhumika was pleasantly surprised when she got to know that she was the first female plasma donor in the national capital.“The doctors gave me an appreciation certificate and asked me to record a video message to motivate others,” she said.“Many women hesitate to participate in such exercises. There is nothing to worry about and there should be no stigma. They should come forward to help the authorities fight the pandemic. They have an important role to play,” she said. Bhumika also convinced one of her friends, Shrishti, a COVID-19 survivor, to donate her plasma.She said those affected by the disease should stay strong and remain connected with people and family through technology.“More than the body, diseases affect the mind. The isolation period of 14 days can be emotionally challenging. In such times, one should not give up hope,” she said.The journalism student also suggested people be aware of the disease and have a plan ready to deal with emergencies.“We were not well prepared. We did not know what to do during home isolation. So, it was frightening in the beginning,” she said.AAP MLA Raghav Chadha lauded Bhumika, saying she is a “hero” as her benevolence will help save many lives.“We want more and more people who have recovered from coronavirus to come forward and donate their plasma. We are personally reaching out to such people, and also through video messages and social media,” Chadha said.“We arrange a pick-up and drop facilities for donors. It is a hassle-free and painless process. It takes only 40 minutes. We have a great team of doctors who address the concerns of donors regarding the process,” he said, adding Kejriwal is himself looking after every aspect of the plasma donation.Chadha added that women who have conceived children cannot donate plasma and that is the reason, women donors are lesser in numbers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-delhis-1st-female-plasma-donor-says-more-women-should-come-forward-no-reason-to-hesitate-108958
05-07-2020||New Delhi||Bike-borne men fire at two transgender women in Delhi||An alert Delhi Police constable came to the rescue of two transgender women after bike-borne assailants opened fire at them, an official said on Sunday. The two accused, Mukesh (24) and Kapil (21), both residents of Madangir in south Delhi were arrested from Ambedkar Nagar on Saturday, police said. According to the police, the accused were hired to kill the transgender women and were offered Rs 5 lakh for the job.  They said another transgender woman had given the contract to take revenge for the murder of her friend last year.The incident took place on Saturday when constable Kamal Prakash was conducting an enquiry into the murder case. He noticed two men opening fire at the transgenders near Bhatia Kalan village on Chhatarpur Road here.The policeman immediately rushed to control the situation.  The accused also targeted the policeman, but he pushed the bike of the accused following which they fell on the road. The assailants then jumped into an auto and fled from the spot, police said. The constable immediately alerted his team, and they chased the assailants following which the two were arrested.Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said a countrymade pistol and another pistol with live cartridges were seized from their possession. A motorcycle used in the commission of crime has been seized, while one used cartridge and a fired bullet was recovered from the spot, he said.  During interrogation, the accused said that they were hired by Pinky to eliminate the victims--Shalu and Aaliya. They were offered Rs 5 lakh to kill the transgender women and had received advance payment of Rs 20,000 for the job, he said.The official added that Shalu was arrested last year for allegedly killing Pinky's friend, Ganesh. Shalu was released from jail on April 30 on interim bail for 30 days. The bail got extended for 45 more days owing to coronavirus-induced lockdown.  On April 20 last year, Ganesh was killed near the Maulana Azad Medical College, while Pinky and her driver Deepak sustained bullet injuries in the incident, the DCP added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/bike-borne-men-fire-at-two-transgender-women-in-delhi-108950
05-07-2020||New Delhi||‘Covid-19 War Room’ to come up in Delhi to keep eye on city’s fight against virus||The Delhi Government will set up a ‘Covid-19 War Room’, which will 24x7 monitor the city’s fight against the novel coronavirus, and suggest measures to effectively deal with the prevailing situation, officials said on Sunday.The ‘Covid-19 War Room’, which is being set up at the Delhi Secretariat, will be manned by around 25 experts. It is expected to become operational in the next few days.According to the plan, the new strategic facility will cover all aspects such as testing, bed strength, medical equipment, ambulance infrastructure and containment zones.It will represent a snapshot of the city’s position when it comes to tackling the COVID-19 situation, the officials said, adding that Chief Secretary Vijay Dev has directed officials to set up the same as soon as possible.Also read: COVID-19: Delhi’s 1st female plasma donor says more women should come forward; no reason to hesitateOfficials said that the ‘Covid-19 War Room’ will also flag discrepancies in those areas wherein authorities can take steps to prepare a robust system.“The ‘Covid-19 War Room’ will closely monitor measures being taken by the authorities. It will also project the future requirements of medical infrastructure to deal with surging coronavirus cases.Also read: Number of COVID patients needing hospitalisation lowering, more getting cured at home: Kejriwal“For instance, if there is shortage of ambulance in the city, it will inform authorities about it,” he said.Another official noted that the district administration has been taking steps in their respective areas, and that the war room will operate in a centralised manner for better coordination among the districts.“An IAS officer has been given the charge of this war room for better coordination with higher authorities in the government.The COVID-19 War Room will have 20-25 experts who will work round-the-clock,” official said.On Saturday, Delhi recorded 2,505 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally in the city to over 97,000, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 3,004. Fifty-five fatalities were recorded on Saturday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-war-room-to-come-up-in-delhi-to-keep-eye-on-citys-fight-against-virus-108943
05-07-2020||New Delhi||Delhi gets 10,000-bed Covid care centre; LG says it will play crucial role in fight against pandemic||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal inaugurated the 10,000-bed Sardar Patel COVID care centre, one of the "largest" such facilities in the world, at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas here on Sunday, saying it will play a crucial role in the fight against the pandemic.Baijal reviewed the availability of beds, oxygen cylinders, concentrators, ventilators, ICUs and medical staff at the centre set up in Chhatarpur.He also congratulated the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on taking over the facility.While the Delhi government has provided administrative support, the ITBP is the nodal agency operating the centre under the name "Operation Corona Warriors".Also read: COVID-19: Delhi’s 1st female plasma donor says more women should come forward; no reason to hesitateNumber of COVID patients needing hospitalisation lowering, more getting cured at home: Kejriwal‘Covid-19 War Room’ to come up in Delhi to keep eye on city’s fight against virusDelhi’s COVID-19 tally nears one lakh-mark with 2,505 more casesWith the guidance and support of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Delhi now has one of the largest COVID-care facilities in the world, which will play a crucial role in the fight against the pandemic, Baijal said."Advised to keep special focus on severely ill patients and if required, shift them to dedicated Covid hospitals. Instructed SDMC to ensure cleanliness and sanitation at the centre. Management of Covid centre by ITBP is greatly appreciated," he said in a tweet. At least 20 patients are expected to reach the facility on Sunday, a senior ITBP official said.The centre is 1,700 feet long and 700 feet wide -- roughly the size of 20 football fields -- and has 200 enclosures with 50 beds each. "The total bed capacity at the centre may go up to 10,200, making it the largest COVID-19 care facility in India so far," the ITBP said in a statement, adding that it is also the "largest such facility envisaged worldwide".It has two segments -- a COVID Care Centre (CCC), where asymptomatic positive coronavirus cases will be treated and a Dedicated COVID Health Care (DCHC), which will treat symptomatic cases and have an oxygen support system.The CCC will have 90 per cent of the beds, while the DCHC will have the rest.  More than 1,000 doctors, nurses and paramedics of the ITBP and other Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), and another 1,000 paramedics, assistants and security staff have been deployed at the facility for its smooth operation.ITBP Director-General SS Deswal, who attended the inauguration ceremony, said a team of counsellors and psychiatrists will also be present at the facility to help those who are stressed or traumatised due to the coronavirus outbreak.The force has made adequate arrangements at the centre, including for security, a reception, a call centre, nursing stations, command control stores, maintenance staff etc.A robust admission and monitoring system has been prepared as an "e-hospital", wherein details of patients such as the ambulances that brought them in, symptoms, dates of admission etc. will be collected, shared and monitored digitally, the ITBP said.  E-vehicles and ambulances have also been deployed for facilitating the movement of patients inside the centre.Apart from peripheral and close-camp security, a special "Quick Reaction Team" is also deployed at the centre to attend to sudden security requirements.Volunteers from the religious sect of Radha Soami Beas will also help run the centre.The home minister had inspected the facility on June 27 and motivated the ITBP staff deployed there. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-gets-10-000-bed-covid-care-centre-lg-says-it-will-play-crucial-role-in-fight-against-pandemic-108909
05-07-2020||New Delhi||Watch: Bleeding animal care NGO worker claims brutal assault by locals; police say investigation on||The volunteers of an NGO, 'Neighbourhood Woof', were thrashed by locals in Rani Bagh of outer Delhi.The NGO workers, including a woman, were out in the area to catch dogs when the locals confronted them. In view of late night hours, local residents enquired about their identities on which heated argument started and a scuffle broke out between them. Later, the Delhi police registered a case against the residents on the complaint of the NGO worker.On the night of July 3 at around 10.30 pm, 3 PCR calls were received in Rani Bagh police station regarding a quarrel between two parties, i.e., one belonging to an NGO named "Neighbourhood Woof" and the local residents of Rishi Nagar, Rani Bagh.Immediately, the police reached the spot and it revealed that some persons from an NGO named "Neighbourhood Woof" had come to catch stray dogs in Rishi Nagar, said a senior police officer.However, the locals grew suspicious and raised questions on the operation of the NGO staff which also had a woman with them. An argument started between the NGO workers and the local residents which soon turned ugly. The NGO workers alleged that they were brutally assaulted by the locals.The police said that when the people from the NGO tried to flee from the spot in their car, 3 local residents were hit by their car, inflicting some minor injuries. "On the complaint of the NGO worker Ayesha Christina, a case u/s 323/341/506/427/34 IPC has been registered against residents. Further investigation is under progress," the police said. IANSTrigger Warning: Its so shameful that a girl who has been working for the voiceless creatures of god was assaulted so brutally!DCW team was in constant touch with her and an FIR has finally been registered. We will ensure strongest action. https://t.co/zpPZFEt62J  -Ayesha Christina with 3 more was beaten by mob in Rani Bagh, while they were rescuing dogs.-They somehow reached to Adarsh Nagar Police station with their broken car to save their lives.-She has shattered pieces of glass all over her face & body!@DelhiPolice @Manekagandhibjp pic.twitter.com/VyIsV86ZRv||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/watch-bleeding-animal-care-ngo-worker-claims-brutal-assault-by-locals-police-say-investigation-on-108906
05-07-2020||New Delhi||Rain, high-velocity winds lash Delhi; more expected||A fresh bout of rain and high-velocity winds lashed the National Capital on Saturday night, bringing the mercury down by several notches.The Met Department has predicted more rain, thunderstorm and strong surface winds during the day.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for Delhi, recorded 33.6 mm rainfall till 8:30 am. The Palam station gauged 48.6 mm precipitation, the weatherman said.The weather stations at Lodhi Road, Ayanagar and Ridge got 38.2 mm, 35.2 mm and 46.6 mm rainfall respectively.Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is considered moderate, and above 64.5 mm is considered heavy, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Humidity levels in the national capital also shot up to 100 per cent.More rain is expected over the next three to four days, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said.The maximum temperature is expected to drop to 34 degrees Celsius by Wednesday.The monsoon arrived in Delhi on June 25. Normal rainfall is predicted in the national capital during the season. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/rain-high-velocity-winds-lash-delhi-more-expected-108902
