05-09-2020||New Delhi||Home 30-minute drive from hospital, but duty keeps doctor away for 5 months||"When will you come home?" the daughters of Dr Ajit Jain would ask when they used to talk over call late at night.The nodal officer for novel coronavirus at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital in Delhi has not been home for nearly five months. Duty and fear of spreading the infection among the family members kept him away.When he finally came home, 13 km away in Kamla Nagar and just a half-an-hour drive from his hospital in Dilshad Garden, his two daughters opened the door and hugged him tight.Jain's wife, trying not to be overwhelmed with emotion, performed an 'aarti' and applied a 'tilak' on his forehead, as his son shot a video of the homecoming – the first time since March 17. A cake was cut and the family dined together in almost six months."When cases started emerging in March, we understood COVID-19 is one of the biggest challenges mankind has ever confronted," Jain, who availed his first leave on Thursday after working for 170 days on the trot, told PTI."Initially, I didn't go home for the fear of spreading the infection in my family," the 52-year-old said. "Both my parents are aged above 75. I was worried about them. I didn't want to put their lives in jeopardy."As the number of patients swelled, it seemed impossible to talk to the family on the phone, too."Saving lives was the first priority. There was so much going on," he says. "I could talk to my family only at night, around 1 or 2 am."       Jain's daughter, Aarushi, says the family was really worried for him as the cases kept piling up."We would ask him 'papa when will you come home?' We saw what happened in Italy, in the US... we were freaking out. So many doctors contracted the virus are no more between us," she says."We would wait up till 2 am to talk to him for five minutes, to enquire about his well-being," the daughter says.Though the government made arrangements for the health staff to stay at Leela Ambience hotel, the doctor spent several nights in the hospital itself.For the initial three months, not once did Jain sleep for 15 minutes at a stretch. His phone just won't stop ringing.The doctor has given his personal mobile number to all coronavirus patients who are undergoing treatment or have been discharged from the hospital after recovery."The situation was more serious during the lockdown. Patients were more anxious living in closed rooms. They would call after every five minutes... No one could even imagine the entire country would shut down," he says.Talking to the patient personally builds confidence among them and lessens their anxiety and stress, he says.The doctor also formed a team – including a nurse, nursing orderly and housekeeping staff – who would talk to the patients admitted in the hospital daily on general things so that they do not feel lonely. Separate teams have been created to call up those who have recovered from the virus to know about their well-being."After the patient is discharged, the team calls up him/her to take feedback," the doctor says. "This is how we got to know that a few recovered patients were suffering from long-term complications like anxiety, breathlessness, insomnia."The feedback led to the opening of a post-COVID clinic, a first-of-its-kind facility, on the premises of the hospital with medical specialists to treat symptoms particular to their respective fields.The doctor has also created WhatsApp groups and is in "regular touch" with more than 1,500 patients."They or their family members call me up directly if they want to discuss something," Jain says."Sometimes people give us blessings, sometimes, they say bad things about us... I am just doing my job."  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/home-30-minute-drive-from-hospital-but-duty-keeps-doctor-away-for-5-months-136825
05-09-2020||New Delhi||Delhi man held for duping women on matrimony sites||A 38-year-old man was arrested for allegedly duping several women on the pretext of marriage, police said on Saturday.The matter came to light when a woman lodged a complaint against him at Kotla Mubarakpur police station.According to her complaint, the accused, posing as a British citizen, approached her on a matrimony site.Vishal alias Mohit Tokas convinced the complainant that he needs some money and after getting the amount, he will marry her, police said.The woman transferred Rs 1,21,900 into his bank account and after receiving the money, he stopped taking her calls, they said.During investigation, police checked all the numbers through which the accused had contacted the complainant and found that they were issued on fake IDs, Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said."Police analysed the account in which the complainant transferred the money and found one mobile number of the account holder was attached with that. Police apprehended the accused person on Thursday," Thakur said.In the past, Vishal had duped several other women on matrimony sites after promising to marry them, police said.The accused told police during interrogation that he used to lure divorced women for marriage and would convince them to transfer money into his bank accounts on the pretext of sending them expensive gifts.His four bank accounts containing cheated amount of Rs 4.5 lakh have been frozen, the DCP said, adding that further investigation into the matter is underway. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-man-held-for-duping-women-on-matrimony-sites-136786
05-09-2020||New Delhi||Delhiites who went to Murthal eateries should self-isolate, get tested: Official||People from Delhi who recently visited the two popular eateries in Murthal, whose large number of staff have been found to be COVID-19 positive, should immediately self-isolate and get themselves tested after a couple of days, officials said on Friday.Sixty-five workers at Amrik-Sukhdev dhaba and 10 at Garam Dharam dhaba on the highway had tested positive for novel coronavirus infection, following which both the eateries were sealed on Thursday till further orders, Sonepat’s Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said.Both famous eateries are located in Sonepat’s Murthal and are nearly 50 km away from Delhi. On regular days, a large number of people from the national capital visit these joints for ‘parathas’ and other delicacies.A senior official of the Delhi government said the people who went to these outlets by the highway should immediately self-isolate and go for testing after three to four days.“Highway dhabas are dangerous places to go to as of now, as customers can go to any city from that point. So, it’s also a logistical nightmare for the surveillance team,” the official said on the condition of anonymity.“The best is families should not go out as much as possible. This is still a heath emergency and people should not be complacent, and venture out only if really necessary,” he said.Contact tracing would be done by the surveillance team given the constraints in this case, the help of apps might be taken, another official said.“It is very irresponsible on people’s part to go out and enjoy as if everything is normal. They are putting themselves and their family members and others at risk,” he said.Murthal is known for its eateries which dot a stretch on both sides of the Ambala-Delhi national highway. People generally drive in cars in groups to relish the lip-smacking delicacies these dhaba-cum-restaurants are known for.Meanwhile, the Sonepat district administration has launched a massive contact-tracing drive after the 75 workers tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Friday.The Sonipat Deputy Commissioner said sampling work has been initiated at other eateries also.The DC said in the wake of the pandemic, all eateries had already been directed to maintain a register to record the number of visitors and their contact details.“On the basis of these, we are trying to contact as many as possible who have eaten food at these two dhabas during the past few days,” he said.Sonepat’s Chief Medical Officer Dr J S Punia said the majority of those infected at the Sukhdev dhaba were workers who had recently come from Bihar.Delhi recorded 2,914 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, the highest single-day spike here in 69 days, as the tally mounted to over 1.85 lakh, even as a senior official claimed it “wasn’t an alarming surge” and so there was no chance of another lockdown. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhiites-who-went-to-murthal-eateries-should-self-isolate-get-tested-official-136711
