05-10-2020||New Delhi||Hathras gangrape: Left-affiliated bodies, citizens burn UP CM’s effigy, demand his resignation||Activists of Left-affiliated organisations and citizens on Monday burnt the effigy of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at Jantar Mantar over the injustice towards to the family of the Dalit woman who died after allegedly being gang-raped in Hathras.They also demanded Adityanath’s resignation over “mishandling” of the case.Protesters wearing masks gathered at Jantar Mantar holding placards that read “End rape culture”, “Dalit lives matter”, “Justice for Manisha” and “Educate Organise Agitate” among others.The protesters from organisations namely the All India Students’ Association, the All India Progressive Woman’s Association among others shouted slogans slamming the UP Police and demanding justice for the 19-year-old victim.Sucheta De from the Left-affiliated All India Students’ Association said: “We will be holding the protests every day till the Yogi Adityanath government is there. He has to resign. The state machinery is being used to intimidate the family of the victim.”A protester who did not want to be named said: “What’s happened (in Hathras) is horrifying. It brings back memories of 2012. It took eight years for the family of Nirbhaya to get justice. What’s happened in Unnao or in Hathras, it’s injustice with the family. That young girl was brutally gang-raped and it was extremely inhumane how the UP police cremated her post midnight? How long will this family have to wait to get justice? Justice delayed is justice denied.”A working professional with her teenage son and daughter, who was also among the protesters, said it was sheer anger that had forced her to join the protest amid the COVID-19 pandemic.“When will all this stop? They say women are empowered. If so, is this how they treat women? I have a daughter too. This could happen to anyone. It’s been eight years since Nirbhaya and woman are still unsafe in this country. It took us eight years to give justice to Nirbhaya. Has anything changed at all? We need to take stand for all the women and daughters of this country. This is unacceptable and needs to stop,” said a protestor who did not wish to be named.The Dalit woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital where she succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday.She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out “as per the wishes of the family”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/hathras-gangrape-left-affiliated-bodies-citizens-burn-up-cms-effigy-demand-his-resignation-151419
05-10-2020||New Delhi||Delhi HC asks govt’s reply on man’s plea to reconduct son’s JEE Advanced exam on allegation of harassment||The Delhi High Court has sought the Education Ministry’s reply on a father’s plea seeking direction to the authorities to conduct the JEE (Advanced) 2020 exam afresh for his son, who was allegedly harassed at the centre for not bringing passport size photograph and transparent pen.The father claimed that there was no such condition to bring a photograph and his son was hounded for 45 minutes and allowed to enter the examination centre thereafter, leading to a panic situation for him.Justice Jayant Nath issued a notice to the Ministry and Organising Chairman of JEE (Advanced) 2020 for their replies and listed the matter for further hearing on October 7.Petitioner Pawan Kumar Singh also sought to stay on the declaration of results till the pendency of the plea, saying grave prejudice would be caused to him.The court, in its October 1 order, said at this stage, it was not possible to withhold the result of JEE (Advanced) 2020 where thousands of students have appeared.It sought replies of the authorities on the stay application.The JEE (Advanced) results were declared on Monday morning.Advocates Mukesh Mohan Goyal and Sachin Upadhyay, appearing for Singh, said his son, who was a brilliant student, scored AIR 30 rank in JEE-MAIN 2020 and also appeared in FIITJEE AITS examinations and scored 2, 2 and 5 ranks.The grievance of the petitioner is that at the centre, his son was illegally harassed for not bringing a passport size photograph and was not allowed to enter the examination centre, even though there was no such condition to bring a photograph.The plea claimed that the student, who was allowed to enter the examination centre after 45 minutes, was again sent out for not bringing a transparent pen.This was neither necessary nor a stated condition. On the contrary, the pen was to be provided by the Centre, it said.Ultimately, after hounding him for 45 minutes, the son of the petitioner was allowed to enter the examination centre and was in a horrific state of mind and shattered due to the panic caused, the plea added and sought a direction to conduct his exam afresh.IIT-Delhi conducted the JEE (Advanced) exam this year for admission to IITs across the country. JEE-Mains, which is an entrance exam for admission to engineering colleges across the country, is a qualifying exam for JEE-Advanced. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-hc-asks-govts-reply-on-mans-plea-to-reconduct-sons-jee-advanced-exam-on-allegation-of-harassment-151373
05-10-2020||New Delhi||Delhi CM launches anti-air pollution campaign, says polluted air can be life threatening in view COVID||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched a mega anti-air pollution campaign, saying polluted air can be life-threatening in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.Under the campaign “Yudh Pradushan ke Virudh”, separate plans have been prepared for each of the 13 pollution hotspots in the city, Kejriwal said during a digital press conference.“Polluted air can be life-threatening in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Both affect lungs,” he said. Kejriwal added that a “war room” was being set up to monitor all anti-pollution measures being taken by his government.The government was also preparing a “Green Delhi” mobile application, he said.“Using it, people can bring pollution-causing activities such as garbage burning or industrial pollution, to our notice. There will be a deadline to address complaints. I will get a daily report about resolved and pending grievances,” the Chief Minister said.Kejriwal has also issued directions to the departments concerned to fill potholes to reduce dust emissions, which, he said, was a major contributor to air pollution in the city.Launching the anti-pollution campaign for a clean and green Delhi | LIVE https://t.co/A3AJOISyf3  “Teams have been inspecting construction sites to check dust pollution,” he said.The Chief Minister said one of the major reasons for high levels of pollution in Delhi and nearby areas was stubble burning.“Scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute here have found an economical way to deal with the problem. They have prepared a solution which can turn stubble into manure,” he said.“We are going to prepare this solution at a large scale from Tuesday under the supervision of experts from the institute. This solution will be used in Delhi this year. Next year, we will urge other states to use it,” Kejriwal said.He also said as many as 11 thermal power plants within 300 km of Delhi had missed the December 2019 deadline to meet new emission norms. “We shut down our two thermal power plants. These 11 plants need to reduce their emissions,” Kejriwal said.The Chief Minister said action was also needed against a large number of brick kilns using outdated technology in nearby areas. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-cm-launches-anti-air-pollution-campaign-says-polluted-air-can-be-life-threatening-in-view-covid-151370
05-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||On drug trail, Haryana nails Delhi firm||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 4Cracking down on illicit drugs, a Delhi pharmaceutical firm owner involved in illegal manufacture and supply of intoxicating tablets in the region has been arrested, the Fatehabad police said today. Besides, three others who were part of the supply chain have been nabbed.DSP Subhash Chander said Gaurav Arora, a resident of Rajouri Garden in Delhi and owner of Unitech Healthcare Private Limited in Narela, was arrested on September 30. “He manufactures and supplies intoxicating drugs to the region. Gaurav has been sent to judicial custody.”Inter-state racket In another development, three other accused — medical store owners Ramprakash and Saurabh at Nangloi in Delhi and Sunil from Jind town — were arrested today in the case. They supplied drugs in the region.Fatehabad SP Rajesh Kumar said an inter-state drugs chain had been busted. Cops set out to trace the source after illegal tablets flooded medical stores in Fatehabad, Hisar and Sirsa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/on-drug-trail-haryana-nails-delhi-firm-151206
05-10-2020||---||Delhi cops nab 4 Kashmiri youths with ammunition||New Delhi, October 4The special cell of the Delhi Police has arrested four “highly radicalised” Kashmiri youths after getting inputs that they were planning terrorist attacks in the Capital, as arms and ammunition were recovered from them.The police, in an official statement, said the accused were nabbed from the city’s ITO area and were found to be carrying four sophisticated pistols and over 120 rounds of ammunition.The accused were identified as Altaf Ahmad Dar (25), a resident of Pulwama and Mushtaq Ahmad Gani (27), Ishfaq Majeed Koka (28) and Aqib Safi (22), all residents of Shopian.“Ishfaq is the elder brother of slain terrorist Burhan Koka, ex-chief of the Ansar Ghajwat Ul Hind, an offshoot of the Al Qaeda in Jammu and Kashmir,” the police said in the statement, adding that the terrorist was killed in an encounter in Shopian’s Melhora area on April 29 this year along with his two other associates.After his death, his elder brother Ishfaq Majeed Koka was approached by the cadres of Ansar Ghajwat Ul Hind to work for the terrorist outfit, the police said.“On Friday, the police received information from its sources that a group of radicalised Kashmiri youths were in possession of a huge cache of arms and ammunition and would come to the ITO and Daryaganj. Thereafter, a trap was laid near the ITO and the accused were apprehended,” the statement read.Preliminary interrogation revealed that Ishfaq was allegedly indoctrinated by present chief of the Ansar Ghajwat Ul Hind to work for the cause of Jihad. Ishfaq further indoctrinated Altaf Ahmad Dar, his cousin Aaqib and Gani, the police claimed in the statement.As per the instructions of their handler, they came to Delhi on September 27 and were camping at Paharganj, the police said, adding that during their stay in the city, they collected arms and ammunition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-cops-nab-4-kashmiri-youths-with-ammunition-151066
