09-06-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram cops crack down on bikers performing stunts on highways, impound 19 high-end motorcycles||Gurugram, June 9Cracking down on illegal superbike racing and stunts in Gurugram, the local police on Tuesday impounded 19 high-end motorcycles and challaned bikers for Rs 17,000 each. Among the impounded bikes are the likes of Hayabusa, Harley Davidson, Ninja and Kawasaki Ducati, costing an average Rs 8 lakh each.According to the police, a Delhi-based biker group came to Gold Course Road for racing and stunts on Tuesday. The bikers not only drove around rashly but also created panic and ruckus on the roads during peak office hours, said a police official. A call was made to the police and a team headed by DCP (east and traffic) Chander Mohan reached the spot. The bikers were apprehended and challaned  for rash driving as per the Motor Vehicle Act.   The bikers were all around  30, residents of Delhi and belonged to high-profile Delhi business families. "We have been facing a major issue with brats on bike. Be it expressway or KMP or Golf Course Road, these bikers from NCR come for illegal betting and racing. There have been numerous accidents in the past. The vehicles have been impounded as per norms," said a senior traffic official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/gurugram-cops-crack-down-on-bikers-performing-stunts-on-highways-impound-19-high-end-motorcycles-96785
09-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||In video shared by Rahul Gandhi, Delhi journalist appeals for financial help||Amid the outbreak of the deadly disease, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi posted a video of a journalist who is suffering from coronavirus. Ajay Jha—who lives in Delhi—tested positive for COVID-19 along with the members of his family The journalist recorded the one-and-half-minute clip on his mobile. He revealed that his family, who are in home-quarantine, are in desperate need of help. “We need help and medical treatment,” the journalist appealed in the video. “I am Ajay Jha, a journalist. All members of my family are coronavirus positive, including my wife and my two little daughters. Two people in the family have died in the last 10 days – first my father-in-law and then my mother-in-law, about two days back,” the journalist said.“The body (of mother-in-law) was lying at home for several hours but no one came to take it. Then the ambulance came and took away the body,” he goes on.“Everyone is putting the onus of responsibility on others. Kejriwal and the government is claiming that all facilities are there, but the truth is that there is nothing. People are now bhagwan bharose,” he said.Appealing for help, Jha says: “Me and my family are in trouble. I want the people to help us come out of the difficult situation. I have two daughters - one is nine-year-old and the other is five-year-old. We are trying to be strong but don't know what will happen. We need help and medical treatment. Hope the people will listen and come forward to help us.” For the millions of my sisters and brothers like Ajay, we share your pain. We will do everything to protect you. We will overcome this together. #SpeakUpDelhi pic.twitter.com/gO6mWD1F5h||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/in-video-shared-by-rahul-gandhi-delhi-journalist-appeals-for-financial-help-96723
09-06-2020||New Delhi||No community transmission of Covid-19 in Delhi, city might see 5.5 lakh cases by July-end: Sisodia||Officials from the Centre say there is no community transmission of Covid-19 in Delhi, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia asserted on Tuesday, and estimated that there might be 5.5 lakh coronavirus cases in the city by July 31.Delhi will need 80,000 beds by July-end, he told reporters after a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).The meeting was chaired by Lt Governor Anil Baijal who is also chairperson of the DDMA."Officials from the Centre said at the meeting that there is no community transmission of Covid-19 virus in Delhi," Sisodia told the media after the meeting.The lieutenant governor has refused to reconsider his decision to overrule the Delhi government's order reserving state-run and private hospitals for Delhiites, the deputy chief minister said.He said that the national capital might record 44,000 COVID-19 cases by June 15 and it would need 6,600 beds in hospitals."By June 30, there would be one lakh cases of coronavirus in Delhi and we will need 15,000 beds."It is estimated that Delhi will record 2.15 lakh cases by July 15 and 33,000 beds would be required. There might be 5.5 lakh cases by July 31 and Delhi would need 80,000 beds," Sisodia said.Based on doubling rate, 5.5 lakh cases are expected to be reported in Delhi by July 31, he said.He said that people living in Delhi also need beds during COVID-19 pandemic and in view of this, the Delhi Cabinet had recently taken the decision to reserve state-run and private hospitals for Delhiites.In the meeting, nobody had an answer on availability of sufficient numbers of beds if COVID-19 cases continue to increase in the coming days in the national capital, Sisodia said."Who will take responsibility if there are no beds? If people are coming from all over the country, beds available in Delhi will be occupied within eight or 10 days."As the L-G has refused to reconsider his decision, we will try to serve the people of country and Delhi as well. We will also try to expand medical facilities," he added.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the source of infection is "not known" in nearly half of the fresh cases being reported.Interacting with reporters, he also said that the Kejriwal government is making all preparations to handle the huge rush of patients estimated by June-end."Epidemiologically, community transmission is third stage of the infection... In Delhi, of the new cases being reported, in nearly half of the cases, the source of infection is not known," he said.On Monday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the L-G's order on hospitals had created a major problem and challenge for Delhiites.The chief minister had said that providing treatment to people coming from all over the country was a big challenge during COVID-19 pandemic.The Delhi government would try to make arrangements to provide treatment to all those coming from outside the national capital, Kejriwal had said.Delhi recorded 1,007 fresh coronavirus cases taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 29,000, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 874.Sixty-two COVID-19 patients died in Delhi from May 30 to June 6, and 27 of these fatalities occurred on June 5. These deaths were reported on June 7.The highest spike in fresh cases - 1,513 - was recorded on June 3. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/no-community-transmission-of-covid-19-in-delhi-city-might-see-5-5-lakh-cases-by-july-end-sisodia-96717
09-06-2020||---||‘Open Delhi only if Covid positivity ratio reduces to 10 per 100’: Ajay Maken moves NHRC||New Delhi, June 9Congress leader Ajay Maken on Tuesday moved the National Human Rights Commission seeking directions to the Delhi Government to prepare the medical infrastructure needed for COVID-19 management and open the city only if infection rate falls significantly below current levels.“As ex-MoS Home in charge of Human Rights Department, I am going to the National Human Rights Commission to submit an appeal seeking directions for Delhi Government to prepare and reserve 70 per cent of Delhi bed capacity for COVID, as today only 8 per cent of 57,194 beds are prepared for COVID,” Maken tweeted.He petitioned the NHRC for 10,000 ventilators and 42,000 beds in accordance with the Mahesh Verma committee report submitted to the Delhi Government.“Open Delhi only if the positivity ratio comes down from 27 to less than 10 per hundred. Fill up all COVID-dedicated Delhi Government hospital beds as currently 70 per cent Delhi government beds are lying vacant,” Maken added in his appeal.He said tests per day had reduced by 50 per cent to 3,700, the lowest since May 15 and must be increased.“Allow asymptomatic patients to be tested,” he said.Delhi has seen 29,943 COVID cases and 874 deaths. Recovery rate in Delhi is 37 per cent, much less than the national average of 48.6 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/open-delhi-only-if-covid-positivity-ratio-reduces-to-10-per-100-ajay-maken-moves-nhrc-96694
