11-04-2020||Tribune Web Desk||‘I delivered, your turn now’: Gautam Gambhir to Delhi CM over providing 1,000 health kits to workers||Chandigarh, April 11There is no let-up in the twitter spat between BJP MP Gautam Gambhir and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over measures taken by the later to tackle coronavirus cases in the national capital.In his latest tweet, Gambhir has posted a picture on the social media platform stating that he had delivered on his promise of providing a thousand PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) kits for health workers, and now it was time for the Delhi Chief Minister to fulfill his promises made to the people of Delhi."I have DELIVERED as PROMISED! 1000 PPE Kits to LNJP Hospital! Arvind Kejriwal, now it is time for you to deliver on promises made to Delhi! More equipment can be acquired. Do let me know place and details!," he tweeted.I have DELIVERED as PROMISED! 1000 PPE Kits to LNJP Hospital!@ArvindKejriwal now it is time for you to deliver on promises made to Delhi! More equipment can be acquired. Do let me know place & details! @BJP4Delhi https://t.co/yxzrCpg8TT pic.twitter.com/YkqenL1WtN  The former left-handed batsmen-turned politician had earlier this month said that Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia's “massive ego” didn't allow them to accept his offer of donation to fight the virus.Kejriwal had replied on Gambhir tweet and said arranging money was not the problem."Gautam ji, thank u for ur offer. The problem is not of money but availability of PPE kits. We wud be grateful if u cud help us get them from somewhere immediately, Del govt will buy them. Thank u," he had tweeted.On this, the BJP MP had later said that the Delhi CM was contradicting his deputy."Arvind ji, first ur Deputy claims shortage of funds. Now u contradict him & say there is shortage of kits Anyway, procured 1000 PPE kits. Please let me know where they can be delivered. Time for talks is over, it is time to ACT. Eagerly waiting for ur response," he tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/i-delivered-your-turn-now-gautam-gambhir-to-delhi-cm-over-providing-1-000-health-kits-to-workers-69708
