12-06-2020||New Delhi||Record spike of 2,137 COVID-19 cases in Delhi takes tally to over 36,000||With the highest single-day spike of 2,137 COVID-19 cases on Friday, the total tally in Delhi crossed the 36,000-mark as the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,214, authorities said.According to a health bulletin of the Delhi health department, 71 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours.This is the first time that over 2,000 cases have been reported in a day in Delhi. The previous biggest jump in fresh cases at 1,877 was recorded on Thursday.The death toll from the virus has risen to 1,214 while the total number of cases mounted to 36,824, the bulletin stated, adding that 58 fatalities, that occurred between May 9 and June 6, were also declared on Friday.It, however, added the cumulative death figures refers to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/record-spike-of-2-137-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-takes-tally-to-over-36-000-98282
12-06-2020||New Delhi||COVID-19: Accept SC observations, trying our best to augment health infra, says Delhi government||The Delhi government on Friday said it accepted with utmost respect and sincerity the Supreme Court's observations and pointed out that it was trying its best to set up better infrastructure and provide quality healthcare to all COVID-19 patients in the city.The Delhi government's remarks came after the apex court on Friday lashed out at the state government, terming as "horrific" the state of affairs in Delhi hospitals with bodies being stacked next to COVID-19 patients."We accept Supreme Court's observations with utmost respect and with absolute sincerity. The Delhi government is determined to provide health care for all and to ensure best possible treatment to each COVID-19 patient," the government said in a statement.If there are any gaps that still remain and are brought to its notice, the Delhi government will act on them sincerely and immediately, it said."This is an extraordinary situation and the Delhi government is trying its best from the very first day to set up better infrastructure and to provide quality healthcare to all COVID-19 patients," the statement said.  The court questioned Delhi government for conducting fewer COVID tests and sought to know why testing went down from 7,000 to 5,000 a day.Referring to the court's observation regarding the LNJP hospital, the Delhi government said it is the biggest COVID-19 hospital in Delhi and right now around 2,000 beds are operational there for the coronavirus patients.     "Many critical patients from the central government and the private hospitals in Delhi are being referred to the LNJP hospital for better medication. So far, over 2,100 patients from LNJP hospital have successfully recovered from COVID-19 infection and returned to their homes," it said.A team of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) visited the LNJP hospital on Thursday and expressed satisfaction after scrutinising facilities at the hospital, Delhi government said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-accept-sc-observations-trying-our-best-to-augment-health-infra-says-delhi-government-98280
12-06-2020||New Delhi||Delhi LG forms high-level panel to suggest measures to tackle COVID-19 outbreak||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal, on Friday, constituted a high-level committee, which included Indian Council of Medical Research Director-General Balram Bhargava, to suggest effective steps to deal with COVID-19 outbreak in the national capital, sources said.Baijal is the chairman of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).The six-member panel also included two members of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, they said.The move came two days after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and both the leaders discussed the COVID-19 situation in Delhi.With 34,867 COVID-19 cases so far, Delhi is in dire straits with the city recording 1,877 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike yet.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain has said that it's a "war-like situation" and the city government will try every means available to get more doctors and medical staff to meet the ever-increasing requirement.“The high-level panel will advise the DDMA on various aspects of COVID-19 management, including the integration of measures being taken by various agencies for effective mitigation. It would also help in formulating a practical approach to effectively deal with the COVID-19 crisis,” the source said.Kejriwal had recently claimed that Delhi would need 1.5 lakh beds by July 31 if people from other states start coming to the national capital for treatment.Another panel constituted by the lieutenant governor has suggested using Pragati Maidan, Talkatora Indoor Stadium, Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium and JLN Stadium as makeshift COVID-19 facility to deal with the surge in the number of cases.The panel has also suggested using Thyagaraj Indoor Stadium and Dhyanchand National Stadium for the purpose. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-lg-forms-high-level-panel-to-suggest-measures-to-tackle-covid-19-outbreak-98243
12-06-2020||New Delhi||COVID-19: Centre’s decision to reopen activities was not taken in haste, says Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Friday said the central government’s decision of phased reopening of lockdown was not taken in haste and it was done to ensure a proper balance between containing the spread of COVID 19 pandemic and making it certain that people are not forced to starvation.The high court’s order came while dismissing with a cost of Rs 20,000 a PIL by a law student challenging the May 30 order of the Centre by which lockdown was extended in containment zones and reopening of activities was done in a phased manner outside containment zones.The petition was “completely misconceived” and has been filed only to “gain publicity”, said the 23-page judgement of the high court which held that nothing has been shown by the petitioner as to how the May 30 order was so arbitrary or is based on such irrelevant consideration that it deserves to be struck down as being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said the government is expected to remain cognisant of the situation and evaluate it closely and if it is found that the rate of infection is going up, they can always review their decision and impose curbs, depending upon the situation.The high court said a series of orders have been passed by the government starting from March this year to tackle the situation and decisions have been taken to ensure minimum hardship to people and several economic packages have been announced to regenerate the economy.“This court can also take judicial notice of the fact that world over, the trend is now to reduce the restrictions which were imposed due to lockdown and to return to normal life. In order to ensure a proper balance between containing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and at the same time make certain that people are not forced to starvation the government has issued the impugned order.“The re-opening has been directed in a phased manner and is not a decision that appears to have been taken in haste. The government is expected to remain cognisant of the situation and evaluate it closely. If it is found that the rate of infection is going up, they can always review their decision and impose curbs, depending upon the situation,” the bench said.It noted that the lockdown has resulted in loss of jobs for several lakhs of people and scores of people were forced to walk considerable distance and stand in long queues at food distribution centres just to have two square meals a day.It said several people have gone hungry and were not able to get one meal and many were left shelterless and several lakhs of migrant labour had to walk on foot and go back to their native places.“The economic situation of the country has taken a terrible hit due to the lockdown. In fact, many analysts have opined that the lockdown has caused more human suffering than COVID-19 itself. Economists have forecasted that Indian economy will shrink as a result of the steps taken to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Indian economy virtually came to a standstill during nationwide lockdown.“Production in the country came to a grinding halt during the lockdown period. Construction activities in the country have stopped. People have become unemployed which raises grave concerns regarding the law and order situation in the country,” the high court said.The bench said Arjun Aggarwal, a fifth year law student, filed the petition without looking at the position in law.He challenged the guidelines on the ground that phased reopening will result in rampant spread of COVID-19 in the country and it has been done only keeping in mind economic considerations while endangering its citizens to the extent of succumbing to a contagious disease in the absence of any proven medical cure for it.The plea claimed there was no need or justification for reopening the prohibited activities.The bench said in its order that during the hearing, it had informed the petitioner’s counsel that the court was not inclined to entertain the petition as it found the plea was an abuse of the process of the law.“We had also warned the counsel that if he presses the petition, we would be constrained to dismiss it with costs. We cautioned the counsel only because the petitioner is a law student. Despite that, counsel for the petitioner upon taking instructions from the petitioner, continued to address arguments, wasting valuable judicial time.“We deprecate this conduct of the petitioner. He has not cared to read the judgments relating to public interest litigations and the limits on the Court while exercising its power of judicial review on policy matters,” the bench said.While dismissing the plea, it directed the petitioner to deposit the cost of Rs 20,000 in the Delhi High Court Bar Association Lawyers’ Security and Welfare Fund within two weeks.The bench said the courts cannot act as an appellate authority examining the correctness, suitability and appropriateness of the policy.“Nor are courts advisors to the executive in matters of policy which the executive is entitled to formulate. The courts cannot interfere with the policy either on the ground that it is erroneous or on the ground that a better or a wiser alternative is available. Illegality of the policy and not the wisdom and soundness of the policy is the subject matter of judicial review,” it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-centres-decision-to-reopen-activities-was-not-taken-in-haste-says-delhi-hc-98226
12-06-2020||New Delhi||Families scramble to get patients treated as Delhi govt claims enough beds||With the number of Covid-19 cases set to explode in Delhi, residents are increasingly concerned about the future as horrifying tales emerge of patients running from pillar to post to secure hospital beds or even get themselves tested.The fear of the infection almost equals the dread of navigating the complicated testing protocols and getting to the right doctor, say residents as governmental claims on hassle-free access to treatment and the number of beds clash with anecdotal reality.On Wednesday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal projected that the city would require 1.5 lakh beds. A day earlier, his deputy Manish Sisodia said the total number of coronavirus cases could rise to 5.5 lakh by July end, a quantum jump from the 32,810 cases as of Thursday.   Though the government claims there are more beds than needed, the national capital's COVID-19 reality, retold through social and other media, is also about the anguish of sons, daughters, wives and others trying desperately to get medical help for their unwell family members.   “He is no more. The govt failed us.” That was the brief, almost staccato message on Twitter from social activist Amarpreet Kaur who took to the microblogging site to first seek help to get her father admitted and then to announce his death.Her father tested positive for COVID-19 on June 1, but was advised home isolation. When his condition started deteriorating, the family took him to the LNJP hospital – Delhi government's designated COVID-19 hospital. But the doctors, the family alleged, were unhelpful and asked them to go to Ganga Ram hospital instead.   "My dad is having high fever. We need to shift him to hospital. I am standing outside LNJP Delhi & they are not taking him in. He is having corona, high fever and breathing problem. He won't survive without help. Pls help," Kaur tweeted.An hour later, he was dead – outside the hospital.  LNJP authorities denied her charge.That was not the end of her story. The family needed to get tested. And she again had to go on Twitter to ensure it happens.Aman Pathak was luckier. He also did the round of hospitals in an effort to get his father admitted to a hospital and finally managed to do so. The father is at the Intensive Care Unit of the LNJP hospital.Recounting his struggles, Pathak said his 51-year-old father developed high fever on May 24 but it subsided after a few days."However, my father lost his appetite. We thought he had mild symptoms so we took care of him at home. But from June 3, he started developing breathing issues. I took him to several hospitals, both private and government, but most of them turned us away," the 24-year-old software engineer told PTI.  On June 4, he even tried to get his father tested at the Delhi-government run Ambedkar Hospital, but failed to do so immediately. He tested positive the following day but now, of course, needed a hospital.That's when the rounds began. He went from one hospital to another to be told that there were no beds. Pathak tried to reason that the app developed by the Delhi government showed otherwise but to no avail. "My father could not even walk, but I took him to hospitals in that condition, only to be turned away," he said. He also sent out desperate tweets seeking help. Finally, on June 6, he managed to get his father admitted at the Ambedkar Hospital. From there, he was moved to the LNJP. His fingers crossed, Pathak is hoping his father returns home soon. Five days after his father developed fever, another Delhi man started shows signs of the novel coronavirus on May 29. Nine days later, he died in Bhopal without ever going to a hospital or getting any treatment.He first went to a local health care centre and told to go home after taking paracetamol. He also went to the GTB Hospital for a test but was reportedly. Over the next week, the man went to five hospitals only to be turned away by each one of them. With no option left, his teen son in Bhopal asked him to travel to the city. And so, with a fever of 103-degrees F, the man even took a train to the Madhya Pradesh capital, his high fever going undetected both at the Delhi and Bhopal railway stations. On June 7, he died. Back in Delhi, his 15-year-old daughter also tested positive for COVID-19 while his wife got an asthma attack due to the shock. "When the time to test these (medical) facilities came, a promising person, who wandered in Delhi for five days but did not get treatment, died," Madhya Pradesh Health Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters after the man's death, hitting out at claims about Delhi's health infrastructure. The stories continue in a seemingly endless loop. Whether well-heeled and connected or poor and with no resources, the stories found resonance everywhere. Of frustrating struggles to get tested and then treated. Several people complained that the Delhi government has launched an app to give information on availability of beds and ventilators but the reality is different. Many a time, even the helpline goes unanswered.On June 3, 42-year-old Narender Jain died of COVID-19.  His family ran from one hospital to another in east Delhi. Jain, who suffered from diabetes, developed fever in the last week of May. When his situation deteriorated, the family looked for a hospital.On June 1, the two hospitals they first approached did not have the facility to test coronavirus patients. They moved to a private hospital which had the facility to conduct a coronavirus test but not a bed for COVID-19 patients.His brother-in-law Vikas Jain told journalists that he was moved to a super speciality hospital which had beds but no ventilator. Finally, he was moved to the GTB Hospital which did have a ventilator. But it was too late. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi this week shared a video of journalist Ajay Jha seeking help for treatment.Jha's entire family – wife, two daughters aged nine and five, and in-laws --- tested positive.  He said his in-laws had died within 10 days.The Delhi government is saying that everything is in control but people have been left  to god's will, he said.   According to an official of the Delhi government, they contacted Jha and the family is now being given proper care. These accounts could well be the tip of the proverbial iceberg as Delhi battles the pandemic. Not everyone has the wherewithal and means to access social media. On May 30, Kejriwal said his government is “several steps ahead” of the novel coronavirus. There are a total of 6,600 beds and 4,500 of them are still unoccupied, he had said, adding that by June the capacity will be ramped up to 9,500 beds. As of Thursday morning, there were 9,179 beds in both private and Delhi government hospitals of which 4,279 were vacant, PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/families-scramble-to-get-patients-treated-as-delhi-govt-claims-enough-beds-98192
12-06-2020||Shimla||8 Delhi returnees Covid +ve in Kangra||With 19 new cases being reported today, the total number of Covid cases in the state has shot up to 470.ITBP jawan infectedThe ITBP jawan of Simble village in Baijnath also tested positive on WednesdayHe had come from Delhi and been in home quarantineHe had completed his quarantine period on June 8. However, he complained of uneasiness and feverThe district authorities also informed the ITBPheadquarters, New DelhiThe highest number of eight cases were reported from Kangra district, followed by three in Una district and two each in Chamba, Hamirpur and Solan districts and one each in Shimla and Sirmaur districts. The total number of cases in Kangra has risen to 126.Eight persons tested Covid positive in Kangra district during the day. The patients had come back from Delhi and were in home quarantine.They have been shifted to Covid containment centres in Baijnath, Dadh and Dharamsala. Three patients have recovered in Kangra.Two cases in ChambaTwo more persons tested positive in Chamba district today. The patients are 23-year-old man from Mornu village, who had returned from Gurugram on June 2 and was in home quarantine, and 25-year-old woman from Shoolani, who had returned from Delhi on May 28 and had been in institutional quarantine at Banikhet.CMO Rajesh Guleri said both had now been shifted to the Covid Containment Centre. Chamba district has now registered 34 cases of coronavirus of which 13 are active cases and 21 have recovered. He said of the 96 samples collected yesterday, 94 tested negative.Two infected in SolanTwo new Covid cases were detected in Solan this morning, taking the tally to 37 in the district. A 44-year-old patient of Kaduwana village in Baddi was suffering from fever. His samples were taken on June 9. He is a former pradhan of Gullerwala panchayat.Health officials said he had gone to a local hospital for the treatment of his mother and also visited government offices and met villagers of his panchayat. As many as 18 persons, including five members of his family and neighbours, have been identified as his primary contacts. The staff of the SDM office, Nalagarh, and the police station, Baddi, have been quarantined after a former panchayat pradhan tested Covid positive. These places have been sanitised.The second patient was a truck driver who had come back from Ambala on June 1 and had been staying in his truck since then. He hails from Sainimajra village in Nalagarh. Both have been shifted to ESIC Hospital, Katha, at Barotiwala. There were 16 active cases in the district while 17 persons have been cured and four have migrated out of the district.Youth positive in SirmaurA 17-year-old youth, whose mother was found infected yesterday, also tested positive at Nahan, taking the tally of positive cases to 23 in Sirmaur district.Deputy Commissioner RK Pruthi said he was being shifted to the Covid Care Centre at Trilokpur and the whole family was in isolation while other family members, including his father and sister, had tested negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/8-delhi-returnees-covid-ve-in-kangra-97955
