13-06-2020||New Delhi||Delhi records over 2,000 COVID-19 cases for 2nd consecutive day; 57 more die||The national capital recorded 2,134 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the COVID-19 tally in the city closer to the 39,000-mark and the death toll due to the disease to 1,271, authorities said.It was the second consecutive day when the number of reported cases breached the 2,000-mark. On Friday, Delhi had witnessed 2,137 cases, the highest single-day spike here.As many as 57 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours. The death toll from coronavirus now stands at 1,271 and the total number of cases at 38,958, according to the latest Delhi health department bulletin.So far as many as 14,945 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated to another country, while there are 22,742 active cases, it said.As many as 2,83,239 tests have been conducted till date, it said.The total number of COVID-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 19,535, the bulletin said.A total of 385 patients are on ventilators or in ICU. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-records-over-2-000-covid-19-cases-for-2nd-consecutive-day-57-more-die-98722
13-06-2020||New Delhi||Amit Shah to hold meeting with Delhi LG, CM on COVID-19 situation in capital||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will hold a meeting with Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and others on Sunday to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the national capital.The meeting comes in the wake of rising coronavirus cases in Delhi. The tally has reached 36,000 and more than 1,200 people have died due to the virus in the national capital.“Home Minister, Shri @AmitShah and Health Minister, @drharshvardhan to hold meeting with @LtGovDelhi, CM Delhi & members of SDMA to review situation in the capital regarding COVID-19 tomorrow, 14th June at 11 am. Director AIIMS and other senior officers would also be present,” Shah’s office tweeted.Also read: PM Modi reviews COVID-19 situation, India’s responseThe number of coronavirus cases in Delhi is the third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.There has been criticism from different quarters over the handling of COVID-19 cases in the capital with complaints of non-availability of beds in hospitals for patients and difficulty in getting the tests done in laboratories.The Supreme Court on Friday lashed out at the city government, terming as “horrific” the state of affairs in Delhi hospitals with bodies being stacked next to COVID-19 patients.After the SC’s observation, the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government said it accepts with utmost respect and sincerity the apex court’s remarks and pointed out that it was trying its best to set up better infrastructure and provide quality healthcare to all COVID-19 patients in the city.Baijal has also formed a six-member panel to formulate a COVID management plan and suggest ways to ramp up medical infrastructure in the capital.This comes close on the heels of Baijal’s recent assertions on hospital beds and testing, and overturning of two Delhi government orders—reserving hospital beds only for residents of Delhi and testing of only symptomatic patients.The members on Baijal’s advisory committee are DG ICMR Professor Balram Bhargava, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, National Disaster Management Authority members Krishna Vatsa, Kamal Kishore and others.India surpassed the three lakh-mark in coronavirus cases on Saturday with the worst daily spike of 11,458 infections, while the death toll too climbed to 8,884 with 386 new fatalities, the Union health ministry said.It has now become the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic with a case load of 3,08,993, according to coronavirus statistics website Worldometer.However, the health ministry has said that the doubling time of coronavirus cases has improved to 17.4 days from 15.4 days. And its data updated at 8 am on Saturday showed active cases at 1,45,779 and those who have recovered at 1,54,329; one patient has migrated.“Thus, around 49.9 per cent patients have recovered so far,” a ministry official said.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/amit-shah-to-hold-meeting-with-delhi-lg-cm-on-covid-19-situation-in-capital-98670
13-06-2020||New Delhi||Delhi govt plans 10,000-bed makeshift COVID-19 hospital under sprawling tent||The Delhi government is planning a 10,000-bed makeshift hospital for COVID-19 patients under a sprawling tent in south Delhi to prepare for a projected surge in cases in the city.The planned COVID-19 facility will come up at the south Delhi campus of spiritual organisation Radha Soami Satsang Beas.The lush green campus is located near the Delhi-Haryana border. The COVID-19 facility, which will be 1,700 feet long and 700 feet wide, will have 200 enclosures with 50 beds each, said Vikas Sethi, secretary of Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Bhati Mines.This makeshift hospital will be the largest such facility in the city so far. The work is expected to be completed by the end of June, he said.The metal tent has lights and fans installed. Coolers will be needed considering the heat. The medical staff can also be accommodated in a building on the campus, he added.The spiritual organisation gave its approval for the makeshift hospital two-three days ago.According to the Delhi government’s estimates, COVID-19 cases in the national capital are likely to breach the five lakh-mark by the end of July. Around one lakh beds will be needed for COVID-19 patients.The city has a total 9,647 dedicated COVID-19 beds in state-run, central and private hospitals. Of these, 5,402 are occupied.The Delhi government has also started the process to identify community halls and stadiums which can be converted into makeshift COVID-19 hospitals. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-plans-10-000-bed-makeshift-covid-19-hospital-under-sprawling-tent-98668
13-06-2020||New Delhi||Increase beds, ventilators for COVID-19 patients: HC to Centre, Delhi govt||Taking note of the “gravity” of the coronavirus situation in the National Capital, the Delhi High Court has directed the AAP government and the Centre to increase the number of beds and ventilators for COVID-19 patients.The direction was issued by a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan after the Delhi government informed it that till June 9 there were 9,179 beds for COVID-19 patients in the city and out of that 4,914 were occupied and remaining were available.The Delhi government also told the bench that total 569 ventilators were available, out of which 315 were being utilised and remaining are available.“Considering the gravity of the situation, we hereby direct the respondents (Centre and Delhi government) to increase the number of the beds for COVID-19 patients and also try to increase the number of ventilators so that all COVID patients in need can get these facilities,” the bench said in its order which was passed on June 11 but made available on Saturday.The court also said it expects all hospitals in the national capital to correctly upload the availability of real-time bed capacity data so that public may know in advance where to go if they are suffering from COVID-19.The order came while disposing a joint plea moved by several lawyers, through advocate Mridul Chakravarty, seeking proper implementation of containment guidelines, especially in Defence Colony of South Delhi, and to ensure availability of adequate number of beds for COVID-19 patients in hospitals in Delhi. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/increase-beds-ventilators-for-covid-19-patients-hc-to-centre-delhi-govt-98664
13-06-2020||Mumbai||Deepika Singh’s mother tests positive for Covid-19; actor shares her plight, Delhi govt helps them||Deepika Singh's 59-year-old mother has tested COVID-19 positive, the TV actress informed on social media and sought help from the government. Later, the actress thanked Delhi Government for their "immediate response" on her crisis.  In a tweet, she wrote: "Thank you to Delhi Govt & health minister for the immediate response to my tweet & video. Finally my mother got admission in Sir Gangaram hospital. Hoping for her speedy recovery  @msisodia @ArvindKejriwal @Abhishek_asitis @drharshvardhan #Atirekbharadwaj."Thank you to Delhi Govt & health minister for the immediate response to my tweet & video. Finally my mother got admission in Sir Gangaram hospital. Hoping for her speedy recovery 🙏@msisodia @ArvindKejriwal @Abhishek_asitis @drharshvardhan #AtirekbharadwajEarlier, the actress shared her plight on Facebook."My Mom age 59 has been diagnosed with COVID-19 positive. My mom and dad are in Delhi. The test has been done in Lady Hardinge hospital, and they didn't give reports. They only allowed my father to click its picture. I really hope the concerned personnel are reading this and my mom there receives some relief. We need your help," wrote Deepika on Friday evening. The actress shared the address of their Delhi residence and mentioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in her post.The "Diya Aur Baati Hum" actress also shared a video on Facebook where she informed that she is unable to travel to Delhi from Mumbai right now, as she has a small child.However, her sister Anamika is already in Delhi to be with their parents. The actress further mentioned that their parents live in a joint family in Delhi's Paharganj Arya Nagar area with at least 45 people. Her father is also being suspected of having contracted the virus while her grandmother has breathing trouble.Deepika Singh shared that her mother only had a fever and had lost her sense of taste. So, initially, her family did not suspect it as the coronavirus.The actress, in her video, complained that since Delhi's Lady Hardinge Hospital is not handing her mother's report, they cannot approach any other hospital to get her admitted. She also claimed that all the hospitals she approached for her mother's treatment have refused her saying there are no vacant beds, advising her family to keep the patient at home.Deepika said keeping her mother at home would mean risking the lives of 45 family members and hence has requested the government for help. IANS‪My Mom age 59 has been diagnosed with Covid positive. My mom & dad are in Delhi. The test has been done in Lady...||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/deepika-singhs-mother-tests-positive-for-covid-19-actor-shares-her-plight-delhi-govt-helps-them-98656
13-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Delhiites turn to Punjab hospitals for treatment, Health Department on alert||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 12With the COVID situation turning from bad to worse in Delhi, many from the national Capital have been rushing to Punjab for testing and treatment of the infection, a development that has the health authorities worried.Worrying trendWe have informed the Director, Health and Family Welfare. Such patients should not be counted in the Punjab caseload, but in that of Delhi. — Dr Harish Malhotra, Patiala Civil SurgeonThree residents of Delhi have been admitted to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala after they tested positive for COVID-19, while another came to Mohali, the Punjab government officials said.According to the officials, all four travelled on Friday from Delhi to Punjab, where they tested positive for COVID-19. They added that the patients were, however, claiming that they travelled to the state to visit their relatives and not for the treatment.A 57-year-old bank manager, posted in Delhi for the past several years, tested positive for the disease in Patiala on Friday. His son claimed that after showing corona symptoms, his father visited several hospitals for the treatment, but wasn’t entertained anywhere.In another case, an elderly couple has been admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital here. Officials said the husband-wife duo visited the health facility as soon as they reached Patiala from Delhi on Wednesday. They had got tested at a private lab in the Capital and were found positive.Concerned over the emerging trend, the Health Department has alerted the policymakers to find a solution.Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu alleged that people in the New Delhi were being denied testing and medical services. He took a swipe at the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government, saying the situation exposed the “tall claims” of the Delhi Chief Minister, who always said they had successful health services there.After approaching their relatives or friends in Patiala, the three patients reached the hospital for testing for COVID-19 and treatment, the officials said.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said it appeared as if all of them were visiting the state on purpose—for corona treatment.“We have informed the Director, Health and Family Welfare. Such patients should not be counted in the Punjab caseload, but in that of Delhi,” he said.Malhotra said they would not be included in Punjab’s coronavirus tally as the patients hailed from Delhi but were only being treated in Punjab.Another patient from Delhi came to Mohali on Friday night for treatment, officials said.“We have isolated him and will treat him,” said Mohali Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh.“We have informed about this case to the Mohali Deputy Commissioner,” he added.The state Health Minister said the state government would provide treatment to every patient.“Today, the Delhi government has given up. They used to say their Mohalla clinics and hospitals were very successful,” he alleged.Sources said people from Delhi were approaching their friends, extended family members and acquaintances in Punjab to find accommodation on rent. A property dealer said he was hunting for a ‘kothi’ (house) on rent in Mohali for two families from Delhi.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said, “There have been several cases of people from Delhi visiting their relatives and friends in Punjab as the situation in the Capital seems to be worsening by the day. The corona positivity rate of those coming from the NCR and Maharashtra is quite high compared to other places.”The Punjab government had announced the imposition of stricter lockdown on weekends and public holidays in the state. The state government had also mulled imposing strict conditions, including mandatory testing certification, for entrants from Delhi to Punjab in the wake of the situation assuming “alarming proportions” in the national capital. — With inputs from PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhiites-turn-to-punjab-hospitals-for-treatment-health-department-on-alert-98465
