17-08-2020||New Delhi||Whole Shaheen Bagh protest scripted by BJP: AAP||The AAP on Monday claimed the entire Shaheen Bagh protest was “scripted by the BJP” and its leadership dictated each and every move of the agitators for electoral benefits in Delhi polls, drawing a rebuttal from the saffron party.AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj made the claim a day after several members of the minority Muslim community from Shaheen Bagh area, which was the centre of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests here, joined the BJP.                      Bhardwaj alleged the BJP’s campaign for the Delhi election centred around the Shaheen Bagh protests and it was the only party that benefited from the controversy surrounding the agitation.“Delhi Assembly election could have been fought on the issue of education, health, environment or other developmental narratives. But the Delhi BJP chose to fight the election on the issue of Shaheen Bagh,” he told a press conference.                        “The whole Shaheen Bagh protest was scripted by the BJP. The topmost leadership of the BJP scripted each and every step of these protests,” he alleged.“They decided who will speak what, who will attack whom and then who will be doing the counterattack. All these things were pre-planned and well-scripted,” Bharadwaj claimed.He said the key people behind the Shaheen Bagh protest joined the BJP on Sunday in the presence of the senior leadership of the party.“Today the question is: does the BJP want to give a message that the people who used to raise anti-national slogans will now be part of the BJP?” he asked.Bhardwaj claimed that in Delhi, the BJP’s vote percentage rose from 18 to 38 due to the Shaheen Bagh protests and the controversy surrounding it.“Due to this protest, BJP polarised north-east Delhi, won some seats and then engineered a riot,” Bhardwaj charged.His allegations drew a rebuttal from Manoj Tiwari, the chief of Delhi BJP when these protests happened, who said his party does not discriminate on the basis of religion, caste, creed or lineage.“Now the confusion is getting cleared and Muslim brothers and sisters want to walk with the BJP...Stop dividing Arvind Kejriwal ji. The world’s largest party BJP represents all religions and does not discriminate on the basis of religion, caste, creed or lineage,” Tiwari said in a tweet in Hindi. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/whole-shaheen-bagh-protest-scripted-by-bjp-aap-127442
17-08-2020||Dharamsala||Arrest of Chinese spy in Delhi raises concerns about Dalai Lama’s security||The recent arrest of a Chinese spy in Delhi who was allegedly involved in a multi-crore hawala racket and was allegedly spying on the Dalai Lama has drawn concerns from the community in exile about their spiritual leader’s safety.A Chinese spy, who is believed to be involved in a hawala racket involving Rs 1,000 crore, was caught from Delhi’s Majnu Ka Tila---a hub of Tibetan exiles in Delhi.The arrest has drawn strong reaction from the Tibetan Government in exile, the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA). CTA deputy speaker Acharya Yeshi Phunsok said in a statement that this was not the first time that a Chinese spy had been sent to snoop on the Dalai Lama.  “The Chinese had come here for trade but were involved in spying over the Dalai Lama and was involved in illegal activities in India. We are already alert about Chinese spies. Whenever we organise a programme, Chinese spies come in the form of media personnel. Although we know about them, we cannot action against them as they have valid visa from the government of India,” he said, but he gave no specific instances of such past attempts at espionage nor offered any evidence to corroborate the claim. “We do not know what damage the arrested spy has done to India and the security of the Dalai Lama. We and the Indian government are already alert on the security of the Dalai Lama. It was good that the Chinese spy has been arrested. We the Tibetans living in exile never trust Chinese nationals. Whenever they come, we thoroughly scrutinise their identities. The Indian government should also not trust the Chinese nationals. I hope the arrest of spy comes as eye opener for Indian government,” he said.The Dalai Lama current has two levels of security---in addition to his personal security, he has a unit of the Himachal Police headed by an officer of the Deputy Superintendent of Police guard him.Kangra Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan said he had no information from Delhi Police about the arrest of a Chinese spy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/arrest-of-chinese%C2%A0spy%C2%A0in-delhi-raises-concerns-about-dalai-lamas-security-127431
17-08-2020||New Delhi||Some Delhi hospitals seeing COVID re-emergence in recovered patients||Some hospitals in the national capital have said they are seeing recovered coronavirus patients returning to them with recurrence of the infection.Earlier this month, the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital saw two instances of patients with relapse of coronavirus, almost one-and-a-half months after they were cured of the infection. In both the instances of relapse, the patients had moderate symptoms.Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka had also reported a case where a cancer patient recovered from coronavirus and contracted the disease again after a couple of months. The second time proved fatal for the patient who succumbed to the virus.Last month, the case of a Delhi policeman having a relapse of the novel coronavirus had emerged which had left experts baffled.In the same month, a similar case had surfaced in the national capital after a nurse employed at a civic-run dedicated COVID-19 hospital had tested positive again after recovering from the contagious disease.According to Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of the Delhi government-run hospital, unless the virus is cultured or gene sequencing done, it will be difficult to determine whether it is a different strain of the virus that has infected the person the second time.“There can be a relapse. The virus can be isolated from the body particularly from the sputum. We have the evidence that after ninth or tenth day the virus becomes non-infectious and the patients are not tested again,” he said.“However, the virus has been reported to be living in patients who have recovered around 39 to 40 days back,” he added.Dr Chandragouda Dodagoudar, director of medical oncology at Aakash Healthcare in Dwarka, shared the case of a 65-year-old patient who had stage 2 lymphoma. The patient first visited the health facility in March and was advised chemotherapy but was very apprehensive due to the coronavirus disease.“The patient delayed the treatment for two and a half months and took alternative medicines and when that medication did not work and she started having pain, she visited the hospital. She had contracted COVID-19 by then and the lymphoma had progressed from Stage 2 to Stage 4. We could not administer chemotherapy while she was undergoing COVID treatment,” he said.The doctor said after the patient recovered from coronavirus, she was administered a slight dose of chemotherapy and became better and was discharged. But after a month, she had a relapse of COVID and ended up in a critical condition and succumbed last month.The senior doctor said the patient did not have any other co-morbidities but called cancer a “co-morbidity”.Sherwal said patients with weak immunity are likely to get re-infection. “It can be there in any of the patients, cancer patients, HIV patients, etc,” he said.He added that immunocompromised patients are at more risk if they do not take precautions like wearing of masks and washing hands frequently. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/some-delhi-hospitals-seeing-covid-re-emergence-in-recovered-patients-127428
17-08-2020||New Delhi||BRICS meet: India for sharing info on darknet||India has called for nodal points in each of the member countries enabling real-time information sharing, as the BRICS nations recently held a webinar to discuss “misuse” of the darknet and modern technology for drug trafficking.During the discussion, the anti-narcotics agencies of the multi-nation grouping also deliberated over ways and means to curb increased instances of drug trafficking through the maritime route, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said. India called for “nodal points” to enable real-time information sharing among BRICS nations, it added. “The 4th session of the BRICS anti-drug working group, under the chairmanship of Russia, was held on August 12 ,” it said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/brics-meet-india-for-sharing-info-on-darknet-127304
