18-04-2020||New Delhi||Doctor commits suicide; AAP MLA booked on abetment charge||A doctor allegedly committed suicide in Durga Vihar in south Delhi on Saturday, holding AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal responsible for it, following which police registered a case against the legislator on charges of extortion and abetment to suicide, officials said.Jarwal, however, said he is innocent and ready to face any investigation.Police said Rajendra Singh (52) allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at the rooftop of his house.  At around 6.15 am, the police received a PCR call about the incident.Singh’s son Hemant told the police that his father ran a clinic in Durga Vihar and was also in the business of water supply with the Delhi Jal Board since 2007.The police said a suicide note was recovered from Singh’s house alleging that Jarwal was responsible for his death.A case of extortion, abetment to suicide has been registered against Jarwal, one Kapil Nagar and others at the Neb Sarai Police Station based on a complaint by Hemant, officials said.The body was later sent to AIIMS for post-mortem, he said.       Jarwal said he hadn’t met or spoken to Singh in the last 8-10 months.“I have received this information through media that a doctor, who used to have a business in water tankers, has committed suicide and has mentioned my name in his suicide note. I would like to state that I am innocent. I haven’t met or spoken to him in the last 8-10 months,” Jarwal said in a statement.“I have full faith in the judiciary and I am ready to face any investigation. I would only like to say that there have been attempts to trap me in the past and similar attempts are being made now too. Just like I have proved myself innocent in the past, I will do so now too. I am ready to cooperate with police in any kind of investigation,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/doctor-commits-suicide-aap-mla-booked-on-abetment-charge-72949
18-04-2020||New Delhi||Slight decrease in number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi in last 3 days: CM Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said there had been a slight decrease in the number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi in the last three days and hoped that it would reduce further in the coming days.Addressing an online media briefing on the coronavirus outbreak, Kejriwal said that out of 2,274 samples tested, only 67 people tested positive for the novel virus on Friday.A few days earlier, the daily tally of infections ranged between 180 and 350.The chief minister also appealed to people living in containment areas to follow rules and don't step out of their homes."Some people have been seen on streets in containment areas. Yesterday, 26 members of one family tested positive for coronavirus in an area in Jahangir Puri which has been declared as containment area," Kejriwal said.He also said that 71 containment areas have so far been identified in the national capital.      On Friday, the total number of novel coronavirus cases in Delhi rose to 1,707, with 67 fresh cases and four deaths being reported in a day. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/slight-decrease-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-in-last-3-days-cm-kejriwal-72935
