20-07-2020||New Delhi||Man found hanging at Congress headquarters in Delhi||A 45-year-old man was found hanging inside the Congress headquarters’ servant quarters here, police said on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Prakash Singh, they said.According to police, they received information regarding the incident from the Congress headquarters at 24, Akbar Road on Sunday.The deceased’s brother informed police that Prakash has kept himself locked in his room since Friday evening and was not responding to his calls, a senior police officer said.When a police team reached the spot, it found him hanging in the room, he said.The body was shifted to a mortuary at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, police said.A suicide note was recovered from the spot which revealed that he was depressed due to marital discord, they said.Preliminary enquiry revealed that he was addicted to drinking and was suffering from depression as his wife and children were residing separately, they added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/man-found-hanging-at-congress-headquarters-in-delhi-115542
20-07-2020||New Delhi||Centre needs to accept community spread happening, ramp-up testing: Sanjay Singh||The Centre needs to accept that community spread of the coronavirus is happening in the country and follow Delhi’s lead in containing the virus by ramping-up testing “on a large scale”, senior AAP leader Sanjay Singh said on Monday.The Rajya Sabha MP said people are not realising that the community spread is underway and hence contracting the virus.“(If) you are not able to find information on the source of the infection so that is community spread,” he said at a press briefing.“The Centre needs to accept that community spread is taking place and ramp-up testing on a large scale and more testing kits must be made available. They must replicate what the Delhi government did,” Singh said.Hitting back at Singh, Delhi BJP General-Secretary Rajesh Bhatia said that AAP is “running away” from its responsibilities in Delhi.“First a man died in waterlogging in the city on Sunday. When we questioned them, they said the Kejriwal government was busy handling coronavirus, so it could not pay attention to desilting of drains.“Now, they are saying there is community spread, if it is so what were they doing to stop it. The thing is COVID situation had gone out of Delhi government’s hands and was brought under control by Union Home Minister Amit Shah,” Bhatia said.Singh also said admitting that there is a community spread of the virus would require testing to be done on a large scale.“In terms of testing if you compare, India is far behind. In the US, 1,47,000 tests are conducted per million while in Russia over 1 lakh tests are done per million,” he said.“Meanwhile in India, just 9,000-10,000 tests per million are being conducted. It means enough tests are not being conducted and the country is being run on the formula of ‘no testing-no cases and no FIR-no crime’. Two states of UP and Bihar are the biggest examples in this respect where testing is being carried out just for namesake,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/centre-needs-to-accept-community-spread-happening-ramp-up-testing-sanjay-singh-115529
20-07-2020||New Delhi||Delhi seems to have hit Covid-19 peak: AIIMS director Guleria||Delhi seems to have hit the COVID-19 peak with the number of daily cases declining significantly, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said on Monday, but cautioned against any lowering of guard.He also said cases are increasing in certain states and they will reach a peak later, but there is not much evidence of community transmission of COVID-19 at the national level. “However, there are hotspots even in cities where there is a spike of cases, and it is likely that local transmission is happening in those areas that is why containment zones need aggressive action,” he said.Asked if COVID-19 cases in India have hit the peak, Guleria said, “My feeling is that certain areas have hit their peak. Delhi seems to have done so because the cases have declined significantly. But certain areas are yet to reach their peak. Cases are increasing in certain states. They will reach a peak later,” he said.Some states in the South, Ahmedabad in Gujarat and the central part of Mumbai also seem to be showing a decline, he said.“But then having hit the peak does not mean that you have to let your guard down. In many cities outside India, especially in the US, when people felt the peak is over and started not following social distancing and not wearing masks, there has been a spike of cases,” he said, underlining that even if number of cases come down, infection control and containment measures along with other dos and don’ts have to be followed to sustain that trend.Reaching a peak is a sign that the curve of the number of infections is flattening and the number of cases are coming down.The Health ministry has reiterated on several occasions that there is no community transmission of COVID-19 in the country.At a press briefing on July 9, Rajesh Bhushan, Officer on Special Duty in the Union Health Ministry, had said India has not reached the stage of community transmission.“In some geographical areas, there have been localised outbreaks. We should not forget that in our country, 49 districts alone account for 80 per cent of COVID-19 cases.“In a country of more than 733 districts, if 49 districts account for 80 per cent cases, then it is not justified to talk about community transmission,” he had said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-seems-to-have-hit-covid-19-peak-aiims-director-guleria-115528
20-07-2020||New Delhi||954 fresh COVID-19 cases take Delhi tally past 1.23 lakh; death toll climbs to 3,663||Delhi recorded 954 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.23 lakh, while the death toll from the disease rose to 3,663, authorities said.Delhi had been consistently reporting between 1,000 and 2,000 cases for the past nine days.On Monday, the cases dipped to three-figure count.Thirty-five fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi health department bulletin.On Friday, the city had reported 26 deaths, the lowest single-day COVID-19 fatality count since June 9. The number of fresh cases on Friday stood at 1,462.The active cases tally on Monday was 15,166, down from 16,031, the previous day.Delhi had crossed the 1,000-mark in COVID-19 tally on April 11.The number of fresh cases reported on July 19 stood at 1,211.On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947, till date.The death toll from COVID-19 in Delhi stood at 3,628 on Sunday.The Monday bulletin said the death toll from the coronavirus infection has risen to 3,663 and the total number of cases mounted to 1,23,747. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/954-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-delhi-tally-past-1-23-lakh-death-toll-climbs-to-3-663-115527
20-07-2020||New Delhi||43 hospitals across 11 states covered by AIIMS video consultation programme: Health Ministry||Having covered 43 hospitals across 11 states this month, the AIIMS Delhi tele-consultation guidance programme for state doctors on COVID-19 clinical management would reach out to ICU doctors at smaller healthcare facilities in the coming weeks, the Health Ministry said on Monday. To strengthen the government's efforts to reduce COVID-19 mortality, the AIIMS Delhi had started the 'e-ICU' video consultation for state doctors on COVID-19 clinical management earlier this month.In a statement, the Health ministry said four sessions have been held till date covering 43 institutions across 11 states. These include ten institutions in Mumbai, three in Goa, three in Delhi, three in Gujarat and two in Telangana, the statement said.The video consultation program in the coming weeks would cover ICU doctors from smaller healthcare facilities across the country, it said. Each of these sessions conducted through video conference span over 1.5 to 2 hours. The discussions have covered the entire range of issues related to management of COVID-19 patients, the Health ministry said. "Some of the important issues that have been stressed upon are the need for rational use of 'Investigational Therapies' like Remdesevir, convalescent plasma and Tocilizumab. The treating teams have discussed current indications and possible harm due to their indiscriminate use and the need to limit social-media pressure based prescriptions," it said. The ministry said the use of proning, high flow oxygen, non-invasive ventilation and ventilator settings for advanced disease have also been a common discussion point. "The role of various testing strategies in diagnosing COVID-19 has also been an important topic of shared learning. Issues such as the need for repeat testing, admission and discharge criteria, management of post discharge symptoms, and return to work have been addressed," it added. Some of the other common concerns have been the methods of communication with patients, screening of health-care workers, managing new-onset diabetes, uncommon presentations such as stroke, diarrhoea and myocardial infarction etc, it said. "The team from AIIMS, New Delhi was able to act as a bridge for new knowledge from one group to the other at each VC, apart from advising from its own experience and the extensive literature reviews done by the domain experts," the statement said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/43-hospitals-across-11-states-covered-by-aiims-video-consultation-programme-health-ministry-115457
20-07-2020||New Delhi||Delhi police busts rave party, arrests 40 people amid coronavirus pandemic||Cracking down on the illegal gathering in bars and restaurants in view of the coronavirus pandemic, Delhi Police have busted another hookah party in a bar in Paschim Vihar east area. A total of 41 people have been arrested in the raid, including the owner of the bar. This is the second raid within a week at a bar in the same area."With the arrest of 40 lockdown violators and a owner of Bar, and with the recovery of whiskey, beer and hookah, the police team of the P.S. Paschim Vihar East has busted illegal gathering of people amid the pandemic," said A. Koan, DCP Outer Delhi.On Sunday, when police reached near Cross Road Cafe during patrolling, they heard a lot of noise from the cafe, so they decided to check it. Later, Station House Officer (SHO) of the area Krishan Ballav Jha along with his team raided the premises and found men and women partying without any fear of contracting the disease and violating social distancing norms.It was found that the owner Tanway Singhal was offering whiskey, beer and hookah to 40 persons (15 girls and 25 boys) who were inside the cafe.The team seized liquor and hookahs from the spot.Subsequently, an FIR was registered and the owner of the cafe was arrested. A total of 40 persons were booked for the lockdown violation.Earlier on July 14, a total of 31 persons, including seven women were found violating the lockdown conditions in the Playque restaurant at Pushkar Enclave in Paschim Vihar. They were held under the appropriate sections of the law. The owners of the restaurant were also held.Earlier in June this year, the Delhi Police raided west Delhi's popular eating joint Qubitos which reopened after being shut for almost three months.The restaurant got into trouble after 38 persons were nabbed for celebrating a birthday party in violation allegedly of social distancing norms. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-police-busts-rave-party-arrests-40-people-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-115449
20-07-2020||New Delhi||Health Minister Satyendar Jain to resume work after recovering from COVID-19||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who has recovered from COVID-19, will resume work from Monday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said.Jain will be resuming work after a month.The minister had tested positive for the novel coronavirus on June 17. In his absence, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia was looking after health and home departments, and PWD headed by Jain.Our Health Minister Satinder Jain has recovered. He will join work from today. He was always on the field visiting hospitals and meeting health workers and patients. He contracted corona. After one month, he joins back today. Welcome back Satinder and best wishes!  “Our Health Minister Satinder Jain has recovered. He will join work from today. He was always on the field visiting hospitals and meeting health workers and patients.“He contracted corona. After one month, he joins back today. Welcome back Satinder and best wishes!.”Kejriwal tweeted.The 55-year-old minister had been administered plasma therapy after which his condition improved. He was discharged from hospital on June 26. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/health-minister-satyendar-jain-to-resume-work-after-recovering-from-covid-19-115437
20-07-2020||The National Capital received its first spell of heavy rain||Delhi deluge||The downpour led to the death of a man, allegedly due to drowning, after his mini-truck got submerged under the Minto Bridge. Firemen had to rescue stranded people on board a DTC bus that also got stuck under the bridge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-deluge-115376
