26-07-2020||New Delhi||Rapid antigen tests strengthen fight against COVID-19, say experts||Delhi has conducted over 9.46 lakh COVID-19 tests till date, with experts attributing the high number to the rapid antigen tests which started last month.The experts feel that the rapid antigen test has changed the script for the national capital due to its affordability, quicker result and its ability to serve as a fast diagnostic tool.The rapid antigen tests started in Delhi from June 18.The total number of tests conducted in the national capital stands at 9,46,777  till date, which means 49,830 tests per million.As many as 17,533 tests have been carried out in the last 24 hours, which include 12,501 rapid antigen tests and 5,032 RT-PCR tests.Between March 4 and June 4, Delhi conducted 2,36,506 COVID-19 tests. Going by the numbers, it means, that post June 4, the national capital conducted nearly seven lakh tests.Testing figures have risen since June 18, when the testing began in the city using the rapid antigen kits.Delhi has 56 labs -- 22 government and 34 private—which are carrying out RT-PCR tests to detect COVID-19.Labs across the city and health experts credit the rapid antigen test for reducing the burden on RT-PCR tests, helping in quicker identification of cases and reducing the risk of spread of infection.Dr Sumit Sharma, Dean of Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, said testing has played a significant role in checking the spread of cases.“Asymptomatic patients are being detected and isolated now, and symptomatic patients are being isolated earlier than previously when testing was limited. Early treatment has reduced the infection,” he opined.Rattan Gurnani, senior manager operations and corporate, City X-Ray and Scan Clinic, said the government has been very aggressive in testing and is ensuring that tests are conducted across all the containment zones.“They have given a target to all the districts, so more the tests, better the diagnosis and quicker the isolation and results. The number of RT-PCR tests has gone down from 700-800 earlier to 400 to 500 per day,” he said.The situation is similar in other labs and facilities.At the Genestrings lab, 1,000 to 1,200 tests were being conducted on a daily basis before the rapid antigen test started, but now it has reduced to 200 tests per day.According to Chetan Kohli, COO, Seeds of Innocence and Genestrings Lab, rapid antigen tests have also helped the labs process the samples faster.“Earlier, the time taken to process the samples would be anywhere between 24 and 48 hours but now it is 24 hours,” he said.Dr Rakesh Pandit, senior Consultant and HOD, internal medicine, Akash Hospital said earlier the medical facility was conducting 90 RT-PCR tests per day, out of which 25 would test positive.Now the hospital is conducting 50 to 60 tests per day and only six or seven people are testing positive.“Earlier the labs were so overloaded. The waiting time was more and there were a limited number of facilities. Then there were constraints like one RT-PCR machine cannot do more than 100 tests. But now more people are being covered,” Pandit said.The number of rapid antigen tests being conducted on a daily basis is more than double of the RT-PCR tests.According to the health bulletin on July 24, 5,328 RT-PCR tests were conducted within 24 hours, while over 13,000 antigen tests were conducted during the same time.Talking about the advantages of the rapid antigen tests, Kohli said the results of the test come within 15-20 minutes, and people are getting easy accessibility to them owing to the government’s efforts and the presence of more than 160 centres where people can avail them free of cost. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/rapid-antigen-tests-strengthen-fight-against-covid-19-say-experts-118270
26-07-2020||New Delhi||Man arrested for duping women on matrimonial sites||A 34-year-old man has been arrested for reportedly duping several women, especially widows and divorcees, whom he met through matrimonial sites on the pretext of marriage, police said on Sunday.According to the police, accused Anchit Chawla posed as a businessman and duped the women of several lakh rupees. He changed his name and location many times to prevent the police from catching him.The matter came to light after a woman filed a complaint at Ashok Vihar Police Station, alleging she was duped by a man named Mudit Chawla, who approached her in December 2018, through a popular matrimonial site.She alleged that Chawla claimed to own a bed sheet factory in southwest Delhi’s Palam and that he dealt in renting luxury cars to tour and travel agencies.He started interacting with her through e-mails, calls and WhatsApp. He used to demand small amounts from her which he duly repaid to win her confidence. He later convinced her to take personal loans from different banks to recover his business losses, police said.The accused duped the woman of Rs 17 lakh till December 2019 on the pretext of marriage. When she insisted on marriage, he started avoiding her, police said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northwest) Vijayanta Arya said based on the information provided by the complainant, intelligence was gathered and required details were collected from the matrimonial website.The accused used many profiles with different names to prevent the police from catching him, he said.“With the help of technical surveillance, our team managed to trace the accused from Palam Vihar Extension in Gurgaon on Friday,” the officer said.During investigation, he was found to be previously involved in four other cases of similar nature, the DCP said.The police said Chawla had in the past posed as security chief of the Special Protection Group in PMO and duped a doctor of Rs 15 lakh on the pretext of getting him a government job.While in another case, he claimed to be the personal security officer (PSO) of a political leader and duped many jewellers, police said.A laptop, two mobile phones, car and Aadhaar cards have been seized from his possession, they added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/man-arrested-for-duping-women-on-matrimonial-sites-118213
26-07-2020||New Delhi||Delhi records 1,075 fresh COVID-19 cases; tally rises to 1,30,606||Delhi recorded 1,075 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, pushing the city’s caseload to over 1.30 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 3,827, authorities said.Twenty-one fatalities have been recorded in the past 24 hours, according to the Health Department’s bulletin.The death toll from the coronavirus infection has risen to 3,827 in the national capital and the total number of cases has climbed to 1,30,606, it said.From July 11 to 19, the number of fresh cases was being reported in the range of 1,000 to 2,000 consecutively. The number of fresh cases reported on July 19 stood at 1,211.On June 20, the fresh case count dipped to 954, but it increased the next day to 1,349.Since Tuesday, the number of fresh cases has been recorded in excess of 1,000 again. However, the number of active cases on Saturday was 11,904, down from 12,657 on the previous day.On June 23, the national capital had reported its highest single-day spike, till date, at 3,947. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-records-1-075-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-1-30-606-118208
26-07-2020||New Delhi||Delhi govt to launch special programme to generate more employment opportunities: Gopal Rai||Delhi Minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said the AAP government would launch a special programme to generate more employment opportunities in the city, a move aimed at reviving the capital’s economy, which was affected due to the lockdown.The Labour and Employment Minister told PTI that as part of the special programme, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal would launch a job portal in the next few days, where the companies looking to hire and job seekers can register themselves.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government would soon come out with a slew of reforms to revive the national capital’s economy, which had been adversely affected due to the COVID-induced lockdown, he said, adding that many migrant workers had moved out of Delhi and several people have lost their jobs due to the shutdown.“We have decided to aggressively run a special programme to generate more employment opportunities. In the next few days, the government will launch a job portal, which will act as a common platform for both employers and job seekers,” Rai said.He said after the lockdown, many people were facing difficulties in finding jobs and the portal, where they could post their details and requirements in accordance with their qualification, would be very helpful for them.“We have managed to arrest the spread of COVID-19 in Delhi. Now there is a need to bring the city’s economy back on the fast track. After the launch of the portal, people will not need to apply for jobs at several places. The government will ensure that maximum applicants get employment,” the Minister said.Earlier this month, the city government had formed a 12-member expert committee to explore economic reform measures in order to help businesses recover from the impact of COVID-19.The panel is carrying out a comprehensive analysis and putting forward suggestions regarding measures that should be initiated by various departments, autonomous bodies, local bodies and the MCDs to help people and businesses during the pandemic. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-to-launch-special-programme-to-generate-more-employment-opportunities-gopal-rai-118191
26-07-2020||New Delhi||As monsoon hits Delhi, city records 73 cases of Dengue, Malaria||Amidst fight with the Covid-19 pandemic, another battle is looming over the horizon of the national capital. The cases of vector-borne diseases are rising in Delhi.As per the latest data released by all three municipal corporations, the city has recorded 73 cases of Dengue, Malaria and Chikungunya so far. Out of these 73 cases, 38 are of Malaria, 22 are of Dengue, and the remaining 13 are Chikungunya cases. However, the officials are quite optimistic about the current count. They believe the situation is under control as the count is 30 per cent less then the previous year. In 2019, the city had recorded 107 cases of Dengue, Malaria, and Chikungunya in the same period. "We have the situation under control and fully prepared to deal with it in the coming days," said Ira Singhal, Additional Municipal Commissioner of North Municipal Corporation of Delhi. Singhal also said that the MCD staff is carrying various activities to put a lid on the outbreak. "Domestic breeding checking, fogging, anti-larval spray, and sanitization of wet spots are being done to check mosquitoes' breeding. Besides, we are also doing awareness programs to sensitize the residents," she said.Singhal also said that the MCDs are carrying inspection drives and penalizing the persons or the establishments where breeding spots for mosquitoes are found. As per the data, the corporations have served 11,942 legal notices and launched 106 prosecutions against the violators.The officials told that the corporations had roped traders' associations and RWAs to spot and cover the uncovered drains. An official from South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said that the corporation has started an awareness campaign and prepared an audio-visual clip to be shared with all RWAs.However, the RWAs have contradicted the claims by the MCD officials. B.S. Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA joint front who lives in Krishna Nagar, fared that only 25 per cent of the work is done against the claims touted by the MCD officials. "Very less has happened on the ground. Many drains in East Delhi localities are yet to be desilted. Due to the accumulation of silt, colonies are being waterlogged within minutes of the downpour. If not addressed readily, It could wash away all the efforts put in to fight against Dengue and Malaria," he said.The experts said that the peak season for malaria starts from May, and a spike is seen after the monsoon in July and August. Dr Pankaj Solanki, a member of Delhi Medical Council, said that the outbreak of Malaria and Dengue is around the corner. "The authorities are busty in dealing with the Covid-19. As it is the season of vector-borne diseases, much focus is stressed upon it," Dr Solanki said while adding that the situation could worsen if Covid-19 gets mixed with the outbreak of vector-borne diseases. "The drop in blood platelets will be fatal for the patients already suffering from the Covid-19 infection," Dr Solanki further added. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/as-monsoon-hits-delhi-city-records-73-cases-of-dengue-malaria-118162
26-07-2020||New Delhi||CRPF man shoots senior, self in Delhi||A sub-inspector of the Central Reserve Police Force allegedly shot his senior with his service weapon and then turned the gun on himself at a bungalow allotted to the Ministry of Home Affairs in the Lodhi Estate area, officials said today.The incident took place following an argument between SI Karnail Singh (55) and Inspector Dashrath Singh (56), both from the 122nd Battalion.The SI shot his senior in their room and later killed himself near the main gate around 10.30 pm on Friday.The SI hailed from Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir while the Inspector belonged to Rohtak, Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/crpf-man-shoots-senior-self-in-delhi-118014
