01-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal relaxes partial lockdown rules within 24 hours||The Mamata Banerjee administration, which imposed a partial lockdown on Friday, relaxed some of the rules on Saturday, as per the state government order. “Use of masks, sanitisers and physical distancing would be compulsory in all public places,” the order stated. The state government on Saturday allowed weddings and other familial gatherings to continue while putting a cap on the number of invitees to such gatherings at 50. Even though retail shops and markets have been allowed to remain open only twice a day – 7 am to 10 am and then from 3 pm to 5 pm – the modified order issued on Saturday said that sweetmeat shops and shops dealing with electricity, telecom, transport, milk supply etc will remain outside the confines of the lockdown. With West Bengal witnessing a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the last two months, the state administration had opted for a partial lockdown from Friday. Friday’s order had prohibited all kinds of social, cultural, academic, entertainment-related gatherings, including weddings. Shopping malls, cinema halls, restaurants and bars, sports complexes, gyms, spas, swimming and beauty parlours were shut down in the previous order even as home deliveries and online services were allowed. Market-timings were also restricted while allowing only essential services such as medical shops and grocery. West Bengal registered 17,512 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, up from 216 cases reported on February 26 when the Election Commission announced the poll schedule, prompting health experts to link the surge in cases to maskless political rallies that violated Covid protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-relaxes-partial-lockdown-rules-within-24-hours-101619878313616.html
01-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal issues additional rules for Covid-19 partial lockdown. Check details||The West Bengal government on Saturday issued a few additional rules in connection with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-necessitated partial lockdown imposed in the state a day ago. In a new order, the state government informed that no more than 50 people are to be allowed in weddings and other congregations that have already been planned. Moreover, the principle of keeping shops open for three hours in the morning and for two in the evening would also now be applicable to all retail and stand-alone outlets-shops as well, except for the ones providing essential services. Shops and other commercial establishments which do remain open throughout the day would have to ensure that proper Covid-19 protocols are being adhered to in their premises.The West Bengal government on Friday imposed a partial lockdown across the state, in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. All shopping malls, beauty parlours, cinema halls, restaurants and bars, sports complexes, gyms, spas, and swimming pools remain closed, according to a government release. Home delivery of items and online services, however, have been allowed to continue.In an addendum, the West Bengal government on Saturday issued two prominent additions to the already existing curbs. These are related to weddings, marriage functions, and other planned public gatherings; and retail establishments."Marriage gatherings and other familial gatherings will also be seriously restricted and subjected to strict observance of Covid appropriate norms (e.g. strict use of masks, sanitizers, physical distancing, etc). Generally speaking, the number of invitees to marriages and other familial gatherings should be restricted to the minimum possible number, and at no point of time should there be congregations of more than 50 persons in any ceremony," the government order read.Regarding the functioning of retail outlets, the order notes: "The principle of keeping shops open in bazaars/hats during 7-10am in the morning and 3-5pm in the afternoon will apply to all retail and stand-alone outlets-shops also, excepting in case of retail outlets providing services relating to healthcare, electricity, telecom, transport, grocery, sweets, meat shop, milk supply, etc. which will remain outside the confines of the embargo. Use of masks, sanitizers, and physical distancing would be compulsory in all these public places."The curbs were imposed with immediate effect and will remain in place until further orders, the government said.Anticipating a gathering on the day of the counting of votes in the recently concluded assembly election, the government has also said that all activities related to electoral counting processes and victory rallies will be held in accordance with the order issued in this regard by the Election Commission of India (ECI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-issues-additional-rules-for-covid-19-partial-lockdown-check-details-101619875172678.html
