05-05-2021||Kolkata||50% occupancy in metro, limited gatherings: Mamata imposes new Covid-19 curbs in Bengal||In view of the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis in the state, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced a slew of new measures to tackle the pandemic. A number of fresh Covid-19-necessitated restrictions were announced, including the suspension of local train services, the limited activity of market spaces, and 50% occupancy in public transport services including the Kolkata Metro.Also Read: Local train services to be suspended in West Bengal from Thursday in view of Covid-19Here's everything you need to know about the fresh Covid-19 restrictions announced in West Bengal:Also Read: Mamata Banerjee takes oath as chief minister of West Bengal for 3rd timeWest Bengal on Tuesday reported its highest single-day deaths of 107 Covid-19 patients, which took the state's death toll to 11,744, the health department had said in a bulletin. Meanwhile, a record number of new coronavirus disease cases were also registered, as the bulletin showed a single-day spike of 17,639 cases. West Bengal's total Covid-19 infection tally currently stands at 8,98,533.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-coronavirus-covid-19-lockdown-restrictions-curbs-kolkata-metro-markets-closed-check-all-details-here-101620208348227.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||'Look forward to Centre's sustained support': Mamata to PM Modi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday expressed her gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his congratulatory message to her soon after she took oath as the chief minister for the third consecutive term.Banerjee took to Twitter to respond to PM Modi by saying that she looks forward to the Centre's sustained support. "Thank you @narendramodi ji for your wishes. I look forward to the Centre's sustained support keeping the best interest of WB in mind. I extend my full cooperation and hope together we can fight this pandemic amid other challenges and set a new benchmark for Centre-State relations," Banerjee said in a tweet.Earlier in the day, PM Modi congratulated Banerjee and said, "Congratulations to Mamata Didi on taking oath as West Bengal's Chief Minister."Banerjee was administered the oath of office by West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar."I thank all the people who were looking at the Bengal elections. Our first priority is tackling Covid-19. Secondly, I urge all political parties to look around so that violence to be controlled. From today onwards, I am taking law and order into my hands. I will post the police accordingly to tackle the situation. I will hold a big celebration once the pandemic is over," she said after taking the oath.The oath ceremony took place following Covid-19 protocols at the Raj Bhavan in Kolkata.Since the poll verdict on Sunday, there have been reported clashes involving both the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Both parties have traded blame for the violence.The TMC bagged 213 seats while the BJP won 77 of 292 assembly constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/look-forward-to-centre-s-sustained-support-mamata-to-pm-modi-101620204950312.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||Local train services to be suspended in West Bengal from Thursday in view of Covid-19||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced that local train services shall be suspended in the state from Thursday onwards to combat the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic situation. Meanwhile, metro rail and government-run transport services in West Bengal shall operate with 50% occupancy from Thursday, the chief minister announced.Click here for more details on the fresh Covid-19 curbs imposed in West Bengal on Wednesday.West Bengal on Tuesday reported its highest single-day deaths of 107 Covid-19 patients, which took the state's death toll to 11,744, the health department had said in a bulletin. Meanwhile, a record number of new coronavirus disease cases were also registered, as the bulletin showed a single-day spike of 17,639 cases. West Bengal's total Covid-19 infection tally currently stands at 8,98,533.Also Read: Covid-19: West Bengal registers record 107 deaths in a day, 17,639 new casesThe West Bengal chief minister also announced lockdown-like measures across the state to tackle the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, encountered in the second wave of the coronavirus disease. Shopping complexes, markets, gyms, cinema halls, and beauty parlours have been closed, while all manner of social and political gatherings have been prohibited."Looking at the Covid-19 situation, we are going to take some steps. Wearing masks will be mandatory. There will only be 50% attendance in state government offices. Shopping complexes, gyms, cinema halls, and beauty parlours shall remain closed. Social and political gatherings will be prohibited," chief minister Mamata Banerjee said.Also Read: Mamata Banerjee takes oath as chief minister of West Bengal for 3rd timeMoreover, for the private sector in West Bengal, work from home has been allowed for 50% of the staff. Jewellery shops will remain open only for three hours in the day -- from 12pm to 3pm. Home delivery of food shall remain open. In fact, the government encouraged more people to have their food delivered at home to cut down on the virus spread.Banks will remain open from 10am to 2am, the chief minister said.Announcing measures to cut the coronavirus spread from domestic and international fliers, Mamata Banerjee said that from May 7, no one will be allowed to arrive at airports without an RT-PCR negative report not older than 72 hours. "Those who test positive shall be sent to 14-day quarantine arranged by the airport authority in collaboration with the state government," the West Bengal chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/local-trains-to-be-suspended-in-bengal-from-tomorrow-in-view-of-covid19-101620206698571.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||As Mamata Banerjee takes her oath, BJP vows to 'dismantle' political violence in Bengal||As Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday took her oath as the chief minister of West Bengal for the third consecutive term; elsewhere in Kolkata, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took another -- to 'dismantle" political violence in the state. BJP national president JP Nadda, addressing party workers in the city, said, "We take an oath to carry out our responsibility, by happily accepting the mandate, and play the important role of Opposition. What we fought in Bengal - political violence, appeasement, and tyranny - we won't step back from carrying out our duties."Post-poll violence has ensued over the past two days across West Bengal, with reports emerging of clashes between rival political workers, torched offices, and the deaths of workers and supporters cutting across party lines.The BJP has been protesting this alleged "rampant violence" in the state, accusing the TMC of hunting down its workers in retribution. The party is also holding a nationwide dharna today to protest what it calls the debilitating law and order situation. West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, along with other members of the party's state unit, has demanded that President's Rule be imposed to bring the scene under control. At the same time, however, the BJP is also maintaining a line of political courtesy, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi taking to his official account on Twitter to congratulate Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday for her swearing-in.Addressing BJP workers on this day, JP Nadda said, "Those who were supposed to protect others are the ones responsible for this violence. They can take the oath, everyone has the right to do so in a democracy. But we also take an oath to dismantle political violence in Bengal."The TMC secured 213 seats in the recently concluded eight-phased West Bengal Assembly elections, while the BJP won 77 seats. This is the third consecutive time that Mamata Banerjee has been sworn in as the state's chief minister. She assumed the post for the first time in 2011, by ending the 34-year-long CPI(M) regime, one of the longest-serving elected governments in the world.After ruling the state for two successive terms, the game of thrones of 2021 was no less than a do-or-die situation for Mamata Banerjee. However, these elections saw the people of West Bengal once again rewarding her with an overwhelming mandate, and punishing the Left Front with zero seats, paving the way for a state legislature to be formed without any Left representation for the first time in history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/as-mamata-banerjee-takes-her-oath-bjp-s-jp-nadda-vows-to-dismantle-political-violence-in-west-bengal-101620196309147.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal post-poll violence: Child rights body, NHRC raise concerns; BJP to stage sit-in today||The Bharatiya Janta Party leaders will stage a sit-in in West Bengal on Wednesday against the alleged violence by ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers in which at least 11 people from various political parties have been killed. The state government has not confirmed the figure.The sit-in is being organised on a day when TMC chief Mamata Banerjee is set to take oath as the chief minister of West Bengal after securing a third term in the assembly elections.BJP's national president JP Nadda is also in the state to participate in the sit-in. He arrived in West Bengal on Tuesday and met the families of those who died in the violence which started after the results of the assembly election were announced on May 2.On Sunday, the Election commission counted votes for the assembly elections the TMC came out winning 213 of the 292 assembly seats and secured a third straight term in office.The violenceThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office in Asansol was allegedly vandalised by the TMC workers on Monday. In Kolkata as well, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of BJP, alleged that 15-20 party goons of incumbent chief minister Mamata Banerjee attacked its office. It also claimed that the 'goons' engaged in an altercation with the activists and assaulted them. The party office was also vandalised.Party officials also claimed a BJP office in Hooghly district was set on fire and the shops of its supporters were torched in many areas. According to multiple reports, at least 11 people have been killed in the violence so far.Mounting pressure on TMCFollowing the violence, the pressure has mounted on TMC with Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling on West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar. Various other leaders as well have condemned the violence and called on Banerjee to take strict action against the perpetrators.On Tuesday, Banerjee held an emergency meeting with top state officials. and directed to them to increase surveillance in areas identified as sensitive to violence. "The CM is very worried about the situation and directed officers to take necessary steps to restore the law and order at the places from where reports of violence and clashes have come," news agency PTI reported an official as saying.On Tuesday, National Commission for Women (NCW) said it has taken a suo motu cognisance of videos purportedly showing women being beaten up in West Bengal's Nandigram, a key assembly seat and a hotbed of West Bengal politics. "Chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to Director General of Police, West Bengal, to take immediate action and arrest the accused persons without any delay," the NCW said in a statement.The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also took cognisance of the violence and ordered an investigation fact-finding team to conduct a spot inquiry and submit a report at the earliest, preferably within two weeks. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) also wrote to the chief secretary of West Bengal and raised concerns over post-poll violence saying that it has received complaints claiming that many children have been recruited to participate in the incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-post-poll-violence-child-rights-body-nhrc-raise-concerns-bjp-to-stage-sit-in-today-101620184999461.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19: West Bengal registers record 107 deaths in a day, 17,639 new cases||West Bengal on Tuesday reported its highest single-day deaths of 107 COVID patients taking the toll to 11,744, the health department said in a bulletin.The tally also went up to 8,98,533 after the state recorded its highest one-day spike of 17,639 cases, it said.In the last 24 hours, 16,547 patients recovered from the disease, taking the total number of cured people to 1,06,58,094.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of active cases has risen to 1,20,946, the bulletin added.Out of the 107 deaths, 53 were due to comorbidities where COVID-19 was incidental. North 24 Parganas district and Kolkata reported 33 and 31 fresh fatalities respectively. The remaining deaths were registered in several other districts. The 17,639 fresh positive cases included 3,954 from North 24 Parganas district and 3,914 from Kolkata, the bulletin said.Since Monday, 57,748 samples were tested in West Bengal for the virus, taking the total number of such tests to 1,06,58,094.The total number of people inoculated in West Bengal on Tuesday was 1,34,819.The inoculation process for people belonging to the 18-44 years age bracket started at two private hospitals in Kolkata on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the state health department dismissed rumours regarding the shortage of Remdesisir and said that companies "should allocate the drug to clinical establishments on the basis of CCU bed strength and the rate of occupancy there".Companies would not be able to sell them to individuals against any doctor's prescription, the department said issuing a similar advisory for the usage of Tocilizumab drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-west-bengal-registers-record-107-deaths-in-a-day-17-639-new-cases-101620179600975.html
05-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee to take oath as West Bengal CM for her 3rd consecutive term||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee will take oath as the chief minister of West Bengal on Wednesday. After emerging victorious in the high-stakes West Bengal Assembly elections on May 2, the TMC supremo will become the CM of the state for her third consecutive term. The oath-taking ceremony, organised at Raj Bhavan, will be a low-key programme given the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, a government official told news agency PTI.Click here for full election coverageThe CM's predecessor Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, leader of Opposition of the outgoing House Abdul Mannan and CPI(M) veteran leader Biman Bose are among the few leaders who have been invited to the ceremony, the official added.Chief ministers of other states and leaders of other political parties have not been invited for the ceremony in view of the current Covid-19 situation in the country. While the infection tally in India has breached the 20-million mark, West Bengal has recorded 8,98,533 infections till date. The state on Tuesday reported its highest single-day deaths of 107 Covid-19 patients, taking the toll to 11,744, the health department said in a bulletin.Also Read: Mamata Banerjee, a street fighter who’s now beaten Left, Right, Centre"It has been decided to keep the oath-taking ceremony of Mamata Banerjee a very simple one because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Banerjee will be the only leader who will be taking oath tomorrow. The programme will be a very brief one," the official quoted above told PTI.After eight rounds of polling in the state, the votes were counted and results announced on May 2. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which had set a target of winning more than 200 seats out of the 294-member assembly, won 77 seats while the TMC won 213 seats.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-to-take-oath-as-west-bengal-cm-for-her-3rd-consecutive-term-today-101620175156945.html
