08-05-2021||Kolkata||Dhankar expresses displeasure at not being updated on law and order situation||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar Saturday expressed displeasure at not being updated on the law and order situation in the state with regard to post poll violence by the chief secretary and director general of police (DGP). State Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and DGP Virendra called on the governor at Raj Bhavan on Saturday evening being asked by him over the law and order situation in West Bengal. "Unfortunately both came without any paper or reports sought. Directed them to send the same without delay. In a sense disgusted with such stance," Dhankhar tweeted after the officers met him. Maintaining that the home secretary has failed to apprise him on the law and order situation vis a vis the post-poll violence, Dhankhar had asked the chief secretary to see him. Dhankhar had tweeted earlier in the day that the home secretary did not forward reports of the DGP and commissioner of Kolkata Police in this regard. "Chief Secretary @MamataOfficial has been called upon to see me today before 7 PM as ACS Home @HomeBengal failed to impart status report on law and order regarding post poll violence," the governor tweeted. "Such drifting of governance @MamataOfficial from constitutional prescriptions is unfortunate and cannot be overlooked. While the State passes through most severe post poll violence, there is just NO input to the constitutional head. This is least expected," Dhankhar wrote.The West Bengal has been rocked by large scale violence after the bitterly fought state elections. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said that 16 persons of different political parties have lost their lives in clashes after the end of the polls. A four-member team of the union home ministry, tasked with looking into reasons for the post-poll violence in Bengal, had met Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan.\||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/dhankar-expresses-displeasure-at-not-being-updated-on-law-and-order-situation-101620493426688.html
08-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata says Centre's inactivity over past 6 months led to current Covid crisis||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday that the COVID crisis in the country was the result of the Centre "not doing any work" in the last six months as Union ministers and leaders were visiting Bengal daily to "capture" it.Banerjee was speaking in the assembly after TMC MLA Biman Bandyopadhyay was elected the Speaker for the third time.Warning of stern action against communal incitements, the chief minister claimed the BJP was provoking violence after failing to win the elections."I can challenge that had the Election Commission not helped them directly, they (BJP) could not have won even 30 seats. In this election, rigging took place in some places under the watch of the poll panel," Banerjee alleged, stressing the need to reform the EC."Now, they (BJP) cannot accept the mandate of the people and are trying to incite violence by posting fake videos," she claimed.She directed the administration to take stern action against those trying to provoke violence and communal tensions.Banerjee said that personnel of the central forces were in the state during the elections without undergoing RT- PCR COVID tests, resulting in the spread of the infection.The chief minister claimed that the Centre did no work in the last six months."To set up a double-engine government in Bengal, they have pushed India to the brink of destruction. Last six months, the central government did no work and they were all here daily to capture Bengal," she said.A host of Union ministers and chief ministers of BJP- ruled states, besides the party's top leadership were canvassing West Bengal in run-up to the just-concluded assembly elections.Banerjee reiterated the demand for universal vaccination, stating that it should have been the priority of the Centre, instead the government is spending ₹50,000 crore on the new Parliament building, PM's residence and statues, among others.The opposition BJP legislators boycotted the House proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-says-centre-s-inactivity-over-past-6-months-led-to-current-covid-crisis-101620463993501.html
08-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee bats for universal Covid-19 vaccine programme||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday criticised the Centre over the Covid-19 vaccination programme and said there should be a universal inoculation programme for everyone throughout the country. " ₹30,000 crores is nothing for the central government... There should be a universal vaccine program for all throughout the country," Banerjee said in the state assembly."Universal vaccination should have been the priority of the Centre, but it's spending ₹50,000 crore on new Parliament building, PM's residence, etc," Banerjee said.Banerjee alleged that the Centre did not work in the last six months. "The Centre did not work in the last six months. Ministers came to Bengal every day to capture it," she added.Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) won 213 seats in the just concluded West Bengal Assembly elections. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) garnered 77 seats in the 294-seat state assembly.Banerjee has earlier urged the Centre for free universal vaccination across the country. "The Covid management is my priority. There is a shortage of vaccine supply. Approximately 65% of vaccines being produced in India were already sent overseas. Still, we are vaccinating 50,000 people a day," she added.Banerjee had said that the Centre should provide the Covid-19 vaccine for free to every citizen. ""We have demanded 3 crore vaccine doses from the Centre. I feel the vaccine should be provided free to the 140-crore people of India. I request the Centre to sanction ₹30,000 crore for a vaccine program for all throughout the country. I believe ₹30,000 crore does not matter to the central government. If a portion of the money that they spent in the election was invested for Covid vaccine then the universal vaccination would have already been done," she added.West Bengal on Friday registered its highest single-day spike of 19,216 Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally to 9,54,282, the health department said. 112 more people succumbed to the infection, taking the total number of fatalities to 12,076, the department said in its bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-bats-for-universal-covid-19-vaccine-programme-101620456736097.html
