10-05-2021||Kolkata||Ex-TMC minister Suvendu Adhikari becomes leader of the opposition in Bengal||After serving in chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet, Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in December last year and defeated her at Nandigram in East Midnapore district in the recent state polls, on Monday emerged as the leader of the opposition at the state assembly. “As the leader of the opposition, my priority will be to carry out a movement to free Bengal of political violence and establish a parliamentary democracy. The killings and arson must stop,” said Adhikari. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) routed the opposition by winning 213 seats but Adhikari made news by defeating Banerjee by around 1,900 votes. Challenging the result, the TMC demanded recounting of votes but the Election Commission (EC) turned it down. Adhikari, who underwent training at Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) camps in his youth, started his career as a youth Congress leader before joining the TMC under the guidance of his father Sisir Adhikari, the TMC’s Contai Lok Sabha member who joined the BJP recently. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy, one of the founding members of the TMC and now a BJP national vice-president, proposed Adhikari’s name for the post of leader of the opposition when the BJP’s newly-elected legislators met at the party’s election office at Hastings in south Kolkata on Monday afternoon. Of the 77 BJP MLAs, 52 were present at the meeting while the rest were in their constituencies in the districts.  <blockquote class=”twitter-tweet”><p lang=”hi” dir=”ltr”>पश्चिम बंगाल में श्री <a href=”https://twitter.com/SuvenduWB?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>@SuvenduWB</a> जी को विधानसभा में प्रतिपक्ष का नेता चुने जाने पर हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं।<br>मुझे पूर्ण विश्वास है कि आप के नेतृत्व में <a href=”https://twitter.com/BJP4Bengal?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>@BJP4Bengal</a> विपक्ष की जिम्मेदारी को पूरी मजबूती के साथ निभाएगी और प्रदेश की जनता के लिए न्याय और अधिकार प्राप्त करने का माध्यम बनेगी।</p>&mdash; Jagat Prakash Nadda (@JPNadda) <a href=”https://twitter.com/JPNadda/status/1391757072316784640?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>May 10, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src=”https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js” charset=”utf-8”></script>Since Roy is senior to Adhikari and he won the polls from Krishnanagar in Nadia district, many leaders in the party thought he would be elected leader of the opposition. While arriving for the meeting, Roy brushed aside the speculations, saying, “I am too old.”“Twenty-two MLAs supported Suvendu Adhikari’s nomination. I asked the others if they wanted to propose any other name. Since there was no other nomination, Adhikari was unanimously elected leader of the BJP’s legislative party in the West Bengal assembly,” announced Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who, along with the BJP’s central election observers, attended the meeting. Manoj Tigga, who won the Natabari seat in north Bengal for the second time, was elected the BJP’s chief whip in the assembly. Asked why only 22 of the 52 BJP MLAs supported Adhikari’s nomination, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “He was unanimously elected. Even those who are the districts told us that they would accept the party’s decision.” Adding to this, Adhikari said, “The fact that no other name was proposed means the decision was unanimous. All wings of the BJP and people supported the nomination.”TMC leaders did not want to comment on one of their former colleagues becoming the leader of the opposition.Kolkata-based political science professor and poll analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay said, “Adhikari joined the BJP five months ago. His becoming leader of the opposition may demoralise many leaders who worked hard for years and helped the saffron camp grow in Bengal.”Adhikari became a legislator for the first time in 2006 and was later elected to the Lok Sabha. He was also made president of the TMC’s youth wing but Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee replaced him in 2014. His younger brother Dibyendu Adhikari is the TMC’s Lok Sabha member from Tamluk. The youngest sibling, Soumendu, headed the Contai civic body before joining the saffron camp in January.Polls were held in 292 of Bengal’s 294 assembly seats. Polls at two seats in the Murshidabad district will be held later as two opposition party candidates died of Covid-19 during the unprecedented eight-phase polling held between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/extmc-minister-suvendu-adhikari-becomes-leader-of-the-opposition-in-bengal-101620658519464.html
10-05-2021||Kolkata||Durga idol makers in Kolkata's Kumartuli anxious about business in second Covid-hit year||The second wave of coronavirus has made the artisans of Kumartuli, the famed colony of clay modellers in north Kolkata, anxious if they are facing the same scenario of last year when Dura Puja organisers ordered smaller, less priced idols to suit their reduced budget induced by the pandemic. Kumartuli supplies idols of gods and goddesses to various parts of the country and abroad and the artisans earn the most during the Durga Puja, the largest festival of West Bengal.The modellers said they are also worried that the already dwindling number of their workers may further go down as the apprehension of a total lockdown from mid-May is gaining ground in the neighbourhood where many people have been affected by Covid-19."Most of the well-known artists of Kumartuli have got a few orders (of Durga idol) before the sudden rise in cases and various restrictions were imposed," Sujit Pal, one of the leading clay modellers in the potter's colony, told PTI.The West Bengal government has ordered the closure of shopping complexes, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, sports complexes, and allowed shops and markets to operate for reduced hours to check the spread of the infection.Pal received two bookings for Durga idols one from a community puja organiser which is celebrating its golden jubilee this year and the other from a family in late March when the Covid situation was not so alarming in the state.He said that they do not want to press the panic button yet as less than 10 per cent of total orders are booked during the Bengali months of Chaitra and Baisakh from mid- March to mid-May."But the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases and the intensity of the second wave are causing anxiety among us. How long will this last? Will there be a third wave as predicted? Pal said.The Durga Puja festival will be held in October this year.He said that a number of cases of infection were reported in the neighbouring pockets of Kumartuli, though the colony was not much affected as yet.The apprehension of a total lockdown after May 15 has made the 100-odd workers currently employed in the workshops scared "and they are planning to leave for their homes in districts", the artist said. Even this workforce is very less as Kumartuli employs at least six-seven times more people in this time of the year when idols of other goddesses are made."Work on all these idols will come to a halt if we don't have labourers," Pal said. Each modeller received orders for one or two idols of goddess Shitala and Raksha Kali, the pujas of whom are held in summer, instead of four-five in other years.The artists of Kumartuli wait for the Rathyatra days in July when booking for Durga idols starts frenetically.However, in 2020 when the Covid-19 and the lockdown triggered a decline in the booking of Durga idols till September, many organisers settled for smaller idols of 6-7 feet height instead of the average 12-13 feet because they were less priced, Pal said.The budget of big-ticket Durga Pujas took a hard knock due to the economic impact of the Covid-19 outbreak last year as sponsorship by corporate advertisers was reduced, leading to scaling down of the grandeur."They (organisers) had also opted for low-height traditional ekchala idols which cost less. However, as the situation eased after the Durga Puja, the order for Kali or Jagaddhatri idols went up," he said.Artisan Chaina Pal, one of the prominent women involved in the trade in Kumartuli, said that the situation was very encouraging before the Saraswati puja in February this year "as people thought coronavirus has gone will not return".However, she is keeping her fingers crossed. "I am sure orders (for Durga idols) will start pouring in from July and we can see a spurt in demand from September."Chaina Pal has received bookings for three Durga idols, all household pujas, and the number is not less in comparison to the corresponding period of 2019."My workers are at my studio and the initial work of creating the idols has completed," she said.Another modeller Prodyut Pal said there has been no booking, not even from overseas, and work has stopped in many studios including his."The money at the hands of us, from the earnings last year, has kept us going till now. We don't know what lies in future," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/durga-idol-makers-in-kolkata-s-kumartuli-anxious-about-business-in-second-covid-hit-year-101620655361976.html
10-05-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19 in Bengal: Strict measures taken to control spread of virus; total lockdown will hamper livelihood, says CM||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said strict measures have been taken to control the spread of the Covid-19 in the state, while also maintaining that a total lockdown, if imposed, will hamper livelihood of people.Contending that peace prevails in the state, she said that her government will act against the ones circulating fake videos over post-poll violence.Urging the Centre to facilitate free-of-cost vaccines for all in the country, she said that her government won't be charging anything for innoculating its people."We have taken strict measures... The number of hospital beds in the state (for Covid-19 patients) have been increased to 30,000. Also, all medical college hospitals in the state have been asked to set up oxygen plants and given liberty to decide on further increase in the number of beds."A total lockdown will hamper the livelihood of people, especially those of daily wage earners," the chief minister told reporters at the state secretariat after the first cabinet meeting of her newly formed government.She requested faithfuls to hold small prayer meetings with less than 50 people in attendance on Eid ul-Fitr.The CM said that her government has sought three crore vaccines from the Centre for Bengal, of which one crore will be distributed among private hospitals."Several steps, such as suspension of local train services, are being taken to break the chain of virus transmission. Every person should strictly abide by the Covid-19 protocols, and behave like a lockdown was in force across the state," she insisted.Banerjee further said that a negative RT-PCR test will be made mandatory for all those coming to West Bengal from outside, even if they fly to the state via helicopters or special flights.Asking media persons to refrain from causing panic among people, the CM further said that a Pandemic Act will be enforced soon to deal with such issues.Banerjee thanked common people and corporate houses for providing valuable aid to the state government for boosting its healthcare infrastructure.She requested them to continue backing the administration financially for purchase of requisite vaccines, assuring that there will be an audit of all expenditure made with the money.The CM iterated that the Centre should do away with GST on any initiative to build health infrastructure amid the pandemic so that more number of corporate entities can come forward to provide assistance."As the central government is not providing any financial aid, we can strengthen healthcare infrastructure and buy vaccines with the support rendered by corporate entities and other residents."Bengal needs 550 metric tonne oxygen, but the Centre has allotted it a little over 300 metric tonne," she claimed.Claiming that the Centre has reportedly exported 65 per cent of vaccines produced in the country, she said, "I ask the Union government to mull over its options and source more vaccines, if necessary from foreign countries."The CM stated that the cabinet has formed a committee comprising chief secretary and other top officials of home, finance and health departments to address gaps in critical infrastructure."This committee will look into implementation of promises made to the people after the Covid-19 situation is brought under control," she said.Talking about the allegations made in reference to post-poll violence in Bengal, the chief minister claimed that the BJP's IT cell was spreading rumours with fake videos."People have given their verdict (in the recently concluded election) for peace and unity. We will not tolerate any violence," she underlined."Barring one incident in Sitalkuchi (CISF firing), there has been no genocide in West Bengal. A government has taken charge in Bengal following a landslide victory, why should a central team be sent within 24 hours after the new dispensation took over?" she stated, lashing out at the Ministry of Home Affairs that sent a four-member group to find out reasons for post-poll violence in the state.Accusing the central team of adopting a "partisan attitude", the chief minister said that the team was only visiting the houses of BJP workers."Half of those killed are from our party, we have declared relief (of ₹2 lakh) for all, no matter which party they belong to, including the BJP," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-in-bengal-strict-measures-taken-to-control-spread-of-virus-says-cm-101620654438596.html
10-05-2021||Kolkata||Suvendu Adhikari chosen opposition leader to take on Mamata in West Bengal house||The BJP on Monday unanimously elected Suvendu Adhikari as Leader of Opposition in the new West Bengal Assembly to take on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the house. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad announced Adhikari's name as leader of the BJP legislature party in the assembly after a meeting of the legislators at the party's Hastings office. The saffron party has emerged as the main opposition party winning 77 seats in the 294-member house. Adhikari has been preferred by the saffron party ahead of senior party leaders like Mukul Roy, who also got elected from Nadia constituency, to take on Banerjee in the house. The ruling TMC bagged 213 seats while Indian Secular Front emerged victorious in one assembly segment and an Independent R S Lepcha, belonging to the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) won from Kalimpong. Congress and the Left party drew a blank. Voting in two assembly segments will take place in future. Since BJP has the overwhelming numbers in the opposition camp, Adhikari becomes the leader of opposition in the house, party President Dilip Ghosh later told reporters at a media briefing. While 22 MLAs present at the meeting pledged support to Adhikari, those absent were either on the side of the workers facing TMC attack in the districts while two are down with Covid, Ghosh said when asked about the reason why not all the MLAs were present at the meeting. "If others don't oppose the selection that means they are supporting the name proposed. It is not mandatory for every single legislator to pledge support vocally," Adhikari, who was present, said. Senior leader Mukul Roy, who was elected from an assembly segment in Nadia district, said "Suvendu will lead BJP to greater height in the house and fight the misdeeds of ruling party in state." Roy once considered number two in the TMC, was the saffron party's chief architect in driving away many legislators from the ruling camp to them. Adhikari said "I have been MLA since 2006. I have seen arrogance of the then CPI(M) led regime. We have to constructively perform the role of opposition in the assembly adhering to parliamentary norms." He said the BJP will continue to take up the issue of Trinamool Congress attack on political rivals, the terror unleashed by the TMC and fight for democratic right of every citizen. Union minister and senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad and Bhupendra Yadav were the observers at the election of Adhikari as BJP legislature party leader. Adhikari had won the elections from Nandigram assembly seat, defeating his former boss-turned-political adversary Mamata Banerjee by a narrow margin of over 1900 votes. Adhikari was one of the key associates of Banerjee during the Nandigram land movement in 2007-08 and was instrumental in the formation of anti-land acquisition committee formed in 2007 which launched a fierce struggle foiling the bid of the then Buddhadeb Bhattacharya government to set up a petrochemical hub in the area acquiring thousands of acres of farm land. A former state minister, having handled several key portfolios including transport and environment, Adhikari had joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/suvendu-adhikari-chosen-opposition-leader-to-take-on-mamata-in-west-bengal-house-101620648539742.html
10-05-2021||Kolkata||'Signals end of democracy': Bengal governor spotlights post-poll violence||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Monday said that the state is embroiled in violence after the assembly elections which concluded on May 2, in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress (TMC) emerged victorious. The governor said that the real ground situation has been masked and the elected government will have to address the grim reality, reported news agency ANI."Post poll, we are in a deep crisis in the state. The retributive violence and acts of arson, loot now have graduated to intimidation and extortion. This is worrisome," Dhankar was quoted as saying by ANI.The governor's comments come shortly after he administered the oath of office and secrecy to 43 ministers who will be part of the third cabinet of the Mamata Banerjee government.Asking Mamata's government to engage in soul searching, Dhankar said, "All is well, there’s no violence (is being projected) but the ground situation is otherwise. I expect state government to engage in soul searching, address grim ground reality and book the culprits who have chosen to tarnish our democratic fabric.""If your vote becomes a cause of your death or property destruction, if it leads to arson, then that signals the end of democracy," he said.Governor Dhankar has alleged that the state government has not made arrangements for his visit to affected parts in Bengal."As part of my constitutional duty, I've decided to visit affected parts in state and asked the government to make arrangements. Unfortunately, their response hasn't been very responsive," the Governor said.I'll go ahead with my schedule and make arrangements for my visit in the coming days, he told ANI.Clashes were reported from several places in Bengal following the declaration of assembly election results on May 2. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee recently said at least 16 people have lost their lives in post-poll violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/signals-end-of-democracy-bengal-governor-spotlights-post-poll-violence-101620636368108.html
10-05-2021||Kolkata||Believe in judiciary, will get clean chit in Narada scam probe: Firhad Hakim||West Bengal Minister Firhad Hakim on Monday said that he was sure that "we will get a clean chit" in the Narada scam being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against him and other TMC leaders."I believe in the judiciary and I am sure we will get a clean chit. It is good that it is going to the court now and I will say my words and the judiciary will do justice," he said on being asked about West Bengal Governor sanctioning prosecution against him in the Narada case.He further alleged that the Central Government and the Prime Minister have failed to tackle the Covid-19 situation."This is time to work, as the Central Government and Prime Minister have failed to tackle the Covid-19 situation. It is a hard time for all of us and we will fight definitely with the blessings of God," he added.Earlier in the day, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim were among the 43 Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders were sworn in as ministers in Mamata Banerjee's Cabinet on Monday here at Raj Bhavan.West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has sanctioned the prosecution of former ministers and TMC top brass Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada scam being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The Narada scam made national headlines in 2014 when Journalist Matthew Samuel conducted a sting operation in Kolkata. In the purported sting operation video, TMC leaders were seen taking money. A police officer was also seen in the video.According to CBI sources, permission was sought from the Governor to file a chargesheet under Section 6 of the Anti-Corruption Act against the four ministers. Finally, Dhankhar has given his consent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/believe-in-judiciary-will-get-clean-chit-in-narada-scam-probe-firhad-hakim-101620635796728.html
10-05-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata’s civic body takes Rapid Antigen Test to doorstep||With Kolkata registering the highest number of new Covid-19 case every day among all districts in West Bengal, the city’s civic body has planned to take Rapid Antigen Test to the doorstep of citizens. “When the first wave hit in 2020, we had seen that many housing societies and high-rise buildings became hot spots of Covid-19. Many had to be declared as containment zones,” said a senior Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) official. With a dedicated helpline, the KMC plans to reach these high-rise buildings and large housing societies. “A dedicated mobile number (9831036572) has been launched for the purpose. Residents living in high-rise buildings and large housing societies can call on this number. If the number of residents is more than 30, the KMC would send a vehicle to conduct tests there,” said a senior official of the civic body. Also Read | Maharashtra Covid-19 vaccine drive gets a 1 million Covishield fillipOn Sunday, Kolkata registered 3,966 new cases while the death toll was 28 in the last 24 hours. The city has around 26,000 active cases. “Kolkata, together with the two adjacent districts of North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, accounts for nearly 50% of the 19,441 new cases that have been recorded on Sunday,” said a senior official of the state health department. “Reports of RT-PCR may take up to 72 hours to arrive at, so the KMC is ramping up Rapid Antigen Tests, the results of which take only a few hours,” said the official. The civic body and the state government have also urged the large housing societies and high-rise campuses to come up with quarantine facilities and isolation centres with oxygen facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkatas-civic-body-takes-rapid-antigen-test-to-doorstep-101620627377701.html
10-05-2021||Kolkata||Third Mamata Banerjee-led cabinet to take oath today. Top guns to remain in ranks. Here's what we know so far||After the resounding victory of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the recently concluded 2021 West Bengal legislative assembly elections, the third Mamata Banerjee cabinet will take shape on Monday, with 43 ministers slated to take their oaths. Leaders familiar with the development have said that the new cabinet is set to be a mix of political veterans and younger leaders, with the chief minister reposing her faith in seasoned party members like Amit Mitra and Akhil Giri. According to media reports, the swearing-in ceremony of the West Bengal ministers will be conducted today at 10:45am in Kolkata without much carousing, owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic this time.Also Read: Bengal cabinet to take shape today with swearing-inWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already submitted to the governor the list of 43 party members about to be sworn in on Monday, local dailies report. Although the ministerial portfolios have not been disclosed yet, political commentators have already started matching names to the post. Here's how the soon-to-form third Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal cabinet looks like:West Bengal ministers1. Subrata Mukherjee2. Partha Chatterjee3. Amit Mitra4. Sadhan Pande5. Jyotipriya Mallick6. Bankim Chandra Hazra7. Manas Bhunia8. Soumen Mahapatra9. Moloy Ghatak10. Aroop Biswas11. Ujjwal Biswas12. Arup Roy13. Rathin Ghosh14. Firhad Hakim15. Chandranath Sinha16. Sovandeb Chattopadhyay17. Bratya Basu18. Pulak Roy19. Shashi Panja20. Md. Ghulam Rabbani21. Biplab Mitra22. Javed Ahmed Khan23. Swapan Debnath24. Siddiqullah ChowdhuryWest Bengal ministers of state (independent charge)25. Becharam Manna26. Subrata Saha27. Humayun Kabir28. Akhil Giri29. Chandrima Bhattacharya30. Ratna De Nag31. Sandhya Rani Tudu32. Bulu Chik Baraik33. Sujit Basu34. Indranil SenWest Bengal ministers of state35. Dilip Mondal36. Akhruzzaman37. Seuli Saha38. Srikanta Mahata39. Sabina Yeasmin40. Birbaha Hansda41. Jyotsna Mandi42. Paresh Chandra Adhikary43. Manoj TiwaryAlthough the West Bengal assembly elections this year were fraught with allegations of 'betrayal' and changing allegiances, the cabinet list makes it apparent that TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee is rearranging fealty within the party and rewarding loyalty. An example of this is the conferring of a ministerial charge to Akhil Giri, locally known for his Medinipur faction against that of turncoat strongman leader Suvendu Adhikari. Members who toed the party line are also being suitably recognised.According to TMC leaders, Subrata Mukherjee, Partha Chatterjee, Javed Khan, and Moloy Ghatak are among the senior leaders that are likely to return to the cabinet. Actor Birbaha Hansda and former cricketer Manoj Tiwary are also likely to be made ministers of state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-third-mamata-banerjee-led-cabinet-to-take-oath-today-here-s-what-we-know-so-far-minister-state-assembly-101620615576782.html
10-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengal cabinet to take shape today with swearing-in||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet is set to be a mix of political veterans and young leaders, with 43 ministers scheduled to take oath on Monday, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders familiar with the matter said on Sunday.Speaking on condition of anonymity, the TMC leaders said Mamata had prepared a list of 24 cabinet and 19 ministers of state.Although the CM did not disclose the ministerial portfolios, party insiders said Amit Mitra was likely to return as the finance minister even though he did not contest the recently concluded state polls.Also read | Amit Mitra to be Bengal finance minister for 3rd time, new cabinet to have mix of seniors, debutants“With the party winning 213 seats, Mitra can contest and emerge as a winner from any seat, including Khardah which he earlier held (and now is vacant),” a top TMC leader told HT on condition of anonymity.Subrata Mukherjee, Partha Chatterjee, Javed Khan and Moloy Ghatak are among the senior leaders that are likely to return to the cabinet, TMC leaders said. They added that actor Birbaha Hansda and former cricketer Manoj Tiwary are also likely to be made ministers of state.Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay said Mamata must choose her cabinet wisely. “Amit Mitra can be the finance minister but it needs to be seen who all gets charge of other important departments, education for example,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-cabinet-to-take-shape-today-with-swearingin-101620600124687.html
