17-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal governor urges Mamata Banerjee to follow ‘constitutional norms’ as chaos erupts over arrest of TMC leaders||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took to Twitter on Monday to express alarm and urge the state’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee to follow constitutional norms and rule of law as chaos descended in Kolkata over the arrest of 4 Trinamool Congress party members by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 2016 Narada sting operation case.“Concerned at alarming situation. Call upon @MamataOfficial to follow constitutional norms and rule of law,” Dhankar tweetedConcerned at alarming situation. Call upon @MamataOfficial to follow constitutional norms & rule of law. Police @WBPolice @KolkataPolice @HomeBengal must take all steps to maintain law & order. Sad- situation is being allowed to drift with no tangible action by authorities.CBI arrested Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Madan Mitra, and Sovan Chatterjee on Monday, in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. Mamata Banerjee rushed to CBI’s office at Nizam Palace where the four were held and demanded she be arrested too, a source within TMC told HT. TMC workers and supporters took to the streets to protest the arrests. Reports emerged of shoes, bricks, and bottles being hurled at central forces stationed at Nizam Palace.Dhankar also asked West Bengal Police, Kolkata Police, and the state home department to take necessary steps to maintain law and order.“Police @WBPolice @KolkataPolice @HomeBengal must take all steps to maintain law & order. Sad situation is being allowed to drift with no tangible action by authorities,” he added.The Narada sting case dates back to 2016 and featured many high-profile TMC leaders receiving money on camera for fictitious companies. Besides those arrested, leader of opposition in the legislative assembly Suvendu Adhikari and BJP leader Mukul Roy were also recorded by Mathew Samuel, the man behind the sting operation.Both Hakim and Mukherjee are sitting ministers in Banerjee’s cabinet, Mitra, a member of the legislative assembly, has been arrested before for his alleged role in the Sharada scandal, Chatterjee joined BJP but quit on being denied a party ticket for the recently concluded assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-governor-urges-mamata-banerjee-to-follow-constitutional-norms-as-chaos-erupts-over-arrest-of-tmc-leaders-101621243149644.html
17-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Arrest me’: Mamata Banerjee tells CBI after 4 held in Narada sting operation case||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials to arrest her as well, said Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Anindya Raut, after four people, including three current TMC leaders and a former party leader, were arrested by the agency on Monday in connection with the Narada sting operation case.Also Read | Narada sting case: CBI arrests Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and 2 othersBanerjee, who also heads the TMC, arrived at the agency’s office at Nizam Palace in Kolkata, just minutes after the arrests of Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and Madan Mitra, along with former TMC leader Sovan Chatterjee, who is also a former mayor of Kolkata. Among these, Hakim and Mukherjee are sitting ministers in the West Bengal government headed by Banerjee, Mitra is an MLA, while Chatterjee joined the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2019, but resigned after being denied a ticket by the BJP from his traditional assembly constituency Behala east for the recently-held assembly elections in the eastern state.#WATCH | West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee arrived at the CBI office pic.twitter.com/eNvpSeu692On May 9, exactly a week after the TMC emerged victorious as the counting of votes for the assembly elections was held, West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar gave the nod to prosecute the four accused in the case.Also Read | Narada sting operation: Governor allows CBI to prosecute 3 TMC MLAsReacting to the arrests, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh called it “illegal” and “undemocratic.” Meanwhile, Biman Banerjee, TMC leader and speaker of the West Bengal assembly, said, “CBI didn’t inform us. If they’ve been arrested, it is illegal. The prior permission of the legislative assembly speaker is required but was not taken.”Also Read | Believe in judiciary, will get clean chit in Narada scam probe: Firhad HakimThe BJP, which has a government at the Centre to which the CBI reports, said it has nothing to do with the arrests. “We have nothing to say. The BJP has nothing to do with this,” said state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharjee.Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee have been arrested under sections 120b of the IPC and sections 7 and 13(1)(a) 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. They will be produced in a court later in the day.The case pertains to a series of videos uploaded by the Narada News portal in 2016, ahead of that year’s assembly elections. In the videos, several high-profile TMC leaders can be seen receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/arrest-me-mamata-banerjee-tells-cbi-after-4-held-in-narada-sting-operation-case-101621230338117.html
17-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengali poet Joy Goswami tests positive for Covid-19||Renowned Bengali poet Joy Goswami, who tested positive for Covid-19, has been admitted to a hospital here, a health department official said.The 66-year-old poet was taken to Beleghata ID and BG Hospital on Sunday night as he was suffering from high fever, he said."Goswami was first admitted to a general ward and later shifted to the Covid section after he tested positive for the infection. He is undergoing treatment and his condition is stable now," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengali-poet-joy-goswami-tests-positive-for-covid19-101621231513161.html
17-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting case: CBI arrests Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and 2 others||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested two West Bengal ministers - Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim - an MLA of the ruling Trinamool Congress Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Souvan Chatterjee in connection with the Narada sting operation case. CBI officials visited their house on Monday morning and brought the leaders for questioning at their office in Kolkata's Nizam Palace.All four leaders will be produced in the court later in the day. They have been arrested under sections 120b of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 7 and 13(1)(a) 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act."The CBI did not intimate us (about the arrests). If they have been arrested, it is illegal. The prior permission of the speaker of the legislative assembly is required for it, but it was not taken. This is undemocratic," said West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee.This comes after West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar last week gave permission to the CBI to prosecute them.Chatterjee was with the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), but joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2019. He quit the BJP too after being denied ticket in the assembly polls from his traditional assembly seat of Behala East.Mitra, meanwhile, won the from the Kamarhati seat in West Bengal in the recently-concluded assembly election."We condemn this. This is a vindictive attitude," said Kunal Ghosh, spokesperson of the TMC.The BJP said it has nothing to do with the arrests. "We have nothing to say. BJP has nothing to do with this," said party spokesperson Samik Bhattacharjee.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-questions-west-bengal-ministers-in-narada-sting-case-arrest-likely-101621226939574.html
