18-05-2021||Kolkata||CM wants to revive Bengal’s Vidhan Parishad after 52 years; Left, experts oppose||Barely 12 days after being sworn in as the chief minister of West Bengal for the third time, Mamata Banerjee on Monday cleared a cabinet decision to form Vidhan Parishad, or the Upper House legislative council of the state assembly, which she promised before the polls. Banerjee had said that eminent people and veteran leaders who were not nominated for the assembly elections would be made members of the Vidhan Parishad. Bengal has 294 assembly seats. Since the strength of a Vidhan Parishad cannot be more than a third of the Vidhan Sabha, or legislative assembly, Bengal can have 98 members in the legislative council. The chief minister’s decision has been questioned by political experts and Left leaders who see this as a pointless exercise that will add to the burden on the state exchequer. Incidentally, Banerjee, who lost at Nandigram, and Amit Mitra, who has become finance minister without contesting the polls, must return to the assembly. Since Vidhan Parishad members can become ministers, Mitra is likely to be inducted in the Upper House, said Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders aware of the development. At a virtual meeting of the state cabinet, which took place while two senior ministers and a legislator were in the custody of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Narada sting operation case and Bengal was witnessing demonstrations, Banerjee told senior bureaucrats, who also attended the meeting, to expeditiously prepare a draft bill. TMC leaders said that with a two-thirds majority in the assembly, the party can easily pass a resolution. Only six states - Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra - have Vidhan Parishads right now. Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, Bengal’s first chief minister after Independence, formed the Vidhan Parishad in 1952 and it continued till 1969 when the second United Front government abolished the Upper House by passing a Bill. Vidhan Parishad members are elected by civic body members and elected legislators. The governor can nominate some members as well. Bengal’s last Vidhan Parishad had 75 members, of whom nine were nominated by the governor. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has only 75 MLAs in the Bengal assembly against the TMC’s 213, did not react to the development. The Left parties, which, like the Congress, did not win any seat, opposed the idea. “According to Article 169 of the Constitution, the Parliament has to pass a bill for the creation of Vidhan Parishad and the President’s assent is also mandatory,” said Rabin Deb, a CPI(M) central committee member who served as the chief whip of the Bengal assembly during the Left Front rule. Deb argued that Banerjee and Mitra can easily contest any two of the five seats where polls will be held. Two seats in Cooch Behar and Nadia districts are vacant as the winning BJP candidates resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats. Two candidates at two seats in Murshidabad district died of Covid-19 before the elections were held and the TMC’s winning candidate at Khardah in North 24 Parganas died of Covid-19. Mitra, incidentally, had won from Khardah in the last two polls. “There is no need to form the Vidhan Parishad. The chief minister simply wants to accommodate more people and add to the state’s financial burden. It is another dole. Vidhan Parishad members get the same salary and perks as MLAs elected by people. Like the Rajya Sabha, a Vidhan Parishad also has a chairman and deputy chairman,” said Deb. “Right now, our priority is to save our supporters from post-poll violence. Our party has not discussed this issue yet,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.Forward Bloc, the party freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose formed in 1939 after quitting the Congress and which is a part of the Left Front, is opposed to the formation of the Vidhan Parishad right now. “We are not opposed to the idea in principle but why do it in such a hurry? The Covid pandemic has affected the state’s economy in a big way. People need the government’s support. Why should taxpayers’ money be spent on Vidhan Parishad members? The last Vidhan Parishad was dissolved because it had outlived its purpose and become an easy way out for people who did not want to contest polls,” said Naren Chatterjee, state secretary of the Forward Bloc.Amal Kumar Mukherjee, veteran political scientist and former principal of Presidency College, said, “The legislative council has practically no relevance in the legislative procedure.” “The council’s power is very limited. During Bidhan Roy’s tenure, members of the legislative council were chosen on the basis of their great achievements. For example, the great linguist Suniti Kumar Chatterjee was made the chairman of the council. Gone are those days. Now, everything is determined by politics. I don’t think there is any necessity for a legislative council because it will only agree to whatever is decided by the assembly. Further, it will add a tremendous expenditure. The government, however, cannot form it unless the Parliament gives its consent,” Mukherjee added.Deb said Banerjee first came up with the idea in 2011 after ousting the Left Front government but backed out in the face of opposition from other parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cm-wants-to-revive-bengal-s-vidhan-parishad-after-52-years-left-experts-oppose-101621360094638.html
18-05-2021||Kolkata||Madan Mitra, Sovan Chatterjee admitted to hospital after breathing problem||A day after four Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Narada scam, party's MLA Madan Mitra and former leader Sovan Chatterjee were admitted to SSKM Hospital in Kolkata after they suffered from breathlessness in the wee hours of Tuesday.TMC MLA Madan Mitra and Former Minister Sovan Chatterjee were admitted to SSKM hospital's Woodburn block due to breathing problem at around 3 am.CBI on Monday arrested TMC ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata Mayor Sovan Chatterjee in connection with the Narada sting operation.The leaders were taken to Presidency Jail last night.Earlier on Monday, a team of doctors arrived at the CBI's office for a medical check-up of four TMC leaders who were arrested, in connection with Narada Scam.On Monday evening, following the commotion revolving around the Narada scam, several TMC protesters pelted stones on security forces outside the CBI office.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee took cognizance of the matter and addressed the reporters by saying, "Court will give the decision", as she left from the CBI office.The Narada sting operation was conducted by Narada news founder Mathew Samuel for over two years in West Bengal. Conducted allegedly in 2014 for the news magazine Tehelka, it was published on a private news website Narada News months before the 2016 West Bengal Assembly elections.The case is related to a sting operation, commonly known as Narada Sting Operation, in which these former public servants were caught on camera while receiving illegal gratification from the Sting Operator, Samuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/madan-mitra-sovan-chatterjee-admitted-to-hospital-after-breathing-problem-101621320788027.html
18-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada case: TMC targets Bengal Guv Dhankhar over prosecution sanction||The role of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar came into question as West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) faced a new crisis on Monday following the arrest of two of its heavyweight ministers and a prominent legislator in connection with the Narada sting operation, with the former coming in for criticism from political circles.On May 9, Raj Bhawan said in a statement that the governor had accorded prosecution sanction to the CBI against three TMC MLAs, Madan Mitra, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee. A controversy has broken out over the governor using the interregnum between two governments to accord his consent; in the normal course of events this consent would have been needed from the speaker of the assembly. “The CBI has to seek sanction from the assembly speaker to file a charge sheet against a member of the House. I do not know under which provision and with what intention the governor gave such a clearance to the CBI. I was completely bypassed,” Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee told HT.Also Read| Standoff as Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s ministers held by CBICPI(M) Rajya Sabha member and noted lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya said: “Why is the TMC blaming the governor? This is a legal issue and the probe was ordered by the Calcutta HC and SC. However, the governor’s recent activities and statements show that he is acting in a partisan manner.” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “He came to Bengal as an agent of the BJP. It has been proved once again.”Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu, however, said the governor acted in accordance with the law. “He is aware of the Constitutional provisions,” he said. Dhankar’s office said he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-case-tmc-targets-bengal-guv-dhankhar-over-prosecution-sanction-101621298435374.html
18-05-2021||Kolkata||Standoff as Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s ministers held by CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested two senior West Bengal ministers, a legislator and a former Kolkata mayor on charges of bribery and corruption, triggering fierce protests by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and a six-hour agitation by chief minister Mamata Banerjee.A special CBI local court granted bail to all four accused -- urban development minister Firhad Hakim, panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, Kamarhati MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee -- but the Calcutta high court stayed the order late on Monday. The case will be next heard on Wednesday.The four leaders were arrested from their residences in the morning and charged under Section 120b of the Indian Penal Code (criminal conspiracy) and sections 7 and 13(1)(a) 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act for charges related to the 2016 Narada sting operation bribery case.Shortly afterwards, Banerjee rushed to the CBI’s office at Nizam Palace in south Kolkata and left after nearly six hours. “Mamata told CBI officials that she should also be arrested,” said a TMC leader aware of the developments.Also Read| Mamata Banerjee inducts 43 ministers: Check full list of portfoliosThe case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting, conducted by online news portal Narada News, purportedly caught several senior TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.“The CBI has today arrested four then (former) ministers, government of West Bengal, in a case related to the Narada sting operation... it was alleged that then public servants were caught on camera while receiving illegal gratification from the sting operator,” CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said in Delhi.TMC alleged that CBI was acting on orders by the BJP, which recently lost assembly elections in West Bengal to Banerjee’s party. TMC won 213 seats and BJP could only manage 77.TMC pointed out that two key people shown in the sting -- party vice-president Mukul Roy and Bengal leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari -- had switched to the BJP and weren’t among those arrested on Monday.Also Read| Narada case: No social distancing as TMC workers protest ministers’ arrest“We condemn this. The BJP is not being able to accept the humiliating defeat and hence trying to take revenge. Why isn’t Mukul Roy, vice president of BJP, being arrested? He was also seen in the Narada sting operation,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.Roy moved to BJP in 2017 while Adhikari switched in December 2020.As Banerjee sat on a dharna inside the CBI office, hundreds of TMC workers gathered outside in protest. Some protestors hurled bricks, shoes and bottles at central forces guarding the CBI office. TMC supporters also blocked roads with burning tyres and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Law is taking its own course. BJP has nothing to do with this,” said Samik Bhattacharjee, BJP spokesperson.TMC also claimed procedural lapses in the arrests.Assembly speaker Biman Banerjee said that the arrests were illegal and undemocratic as his permission was not taken. “The speaker’s prior permission is necessary to arrest a legislator and before submitting charge sheet. CBI, however, didn’t take any permission. It is illegal and unconstitutional,” said Banerjee.The federal agency, however, said it sought the permission of West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on May 9. The charge sheet against five accused people, for whom prosecution sanction was received, is being submitted, said Joshi. The fifth accused is Indian Police Service (IPS) officer SMH Mirza, who is out on bail.Banerjee took oath as chief minister for the third time on May 5.Dhankhar condemned the violence. “Total lawlessness & anarchy. Police and administration in silence mode. Hope you realize repercussions of such lawlessness and failure of constitutional mechanism,” he tweeted.In the high court, the matter was virtually hear by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee for nearly an hour after which the bail of the four leaders was stayed. “We were not made a party to the hearing. We have not received the court order. We were kept in the dark. We will plan our next over after going through the order,” said Anindya Raut, advocate and TMC leader.Till the next hearing, the four leaders will be lodged in Kolkata’s Presidency Correctional Home. A huge contingent of Kolkata Police and Rapid Action Force was deployed outside the CBI office at Nizam Palace and Presidency Correctional Home. TMC workers assembled in thousands at both locations on Monday night.Also Watch| Stone pelting, baton charge amid TMC protest against CBI in Kolkata﻿The Congress and the Left backed Banerjee but Communist Party of India (Marxist) Rajya Sabha MP, senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, said: “The arrests were not illegal. They have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act. While taking cognizance, the court would see whether the crime has anything to do with the work of the assembly or the speaker. If it has nothing to do, then no permission is required.”Mathew Samuel, chief executive of Narada News, said his fight was against corruption. “It was a long wait. Finally, I got the result...My question is what happened to Suvendu Adhikari? He also received the money from me. It was recorded and handed over to CBI. Justice has to go everywhere in same manner,” said Samuel.Hakim said the arrests have stalled Covid-19 work in the state, which is under lockdown to arrest surging infections. “My colleagues who bent down to their pressure tactics and joined BJP are spared from the arrest today and harassment by CBI,” he said.Mitra thanked Banerjee for her support. “Justice will prevail.#khelahobe (game on),” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/standoff-as-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-s-ministers-held-by-cbi-101621286031169.html
18-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting case: CBI arrests 4 people, including 2 Bengal ministers||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested three Trinamool Congress legislators, including two cabinet ministers, and the former mayor of Kolkata in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case.Late on Monday night, the Calcutta High Court stayed the bail of all four leaders. Earlier in the day, a special CBI court had granted interim bail to the four leaders. The CBI, however, refused to release them till late in the night, while the agency moved the Calcutta High Court against the order of the special court.The matter was virtually heard by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee for nearly an hour after which the bail was stayed.“We were not made a party to the hearing. We have not received the court order. We were kept in the dark. We will plan our next over after going through the order,” said Anindya Raut, advocate.The next hearing would be held on Wednesday. Till then the four leaders would be lodged in the Presidency Correctional Home. “We just came to know that the bail order has been reversed and stayed by the Calcutta High Court till Wednesday,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of BJP’ unit in West Bengal.Following their arrest chief minister Mamata Banerjee rushed to the CBI’s office at Nizam Palace in south Kolkata. She left after nearly six hours.A huge contingent of the Kolkata Police and Rapid Action Force was deployed outside the CBI office at Nizam Palace and Presidency correctional home. TMC workers assembled in thousands at both locations.“Mamata told CBI officials that she should also be arrested,” a TMC leader, aware of the development, told the media.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. “The CBI has today arrested four then (former) ministers, government of West Bengal in a case related to the Narada sting operation... it was alleged that then public servants were caught on camera while receiving illegal gratification from the sting operator,” CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said in Delhi. All four leaders were booked under sections 120b of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 7 and 13(1)(a) 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The TMC alleged that the CBI was acting on BJP’s orders as the party was behaving in a vindictive manner after losing the assembly elections. While the TMC won 213 seats, the BJP could only manage 77 seats. “We condemn this. The BJP is not being able to accept the humiliating defeat and hence trying to take revenge. Why isn’t Mukul Roy, vice president of BJP being arrested? He was also seen in the Narada sting operation,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.Hundreds of TMC workers hit the streets and protested against the arrest of their leaders. Tension mounted when some protestors hurled bricks, shoes and bottles at the central forces, guarding the CBI office. TMC supporters blocked roads with burning tyres, burnt effigies of the Prime Minister.“Law is taking its own course. BJP has nothing to do with this,” said Samik Bhattacharjee, BJP spokesperson. The Speaker of the West Bengal legislative assembly said that the arrests were illegal and undemocratic as his permission was not taken. “The speaker’s prior permission is necessary to arrest a legislator and before submitting charge sheet. The CBI, however, didn’t take any permission. It is illegal and unconstitutional,” said West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee.On May 9, West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had “accorded sanction for prosecution” of Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee. CPIM Rajya Sabha MP, former mayor and senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya however said, “The arrests were not illegal. They have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act. While taking cognizance, the court would see whether the crime has anything to do with the work of the assembly or the speaker. If it has nothing to do, then no permission is required.”“It was a long wait. Finally, I got the result. This is a fight against corruption. My question is what happened to Suvendu Adhikari? He also received the money from me. It was recorded and handed over to CBI. Justice has to go everywhere in the same manner,” said Mathew Samuel, chief executive of Narada News, who conducted the sting operation purportedly showing senior Trinamool Congress leaders accepting bribes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-case-cbi-arrests-4-people-including-2-bengal-ministers-101621276691360.html
