20-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengal CID summons BJP Lok Sabha MP Arjun Singh in economic offence case||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the West Bengal police on Thursday night served summon notice to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Lok Sabha member Arjun Singh in connection with an economic offence that was allegedly committed when he was a Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator, HT has learnt.“It is evident during the investigation that you have sufficient knowledge in this case,” said the notice, a copy of which was seen by HT.“They (state police) will file all sorts of cases against me. This is not surprising. The government is after me,” Singh told HT.Asked whether he would visit the CID office in person, Singh said, “I have five days to think about it.”The first information report (FIR) was lodged on July 28, 2020, more than a year after Singh wrested the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat from the TMC’s then incumbent MP Dinesh Trivedi who has also joined the saffron camp.The development came three days after urban development minister Firhad Hakim, panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, Kamarhati legislator Madan Mitra and former TMC leader Sovan Chatterjee were arrested from their homes on Monday morning by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case in which they are accused to taking bribe. All four are in judicial custody.CID officials visited Singh’s residence at Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas district on Thursday night and put up the notice on the entrance to the house. He has been asked to appear for questioning at the CID headquarters in Kolkata’s Alipore area at 11 am on May 25.The case was registered at Bhatpara police station under sections 403,409,420, 486, 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The state police had earlier raided the residences of Singh and some of his relatives.In August last year, police raided Singh’s home in connection with the case which allegedly involves financial irregularities to the tune of ₹11 crore at Bhatpara municipality and a local cooperative bank.Singh was chairman of the Bhatpara municipality from 2010 to 2019. He left the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and joined the BJP in March 2019. He also headed the bank’s board.Recognised as a heavyweight leader, Singh was a four-time legislator of the TMC from Bhatpara before he joined the BJP and defeated Trivedi in 2019. The election was marked by violence which continues intermittently in the region. Singh’s son and brother-in-law are also sitting legislators of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-cid-summons-bjp-lok-sabha-mp-arjun-singh-in-economic-offence-case-101621535001495.html
20-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata writes to PM Modi for Covid-19 vaccines for state, central govt employees||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday in a letter urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to arrange Covid-19 vaccines for state and central government employees. In the letter, she requested the Prime Minister for 20 lakh vaccine doses to cover the vaccination process of all employees engaged in the priority sectors without further delay."I request you to kindly arrange vaccines for these priority sector Central government employees working all over the country along with state Government employees without any further delay," Banerjee said in the letter, adding that the inoculation for frontline workers involving extensive interface with the public is of paramount importance.Also read: Sonia Gandhi writes to PM, seeks free education for kids orphaned by CovidBanerjee further said that the state government has taken several steps to complete the vaccination process of employees in frontline positions and electorally engaged employees across several sectors but minimally 20 lakh vaccine doses are still required to cover vaccination of all employees."The railway employees, the employees working in the airports and the ports etc. are working to keep essential activities uninterrupted. Similar is the position of employees of Banks, Insurance, Post & Telegraphs, Defence, Coal, etc. They have been forced to face people, to mingle with the public for discharge of their duties. In the process, they are running the risk of being affected by Covid 19. It is important that they are vaccinated without delay and irrespective of age groups," Banerjee's letter to boost the vaccination supply to the Prime Minister read.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Earlier, the West Bengal chief minister had alleged that the CMs meeting with the Prime Minister was 'super flop' and that she and her counterparts from other states were not allowed to speak, which was like insulting. She also said that the central government does not have 'proper plans' to handle the Covid situation of the country.India so far has administered more than 18.70 crore vaccine doses, according to the health ministry data. West Bengal has given more than 1.27 crore vaccine doses to date, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-writes-to-pm-modi-for-covid-19-vaccines-for-state-central-govt-employees-101621506937718.html
20-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting: Bench to not assemble today, ministers may spend another night in jail||Four heavyweight leaders, including two cabinet ministers, who were arrested by the CBI in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case on Monday, may have to spend another night in jail custody, as the first division bench of the Calcutta high court was unable to assembly on Thursday to hear their bail plea. “Due to unavoidable circumstances the first division bench didn’t assembly today. The case could not be heard by the bench,” said an advocate who is also a TMC leader. The division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee was supposed to hear the case today. The bench heard the bail pleas of the arrested leaders on Wednesday for around two hours. The hearing, however, didn’t end and the court decided to hear it again on Thursday.Cabinet ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC legislator Madan Mitra, and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who were arrested by the CBI on Monday, have spent three nights in judicial custody after the high court stayed the interim bail granted to them by a special CBI court. The CBI had opposed the bail of the leaders on the ground that they can influence the witnesses and investigation, and has also sought transfer of the trial of the case. Wednesday saw a pitched courtroom battle with senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Siddharth Luthra and Kalyan Banerjee, who also happens to be a TMC MP, pleading for the arrested leaders. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, opposed the bail. Also Read | CBI makes Mamata party to Narada plea; TMC files FIREven though the leaders were sent to judicial custody, they all had to be admitted in hospitals after their complaint of illness on Tuesday. While Hakim is admitted in the hospital of Presidency Correctional Home, the rest were admitted to the state-run SSKM hospital. “They (four leaders) are not in jail. They are in hospital. They should be in jail. That is my case,” Mehta told the court The SSKM hospital authorities have set up a medical board for their treatment. Hakim, who was suffering from fever, tested negative for Covid-19. Singhvi, however, argued that the CBI was trying to keep the leaders in jail for a few more days “by hook or crook, more by hook than crook”. “All the accused are in hospital. Where can they run away?” Singhvi asked, while seeking bail. The case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting operation, conducted by online news portal Narada News, purportedly caught several senior TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company. On Monday, soon after the arrests, chief minister Mamata Banerjee staged a dharna at the CBI’s office in Kolkata, while state law minister had led nearly 3,000 TMC workers and supporters to the court premises. Outside the CBI’s office in south Kolkata, hundreds of TMC supporters staged a protest hurling bricks, bottles and shoes at the central forces. “I don’t think anywhere else in the country such shocking incidents have happened where a premier investigating agency, which has been entrusted with the investigation by this court, is stopped from doing its job,” Mehta told the court. In response, Singhvi described the chief minister’s dharna at the agency’s office for six hours as a ”Gandhian way of protest” without any exhortation of violence. Meanwhile, the CBI on Wednesday named Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak and senior lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the case out of the state, claiming violent protests orchestrated by Trinamool Congress hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-calcutta-hc-to-take-up-bail-pleas-of-4-arrested-politicians-today-101621486181537.html
20-05-2021||Kolkata||CBI makes Mamata party to Narada plea; TMC files FIR||HT Correspondentletters@hindustantimes.comKolkata The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday named Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak and senior lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the Narada corruption case out of the state, claiming violent protests orchestrated by the Trinamool Congress have hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.The four senior Bengal leaders arrested on corruption charges spent their third night in judicial custody after the Calcutta high court decided to continue hearing their bail plea on Thursday. In Kolkata, minister of state for health Chandrima Bhattacharya filed an FIR against CBI over the arrest of senior ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, and legislator Madan Mitra, alleging they were held illegally.The three leaders, along with former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee, were arrested on Monday morning in connection with the 2014 sting operation (details of which went public in 2016), setting off fierce protests by the TMC and a six-hour long agitation at CBI office by Banerjee.In its transfer petition, the agency claimed the protests and stone-pelting mob prevented CBI officers from physically producing the accused in the court. “The CBI court passed the order granting bail to the four under the cloud of mobocracy, pressure, threat and violence and is a nullity in the eyes of law,” the federal agency said, marking the first time in recent history that a sitting chief minister was named in a case transfer petition. The bail granted by the special CBI court on Monday evening was stayed by the high court hours later.TMC rejected the charge and blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“I am not going into the merits of the case it is sub judice. But the timing of the arrest and the manner in which the case is being dealt clearly shows BJP is behaving in a vindictive manner. It is not being able to digest the humiliating defeat and accept the people’s mandate. We have full faith on the judiciary,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokespersonWednesday saw a pitched courtroom battle before the division bench of acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee. All four leaders are in hospital currently. Hakim is admitted in the hospital of Presidency Correctional Home, the other three are at state-run SSKM hospital.“They (four leaders) are not in jail. They are in hospital. They should be in jail. That is my case,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing CBI, told the court, adding that all the four accused were highly influential and can influence the witnesses and investigation.But Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the four leaders, argued CBI was trying to keep the leaders in jail for one more day or two more days, “by hook or crook, more by hook than crook”.“All the accused are in hospital. Where can they run away?” Singhvi questioned while seeking bail, adding that no court can stay interim bail without giving notice to the accused.The case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting, conducted by online news portal Narada News, purportedly caught several senior TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.TMC alleged the arrests were political vendetta by BJP,which lost the recent assembly polls, and questioned why CBI hasn’t arrested Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, who were also seen in the sting but have since switched from the TMC to the BJP.On Monday, soon after the four were arrested, Banerjee staged a dharna at the CBI’s office in Kolkata, while state law minister Moloy Ghatak led nearly 3,000 workers and supporters to the court premises. Outside CBI’s office in south Kolkata, hundreds of TMC supporters staged a protest hurling bricks, bottles and shoes at central forces.CBI said it was an orchestrated attempt to frustrate the course of justice and that there was “unprecedented hooliganism”.“I don’t think anywhere else in the country such shocking incidents have happened where a premier investigating agency, which has been entrusted with the investigation by this court, is stopped from doing its job,” Mehta told the court.In response, Singhvi described the chief minister’s dharna as a “Gandhian way of protest” without any exhortation of violence.“Merely because a matter has gone to court, it will not stop democratic dissent. It would be negation of democracy to say that just because the matter is before court you cannot peacefully protest outside,” Singhvi told the court.BJP dismissed TMC’s allegations.“We don’t want to comment on what the CBI is doing or on the court proceedings. Law will take its own course and BJP is no way associated with this. But we have seen that if the CBI goes slow in a case the Left and the Congress allege that there is a secret pact between the TMC and BJP. If there is any activity, the TMC cries political vendetta. Not only is the BJP tired of listening to such allegations, even the people of Bengal are tired,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-makes-mamata-party-to-narada-plea-tmc-files-fir-101621476316897.html
