21-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata likely to contest from Bhabanipur constituency to retain CM's chair||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to contest the bypoll from Bhabanipur assembly seat as Trinamool Congress leader Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated his seat from which he contested and won in this election.Mamata Banerjee lost the recently concluded elections from Nandigram where she contested against BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, while her party decimated the BJP. In such a scenario, she will have to get reelected to the assembly to retain her chief minister's seat.He also said that he was just merely protecting the seat and highlighted that the chief minister had earlier won twice from the constituency. “The chief minister had twice won from Bhabanipur. All party leaders held a discussion and when I heard that she wants to contest from here, I thought I should vacate my seat. There is no pressure. Nobody else has the courage to run the government. I have spoken to her. It was her seat and I was just protecting it,” Sobhandeb said.West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee said that he has spoken to Chattopadhyay and ensured that he was not coerced into taking the decision. “I have enquired from him if he has resigned voluntarily and without coercion. I am satisfied and have accepted his resignation,” the Bengal assembly speaker was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Chattopadhyay is likely to contest from Khardah assembly constituency as a bypoll has been necessitated following the death of party leader Kajal Sinha, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-likely-to-contest-from-bhabanipore-constituency-to-retain-cm-s-chair-101621594897849.html
21-05-2021||Kolkata||Arrest of 3 ex-mayors by CBI puts Kolkata in unique list; citizens recall Netaji||As two heavyweight Bengal ministers, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, and former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Sovan Chatterjee, waited in judicial custody for the next hearing of their bail petition in the Narada sting operation case, mixed reactions were heard in Kolkata as all three had served as mayor of the 300-year-old city which was also the capital of British India till 1911. Though arrest of serving or former mayors is not new in India or other countries, Kolkata became unique for the wrong reasons on May 17 since no other city in the nation witnessed the arrest of three former mayors on the same charge, academicians and lawyers said. Recorded in 2014, the sting videos were made public by Narada News a month before the 2016 Bengal assembly polls but the TMC leadership dismissed the clips as doctored. The Calcutta high court and the Supreme Court asked the CBI to start an investigation in March 2017 after hearing a case filed by another former city mayor and noted lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya. He held the chair between 2005 and 2010. Mukherjee served as mayor between 2000 and 2005 while Chatterjee took oath in 2010 and resigned in 2018. He was succeeded by Hakim who served till last year when the elected body outlived its tenure. Hakim was appointed head of the board of administrators since civic polls were not held because of the Covid19 pandemic. He was also the first Muslim mayor of Kolkata after Independence. Some iconic figures in Bengal’s history served as mayor of Kolkata. Among them was the legendary barrister and freedom fighter Chittaranjan Das. He was the city’s mayor from 1924 to 25. His political protégé, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, held the chair between 1930 and 31. “Arrest of mayors, be it in Brazil’s Sao Paulo or some of the east European cities, is related to corruption that crept in when capitalism replaced socialism. It is a product of neo-liberal politics. In Kolkata, most of the former mayors were part of the freedom movement. I cannot draw a comparison between them and today’s leaders. Subhas Bose, too, was arrested when he was a mayor but it was because he led a political movement demanding the removal of the Holwell monument. He was injured in baton charge,” said Shouvik Mukhopadhyay, a professor of history at Calcutta University. “This is the first time three former mayors of an Indian city were arrested on the same charge and on the same day. But many more have been accused in this case. They have not been arrested yet. In 2016, we all saw the sting videos,” Mukhopadhyay added.Anup Ghosh, an executive with a top private sector company and resident of Kolkata, said, “This is a unique and hilarious situation. There are no holy cows in politics and corruption charges are pending against many more. I smell politics in these arrests.”Film director Subrata Sen, a south Kolkata resident, said, “Nobody is guilty till the crime is proved in court. It is just a coincidence that four of the three arrested men are former mayors of Kolkata. Going by the history of similar cases probed by the CBI, proving the bribery charge in this case, may not be easy.”Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, who also served as advocate general of Tripura is now a Rajya Sabha member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M). “Arrest of three former mayors is unique as well as unfortunate. It is shameful for Kolkata because that chair holds a special position in history. People like Bose, Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy (first chief minister of Independent Bengal), freedom fighter Jatindra Mohan Sengupta, educationist Triguna Sen were among many luminaries who served as mayor. Mamata Banerjee has blended corruption with politics. The case would not have started had we not moved court,” said Bhattacharya. The three former mayors, who also served as ministers, are considered heavyweights in state politics. Mukherjee, 75, took oath as panchayat and rural development minister on May 10, set a record by winning his Ballygunge seat in south Kolkata by a margin of about 72,000 votes. He started his political career in the 1960s as a Youth Congress leader and close associate of former Union minister Praya Ranjan Dasmunsi. Both were known to be close to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Between 1972 and 1977, Mukherjee served as the youngest face in the cabinet of then chief minister Siddhartha Shankar Ray. As deputy information and cultural affairs minister, Mukherjee’s job during the Emergency was to clear news reports that the Bengal media wanted to publish. While he criticised the Emergency later in life, Mukherjee acknowledged that he came to know the media better during those years.Aged 62, housing minister Firhad Hakim is considered one of the most influential leaders in the TMC. He rose from the ranks in the TMC as a civic body councillor. He was given charge of important departments such as municipal affairs and urban development after Banerjee came to power in 2011. Chatterjee, 57, was the mayor of Kolkata till he resigned in 2018 following differences with the leadership. Chatterjee also served as a cabinet minister. He joined the BJP in 2019 and was made election observer for the Kolkata zone. He quit the BJP after being denied a ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/arrest-of-3-ex-mayors-by-cbi-puts-kolkata-in-unique-list-citizens-recall-netaji-101621587888479.html
21-05-2021||Kolkata||Post poll violence: SC to hear plea for direction to Centre, WB to stop exodus||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to hear next week a plea seeking directions to the Centre and the West Bengal government to prevent alleged exodus of people due to "state-sponsored" violence and constituting of a SIT to fairly investigate and take appropriate action against culprits.A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai was told by senior advocate Pinky Anand that more than one lakh people have been displaced due to the poll-related violence in West Bengal.She told the bench that this matter required urgent listing as people are forced to leave their homes and stay in shelter homes and camps.“Ok, we will hear the matter next week,” the bench said.The PIL filed by social worker Arun Mukherjee and other social workers, victim of the violence and lawyers said that they are aggrieved with the post electoral Violence in West Bengal from May 2 onwards.The plea alleged that the police and the state-sponsored goons are in cahoots because of which the police proves to be a mere spectator in the entire episode, discouraging and threatening victims from filing FIRs, non-investigation of cases, inaction in incidents where cognizable offences have been committed in presence of police authorities, non-provision of security to those facing threats to life.It said various media platforms including social media, print and electronic media have covered the entire trail of incidents and various government organizations and autonomous institutions like National Human Rights Commission, National Commission of Women have either suo moto or on receiving of complaints from the helpless victims have taken cognizance of the matter and sent out teams to investigate the matter.“No support/assistance was offered from the State Government and even their security was compromised at many instances. They have reported the inaction of the police in providing protection to the women, who were attacked and threatened by hooligans and no action was taken by the police officials in this regard”, the plea submitted.The plea further said that due to the circumstances, people are internally displaced and are forced to stay in shelter homes/camps in and outside West Bengal.“The exodus of the people in West Bengal due to state- sponsored violence has posed serious humanitarian issues related to their survival, where they are forced to live in deplorable conditions, in violation of their fundamental rights enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India”, it submitted.The plea also sought formation of Commission for rehabilitation of displaced persons, compensation for loss of family members, property, and livelihood, mental and emotional agony.The petitioners sought direction to Centre to discharge its duty vested under Article 355 of the Constitution to protect the state from internal disturbance and to ensure that the government in the state is carried on, in accordance with provisions of this Constitution.It sought direction to Centre and West Bengal chief secretary to provide immediate relief to the internally displaced persons affected due to post-poll violence by setting up camps, make provision for food, medicines, pandemic resources, and make appropriate medical facilities accessible to them in light of COVID pandemic.It said that Centre should also constitute an Inquiry Commission to assess the scale and causes of the exodus as well as direct West Bengal to provide long-term relief to the internally displaced persons affected due to post-poll violence, by making provision for their rehabilitation, compensation for loss of family members, property, livelihood, mental and emotional agony.It also sought directions to Centre and West Bengal to set up an alternative helpline number, monitored by central forces to respond to SOS calls and also record complaints and FIRs of internally displaced persons within and outside the state of West Bengal.The petitioners said that direction be also issued to Centre for deploying central protection forces, including armed forces, for the restoration of law and order in West Bengal and setting up a fast-track court to adjudicate matters pertaining to the prosecution of any individual or organization involved in the commission of heinous offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/post-poll-violence-sc-to-hear-plea-for-direction-to-centre-wb-to-stop-exodus-101621585274091.html
21-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting: Arrested leaders to stay under house arrest, rules Calcutta HC||The Calcutta high court, hearing the bail plea of the four politicians arrested in 2016 Narada sting case along with the CBI’s plea to transfer the trial, ordered that all the four politicians, accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, would stay under house arrest. “There was a difference of opinion between Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Arijit Banerjee over the bail plea of the four accused so the division bench ordered that a large bench be constituted to hear the matter. Till then, the four accused would be kept under house arrest,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, advocate. The two Cabinet ministers, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC legislator Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who were arrested by the CBI on Monday have already spent four nights in judicial custody. The case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting, conducted by online news portal Narada News, purportedly caught several senior TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. Also Read | CBI makes Mamata party to Narada plea; TMC files FIRAdvocate Kalyan Banerjee told the court hat Hakim’s presence was necessary for managing Covid crisis in Kolkata. “As two of the accused persons are ministers in the state government, the court also permitted them access to administrative files and to meet government officials through video conferencing,” said an advocate. The court rejected the requests made by the TMC leaders’ advocates for their release on interim bail until the matter is heard by a larger bench. It also turned down the CBI’s plea to keep them in jail. Even though all four leaders were sent to judicial custody, all of them had to be admitted in hospitals after their complaint of illness on Tuesday. While Hakim is admitted to the hospital of Presidency Correctional Home, the rest were admitted to the state-run SSKM hospital. The hospital authorities have set up a medical board to treat them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-calcutta-hc-to-hear-bail-plea-of-four-arrested-leaders-today-101621572347665.html
