22-05-2021||Kolkata||'Won't be able to live without Didi': BJP's Sonali Guha wants to rejoin TMC||Former TMC MLA Sonali Guha, who switched over to the BJP ahead of the elections, on Saturday wrote to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, apologising to her for leaving the party and urging her to take her back.In the letter, which was shared by Guha on social media, she said that she left the party after being emotional."I am writing this with a broken heart that I took the wrong decision of joining another party after being emotional. I could not get accustomed there," she said."The way a fish cannot stay out of the water, I will not be able to live without you, 'Didi'. I seek your forgiveness and if you don't forgive me, I won't be able to live. Please allow me to come back, and spend the rest of my life in your affection," she added.Guha, a four-time MLA and once considered to be the 'shadow' of the chief minister, was among the slew of TMC leaders who switched over to the BJP ahead of the assembly elections.She was dropped from the TMC's candidates' list this time, following which she left the party after an emotional outburst on TV channels, and joined the BJP.She did not fight the elections, but had said that she would work for strengthening the BJP's organisation.When contacted, Guha said that she felt "unwanted" in the BJP."My decision to join the BJP was a wrong one and I can feel that today. I did not bother to tell the BJP about leaving that party. I always felt unwanted there. They tried to use me and asked me to badmouth Mamata-di. I could not do that," she said.Guha, a former deputy speaker of the state assembly, said she was willing to meet the chief minister to rejoin the TMC."I will personally try to meet 'Didi' but she is the chief minister and must be busy. You cannot expect her to give you time whenever you seek an appointment," she said."I will go to her residence next week on the day when the last rituals of her brother who passed away recently are scheduled and try to talk to her," Guha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/wont-be-able-to-live-without-didi-bjp-s-sonali-guha-wants-to-rejoin-tmc-101621677327291.html
22-05-2021||Kolkata||Centre provides Y+ security to Bengal MPs||The Centre has provided Y+ security cover to members of Parliament from West Bengal, Sisir Adhikari and Dibyendu Adhikari. Sisir Adhikari defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) ahead of the March-April elections in the state. He is the father of Suvedu Adhikari, the leader of the Opposition in the state assembly. Suvedu Adhikari also switched over to the BJP and defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram even as the TMC swept back to power by winning 213 out of 292 seats. His brother, Dibyendu Adhikari, is still with the TMC. Soumendu Adhikari, Sisir Adhikari’s third son, has also joined the BJP. “The Y+ security cover would comprise anywhere between 11-16 security personnel drawn from the CRPF [Central Reserve Police Force] depending on the threat assessment,” said an official, requesting anonymity.The Centre earlier this month provided X category security cover of Central Industrial Security Force to 61 BJP lawmakers in West Bengal amid alleged violence against party leaders and workers in the state. With this decision, all newly elected 77 BJP lawmakers were provided security cover by the central forces.Three to five armed commandoes are provided to a protected person under the X category.Suvendu Adhikari has the second highest Z category security cover from the CRPF with a bulletproof vehicle. Over a dozen people were killed in violence that rocked West Bengal after TMC’s victory in the assembly polls. BJP has claimed many of its party workers were killed and blamed TMC workers for attacking them. TMC has maintained the violence took places in areas where the BJP won.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-provides-y-security-to-bengal-mps-101621670817817.html
