24-05-2021||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya stable, wife discharged from hospital||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, 77, and his wife Mira Mira Bhattacharya, 71, both of whom tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18, were stable, CPI(M) leaders said on Monday night. While Bhattacharya was being treated at home, his wife was discharged from a private hospital in south Kolkata on Monday. She was admitted on May 18. The hospital authorities said in a statement that she was advised to stay in home isolation for a week. Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, one of the most senior leaders of the CPI(M), has been suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) for more than a decade. His movements are restricted. CPI(M) members said the medical attendant who used to look after the ailing former chief minister at the latter’s two-room government quarter in south Kolkata also tested positive for the virus but his condition is not serious. In October last year, Bhattacharya was admitted to the hospital for six days. He was admitted in critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen count in the blood. He was put on a ventilator. However, his condition improved quickly. A 13-member medical board was formed for his treatment. Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharya-stable-wife-discharged-from-hospital-101621879749772.html
24-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada case: ‘If leaders weren’t arrested in 7 years, why now?’ Calcutta HC questions CBI||The five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that if the four leaders, accused in the Narada sting operation case, were not arrested in the last seven years then why were they being arrested now when the charge sheet of the case has been submitted, HT has learnt. “The bench, while hearing the case on Monday, said that one of the issues was that if the accused persons were not arrested in the last seven years, then what was the need of arrest now when the charge sheet of the case has been filed?” said Anindya Raut, advocate and TMC leader.The court would again take up the matter on May 26 until when the accused, including two cabinet ministers, a legislator and a former mayor, would stay under house arrest. The Solicitor General who was appearing for the CBI, however, told the court that the issue was not just of bail but whether the bail hearing of the special CBI court on May 17 was non-est in law.On May 17, the CBI arrested two cabinet ministers, a legislator and a former mayor in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. Even though a special CBI court granted them interim bail, the Calcutta High Court stayed the bail and sent them to judicial custody.On May 21, however, the HC put them under house arrest and constituted a larger five bench to hear the bail plea. Meanwhile, the CBI moved the Supreme Court seeking adjournment from the hearing of the Calcutta High Court. The Solicitor General who was appearing for the CBI prayed before the five-judge bench that the hearing be adjourned as the agency has filed a special leave petition (SLP) before the apex court. The High Court, however, refused the prayer and went ahead with the hearing as the Supreme Court hasn’t heard the matter yet.“The court would again hear the matter on May 26. Till then, the accused would remain in house arrest,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee’s advocate.The case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing several high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. The TMC has linked the arrests to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s loss in the recently concluded assembly polls. It has questioned why the CBI didn’t arrest Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy who were also seen in the sting videos but have since switched from the TMC to the BJP. The CBI’s plea to transfer the Narada trial out of the state is also pending before the High Court. The agency has named West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak, and lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the trial of the case from the lower court. It claimed violent protests orchestrated by the TMC against the arrests hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-case-if-leaders-weren-t-arrested-in-7-years-why-now-calcutta-hc-questions-cbi-101621871772584.html
24-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Centre discriminating with funds for Yaas cyclone, depriving Bengal’: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged that the Centre was depriving the state by allocating insufficient funds to fight cyclone Yaas compared to what was being allocated to Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.“They have announced an advance fund of ₹600 crore each to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha and a little more than ₹400 for West Bengal. I have questioned why Bengal was being deprived despite being a larger state with a dense population. I asked Shah why this discrimination. He said that he would talk later and that that allocation was based on scientific views,” said Banerjee. She said that at least 20 districts in West Bengal, including Kalimpong and Darjeeling in the north, could be affected even though the three coastal districts – South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore - along with Kolkata would bear the direct brunt. “Evacuation has already started and we plan to evacuate at least 10 lakh people. Around 4,000 cyclone and relief shelters have been set up. At least 51 rescue teams have been deployed. A 24X7 control room has been set up at the state secretariat which would coordinate up to block level,” the chief minister said, adding that the army has been alerted. The chief minister urged people to wear masks even at relief centres as Covid-19 was taking a heavy toll in the state. On Sunday the state recorded more than 18,000 new cases. At least 156 people had died on Sunday.“This time we have set up safe homes and quarantine centres where suspected and patients detected with Covid after RAT could be shifted,” said a senior official of North 24 Parganas who is associated with the evacuation process ahead of the cyclone. Very severe cyclone ‘Yaas’ is expected to cross the Odisha-West Bengal coast, close to Balasore in Odisha, around Wednesday noon, Union home minister Amit Shah held a virtual meeting on Monday morning with the three states to assess the preparedness. In May 2020, Bengal was hit by another very severe cyclone Amphan with similar intensity killing 98 people and damaging property worth a few thousand crores.“Very severe cyclone Yaas is expected to cross the Odisha-Wes Bengal coast between Paradip and Sagar close to Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday noon. It would move towards Jharkhand,” said Sanjib Bandopadhyay, deputy director of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional office in Kolkata. During the time of landfall, the cyclone would trigger wind with speed up to 155 – 165 kmph gusting up to 185 kmph in the district of East Midnapore, located along the West Bengal – Odisha border. In Kolkata, the wind speed may reach up to 70 – 80 kmph gusting up to 90 kmph, Light to moderate rainfall has already begun in the coastal districts of West Bengal. The spread and intensity of the rain would increase from Tuesday with some districts likely to receive heavy to very heavy rain. On May 27 even Sikkim may receive heavy rain.“Hospitals have been asked to keep power backup and oxygen storage at least for two days,” said a senior health official. Around 1,000 power-restoration teams and 450 telecom restoration teams have been readied. Boat movements have been suspended and railway authorities have been asked to cancel some trains. Officials said that that it would be hard to reach some of the islands on Tuesday as the sea and river conditions would turn rough when the cyclone comes nearer to the coast, evacuation has been launched on Monday. “While around 1200 – 1500 people living along the banks of Ghoramara Island were being shifted to relief shelters on the mainland, others were shifted to cyclone shelters built on higher and safer grounds within the island itself,” said a senior official of South 24 Parganas. In some blocks in the Sunderban, pregnant women, particularly those who have their estimated date of delivery in the next one or two weeks, have also been evacuated and shifted to hospitals and ‘mother hubs’. “As the cyclone would be hitting when the water level is already high because of the Spring Tide phase, we are expecting a storm surge of 2 – 4 meres in East Midnapore and 1 – 2 metres in North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas,” said a weather department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-discriminating-with-funds-for-yaas-cyclone-depriving-bengal-mamata-banerjee-101621864147712.html
