25-05-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata airport suspends all flight operations between 8.30am and 7.45pm on Wednesday||Ahead of cyclone Yaas landfall, the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International (NSCBI) Airport in Kolkata suspended all flight operations between 8.30am and 7.45pm on Wednesday.In view of the weather warning by @Indiametdept over #CycloneYaas, flight operations at #KolkataAirport will be suspended from 0830 IST upto 1945 IST on 26.05.2021.We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience caused.@AAI_Official@MoCA_GoI@HardeepSPuri@HomeBengal #Yaas"In view of the weather warning by @Indiametdept over #CycloneYaas, flight operations at #KolkataAirport will be suspended from 0830 IST upto 1945 IST on 26.05.2021.We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience caused. @AAI_Official, @MoCA_GoI, @HardeepSPuri, @HomeBengal #Yaas," Kolkata Airport's official handle informed via a tweet. Airliner IndiGo also in a tweet said that due to the cyclone its flight operations will be impacted.Along with Kolkata airport, Bhubaneshwar airport has also suspended its operations starting May 25 11 pm to May 27 5am. Jharsuguda airport will also remain shut between May 26 12am to May 27 7.45am. #AAI's Bhubaneswar @aaibpiairport will be closed from 11:00PM today 25th May'21 till 05:00AM of 27th May'21, @aaijharsugudaa1 Airport to remain shut from 00:01AM of 26th May'21 to 07:45AM of 27th May'21. Durgapur & Rourkela Airports to be closed on 26th May'21.#6ETravelAdvisory: Due to Cyclone Yaas, flight operations at #Kolkata will be impacted tomorrow, 26th May'21. Please visit https://t.co/tbHyUhH4SS to check the flight status and Plan B https://t.co/xe8o6KPFAl to opt for alternate options or get a refund for your cancelled flight."#6ETravelAdvisory: Due to Cyclone Yaas, flight operations at #Kolkata will be impacted tomorrow, 26th May'21. Please visit http://bit.ly/2QCfBUK to check the flight status and Plan B https://bit.ly/36u4Mh9 to opt for alternate options or get a refund for your cancelled flight," IndiGo said in a tweet.Cyclone Yaas is expected to make its landfall near Dhamra Port in Odisha's Bhadrak district. Yaas is likely to have windspeeds of 155 kmph to 165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph, according to India Meteorological Department's (IMD) bulletin. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed its highest number of teams in Odisha and West Bengal for undertaking relief operations. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked people to remain indoors and said that the government has rescued at least 1.1 million people so far. Chief ministers of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have also reviewed their preparedness ahead of the landfall of Yaas. The Paradip port in Odisha suspended its operations from 2 pm on Tuesday due to cyclone Yaas and measures were taken to safeguard the Integrated Test Range of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) from any damages. Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Balasore districts which are likely to be impacted by heavy rainfall have already issued a red alert. Two people also died in West Bengal after being electrocuted following a tornado which Hooghly and North 24 Parganas districts on Tuesday. The tornado also partly damaged 40 houses in Halisahar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-airport-suspends-all-flight-operations-between-8-30am-and-745pm-101621955830433.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||2 die due to electrocution, 40 houses partly damaged in tornado ahead of Yaas: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that two people died due to electrocution in West Bengal's Chinsurah due to a tornado ahead of the landfall of cyclone Yaas. "Two people died due to electrocution in Hooghly's Chinsurah today. In another incident in Halisahar, 40 houses were also damaged due to the tornado. At least four to five people suffered minor injuries in this incident," Mamata Banerjee said at a press conference. The chief minister assured that Bengal is prepared ahead of the landfall and said it has rescued 1.1 million so far. "We are prepared. Based on the information we have, the cyclone will hit the state between morning and noon. Since the landfall is expected to occur between early morning and noon, it is advisable to remain indoors. I request everyone to remain calm," Mamata further added. "I request people to not get out of their homes unnecessarily. More than three lakh officials are on alert. We will be stationed here the entire night. Officers and police officials are stationed everywhere," the chief minister said. The tornado hit Hooghly and North 24 Parganas and occurred hours before cyclone Yaas is expected to make a landfall near Dhamra Port in Odisha's Bhadrak district tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/two-electrocuted-40-houses-partly-damaged-in-tornado-ahead-of-yaas-mamata-101621951493381.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Storm surge triggered by cyclone Yaas during full moon would inflict maximum damage’: IMD||Storm surge in the sea and rivers triggered by very severe cyclone ‘Yaas’, which coincides with the perigean spring tide of Wednesday’s full moon, would inflict the maximum damage this time, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials have warned. “The maximum damage would be caused by the storm surge this time. On May 26, when the cyclone hits, there is also the spring tide. The damage would be the maximum in the coastal districts of East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of IMD’s regional office in Kolkata Experts said that the water level in the sea rises at least a metre high during a spring tide, which occurs during a full moon, over a normal high tide that comes every day. The water level is highest during the perigean spring tide when the moon is closest to the earth. “The storm surge triggered by the cyclone at East Midnapore district would be 2m–4m, while in South 24 Parganas it would be 1m–2m. This is over and above the astronomical tide (spring tide),” said Banerjee. Storm surge is the abnormal rise in seawater level during a cyclone. The sea and river level rises and floods the low-lying areas along the banks and coastline. For storm surge, the IMD has issued a red warning, the highest level of warning that calls for taking action, for East Midnapore district. For South 24 Parganas district an orange warning ( officials to remain prepared) has been issuedYaas has already intensified into a severe cyclone and is expected to gather more steam and become a very severe cyclone by Tuesday late night before hitting the Odisha–West Bengal coast somewhere around Balasore on Wednesday noon. “The water level is already high because of the spring tide and that’s more worrying. Sea and river water have gushed into some places along the coast and in the Sunderban delta. Around nine lakh people have already been evacuated,” said Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal. The chief minister said that she, along with top bureaucrats and some cabinet ministers, would stay the night in the control room set up at the secretariat to monitor the storm and the related disaster management work. The IMD has issued a red warning for heavy to very heavy rain for two districts – East Midnapore and West Midnapore and an orange warning (be prepared) for another 13 districts on May 26. Around three lakh government employees, from senior bureaucrats to home guards and civic volunteers, have been deployed for disaster management work and carry out relief work after the cyclone. The Army has been kept on standby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/storm-surge-triggered-by-cyclone-yaas-during-full-moon-would-inflict-maximum-damage-imd-101621952351178.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||Cyclone Yaas: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to stay in control room, to monitor situation closely||As cyclone Yaas is expected to hit the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal later on the afternoon of May 26, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that she will “monitor the situation closely” in the state from the control room in the secretariat building Nabanna.Chief minister Banerjee visited the control centre established in view of cyclone Yaas earlier on Tuesday, to inspect the preparations in place. “I have spoken to all the DMs on cyclone Yaas. I will stay in Nabanna tonight. I will monitor the situation closely,” news agency ANI quoted the chief minister as saying. The West Bengal state government had set up the control room to monitor the cyclone that is moving towards the state.Earlier on Monday, Banerjee while briefing on the steps taken to handle the situation, said that 4,000 shelters have been prepared and a million people were to be evacuated. “As many as 4,000 cyclone shelters are ready, 10 lakh people [are] to be evacuated. 51 disaster management teams, 1,000 electricity and 400 mobile network restoration teams [have been] formed. 20 districts will be severely affected,” ANI quoted her as saying.On Monday, she also met with the Union home minister Amit Shah over a video conference, in which Shah discussed the preparedness of states expected to be hit by the cyclone. Chief ministers of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh were also present in the meeting. During the meeting Banerjee assured that all steps have been taken to ensure minimal loss to life and property by the cyclone, news agency PTI reported.Alleging that the Centre has been impartial towards West Bengal, Banerjee said that it assured Bengal of all help but earmarked an advance of only ₹400 crore to the state. Following the meeting with the home minister Banerjee said, “At the meeting, I sought to know why Bengal, despite being a bigger state than Odisha and Andhra Pradesh -- both in terms of population density and number of districts -- is getting less? Why are we being deprived repeatedly?" PTI quoted her asking.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in a press release at 1pm on Tuesday said that the severe cyclonic storm Yaas is very likely to further intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm in the next 12 hours. “It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Island close to north of Dhamra and south of Balasore, during noon of Wednesday, the 26th May as a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm,” the weather bureau further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cyclone-yaas-west-bengal-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-to-stay-in-control-room-to-monitor-situation-closely-101621945864618.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||Buddhadeb Bhattacharya hospitalised with Covid-19 as condition deteriorates||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya,77, who was being treated at home for Covid-19, was admitted at a private hospital in south Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon after his oxygen saturation level dropped below 90%, said hospital authorities.The former CM was admitted around 12.30pm and put on a non-invasive ventilator. A CT scan of his lungs was also done.“Bhattacharya is stable right now. A panel of six doctors has been formed for his treatment,” said Dr Rupali Basu, CEO of Woodlands Hospital where he is admitted.The former CM and his wife Mira Bhattacharya, 71, tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18. While Bhattacharya was treated at home, his wife was admitted at Woodlands Hospital the same night. She was released on Monday.Also Read | HT Editorial: Not Ayurveda vs allopathyBhattacharya, one of the most senior leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M), is a patient of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). His movements are restricted.“Though the carbon dioxide level in his blood is not very high, COPD can make things difficult for a Covid patient. We are using injectable steroid and antibiotics. Since steroids can increase blood sugar level, we have to administer insulin as well. We have to keep in mind his age and comorbid conditions,” said Dr Kaushik Chakraborty, one of the doctors in the panel.CPI(M) leaders said Bhattacharya was not ready to go to the hospital but the party’s state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, who is also a doctor, convinced the former chief minister and told him that he cannot be treated at home anymore.In October last year, Bhattacharya was admitted to the hospital for six days in a critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen count in the blood. He was put on ventilation. However, his condition improved very fast.“The CT scan report showed that COPD has affected his lungs further since October,” said Dr Chakraborty. Bhattacharya had tested negative for Covid-19 in October.The medical attendant who looked after the ailing leader has also tested positive for Covid-19 but his condition is not serious, doctors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharya-hospitalised-with-covid19-101621933330609.html
25-05-2021||Kolkata||SC to hear plea seeking SIT probe into alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal||The Supreme Court will hear on Tuesday petitions seeking the constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the alleged post-poll violence that took place in West Bengal. The top court will also look into accusations that the state government was complicit and overlooked these incidents, news agency ANI reported.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) of "targeted killings", the Mamata Banerjee-led party said the BJP was spreading fake news on social media.Also Read: No post-poll violence after May 8, Bengal govt tells HCThe BJP shared on social media images of bodies of party workers in North 24 Parganas district’s Amdanga assembly constituency, Kotulpur in Bankura district and Mothabari area of Malda district and accused the TMC of killing them. Police probe into the incidents resulted in the conclusion that these deaths were either by suicide or drowning accidentally.  “Spreading fake news, morphed photographs and edited videos is an old practice of the BJP. Even when a debt-ridden farmer commits suicide or a man takes his own life after a failed affair, the BJP sees an opportunity to create a sensation,” TMC MLA and party spokesperson Tapas Roy had said. Following a judgement of the Calcutta high court that said the state had taken steps to contain violence, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “Having highest respect for the court, I would like to say that its observation is surprising. The court should send its representatives to those areas where the TMC has unleashed terror. Women are being raped and molested. Shops and farms are being looted and ransacked so that our workers lose their source of income...Banerjee and her police are giving wrong information to the people to hide the truth.”Also Read: In Bengal’s post-poll political violence, a battle of narrativesA two-judge vacation bench of the apex court, headed by Justice Vineet Saran and comprising Justice B R Gavai, will hear the petitions filed by Arun Mukherjee, Debjani Halder, Bhupen Halder, Prosanta Das and Paramita Dey.These petitions, in addition to demanding that an SIT be formed to probe the incidents, also sought direction from the chief secretary, government of West Bengal and the Centre, to provide immediate relief to the internally displaced persons affected due to post-poll violence by setting up camps, making provision for food, medicines, pandemic resources, and making appropriate medical facilities accessible to them in light of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/sc-to-hear-petitions-of-political-violence-in-west-bengal-today-101621918779399.html
