26-05-2021||Kolkata||Tornadoes, like the one in Bengal, can be seen ahead of cyclone: Experts||Even before the very severe cyclone Yaas could hit the Odisha – West Bengal coast on Wednesday morning, videos of a tornado swirling over villages and the river Ganga in south Bengal went viral on social media. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at least two persons were electrocuted when the mini tornado hit parts of Hooghly and North 24 Parganas, and around 40 houses were damaged. While the incident took the locals of Bandel, Chinsurah, Halisaha in the two districts by surprise, meteorological experts said tornadoes can develop before an approaching cyclone or a major thunderstorm. “When a cyclone approaches, such vortex develops because of the difference in wind speed in the upper air and the ground level, known as vertical wind-shear. This is, however, not a full tornado, It is a mini-tornado,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of India Meteorological Department’s regional office in Kolkata. Also Read | Storm surge triggered by Yaas and spring tide inflict heavy damage in BengalSuch mini tornadoes have been seen earlier in the district of Murshidabad in west Bengal and also in Odisha experts said. Even though it is rare, but thunderstorm activity occurs when a cyclone approaches. “They can happen when a cyclone or a thunderstorm approaches. Just like a pilot car moves ahead of a VIP convoy, these mini tornadoes act like a pilot of the cyclone, occurring before a cyclone comes,” said KJ Ramesh, former head of the IMD. If the tornado passes over a water body or a river, it starts lifting the water. There were examples from Odisha where a mini tornado had emptied an entire pond by lifting the water. “A tornado is basically a column of air rotating violently that extends from a thunderstorm to the ground. It tears and lifts everything in its path,” said a meteorological department official. Ramesh recalled seeing such a mini tornado ahead of a thunderstorm in Delhi in which an entire bus was lifted in the air by the vortex in the early 70’s.“Just like a cyclone and a thunderstorm, a tornado too needs heat and moisture to develop,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist of IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tornadoes-like-the-one-in-bengal-can-be-seen-ahead-of-cyclone-experts-101622030173594.html
26-05-2021||Kolkata||Storm surge triggered by Yaas and spring tide inflict heavy damage in Bengal||The storm surge triggered by Cyclone Yaas, which coincided with the perigean spring tide of Wednesday’s full moon, inflicted heavy damage in the coastal and deltaic areas of West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday as she monitored the situation from a control room set up the state secretariat.The state government has evacuated around 1.5 million people to cyclone and relief shelters. More people were being evacuated till reports last came in as sea and river water gushed into the low-lying areas, flooding villages.“Because of the cyclone and the spring tide, the storm surge has caused extensive damage in the state. Several embankments have been breached. Water has gushed into many places at Digha, Shankharpur, Sagar, and Gosaba. Low lying areas have been flooded,” said Banerjee.Also Read | Cyclone Yaas pounds Odisha-Bengal coasts, may move to Jharkhand by midnightStorm surge is the abnormal rise in seawater level during a cyclone and can lead to flooding in low-lying areas.Around 70km of embankment has been damaged in the coastal district of East Midnapore district, which shares a border with Odisha. In South 24 Parganas, reports of embankment breaches have been reported from at least 15 places.At least 20,000 houses have been already damaged, according to early estimates provided by the state government.Banerjee urged the people, who were lodged in the cyclone and relief shelters, not to return to their houses as the spring tide phase would continue till Thursday.According to estimates given by the Kolkata Port Trust, the water levels would reach their peak around Thursday morning.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned on Tuesday that the storm surge, triggered by Cyclone Yaas and the perigean spring tide, could reach up to 4 metres over and above the astronomical tide (spring tide).“The maximum damage would be caused by the storm surge this time. On May 26, when the cyclone hits, there is also the spring tide. The damage would be the maximum in the coastal districts of East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas,” Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director-general of IMD’s regional office in Kolkata, said on Tuesday.Experts said the water level in the sea rises at least a metre high during a spring tide, which occurs during a full moon, over a normal high tide that comes every day. The water level is highest during the perigean spring tide when the moon is closest to the earth.“The storm surge triggered by the cyclone at East Midnapore district would be 2m–4m, while in South 24 Parganas it would be 1m–2m. This is over and above the astronomical tide (spring tide),” said Banerjee.For storm surge, the IMD had issued a red warning, the highest level of warning that calls for taking action, for the East Midnapore district. For South 24 Parganas district an orange warning (officials to remain prepared) had been issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/storm-surge-triggered-by-yaas-and-spring-tide-inflicts-heavy-damage-in-bengal-101622017213358.html
26-05-2021||Kolkata||Cyclone Yaas: Calcutta HC suspends all judicial proceedings||The Calcutta high court, which was supposed to hear the bail plea of the four politicians accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, suspended all judicial proceedings on Wednesday because of Cyclone Yaas. “Keeping in view the report of the meteorological department on cyclone Yaas, which is likely to cause heavy damage and widespread rainfall, as a precautionary measure, all electronic gadgets and devices for e-connectivity of the court shall remain shut,” the court stated in a notice. The notice stated that all judicial proceedings have been suspended. The court was to hear the matter virtually. A five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal was scheduled to take up the bail plea of the four political leaders -- two Cabinet ministers, a legislator and a former mayor. Click here for Cyclone Yaas LIVE Updates“The government has intimated the Registrar General that it might not be possible for it to provide transport facilities to the employees of this court on May 26 and May 27,” the notice stated. The CBI had, on May 17, arrested the leaders in connection with the 2016 Narada sting operation case. Though a special CBI court granted them interim bail, the high court had stayed it and sent them to judicial custody. A division bench of the Calcutta high court put the leaders under house arrest on May 21 and constituted a larger five-judge bench to hear the bail plea. Meanwhile, this Monday, the CBI moved the Supreme Court against the high court order of putting the leaders under house arrest. On Tuesday, however, the agency withdrew its petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cyclone-yaas-calcutta-hc-suspends-all-judicial-proceedings-101622005392802.html
