27-05-2021||Kolkata||Yaas-hit people cry for food, shelter amid heavy rain in pockets of Bengal||Hundreds of people complained that they had to go without food and sleep in the aftermath of cyclone, which has wreaked havoc in Bengal, as their homes lay inundated amid heavy showers that continued to pummel several parts of the state on Thursday.Cyclone 'Yaas', which made its landfall near Dhamra port in Odisha, barrelled through the neighbouring state and Bengal on Wednesday, causing widespread destruction as it hollered on its path to Jharkhand.Officials said that the administration was trying its best to reach out to people in need, but the inclement weather is impeding relief work in certain pockets.At Kadupara village in Sunderbans area of South 24 Parganas, water has risen to waist level, forcing people to step out of their homes with children in tow."No one from the administration has visited us yet... I am starving, these children are starving," Lakshmi Majhi, a resident of Kadupara said, as she stood on the flooded courtyard outside her house with her three children.Majhi further said, "We were asked by the administration to rush to nearby school camp. But how can we go? It will take me 30 minutes to reach the camp. How will I wade through the flooded roads with my children, leaving my home and belongings behind?"Bapan Laskar, a migrant worker of the same village, said he was finding it difficult to make ends meet in the midst of the lockdown, and the cyclone has added to his woes."I work as a mason in Kolkata, but the COVID-induced lockdown robbed me of my livelihood. This cyclone, on top of that, has partially damaged my home. I do not know what to do," Laskar, who lives with his ailing parents, said.In cyclone-ravaged Kultali, villagers were seen lining up on the elevated pavements, most of them without masks, even as water levels kept rising due to the incessant rainfall."Saline water from the sea gushed in, breaching the embankments, and destroyed crops that we had taken pains to grow. Almost every villager in the area depends on fishing and farming. With ponds and farmlands flooded with saline water, residents here are now staring at an uncertain future," one of the villagers lamented.Kultali MLA Ganesh Chandra Mondal, however, said that disaster management personnel have fanned out to the affected areas in South 24 Parganas to shift all marooned villagers to relief camps, set up in school buildings.Similar tales of misery were shared by people in Purba Medinipur district, which, too, bore the brunt of the storm.In the tourist town of Digha, one of the worst- affected areas in the state, shops selling knick-knacks close to the beach lay ravaged, with shells, junk jewelleries and other decorative items seen floating in the flood water.Several hotels in Mandarmoni, another resort town, also suffered extensive damage.In Shankarpur, roads in certain areas were reduced to patches of boulders with telltale signs of destruction around.A Digha Development Authority official said work to repair damaged structures would begin in a day or two.Mamoni Das of Ramnagar in Purba Medinipur broke down when reporters approached her.Das, a middle-aged widow with no children, said she was rescued by Army personnel after the squall on Wednesday morning flattened her home in a trice."I am thriving on puffed rice that I managed to get from a nearby relief camp. With everything lost, I do not know how to rebuild my life," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/yaashit-people-cry-for-food-shelter-amid-heavy-rain-in-pockets-of-bengal-101622124956410.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 15||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced the extension of lockdown-like curbs in the state to control Covid-19 spread, till June 15. Restrictions in the state were scheduled to be lifted on May 30.Banerjee has sought the cooperation of Bengal's people and appealed to them saying, "Please don't call this a lockdown. Covid numbers have come down. For economy's sake there will be no total lockdown."She said that pandemic situation in Bengal has eased a little because of the existing restrictions.Earlier on April 30, Banerjee had decided to impose an indefinite prohibition on several things, including shopping malls, markets, restaurants and bars, gyms, and swimming pools, with immediate effect.West Bengal on Wednesday recorded 16,225 fresh Covid-19 infections, which pushed the state's infection tally up to 13,18,203, a health department bulletin said. The death toll mounted to 14,827 after 153 more fatalities were reported, it said.The state now has 1,23,377 active cases, while 11,79,999 patients have recovered from the disease, including 19,071 since Tuesday.A total of 1,21,21,940 samples have so far been tested for Covid-19, taking into account 63,976 clinical examinations in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said. At least 59,593 people were vaccinated in the state during the day, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-15-101622113270999.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||2 killed, 7 injured in lightning strike in Bengal’s Murshidabad district||Two boys were killed and as many as seven persons were injured in two incidents of lightning strike in Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Thursday morning, police said. The incident happened at Ramna-Bilpara village in the Hariharpara police station area.The injured were rushed to the local health centre and Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital (MMCH). The condition of two people was described as very critical by doctors.The deceased were identified as Tahabul Sheikh, 17, and Sahidul Islam, 16. They were members of the same family.In another incident, a woman was injured by lightning in the Lochonmati area. She was also admitted to MMCH in a critical state.Residents of Ramna-Bilpara village said the dead and injured people were sitting near a lake around 11.30 am when a storm suddenly rose. They took shelter in an abandoned thatched hut which was struck by lightning.Tony Sheikh, an uncle of the deceased, said, “Some villagers were resting near the lake after working in the field. They ran for cover and entered the hut.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/2-killed-7-injured-in-lightning-strike-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-district-101622110698353.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata abduction case: 5 more held; police looking for journalist||The Kolkata Police has arrested five more people in connection with a kidnapping in which the accused posed as officers of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to collect a ransom of ₹15 lakh from a family. The alleged crime took place in the Kasba area of south Kolkata on Monday. The five accused have been identified as Anirban Kanjilal, Arghya Sengupta, Raju Mondal, Zulfikar Ali, and Asraf Ali. While the first three live in the southern outskirts of Kolkata, the last two are residents of Sasan in North 24 Parganas district. They will be produced in court on Thursday. More raids are being conducted, said Murlidhar Sharma Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime). Avishek Sengupta, a journalist who worked with a newly launched Bengali news channel, is also a suspect and the police are looking for him. The news channel where he worked has issued a statement saying Sengupta was on probation and has been suspended. Also Read | Covid+ve Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee conscious, BP stable, says Kolkata hospitalNaming Sengupta, the channel said, “As an organisation with zero tolerance towards such abhorrent criminal acts, the said probationer was immediately suspended on Tuesday evening pending a thorough probe into the matter.” The channel also said Sengupta was untraceable and could not be reached over the phone. Homemaker Swity Nath Roy alleged in her police complaint on Tuesday that her husband Ajit Roy was taken away by some men claiming to be CBI officers. Later, the family started getting calls where initially ₹2 crore were sought as ransom but the alleged kidnappers eventually settled for ₹15 lakh. A friend of the family gave the money to the kidnappers and Roy was released, said Sharma. Earlier, Swarup Roy and Pratik Sarkar, who allegedly posed as CBI officers, and Rajesh Adhikari, the driver of the vehicle used in the abduction, were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-abduction-case-5-more-held-police-looking-for-journalist-101622107817702.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||Covid+ve Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee conscious, BP stable, says Kolkata hospital||The oxygen saturation level of former Chief Minister of West Bengal, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, who is admitted to a private hospital in Kolkata after testing positive for Covid-19 infection, has fallen slightly and his oxygen support has been increased. However, he is conscious, alert, and his BP is stable according to a medical bulletin issued by the hospital on Thursday."He is on BIPAP with 4 litres of oxygen, SpO2 maintaining at 92 per cent. He is presently conscious, alert, and talking sensibly. He is having a heart rate of 54 per minute," said the medical bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt added that Bhattacharjee's blood pressure is stable, urine output is satisfactory and he is taking food orally.In yesterday's bulletin, the hospital had informed that the former Chief Minister was on BIPAP with 3 litres of oxygen and SpO2 was at 93 per cent. Yesterday his heart rate was maintained at 62 per minute.77-year-old Bhattacharjee, who tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18, was admitted to the Critical Care Department of Woodlands Hospital in Kolkata after complaining about drowsiness and shortness of breath on May 25. Senior Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader, Bhattacharjee was West Bengal Chief Minister from 2000 to 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covidve-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-conscious-bp-stable-says-kolkata-hospital-101622103340126.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting: Calcutta HC to hear bail plea of 4 arrested leaders||A five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal of Calcutta high court is scheduled to hear today the bail plea of the four politicians arrested in the 2016 Narada sting operation case. “The matter has been listed for 11am on Thursday morning. The hearing could not be held on Wednesday as the court had suspended all judicial proceedings because of Cyclone Yaas,” said an advocate who also happens to be a TMC leader. The arrested politicians are sitting ministers of Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress legislator Madan Mitra, and former MLA Sovan Chatterjee. Also Read | Cyclone Yaas: Calcutta HC suspends all judicial proceedingsThe case pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.Though a special CBI court granted them interim bail, the high court stayed it and sent them to judicial custody. Later, the first division bench of the Calcutta high court put the leaders under house arrest on May 21 and a five-judge bench was constituted to hear the bail plea.Meanwhile, this Monday, the CBI moved the Supreme Court against the high court order of putting the leaders under house arrest instead of lodging them in jail in judicial custody. On Tuesday, however, the agency withdrew its petition before the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-calcutta-hc-to-hear-bail-plea-of-4-arrested-leaders-101622084896644.html
27-05-2021||Kolkata||Mini tornado hits villages of West Bengal before cyclone||Before cyclone Yaas could hit the Odisha – West Bengal coast on Wednesday morning, videos of a tornado swirling over villages and the river Ganga in south Bengal were widely shared on social media.The incident took the residents of Bandel and Chinsurah in the Hooghly district and Halisaha in the North 24 Parganas district by surprise, however, the meteorological experts said tornadoes can develop before an approaching cyclone or a major thunderstorm.“When a cyclone approaches, such vortex develops because of the difference in wind speed in the upper air and the ground level, known as vertical wind-shear. This is, however, not a full tornado, It is a mini tornado,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director general of India Meteorological Department’s regional office in Kolkata.“A tornado is basically a column of air rotating violently that extends from a thunderstorm to the ground. It tears and lifts everything in its path,” said a meteorological department official.The cyclone Yaas landfall began near Dhamra port in Odisha on Wednesday morning, even as strong winds and heavy tides saw seawater enter in many coastal towns and villages in Odisha and West Bengal ahead of the landfall.The “very severe cyclonic storm” packed sustained winds of 130-140 kilometers (up to 87 miles) per hour and gusts of up to 155 kph (97 mph) when it made landfall, the IMD said.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at least two persons were electrocuted when the mini tornado hit parts of the two districts, and around 40 houses were damaged.Such mini tornadoes have been seen earlier in the district of Murshidabad in west Bengal and also in Odisha experts said. Even though it is rare, but thunderstorm activity occurs when a cyclone approaches, they added.“They [tornadoes] can happen when a cyclone or a thunderstorm approaches. Just like a pilot car moves ahead of a VIP convoy, these mini tornadoes act like a pilot of the cyclone, occurring before a cyclone comes,” said KJ Ramesh, former head of the IMD. In the early 70’s, Delhi witnessed a mini tornado ahead of a thunderstorm in which an entire bus was lifted in the air by the vortex, Ramesh said.If the tornado passes over a water body or a river, it starts lifting the water. There were examples from Odisha where a mini tornado had emptied an entire pond by lifting the water.“Just like a cyclone and a thunderstorm, a tornado too needs heat and moisture to develop,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist of IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mini-tornado-hits-villages-of-west-bengal-before-cyclone-101622068150190.html
