28-05-2021||Kolkata||Centre stuns Mamata Banerjee, transfers top Bengal official to Delhi after row||The central government on Friday transferred West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay to the Centre’s department of personnel and training, ordering the top civil servant to report in New Delhi on May 31. The decision by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was conveyed to Bengal hours after a row broke out over Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee skipping a meeting convened by the prime minister during his visit to the state.“I am directed to inform that the appointments committee of the Cabinet has approved the placement of the services of Sri Alapan Bandopadhyay, IAS, (WB:1987) with the Government of India as provisions of Rule 6(1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, with immediate effect,” the letter signed by an official at the Centre’s ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions said.Also Read: ‘Took his permission’: Mamata on skipping PM's review meet“Accordingly, the state government is requested to relieve the officer with immediate effect and direct him to report to the department of personnel and training, North Block, New Delhi, by 10 am on May 31, 2021.”Bandopadhyay was touring the cyclone-affected areas with chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday evening when the government received the order from the Centre. Bandopadhyay was also present at the chief minister’s brief interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda on Friday afternoon when the prime minister came to Bengal to review the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas. Mamata Banerjee did not attend the review meeting chaired by PM Modi, saying she had other appointments triggering a fresh political row.Bandopadhyay was due to retire on May 31. But Mamata Banerjee had announced this week that the central government had cleared her request to let the officer continue for three more months since he had the experience of working during last year's Amphan and had handled the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Trinamool Congress (TMC) spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “This is a vindictive action by the BJP which cannot get over its humiliating loss in the recent polls. This will go down in the history of dirty politics. A bureaucrat is being recalled before his retirement when he is touring cyclone-hit areas. This proves how anti-Bengal and anti-Bengali BJP’s central leaders are.”TMC Rajya Sabha member, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, said, "Has this ever happened since Independence? Forced central deputation of a chief secretary of a State. How much lower will Modi-Shah’s BJP stoop. All because people of Bengal humiliated the duo and chose Mamata Banerjee with an overwhelming mandate."Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “IAS officers are employed by the Indian Government. These are administrative decisions. This is not a political issue to comment on.”Alapan Bandopadhyay's transfer to New Delhi is unusual, especially because the 1987 IAS officer, according to his record on the DoPT website, has never served in the central government and would not have been empanelled to serve at senior positions in the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-stuns-mamata-banerjee-transfers-top-bengal-official-to-delhi-after-row-101622223536326.html
28-05-2021||Kolkata||Centre transfers Bengal chief secretary to Delhi, sets up faceoff with Mamata||The central government on Friday asked the West Bengal government to relieve West Bengal government’s chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and asked him to report to the Department of Personnel and Training by 10 am on May 31.“I am directed to inform that the appointments committee of the Cabinet has approved the placement of the services of Sri Alapan Bandopadhyay, IAS, (WB:1987) with the Government of India as provisions of Rule 6(1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, with immediate effect,” the letter undersigned by Anshuman Mishra, under secretary at the Union ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions said.The Centre’s order comes after a row broke out between the Centre and the West Bengal government after it was reported that the Prime Minister who was at Kalaikunda was kept waiting and the chief minister and the state chief secretary met him only for 15 minutes and handed him the reports. The chief minister later said that she had left only after seeking PM Modi's permission and also pointed out that all parties were aware that Mamata Banerjee had meetings lined up. Mamata along with Alapan Bandyopadhyay took stock of the post-cyclone situation in Hingalganj, Hasnabad, Sandeshkhali, Pinakha and other areas on Friday. She also took an aerial survey in cyclone-hit areas of South 24 Parganas and Digha. Bandopadhyay was due to retire on May 31 after completion of 60 years of age but his tenure was extended by three months by the Bengal chief minister earlier this week. Alapan Bandhpadhyay who, is a 1987-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre, got an extension due to his experience in handling the Covid-19 pandemic in Bengal."Provided that in case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state government or state governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the central government," the letter further said. The Trinamool Congress has called the move 'anti-Bengal' and said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is indulging in dirty politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-orders-bengal-chief-secretary-to-report-to-delhi-after-row-over-yaas-101622221911477.html
28-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Took his permission’: Mamata on skipping Yaas review meeting with PM Modi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday she could not attend the review meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state and that she was scheduled to meet with officials in another area of the state.“The Prime Minister called a meeting. We did not know that I had a meeting scheduled in Digha. I handed him the report asking for ₹20,000 crore for Digha development and ₹10,000 crore for Sundarban development. I told him that state government officials had a meeting with me so I took his permission and left,” Mamata Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. West Bengal chief minister also said she will conduct an aerial survey of the state on Saturday.“After having review meetings in Hingalganj and Sagar, I met the Hon’ble PM in Kalaikunda and apprised him regarding the post-cyclone situation in WB. The disaster report has been handed over for his perusal. I’ve proceeded now to review the relief and restoration work at Digha,” Mamata also tweeted.News agency ANI reported that the West Bengal chief minister and the state’s chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay were late to the meeting by almost half an hour, citing people familiar with the developments. They also told the news agency that she handed over the reports related to the impact of Cyclone Yaas and left saying that she has other meetings lined up.Prime Minister Modi also held a review meeting with Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi and Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal to assess the damage caused by Yaas. PM Modi also conducted an aerial survey of Balasore and Bhadrak in Odisha and Kalaikunda in West Bengal, areas which suffered the brunt of the cyclone. He announced financial assistance worth ₹1000 crore for immediate relief activities of which ₹500 crore would be immediately given to Odisha and another ₹500 crore for West Bengal and Jharkhand, which will be released on the basis of the damage, according to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The PMO said that inter-ministerial teams will assess damages in Bengal as well as Odisha to assess following which the assistance will be given.Cyclone Yaas which reached wind speeds 145kmph lashed India’s eastern coast on Wednesday. Three people died due to the cyclone in Odisha and one in West Bengal as Yaas left behind a trail of destruction and forced at least 2.1 million people to be evacuated to safe shelters in West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/took-his-permission-mamata-on-skipping-yaas-review-meeting-with-pm-modi-101622203891921.html
28-05-2021||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya stable; has mild cough||Kolkata: Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya,77, who was admitted to a private hospital in south Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon with Covid-19 infection, was stable, the hospital authorities said in a bulletin at 10 pm on Thursday. “He is having mild dry cough today. He is taking food orally,” the bulletin said. The former chief minister and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18. gal, 71, was admitted to Woodlands Hospital the same day . She was released on May 24 but had to be admitted again the next day following a panic attack, hours after her husband was rushed to the hospital. She was stable, the hospital authorities said. The former chief minister was being treated at home till his oxygen saturation level dropped below 90%. He is on non-invasive ventilator. A panel of seven doctors has been formed for his treatment. Thursday night’s bulletin said Bhattacharya’s oxygen level in blood had reached 92% with support and his heartbeat rate was 56 per minute. “He is presently conscious, alert... His blood pressure is stable,” said the bulletin. Bhattacharya, one of the most senior leaders of the CPI(M), is a patient of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). He could rarely leave home in the last few years. In October last year, Bhattacharya was in the same hospital for six days. He was admitted in critical condition with symptoms such as breathlessness and low oxygen count in blood. He was put on ventilation. However, his condition improved fast. Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharya-stable-has-mild-cough-101622147883745.html
