29-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata's 20k-crore demand for cyclone relief unrealistic: Dilip Ghosh||Asserting that Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's demand of ₹20,000-crore for cyclone relief was "unrealistic", state BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said she skipped the review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to avoid giving a detailed account of the claims that she has made.Ghosh also pointed out that the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), which called the review meeting on Friday, is entitled to decide on the list of invitees."Odisha faced the brunt of the cyclone while Bengal was largely spared, but she is asking for ₹20,000 crore. She did not attend the review meeting with the Prime Minister at Kalaikunda as she did not want to elaborate on this unrealistic demand," Ghosh said.The CM had on Friday said that she, in separate proposals submitted to Prime Minister Modi, sought ₹10,000 crore each for rebuilding the seaside tourist town of Digha and the ravaged parts of the Sunderbans region.Banerjee, however, skipped a review meeting on cyclone devastation with Modi, seeking to know why opposition BJP leaders were present at the session.Ghosh further contended that the presence of Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of opposition in the Assembly, was another reason that prompted Banerjee to skip the meeting."Adhikari will be attending assembly sessions, too. Will Banerjee stop going to the House? Instead of politicising the calamity, she should work with everyone for the welfare of people," Ghosh said, in a dig at the TMC supremo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamatas-20k-crore-demand-for-cyclone-relief-unrealistic-dilip-ghosh-101622293995506.html
29-05-2021||Kolkata||Four charred bodies recovered from gutted West Bengal factory||Four charred bodies were recovered from a factory gutted in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas near Kolkata on Saturday after the flames, which raging since early Thursday, were finally doused.At least four people, all security guards at the factory, remained untraceable after the fire broke out. Their mobiles were found to be switched off and their bicycles were also found to be damaged by the fire. Police said the bodies recovered probably belong to the guards. On Saturday morning, when police and fire brigade personnel finally managed to enter the factory, they recovered the bodies from a staircase that led to the terrace. The door of the terrace was locked. The four are believed to have tried to reach the terrace to escape when the fire broke out. But as the door was locked, they got trapped. “We had an apprehension that the four persons, who were missing, might have been trapped. The family members would identify the bodies and then the state government would... help them in every possible way,” said Sujit Bose, a state minister. A complaint against the owner of the factory has been lodged by a family member of one of the four. A forensic team and structural engineers would visit the building on Sunday. “Four charred bodies have been recovered. The family members of the persons who were reported missing have been called for identification,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named. The fire broke out in a garment factory at Bilkanda, an industrial estate in New Barrackpore, in the early hours of Thursday. At least 17 fire tenders were pressed into action. The efforts to douse it continued for over two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/four-charred-bodies-recovered-from-gutted-west-bengal-factory-101622284470550.html
29-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Is it because we have won by a landslide?’: Mamata asks after row over skipping meeting with PM||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she has been hurt by the continuous insults hurled at her by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) following her meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in her state. Mamata also said that Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandhopadhyay was recalled by the Centre as the BJP could not digest the landslide victory secured by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the recently-concluded assembly elections. She also charged Prime Minister Narendra Modi of creating “confusion and confrontation” every time he visited Bengal.Mamata’s comments came a day after a political controversy erupted as several Union ministers and BJP leaders slammed the Bengal chief minister for making PM Modi wait during a meeting and then leaving minutes after giving him a report on the impact of the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas, which hit the state and neighbouring Odisha on Wednesday. On her part, Mamata said he took the Prime Minister’s permission before leaving.Mamata harshly criticised the BJP and said that a one-sided story has been peddled regarding her absence from the review meet. "The meeting was supposed to be held between the Prime Minister and the chief ministers of the states affected. I had to wait for a very long time and despite that, I met the Prime Minister and I did take his permission before leaving," she said."The plans were changed and the meeting now had the leader of the opposition, MLAs from the BJP. I want to ask the PM that when he visited Gujarat last week did he call the leader of opposition in that state for the meeting. Every time the PM visits Bengal why is there such confrontation and confusion. Why should I sit in the meeting when there are political parties who are not entitled to be a part of that meeting present there?" Banerjee asked during a press conference at Nabanna, the state secretariat.Mamata Banerjee said that the Centre was humiliating her and she is ready to beg at the Prime Minister's feet but demanded that this political vendetta should stop. Defending Alapan Bandopadhyay, Mamata Banerjee said that the chief secretary has no fault and it was improper to treat him in this manner despite his service to the nation as well as Bengal."Do you have any courtesy? (You have recalled him on) on his last day?" Mamata Banerjee asked. She also said that the BJP is unable to accept its defeat in Bengal. "You are not only disturbing me, but you are also disturbing my secretariat. Why are you behaving like this? We have won by a landslide. Is that your worry?" Banerjee slammed the Centre.Alapan Bandopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre, due to retire on May 31 got an extension due to his experience in handling the Covid-19 pandemic in Bengal. His transfer order on late Saturday evening led to a war of words between the BJP and the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/is-it-because-we-have-won-by-a-landslide-mamata-asks-bjp-101622282283013.html
29-05-2021||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee's health condition 'stable'||The health condition of former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, who is undergoing treatment at a hospital here after being diagnosed with Covid-19, is stable, a statement issued by the medical facility said on Saturday.Bhattacharjee, however, continued to have shortness of breath and is in a state of drowsiness, it said.The 77-year-old politician is presently conscious, alert and talking, the hospital authorities said."Mr Bhattacharjee is stable. He is, however, having drowsiness and shortness of breath and is on intermittent BiPAP with 3 litres of oxygen, and his oxygen saturation is maintaining at 92 per cent," the statement said.Bhattacharjee tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18."He has mild dry cough and a heart rate of 60 per minute. His blood pressure is stable and urine output is satisfactory. His capillary blood glucose levels are normal now," the statement of the hospital said.Doctors are continuing to inject Remdesivir and taking other supportive measures, it added.The health condition of Bhattacharjee's wife Mira is also stable, an official of the hospital said.Bhattacharjee's wife had recovered from the coronavirus infection and was discharged from the medical facility earlier this week, but she was readmitted, following a panic attack, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-s-health-condition-stable-101622279562766.html
29-05-2021||Kolkata||Narada sting: HC grants interim bail to senior Trinamool leaders||The Calcutta high court granted interim bail to four senior West Bengal politicians on Friday in connection with the 2016 Narada corruption case, ending their eight-day-long house arrest.A five-judge bench directed the four accused leaders to furnish bail bonds of ₹2 lakh with two sureties of similar amounts. The court directed that the accused - ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee - will not give any press interview or make any public comment in connection with the cases pending in the high court or trial court.“The court has granted interim bail. They will have to abide by certain conditions imposed by the court,” said Manishankhar Chatterjee, Mukherjee’s lawyer.The leaders were sent in judicial custody on May 17 after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested them and the high court stayed the bail order by a lower court. On May 21, they were placed under house arrest.Also Read | SC denies stay on TMC leaders’ house arrest in Narada caseMitra’s lawyer, Niladri Bhattacharya, said the court directed the four to join the investigation by video conference and restrained them from speaking about the pending trial. “The interim bail will, however, be subject to final outcome of the case,” he said.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing CBI, objected to interim bail and said the leaders could use their influence to tamper with evidence, make public statements regarding this case, or gather a mob whenever they are called for further investigation or the case is taken up for hearing.Mitra is under treatment at a state-run hospital, while the remaining three have returned home.The case against the four leaders pertains to news portal Narada News’s two-year-long sting operation.The videos of the operation were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 West Bengal assembly elections and purportedly showed some TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.TMC has linked the arrests to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s loss in the assembly polls. It has questioned why CBI did not arrest Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, who were also seen in the sting videos, but have since defected from TMC to BJP.On Tuesday, the Supreme Court had refused to interfere with the house arrest order, prompting the agency to withdraw its petition.CBI’s plea to transfer the Narada trial out of the state is also pending before the high court. It has named West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, law minister Moloy Ghatak, and lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee as respondents in its plea to transfer the case. It has claimed TMC’s protests against the arrests hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.Banerjee staged a six-hour sit-in at the CBI’s office in Kolkata after the four were arrested.Ghatak led nearly 3,000 workers and supporters to the court premises. Outside CBI’s office, hundreds of TMC supporters staged a protest and threw bricks, bottles, and shoes at central forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-sting-calcutta-hc-grants-interim-bail-to-four-political-leaders-101622188211496.html
