31-05-2021||Kolkata||Bengal's Covid-19 toll crosses 15,000-mark; 131 new deaths reported||West Bengal's Covid-19 death toll on Monday crossed the 15,500 mark after 131 more people succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, the health department said.Daily coronavirus cases rose by 10,137 mounting the states overall caseload to 13,76,377.The overall number of Covid-19 fatalities is 15,541 now, the department said in a bulletin.As many as 17,856 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours improving the discharge rate to 92.55 per cent.The overall number of people, who have recuperated from the infection, has gone up to 12,73,788.Currently, the number of active cases stands at 87,048.North 24 Parganas accounted for 33 deaths while Kolkata registered 28 coronavirus fatalities. The rest of the deaths were reported from several other districts, including 10 from South 24 Parganas.The new positive cases included 2,376 from North 24 Parganas district and 1,324 from Kolkata, the bulletin said.Since Sunday, 58,843 samples were tested for coronavirus in the state taking the total number of such examinations to 1,24,30,977.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengals-covid-19-toll-crosses-15-000-mark-131-new-deaths-reported-101622479809887.html
31-05-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee urges PM Modi to cancel bureaucrat’s Central deputation||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the May 28 order that asked state chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay to report for duty at the North Block office of the department of training and personnel by 10am on May 31.Bandopadhyay did not travel to Delhi as Banerjee, in her letter, refused to release him. He attended a virtual meeting chaired by the chief minister and including district magistrates and departmental secretaries at 3pm to review relief work in districts hit by Cyclone Yaas last week.The five-page letter was sent amid heightened political and bureaucratic activity in the state. Bandopadhyay, who was to retire on Monday, was given a three-month extension by the Centre on May 24 after the state sent a formal request, saying his presence was needed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.“I am shocked and stunned by the unilateral order…,” Banerjee wrote in the letter, asking if there was a correlation between the Centre’s sudden decision to transfer the bureaucrat and the meeting Modi held at Kalaikunda in West Midnapore on May 28 during his visit to assess cyclone damage. Though Banerjee met Modi briefly, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and Union ministers alleged that she skipped the meeting and thereby insulted Modi. This triggered a political row.Also Read | Alapan Bandopahyay retires as Bengal chief secretary, to be CM Mamata’s advisorIn her letter, Banerjee not only questioned the legal validity of the order sent to Bandopadhyay but also mentioned in detail the circumstances under which she and the chief secretary met Modi at Kalaikunda where leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari was also present Adhikari, a former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader, joined the BJP in December last year and defeated her in the assembly polls from Nandigram by 1,958 votes. In the letter, Banerjee referred to Adhikari as “local MLA.”“The unilateral ‘order’ comes without any prior consultation whatsoever with the government of West Bengal, without any volition/ option of the officer, without meeting any of the preconditions of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Service Cadre Rules, 1954, and the other applicable laws under reference. The unilateral order/directive is legally untenable, historically unprecedented and wholly unconstitutional,” wrote Banerjee.“…..I presume that the said order of May 24, 2021, granting extension as chief secretary, issued after mutual written consultations and on the basis of the reasons deliberated upon during such consultation in accordance with due process stands and ought to stand in any case. In this regard, I seek your kind conformation in public interest and in the larger interests of the people of the state of West Bengal in these difficult times,” the chief minister wrote amid reports that her government was preparing for a legal battle with Delhi.“The All-India services themselves and the laws, including rules, framed for it, have federal cooperation as the cornerstone of its legal architectural. The whole aim of the all-India services has been to protect and give greater cohesion to the federal foundations of this Constitution. With unilateral and non-consultative orders being issued, the federal system is gravely endangered and severely undermined. ….. I presume and sincerely hope that you do not want to damage the federal amity. I also presume and sincerely hope that you do not want to destroy the morale of all the all-India service officers working in various states across the country,” wrote Banerjee.“I really do not understand what happened between your allowing extension to the officer as chief secretary as few days back on May 24, 2021 after Centre-State consultation to enable him to serve the state of West Bengal in these times, and your unilateral order (4 days later) issued in contradiction to the extension granted by you. The unilateral order also does not provide any details, reasons and/or particulars as to why central deputation of Sri Alapan Bandopadhyay IAS, chief secretary, West Bengal, is required suddenly by you only few days after granting an order of extension following due consultation process. Does it have something to do with our meeting at Kalaikunda on May 28, 20201?” wrote Banerjee.“I really and sincerely hope that this latest order is not related to my meeting with you at Kalaikunda. If that be the reason, it would be sad, unfortunate and would amount to sacrificing public interest at the altar of misplaced priorities,” the letter said.Narrating how she had to change the schedule of her visits to the cyclone-hit areas (in a chopper) and her efforts to meet the Prime Minister personally, Banerjee wrote, “I wanted to have a quiet word with you, and meeting between the Prime Minister and the chief minister as usual.”“You however revised the structure of the meeting to include a local MLA from your party and I am of the view (based on my knowledge of the affairs of the state for about 40 years) that he had no locus to be present in a PM-CM meeting. You had invited the honourable Governor and some Union Ministers also to the meeting, which I had not objected to (the honourable Governor had no role to play in this meeting either, as per our Constitutional scheme, as you also very well know, but I am refraining from commenting further in this regard as a gesture of propriety and courtesy), but an individual MLA, having no locus attending the meeting was unacceptable,” wrote Banerjee.The Union ministers she referred to are Dharmendra Pradhan and Debasree Chaudhuri, an MP from north Bengal.Incidentally, on May 27, Banerjee held a review meeting with her officers and said 134 river embankments built by the state irrigation and waterways department were washed away. She ordered an inquiry into the money spent by the department which was headed by Adhikari between 2018 and December before he resigned from the Cabinet and the TMC.“The chief secretary of my state had continually sent messages to a senior officer accompanying you for either getting this issue sorted out or to arrange a meeting between PM and CM before that meeting. Despite a series of messages, we got no positive result or response. My director (security) was also in touch with the SPG in this regard,” Banerjee wrote to Modi.“Finally, keeping aside legitimate reservations, I entered the meeting with the chief secretary of my state to hand over our report to you. You personally took the report from my hand and then I specifically and expressly sought permission from you for us to leave for Digha, our next cyclone-ravaged destination, where a meeting was due and participants were waiting. You expressly permitted us to take our leave. The matter must and ought to end there,” Banerjee wrote.“However, in the evening, suddenly, like a bolt from the blue, came the order seeking reversion of the chief secretary to Delhi, whereby the state is deprived of his experienced services, he superannuates on the day itself and the whole episode appears to be suggestive of arbitrariness, unseemly haste, in violation of the Constitutional scheme and the applicable laws….,” the letter said.Referring to the recent death of the chief secretary’s bother, Banerjee wrote that Bandopadhyay continued to prioritise his work for the state. “The decision seems to have been taken with mala fide intention and in hot haste,” she wrote.“Respected Sir, I therefore humbly request you to withdraw, recall, reconsider your decision and rescind the latest so-called order in larger public interest. The government of West Bengal cannot release, and is not releasing, its chief secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid. The latest order is also clearly in violation of applicable laws and against public interest: it is in any case ab initio void,” Banerjee wrote.Starting that Bandopadhyay’s presence in Bengal was necessary for public interest the chief minister wrote that the “officer’s continued presence in my state in these difficult times was accepted to be vital and necessary by your Government even 4 days back.”“Since the Centre gave us a letter, we replied to it. It is a matter of courtesy. I cannot say anything more right now,” Banerjee said after her administrative meeting ended at 4pm.Explaining the letter, minister Chandrima Bhattacharya told the media that the entire episode seemed to be part of a political conspiracy. “We urge those in power not to play with the law,” she said.“The Union law minister commented that the chief secretary walked out of the Prime Minister’s meeting. How could he do that? He only accompanied the chief minister. He went there with her and left with her. How could the chief secretary independently walk out?” said Bhattacharya.Bengal BJP leaders refused to comment on the letter saying it was a government matter and had nothing to do with politics. “Adhikari said on Saturday that he was present at the PM’s meeting as leader of the opposition in Bengal. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was also invited but he could not attend,” a senior state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-urges-pm-modi-to-cancel-bureaucrat-s-central-deputation-101622464428924.html
31-05-2021||Kolkata||Alapan Bandopahyay retires as Bengal chief secretary, to be CM Mamata's special advisor||West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, at the centre of a faceoff between the state government and the central government, retired on Monday and was appointed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee as her special advisor. The development came on a day the West Bengal government refused to relieve Bandopadhyay to serve with the Centre in New Delhi, calling the order in this regard "unprecedented" and "unilateral."Also Read | Mamata and her battle against Union government over bureaucratsThe top bureaucrat was due to retire on May 31, but was given a three-month extension to help manage the Covid-19 situation in the state, as well the situation post-Cyclone Yaas, which hit West Bengal last week.“Since Alapan Bandopadhyay has retired from his service today, he is not going to join in Delhi. I will not allow him to leave (state secretariat) Nabanna,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The chief minister also announced that home secretary HK Dwivedi will be the new chief secretary, while BP Gopalika will take over as the new home secretary.Earlier in the day on Monday, Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, informing him of her government’s decision to not relieve Bandopadhyay, and also objecting to the Centre’s decision to transfer him to the Capital. Later, speaking at a Covid-19 and Cyclone Yaas review meeting, she said that the chief secretary “has responsibility here.”Also Read | 'He has responsibility here': Bengal CM Mamata on chief secretaryLast Friday, the Union government shunted Bandopadhyay to New Delhi, just hours after Banerjee "skipped" a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the impact of the cyclone in the eastern state. In its order, the department of personnel and training (DoPT), directed the officer to report to duty at 10am on May 31.Also Read | In Bengal, a political battle over cyclone relief erupts, againThe episode marks yet another confrontation between the two sides following the arrests of three leaders from the chief minister’s Trinamool Congress (TMC), as well as a former TMC leader, on May 17 in connection with the Narada sting operation case. On May 28, all four were granted interim bail by the Calcutta high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/alapan-bandopahyay-retires-as-bengal-chief-secretary-to-be-bengal-cm-s-special-advisor-101622462556765.html
31-05-2021||Kolkata||'He has responsibility here': Bengal CM Mamata on chief secretary||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay "has a responsibility here" as she chaired a review meeting over Cyclone Yaas, which hit Bengal last week, as well as the Covid-19 situation in the state.Also Read | Mamata and her battle against Union government over bureaucrats"I've visited Cyclone Yaas-affected Digha, chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay has a responsibility here. Fishermen's compensation needs to be thought of," Banerjee was quoted as saying during the review meeting by news agency ANI. "Poor people should remember I'm there for you all. Don't participate in the provocation. We didn't get any relief package nor we asked for it," she further said.The extension of the chief secretary, the chief minister said, "is not in my hands," adding that she would reply on the matter "when the time comes."On the Covid-19 situation, Banerjee said, "The daily number of cases have gone down to 11,000, while the daily positivity rate has decreased to 18-19%. The death rate is 0.56%, which is lesser than during the first wave, and discharge rate stands at 91%."Bandopadhyay, who was due to retire on Monday, has been at the centre of a major faceoff between the central government and the West Bengal government. Last Friday, the Centre directed the top bureaucrat to report for duty in New Delhi on May 31, just hours after the chief minister "skipped" a review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the cyclone during his visit to West Bengal.Also Read | In Bengal, a political battle over cyclone relief erupts, againEarlier on Monday, Banerjee wrote to PM Modi, refusing to relieve Bandopadhyay "at this critical hour", also pointing out that he has been given an extension of three months to help manage the cyclone and Covid-19 situation in the eastern state. In her letter, the chief minister also described the Centre's decision as "unprecedented" and "unilateral".Also Read | Centre stuns Mamata Banerjee, transfers top Bengal official to Delhi after rowThe episode marks yet another confrontation between the two sides after the arrests of four accused on May 17 in connection with the Narada sting operation case. Of the four, three are from Banerjee's Trinamool Congress (TMC), while one is a former TMC leader. Two of the accused hold ministerial positions in the West Bengal government. All four were granted interim bail by the Calcutta high court on May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/he-has-responsibility-here-bengal-cm-mamata-on-chief-secretary-101622456746782.html
31-05-2021||Kolkata||‘Shocked, stunned’ Mamata writes to PM Modi, says can’t release chief secretary||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the Centre's order recalling state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. She made the request in a letter to the PM and said her government "is not releasing" the top bureaucrat. Bandyopadhyay's service was recently extended for three months so that he could continue to serve in the state as it faced the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis after "mutual written consultations" and "in accordance with the due process", the CM said.Adding that she was "shocked and stunned" by the order as it comes with no prior consultation with the state government, she asked PM Modi to rescind it in public interest. "I humbly request you to withdraw, recall, reconsider your decision and rescind the latest so-called order in larger public interest. I appeal to your conscience and good sense, on the behalf of the people of West Bengal," she wrote."The West Bengal government cannot release, and is not releasing its chief secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid," she further wrote.Also Read: Centre to take action against WB chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay﻿In her five page long letter, the CM also said she hoped the Centre's decision to recall the chief secretary had nothing to do with her meeting with PM Modi at West Bengal's Kalaikunda Air Force Station last week. "I rescheduled everything to rush to Kalaikunda to attend the meeting with you, accompanied by the chief secretary of my state. I was detained at Sagar...and yet I reached before the scheduled meeting to show utmost respect for your office..." she said in her letter.During the meeting, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, a few other Union ministers and a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA were also present, according to the letter. "The Governor had no role to play in the meeting..." the CM wrote. "...an individual MLA, having no locus, attending the meeting was unacceptable," she added.Signing off, Mamata Banerjee said she looked forward to the Centre's cooperation during these grim times. "I am sure you will not inflict further suffering on the people of this state by taking away the services of an experienced officer...suddenly without any consultation..." she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-writes-to-pm-modi-says-won-t-release-bengal-chief-secretary-101622443647419.html
