03-07-2021||New Delhi||Delhi sees 86 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths||Delhi recorded 86 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths due to the disease on Saturday, according to data shared by the Health Department here.The city’s positivity rate was recorded at 0.11 per cent, down from 0.13 per cent on Friday.The five new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 24,988, as per the latest bulletin.On Friday, Delhi had reported 93 cases of the infection and two deaths. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-sees-86-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-277772
03-07-2021||New Delhi||Covid will be reduced to an endemic in future, zero figure in Delhi unlikely: Experts||Cases of Covid-19 might be declining steadily but as the virus is mutating, attaining that magical zero figure in Delhi is unlikely, experts have said, and predicted that coronavirus will be reduced to an endemic in the future.The Centre, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Cabinet colleague Satyendar Jain had said last year that one will have to learn with coronavirus and make its prevention norms a part of our lives.Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital said there will always be a few cases of the virus.“Zero is an unlikely figure. The virus is mutating and it is difficult to predict its future behaviour,” he said.Explaining why the virus has posed such a challenge, Dr Sanjeev K. Singh, Resident Medical Director, Amrita Hospitals in Faridabad said it is an mRNA virus which keeps changing its structure.“These virus is smart and just for the sake of living, it will keep mutating. Covid will be there and may not be affecting all 193 countries but it will be there.“Coming down to zero won’t be achievable. In hospitals for getting surgeries, one has to get tested for Hepatitis and HIV. Eventually, you will be tested for Covid too,” he said.Dr Gauri Agarwal, IVF expert and founder of Seeds of Innocence said keeping the 1918 pandemic as a yardstick, we know that eradicating the virus is an unrealistic possibility.“As COVID-19 gradually becomes an endemic, likely in 12-24 months, it will probably stop being a statistic that is being watched on a daily basis. Hence, while we may see zero reportable cases, there may never be a time with actual zero cases ever.”Amid concerns over the possibility of a third wave and emergence of the Delta Plus variant, experts assuaged fears of that possible wave being more lethal since a majority of the population has been infected.“In my view, if a new strain doesn’t come up against which the vaccines are not effective, I don’t think the third wave will be as lethal as the second wave,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, Senior Pulmonologist, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, New Delhi.He highlighted that coronavirus will become an endemic in days to come.Agreeing with Chawla, Dr. Rommel Tickoo, Director, Internal Medicine, Max Healthcare, said we are still in the second Covid wave.“Seventy per cent of the cases are limited to Maharashtra, and southern states. In north Indian states, there was a sudden exponential increase and the virus infected a large number of people together which is why the steady decline.“The effect of the virus will be blunted because of the majority of people being exposed to the virus and vaccination,” he added.Tickoo said there might be a spike but if the virus doesn’t become multi-resistant and undergoes mutations, the third wave won’t be as deadly as the second wave and might be lesser in severity than even the first wave.Delhi had reeled under a brutal second wave with oxygen shortage and unavailability of beds adding to woes of patients. However, in the last few days cases have shown a steady decline with the positivity rate coming down below one per cent.On Monday, the city had recorded 59 cases, the lowest single-day rise this year, and two deaths. After that, the cases have hovered around the 90 mark.Talking about the fluctuations in cases, Dr Gurpreet Sandhu, President, Council for Healthcare and Pharma, said, “On the fluctuation module, we are aware that the testing protocols in India are very abysmal, we do not follow standard protocol of testing. “Secondly, some people in rural community in India are still not aware about the what vaccine is for, how it will affect them or how it will protect them from the virus.”Experts unanimously vouched for vaccination as the answer to blunt the effect of the virus.“The effect will be blunted because of the majority of people being exposed to the virus and the vaccination. As the vaccination numbers go up we will be able to blunt the virus impact. More than 50 lakh people have at least received the first while more than 18 lakh have been fully vaccinated,” Tickoo said.However, he said, vaccine hesitancy is becoming problematic.“People still give preference to false news. It has the potential to derail our ambitious vaccination programme. Roping in celebrities, credible voices will help it while doctors have a big role to play. In the UK and the US, majority of the population has received their first doses. In the US they have taken off the masks. We should see these examples,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-will-be-reduced-to-an-endemic-in-future-zero-figure-in-delhi-unlikely-experts-277742
03-07-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Pradesh Youth Congress stages protest against rising LPG prices||Delhi Pradesh Youth Congress on Saturday staged a protest outside the Union Petroleum Ministry here against the rising prices of gas cylinders.National President of Youth Congress Srinivas BV said people were “crying tears of inflation” while buying LPG.“The people of the country are saying - take back such ‘good days’ and give us back our ‘bad days’. The countrymen are compulsorily paying the price of so called ‘acche din’ by buying expensive items. The countrymen want freedom from such so-called ‘acche din’,” a statement quoting the youth Congress leader said.He added that the people of the country were facing “extreme unemployment, economic helplessness and high inflation”.“In such a situation, instead of giving relief to the people, the government is grinding the people by trapping them in the wheel of inflation,” he said.On Thursday, the price of domestic cooking gas (LPG) was hiked by Rs 25.50 per 14.2 kg cylinder. A subsidised and non-subsidised cylinder now costs Rs 834.50 in Delhi.“During the Modi government, the prices of domestic gas cylinders have increased by up to Rs 140 in the last six months. What is the Modi government punishing the public for,” Srinivas BV claimed. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-pradesh-youth-congress-stages-protest-against-rising-lpg-prices-277727
03-07-2021|| New Delhi||Three years of 'Happiness Curriculum' in Delhi schools||Delhi government on Friday celebrated the third anniversary of its 'Happiness Curriculum' for the students of government-run schools across the national capital.During the celebrations, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia interacted with the students and teachers from several schools under the Delhi government.Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said that it is a matter of joy to hear that the Happiness Curriculum has brought about a change in the lives of children, their families and also their teachers."In the coming 10 years, children will adopt happiness in their lives fully, which will grow to become an important component of their everyday life," Sisodia said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi had introduced the Happiness Curriculum in government schools on July 2, 2018. The objective is to improve the mental well-being of students, and it teaches mindfulness, social-emotional learning, critical thinking, problem solving and relationship building.Recently, the Directorate of Education (DoE) of the Delhi government had advised all the private schools in the national capital to adopt the Happiness Curriculum to release the anxiety, stress and depression that children may be facing due to the Covid-19 pandemic. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/three-years-of-happiness-curriculum-in-delhi-schools-277697
03-07-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||HRTC Lahaul-Delhi 16-hr Volvo service from today||Kullu, July 2Thanks to the Atal Tunnel, the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) for the first time will run a Volvo bus between Lahaul and Delhi from tomorrow. Earlier, the HRTC and private Volvo buses used to ply up to Manali, contributing significantly to boosting tourism in the region. Local MLA and Tribal Development minister Ram Lal Markanda is scheduled to flag off the Volvo bus from Keylong.Mangal Chand Manepa, Regional Manager of HRTC, Keylong depot, said that the bus would depart from Keylong at 3 pm. It would take around 16 hours to reach Delhi with minor halts at Manali and Chandigarh, besides one for dinner.He said that the bus would depart from Delhi at 7 pm and arrive in Manali the next day around 8.40 am and further reach Keylong by 11.45 am.Manepa said that the fare for travel to Delhi would be Rs 2,038 from Keylong and Rs 1,684 from Manali.Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said that with the start of the bus service, domestic and foreign tourists coming to the Lahaul valley would get a modern and comfortable travel facility. The availability of Volvo bus service to the tribal district would bring new dimensions to the tourism scenario in the region.Manali to Chandertaal busBesides, Markanda would flag off an ordinary bus on the Manali-Chandertaal route. The bus on this route was being operated for the first time. Generally, only 4X4 vehicles are available to tourists to visit Chandertaal.Manepa said that the bus starting from Manali would provide economical and safe connectivity to the delightful scenic lake Chandertaal situated at an altitude of 14,100 feet. He added that the minister would also flag off a bus on the Trilokinath-Kaza route on July 4. The service was being started on a trial basis for 15 days to facilitate the local people of Lahaul and Spiti and would be continued if the response was good.The HRTC Regional Manager said that the minister would also tentatively launch the online booking facility for various routes of Lahaul district tomorrow. This would make the advance booking of seats in buses convenient through the HRTC website. He added that through this initiative, the bus services in the Lahaul valley would be accessible online from anywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/hrtc-lahaul-delhi-16-hr-volvo-service-from-today-277521
03-07-2021||New Delhi||Monsoon session begins on July 19||The monsoon session of Parliament would be held from July 19 to August 13, a Parliament secretariat statement said here today after the President summoned the two Houses to commence from July 19.The sixth session of the 17th Lok Sabha would commence on Monday (July 19)."Subject to exigencies of government business, the session is likely to conclude on Friday (August 13)," the official communique said. The Rajya Sabha secretariat issued a separate statement. There would be 19 sittings, the statement said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/monsoon-session-begins-on-july-19-277565
