06-07-2021||New Delhi||India’s first FASTag-based parking facility launched at Delhi’s metro station||As part of its multimodal integration of transport services initiative, the DMRC on Tuesday launched the country’s first FASTag-based cashless parking facility at the busy Kashmere Gate metro station in north Delhi, officials said.The parking facility would also be the country’s first to accept payment via the UPI (Unified Payments Interface) mode, they added.The Kashmere Gate station was built on the Red Line and has interconnectivity with the Yellow and Violet lines.As part of the multimodal integration initiative (MMI), dedicated intermediate public transport (IPT) lanes for autorickshaws, taxis and e-rickshaws were also inaugurated at the station, the officials said.“For the first time in the country, a FASTag-based and UPI-based cashless parking facility was launched on Tuesday at the Kashmere Gate metro station by Mangu Singh, MD, DMRC, in the presence of senior officials of the DMRC and the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI),” the DMRC said in a statement.This exclusively cashless parking facility, located at Gate No.6 of the metro station, can accommodate 55 four-wheelers and 174 two-wheelers, it said.“The entry and exit and payment by the riders of four-wheelers can be done through FASTag. The parking fee will be deducted through FASTag, which will reduce the time for entry and payment. Only the vehicles bearing FASTag will be allowed to park at this facility,” the statement said.The entry for two-wheelers can be done only by swiping the DMRC smart card. The smart card swipe is used only for registering the time of entry and exit and fare calculation, and no money will be deducted from it.The parking fee for two-wheelers can be paid through UPI-based apps by scanning a QR-code. In the future, the payment can also be made through the DMRC card and the NCMC (National Common Mobility Card), the officials said.The Kashmere Gate station’s facility is a “pilot project” under the MMI of the DMRC, which is planning to set up similar systems at more of its parking facilities across Delhi-NCR, they added.In addition, the IPT lanes for autorickshaws, taxis and e-rickshaws at Gate No. 6 and Gate No. 8 will enable a smooth movement of vehicles and enhance the last-mile connectivity at the station, the DMRC said.In the second phase of the MMI, which is under construction, there will be a food court (to be established by the DTIDC) and also a bus terminal (three lanes with a capacity of five buses each) to be constructed by the DMRC, it added.After the completion of the second phase, the Kashmere Gate area will become a transportation hub, integrating metro connectivity on Line-1, Line-2 and Line-6 with parking facilities, the ISBT Kashmere Gate, the City Bus Service and taxi, autorickshaw and e-rickshaw services, the DMRC said.These facilities will provide a major relief to the commuters travelling to and from the Kashmere Gate station, which is connected to a major inter-state bus terminus (ISBT) and several offices around the station.“The cashless parking project is a major step as part of the government’s ‘Digital India’ initiative. We have taken this up as a pilot project. After observing the response, we will plan similar systems at more parking facilities at our stations,” the DMRC chief said.“In fact, we will explore more opportunities to go digital wherever there is scope. This will not only help us in modernising the facilities, but will also help commuters saving their time and ease the process. Under the MMI, we have many other projects, which will be implemented in a graded manner,” Singh said.Both the FASTag and UPI systems were developed by the NPCI.“We are pleased to partner with the DMRC to introduce the country’s first 100 per cent digital parking plaza, along with the NETC FASTag contactless car parking solution, at their Kashmere Gate metro station. The parking plaza would accept the NETC FASTag for four-wheelers and UPI payments for all two-wheelers,” said Praveena Rai, Chief Operating Officer, NPCI. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/indias-first-fastag-based-parking-facility-launched-at-delhis-metro-station-279090
06-07-2021||New Delhi||DCW chief Swati Maliwal gets another three-year term||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday approved another term for Delhi Commission For Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal and her team for doing “excellent work”.The panel’s term is for three years and this will be Maliwal’s third stint, according to a DCW official.“Delhi Commission for Women has been doing an excellent work. Their term comes to an end. I approved another one term for the present Commission today. Best wishes to Swatiji and her team. Keep doing good work,” Kejriwal said in a tweet.This is the second time she has been granted extension. In July 2018, she was also granted extension before her term was about to end. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/dcw-chief-swati-maliwal-gets-another-three-year-term-279078
06-07-2021||New Delhi||Delhi govt launches financial assistance scheme for families of Covid victims||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday launched a scheme and an online portal to provide financial assistance to families who lost their loved ones to Covid and asked officials not to find faults in their claim applications.Under the 'Mukhyamantri Covid Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana', Rs 50,000 ex gratia will be given to every family that lost a member to Covid and an additional Rs 2,500 per month will be given if the deceased was the sole breadwinner.Addressing a virtual press conference, Kejriwal said the "fourth wave" of Covid in Delhi affected almost every family and many people died."Many children were orphaned, many families lost their sole breadwinner. In such a case, being a responsible government, we conceptualised this scheme," he said."We are launching a portal through which such people can apply for financial assistance. Our representatives will also visit such families and get applications filled up," he added.The chief minister said such representatives would not reject claims of families in case any document is missing and would only facilitate the process."I want to tell all such representatives not to conduct scrutiny of applications. If the families lack any document, we will help them obtain it. We have to make sure that we make this happen. Don't find faults with their documents...don't make them unhappy, encourage them," Kejriwal said."We have to ensure that we provide financial assistance to such families as soon as possible," he added.The Delhi government's Department of Social Welfare had notified the 'Mukhyamantri Covid Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana' on June 22.The notification stated, "The government will also consider a single member of the affected family to be enrolled as a civil defence volunteer. Besides, the state affirms to look after the health and education needs of the dependent children as per existing policy." There is no income criterion to apply for financial assistance under the scheme. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-launches-financial-assistance-scheme-for-families-of-covid-victims-279067
06-07-2021||New Delhi||Owner of Delhi farmhouse where heroin manufacturing unit was busted by Punjab Police booked||The Delhi Police has registered a case against the owner of the farmhouse in the Sainik Farm area where Punjab Police busted a heroin manufacturing unit and arrested four Afghan nationals, officials said on Tuesday. A senior police officer said that the FIR was registered under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and the owner has been arrested. Police said that the owner has been booked for not carrying out the mandatory tenant verification. Further investigation is underway. On Monday, officials said that the Neb Sarai SHO along with beat staff has been sent to the police lines in connection with the incident.The Punjab police had busted a major drug racket with the arrest of four Afghan nationals in Delhi and seizure of 17 kg heroin that has a value of Rs 90 crore in the international market.Police also recovered assorted chemicals and lab equipment, used to manufacture the drug, from the Neb Sarai unit.Punjab Police DGP on Sunday tweeted, "Punjab Police unearth & bust a major heroin manufacturing unit in South Delhi. Around 17 kg heroin, assorted chemicals, acids & lab equipment recovered. 4 Afghan nationals arrested." PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/owner-of-delhi-farmhouse-where-heroin-manufacturing-unit-was-busted-by-punjab-police-booked-279059
06-07-2021||New Delhi||PM offers to share CoWIN platform with all countries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday offered India’s CoWIN platform to the world for adaptation to local use. Speaking at the global CoWIN conclave attended by health and technology experts from abroad, Modi said having been used in India, “you can be sure the software has been tested in the real world for speed and scale”.The PM said while planning its vaccination strategy, India decided to adopt a completely digital approach. Given how precious each dose of vaccine is, each dose could be tracked and wastage minimised. This would not have been possible without an end-to-end digital approach.The CoWIN global conclave was organised today to share the digital platform’s success story, which forms the technological backbone of India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive.India has offered the platform, which can be adapted and scaled up for health interventions across the world, to partner countries as a global public good.The platform is also being offered to the World Health Organisation’s Covid Technology Access Pool (C-TAP).Over 400 delegates from 140 countries and other organisations attended the conclave.Of the five ministers from other countries who spoke, Bangladesh’s Zunaid Ahmed Palak revealed that his country has a similar app while those from smaller countries — Bhutan, Maldives, Afghanistan and Guyana — looked forward to replicating the Indian experience. Interest has already been shown by Vietnam, Lao PDR, Cyprus, Croatia, Sierra Leone, Zambia and Malawi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/pm-offers-to-share-cowin-platform-with-all-countries-278799
06-07-2021||New Delhi||CBI files 2nd FIR in Gomti project case||The CBI today registered a second FIR against 16 officials and 173 private individuals and entities (contractors) in a case pertaining to Rs 1,437-crore Gomti riverfront development project in Lucknow, which was undertaken during the tenure of the previous Samajwadi Party government in UP.The first FIR has already covered work orders worth over Rs 1,031 crore relating to the project, agency officials said.Akhilesh Yadav was the CM then and the Assembly poll in UP are due to take place next year. After the FIR, the CBI sleuths conducted raids at 42 locations across three states. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/cbi-files-2nd-fir-in-gomti-project-case-278801
06-07-2021||New Delhi||Supreme Court refuses to entertain ‘Toolkit’ plea||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea seeking preliminary inquiry into the alleged “Toolkit”, which was purportedly created to tarnish image of India and PM Narendra Modi over handling of Covid pandemic. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/supreme-court-refuses-to-entertain-toolkit-plea-278807
06-07-2021||New Delhi||Remarks against allopathic medicines: Supreme Court to hear Ramdev’s petition on July 12||The Supreme Court on Monday said it would hear on July 12 the plea of yoga guru Ramdev seeking a stay on proceedings in connection with multiple FIRs lodged over his alleged remarks against the use of allopathic medicines during the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it received original records of his statements late Sunday night only. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/remarks-against-allopathic-medicines-supreme-court-to-hear-ramdevs-petition-on-july-12-278808
