02-05-2021||Pune||BJP defeats MVA candidate to snatch seat from NCP in Pandharpur-Mangalwedha bypoll||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Samadhan Autade defeated his rival candidate and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) nominee backed by Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Bhagirath Bhalke in a closely contested bypoll for Pandharpur-Mangalwedha seat in Maharashtra’s Solapur district. Bhalke’s defeat dealt a major setback to Maha Vikas Aghadi government, especially the NCP, as the seat was represented by party legislator Bharat Bhalke whose demise due to post-Covid-19 complications in November last year necessitated polls here. The NCP chose Bharat’s son Bhagirath Bhalke against local businessman Autade, factoring sympathy wave in view of sitting legislator’s demise even as voters preferred otherwise. Autade was polled 1,09,450 votes compared to 1,05,717 votes to Bhalke at the end of counting, which saw neck-and-neck fight between the two contestants. While Autade won the polls, margin remained slender till 38th round when BJP candidate was declared winner by a difference of 3,733 votes. Political observers said that the victory for BJP in bypoll is a major boost for the party as its nominee defeated candidate who had backing of three parties – NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena. “Despite NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena coming together, these parties could not ensure victory for Bhalke in first directly fought battle after MVA came to power in 2019. This will be projected by BJP that it can defeat MVA even if three parties jointly field a candidate,” said Abhay Deshpande, political observer. From NCP, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had personally anchored the election for party, right from selecting the candidate to campaigning here for a week in a row. “The entire MVA government was against me. However, voters of Pandharpur - Mangalwedha sided with me while Prashant Paricharak and other BJP leaders took every possible effort to make this victory possible,” said Autade after the results were declared. Leader of opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis while congratulating Autade, said, “Pandharpur voters showed the mirror to MVA and its misgovernance of one and half years. Despite using all its might, MVA nominee lost elections.” Earlier in 2019, Autade had fought assembly polls and garnered over 54,000 votes as an independent candidate. During this election, Autade was extended all possible support by BJP leader and its legislator in the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) Prashant Paricharak. Prashant’s uncle Sudhakar Paricharak, who died of Covid in August last year helped BJP through sympathy vote. Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said Pandharpur result is unlikely to have an impact on state politics. “It is true that we should have won this bypoll when all three parties had come together. However, local factors seem to have influenced the outcome,” said Raut. Besides issue of pending water pipeline project for Mangalwedha, the dues not paid to cane farmers by Bhalke controlled sugar factory went against the NCP candidate. Congress leader Satej Patil said, “Multiple factors may have contributed to the loss of MVA candidate. I don’t think we fielded a wrong candidate but there may have been some laxity in taking all elements along.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-defeats-mva-candidate-to-snatch-seat-from-ncp-in-pandharpur-mangalwedha-bypoll-101619972397560.html
02-05-2021||Pune||Pune police question women who received funds meant for sex workers||Two days after the Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh initiated a probe in the misappropriation of funds meant for sex workers, the Pune police have begun questioning women who received the money. Besides Annabhau Sathe Nagar, Tarawade vasti, Mohammadwadi, the police have now found that some women living in Dattawadi slums have received ₹15,000 in their accounts. This was brought to their notice by Nitin Waghmare, founder Akhil Bharatiya Bahujan Sena. The amount which was released by the Maharashtra government as financial aid to be paid to sex workers as part of an amount of ₹7.94 crore, it was deposited into the bank accounts of maids and waste pickers living in Annabhau Sathe Nagar, Tarawade vasti, Mohammadwadi and now according to police, in women in Dattawadi Slums. “We are still following up on the information received and in the process of interviewing the women who received the money. So far, we have interviewed 10 women but yet to get to the culprits,” said police inspector K Indulkar of Dattawadi police station. Meanwhile, the women in Mohammadwadi are feeling embarrassed and undignified for being recognized as sex workers. “I never realized what I was getting into when I signed on the form that the woman gave me,” said Lata Yedke, who is afraid of breaking this news to her husband who is away in the village. “I work hard as a maid and when these women approached us saying that the government and foreigners together have started a scheme for poor women, I thought this could help me get out of the rented place we have, but instead it has embarrassed me. I would not even like to touch this money and I want to return it at the earliest,” she added. Gangubai Gaikwad who was made aware that the funds were meant for the sex workers, said, “I am glad I did not receive the money. I was upset earlier when few of the women in my Vasti got it but now I don’t want it at all.” Vijaya Kundale, recalls a woman sitting with a neighbour and all of them filling up forms, so when approached, she too filled up the form. “I was told that by giving my ration card copy, aadhar card and bank details, I was going to get money from government. I lost my work during Covid last year, so I thought this was good, but now, it has become shameful and feel undignified to be even part of this scheme.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-question-women-who-received-funds-meant-for-sex-workers-101619972337444.html
02-05-2021||Pune||Sunday rainfall second highest in May since 2009||The city on Sunday reported 26.8mm rainfall in Shivajinagar which is the second highest rainfall in 24 hours for the month of May since 2009, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The highest record of rainfall in 24 hours in the month of May was in 2015 at 102.18 mm which is also an all-time record as per IMD. Lohegaon on Sunday reported 3.2 mm rainfall. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD, Pune said that multiple weather systems are drawing in moisture resulting in rainfall. “One trough line from northeast Madhya Pradesh to Vidarbha, another trough line from Vidarbha to South of Tamil Nadu and an upper cyclonic circulation over Marathwada, all of this is resulting in thunderous activity and lightning along with light rainfall,” said Kashyapi. The day and night weather will be pleasant in the city, said IMD officials and partly cloudy conditions will prevail in the city until May 5. “The day temperature may go as high as 38 degrees Celsius, and the night temperature will be around 22 degrees Celsius in Pune city,” said IMD officials. Along with Pune city, Kolhapur, Nashik, Satara, Buldhana and Nagpur reported rainfall on Sunday. Rainfall is in forecast in all subdivisions of the Maharashtra until May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sunday-rainfall-second-highest-in-may-since-2009-101619972217367.html
02-05-2021||Pune||In a first, uGMRT reveals patchy environment of a rare cosmic explosion||The scientists from the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (NCRA-TIFR) Pune used the upgraded Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (uGMRT) to determine that AT 2018 cow, the first of a newly discovered class of cosmic explosions has an extremely patchy environment. This is the first observational evidence of inhomogeneous emission from an FBOT. The origins of FBOTs are still under debate, but proposed models include explosion of a massive star, collision of an accreting neutron star and a star, merger of two white dwarfs. The FBOT AT2018cow was discovered on June 16, 2018. At a distance of about 215 million lightyears, the ‘cow’ showed luminosities much greater than that of normal supernovae. Prof Poonam Chandra from NCRA-TIFR and Dr AJ Nayana, a former Ph.D. student of Prof Chandra both carried out radio observations of AT 2018cow with the uGMRT to determine the properties of its extended environment and emission region. “Our study has tremendously benefited by the unique low-frequency capabilities of the uGMRT. The uGMRT observations of the ‘cow’ played a unique role in finding the non-uniform density around this explosion. Our work provides the first observational evidence of inhomogeneous emission from an FBOT. The density of the material around this explosion falls drastically around 0.1 light-year from the transient. This indicates that the progenitor star of AT2018cow was shedding mass much faster towards its end of life.” said Nayana. AT 2018cow is also unusual in that it has been observable in the radio for a very long time. The longer one can observe the post explosion emission, the more distance the material that was ejected during the explosion has travelled. This allows one to study the large-scale environment of the source. Both Dr Nayana and Prof Chandra have been observing the ‘cow’ for two years with the uGMRT to understand its properties. “This is the first FBOT seen for this long at low radio frequencies and the uGMRT data gave crucial information about the environment of this transient. This is the beauty of low-frequency radio observations. One gets to trace the footprints of the progenitor system much before it exploded. It is interesting that the material from the explosion is moving with speed greater than 20 per cent speed of light even after ∼ 257 days post-explosion, without any deceleration.” said Prof Chandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-a-first-ugmrt-reveals-patchy-environment-of-a-rare-cosmic-explosion-101619972157480.html
02-05-2021||Pune||SPPU’s first semester exam sees 96.49 per cent attendance||The first semester examination of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) received a good response from students, despite the rise in Covid cases and online mode exams a total of 17,20,831 students appeared for the exams. The total attendance percentage was 96.49 percent until April 30. In fact, since exams began on April 10, there has been increasing graph of students appearing for the exams. According to students, the technical issues have been fewer this year compared to last year’s final year examinations. On the first day of the exams on April 10, a total of 25,356 students appeared for the exam on various subjects from across the departments. While the highest one day attendance was reported on April 20 with 1, 54,783 students. The first semester examination is being held in online mode for students from first to last year of all the courses with more than 3,700 subjects. The exam has been conducted of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method in online mode. The university’s own SPPU Edutech Foundation company is conducting this exam. “The examination of first semester was quite a good experience for me, there was no major technical issue compared to last year’s exam and the best part was we could get the results within 72 hours. There is still a need to improve the helpline number management system, as when called to the helpline number students do not get quick response to solve their issue,” said Pratik Kamble, a first year post graduate student. Last year from October 12, 2020, SPPU started its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. From the first day onwards, both online and offline students faced a lot of issues while appearing for the exam and it even continued in the results. For the offline exams, 113 centres were identified where physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams were 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for one-hour duration. Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation said, “There was a good response from students throughout the April month and daily attendance was high. Our staff and technical team really worked hard to resolve issues of students immediately as they were appearing for the exams. It will continue to be for the rest of the papers and we hope that this first semester online exams are carried out well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppus-first-semester-exam-sees-96-49-per-cent-attendance-101619968018949.html
02-05-2021||Pune||Husband in custody for throwing acid-like substance at wife||A 39-year-old man was remanded to custody of Pune police by a local court for throwing an acid-like substance at his wife on Saturday morning. The reason for the attack is not yet clear. The 37-year-old woman sustained injuries on her left eye and left arms, according to the police. The attack happened around 8:30am near Bopdev ghat in Kondhwa area of Pune. The arrested man was identified as Dinesh Shirpat Dhumak (39), a resident of Bavdhangaon in Pune who repairs water-filter for a living. A local court has remanded the man to two days in police custody. “She works as a housemaid and due to Covid regulations; she had started living in the building where she works. She had come to visit. The people from nearby area heard her screaming and informed the police,” said police sub inspector Vaishali Gapat of Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case. Dhumak picked up the woman on his motorbike and took her to the spot near Bopdev ghat where he stopped his bike and asked her to show where her workplace was. When the woman refused to reveal where she went to work, Dhumak allegedly said to the woman that he wanted to see her face and asked her to take her mask off. As the woman took her mask off, he retrieved the bottle he was carrying and flung the liquid at her, aiming for her face. However, as the woman ducked the liquid landed on her left eye and left hand. A case under Sections 326(a) (punishment for acid attack) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/husband-in-custody-for-throwing-acid-like-substance-at-wife-101619967957257.html
02-05-2021||Pune||26-year-old in police custody for killing partner||A 26-year-old man was remanded to police custody of Pune police on Sunday by a local court for killing his partner who was also his mother-in-law. The arrested man was identified as Asif Dastagir Attar (26), a resident of Shelke Chawl in Bibwewadi. He was remanded to police custody by a local court on Sunday. The deceased woman was identified as Anarkali Mohmad Terne (45) who lived with the now-arrested man and is a native of Hukkeri in Belgaum district of Karnataka. The man used a piece of clothing to strangle the woman over a domestic argument, according to the police. The man allegedly killed the woman around 9am on Saturday and was arrested after 11:50pm. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Maulali Rafik Manjlapure (31), a resident of Indiranagar slum area in Marketyard. “He left his wife and came here with her mother (the deceased). He lived with her in Pune for eight months and then killed her,” said assistant police inspector Rajesh Usgaonkar who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bibwewadi police station against Attar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/26yearold-in-police-custody-for-killing-partner-101619967897375.html
02-05-2021||Pune||Kothrud hospital runs out of oxygen, police avert tragedy||The Pune Police helped prevent a tragedy at a private hospital in Kothrud which was treating its last few minutes of oxygen and had 20 Covid-19 patients under treatment on Saturday. Senior police inspector Meghshyam Dange of Kothrud police station received a call at 8:30am from Krushna Hospital that the hospital was left with oxygen supply that could last only for 30-40 minutes, according to a statement issued by Kothrud police station. The hospital was not able to source oxygen and had no place to shift the 20 patients on oxygen support. “After receiving the call, senior police inspector Meghshyam Dange sent officials of Kothrud police station to the hospital and arranged for four jumbo cylinders from two nearby hospitals -Suryaprabha Hospital and Sahyadri Hospital,” read the statement. However, those four jumbo cylinders were not going to last for long for the patients on ventilator as well as oxygen support. The gravity of the situation was relayed to Pournima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-3 and Gajanan Tompe, assistant commissioner of police. The senior officers rallied local police station officials and Special police officers (SPOs) who arranged for a dura cylinder from Shivajinagar and got a crane as well as a vehicle to carry it to Kothrud. The police escorted the dura cylinder to Krushna hospital in time to save the patients from shortage of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kothrud-hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen-police-avert-tragedy-101619967777302.html
02-05-2021||Pune||Three arrested for selling Remdesivir injection at ₹37,000||Three people were arrested by Pune police for selling Remdesivir on the black market. All the three accused are Pharmacy graduates, according to police sources. The arrest was made by anti-extortion cell-1 of Pune police crime branch led by senior police inspector Vitthal Patil and assistant police inspector Sandeep Bua. The three arrested were identified as Nikhil Baburao Jadhav (24), a resident of Ambegaon Pathar area; Mayur Vijay Chavan (22), a resident of Talegaon Dabhade, and Shamli Chandrakant Akolkar, according to the police. The police have recovered three injections worth ₹8,400 from them. The three were selling the injection for ₹37,000 per vial and had agreed to sell a set of 3 injections for ₹1,05,000, according to the police. The police first arrested Chavan and Jadhav who arrived to deliver the three injections in a car. Upon interrogation, the two revealed that the injections were given to them by Akolkar. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officer Suhas Tanaji Sawant was called in by the police to authenticate the confiscated injections and lodged a complaint against the three. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Drug Price Control Order 2013, and Essential Commodities Act was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-arrested-for-selling-remdesivir-injection-at-rs-37000-101619966397319.html
02-05-2021||Pune||Business snippets from around Pune||Pune companies discuss business prospects with SMEs from Sheffield city region The Sheffield city region in the north of England and Pune have continued to build on their growing relationship through a virtual trade mission organised by the UK India Business Council (UKIBC), in partnership with the Sheffield City Region. The virtual trade mission saw SMEs from the Sheffield City Region meet with 50 companies based in Pune to engage on prospective partnerships, trading opportunities and business development. The companies based in Pune were Larsen & Toubro, Siemens, International Aerospace Manufacturing, Praj Industries, and Arup, among others. The Sheffield city region is recognised worldwide for its expertise in high precision engineering, metals and alloy production and high-quality design and manufacturing of products for a wide range of global industries.UKIBC managing director, Kevin McCole said: “Sheffield city region home to some of the UK’s most innovative businesses has a huge amount to offer India and, in particular, Pune, given the industrial complementarities between the two regions.”The “India Growth Champions” are SMEs based in the Sheffield city region selected to receive support to build business links with India. Each company received 10 funded days of dedicated support, alongside the development of an India business plan, workshops and business mentoring. Subsequently, the India Growth Champions took part in the virtual trade mission.Ministry of electronics & info tech invites start-ups for #FOSS4GOV innovation challengeThe Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology announced a #FOSS4GOV Innovation Challenge to accelerate the adoption of free and open-source software (FOSS) in the government. The #FOSS4GOVInnovation Challenge calls upon FOSS innovators, technology entrepreneurs, and Indian startups to submit implementable open-source product innovations in CRM and ERP with possible applications for govtech in health, education, agriculture, and urban governance. Participants are eligible for incubation support, prize money, mentorship by domain experts, institutional support from eminent organisations for incubation of ideas, and listing of solutions on GeM. Further details about the challenge and how to participate will be shared soon by the Ministry through MyGov and the ministry startup hub.Free and Open-Source Software (FOSS) is software that is freely licensed to use, copy, study, change, improve, and redistribute. Some of India’s largest government projects (including Aadhaar) and technology start-ups have been built on top of FOSS. Varad Pande, partner, Omidyar Network India, said “We see FOSS as a key component of GovTech 3.0, which is about building secure and inclusive open digital ecosystems (ODEs) that harness the potential of social innovators to help solve India’s toughest problems.”Ahammune Biosciences raises undisclosed amount in pre-Series A roundAhammune Biosciences, an innovation-led drug discovery company, which focuses on immune related skin disorders, with current focus on the depigmenting disorder, Vitiligo, has raised an undisclosed amount in pre-Series A round led by Ideaspring Capital and Indian Angel Network.Kotak Private Equity, Legacy Assets and Dr Ajith Kamath participated in the round. The fresh funding will be used for “first-in-human” studies of new drug candidate AB1001 for vitiligo.Ahammune Biosciences was founded in May 2016 by Dr Parul Ganju, PhD in skin biology and Dr Krishnamurthy Natarajan, professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Recently, Dr Ganju was declared as the first runner-up in the TiE Women’s Pitch Competition. She was offered an equity-free award of $25,000 in January 2021. Parul was mentored by TiE Pune charter members, Ajay Bhagwat, Ravi Nigam and Zelam Chaubal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/business-snippets-from-around-pune-101619952657222.html
02-05-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Punekars stock-up on share market lessons||When the national lockdown was announced last year in March, everyone was figuring out the best way to “spend” their time.Counting the actual number of chips in a packets; count the words repeated in a song… but, there were others who tried to start “earning” with the extra time during the lockdown. Most searched for information available online related to investing and trading. It was a strange coincidence that when the wheels of the economy had stopped moving, the stock markets were going through the roof. The common man could not understand this irony and many thought it was just a bubble created by some crazy investors.However, one year down the line, it has now been established with data and statistics that even during the harshest lockdown, common people overcame the “market-fear” and were willing to invest money and trade online. One such trend has also been highlighted by subscription-based online financial education platform LearnApp.com.The online education start-up founded by Prateek Singh has seen a huge surge in first-time investors who have subscribed to learn about trading and investing. 0.15 million Puneites registered for a variety of courses in the one year of the pandemic, 2020-21, on the platform. This is 2x higher than the subscribers from Mumbai. Their data also reveals that 8 per cent of these subscribers are women, aged between 25-34 years of age. While the world was crippled with financial insecurities, first-time investors from Pune saw this as an opportunity to learn something new and grow.In the beginning...Singh says, “In the summer of 2007, I had my first tryst with the whole concept of trading. My father opened a Demat account for me, and my first trade was in a company called Milk Food. That was followed by the global market crash of 2008 and from there on, it took me about six years to achieve profitability consistently. Ideally, it shouldn’t have taken that long, but the reality was there weren’t any resources to learn from for a new market participant. I had to make those mistakes and learn from them.”“Not only was I passionate about trading, but I also wanted to build a platform where people can learn from my experience. I founded a start-up called Market Scientist in 2014, with the idea of creating videos and blogs teaching personal finance, business, investing and trading. There were a bunch of people who thought videos will never work. As an entrepreneur, I wanted to build something and measure the results with real users, rather than spend my time listening to opinions. I moved on from Market Scientist and decided to launch LearnApp in 2018 with Ankush Oberoi, Swati Sharma and Sohail Alam.”Lockdown experienceWhen the lockdown was announced, people had more time since they were working from home, and at the same time, there was a lot of activity in the stock market as well. Says Singh, “This is where we saw two changes in customer behaviour - first, online became an acceptable mode of learning; second, online webinars became an extended form of learning. We were already leaders in the financial space and with the help of these two, we were able to reach more people.”“In the initial days of the lockdown we saw a spike in users, but the same users didn’t stay with us by end of April. To be honest, until last year there were several small issues that needed to be fixed because of which we saw lower completion rates. We had to fix that, and the only way we could that was by speaking to each of our users by taking their feedback and iterating each of our courses. It took us a while to fix these bugs, but as soon as they were fixed, our completion rates went from less than 30 per cent to over 50 per cent.”Explaining further, he says, “Our yearly subscription model also helped increase the completion rate and acquire new subscribers during the lockdown. Users had more time to explore the platform and they began to love the content we were creating, giving us a great completion rate. Many new users who were looking forward to learning about markets reached out to LearnApp and took their first online course with us.”Taking care of his team was also a priority for Singh. He said, “The environment in March 2020 was uncertain and a lot of businesses were shutting down. To make sure our teammates do not have to worry about their jobs we started paying salaries two days early and offered micro-loans if someone needed help in their family. This really helped build trust and remove uncertainties that they may have had about their future. In the end, it is the team and the consumers, and catering to them is what kept the business afloat even in the worst of the crisis.”Millenial Money: a global trendAccording to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) data, new dematerialised or demat account additions rose to an all-time high of 10.7 million between April 2020 and April 2021. This is an increase of 2x in new demat accounts opened in FY20-21. Interestingly, not only has there been a surge in the first-time users, global data trends have also shown that in the post pandemic world, younger or millennial investors in India have started opening demat accounts to start trading, in sync with the global trend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-punekars-stock-up-on-share-market-lessons-101619952057704.html
