03-05-2021||Pune||Mahabaleshwar authorities close down golf course where Anil Ambani seen on walks||Civic authorities from Maharashtra’s popular hill station Mahabaleshwar have asked a local club to shut down its golf course, after a video of industrialist Anil Ambani taking a walk on it went viral on social media. Mahabaleshwar Municipal Council (MMC) chief executive officer issued a notice to ‘The Club’ management which manages the sprawling golf course ground, where industrialist Anil Ambani and wife Tina were taking regular walks during lockdown, the purported video showed. The notice issued by the Mahabaleshwar council chief officer Pallavi Patil warned of action under the disaster management act, Indian Penal Code (IPC), and epidemic diseases act if the establishment does not bar people from coming there for morning or evening walks during the ongoing restrictions. The Ambani family did not issue a statement while an email sent to Anil Ambani did not receive any response till the time of going to pressThe ground was also being frequented by other walkers despite restrictions imposed by local authorities. The CEO issued the order after he received “confirmed” and “verified” reports that Ambanis were taking a walk during the lockdown at Golf course grounds. The notice stated that penal action will be initiated against the club for Covid-19 violations. Following the notice, the club authorities locked up the ground. The hill town of Mahabaleshwar is quite popular and the 11-hole golf course from the British era, is set amidst a forest and is a serene spot amid the hustle and bustle of the iconic hill station, a resident said. In her notice, CEO Pallavi Patil stated: “It is brought to your notice that lockdown and curfew has been imposed as per the orders of the state government. The ground is frequented by evening walkers, and you are hereby directed to close it for public. In case of failure of compliance, action will be taken under section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act 2005 and section 188 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 2897 and certain sections of the Indian Penal Code 1860.” Ambani was a regular at the Golf grounds in Mahabaleshwar and the news spread like wildfire in the town.According to Patil, walkers from elsewhere had also started visiting the ground where some prominent people took a walk. “We verified and issued a notice to the club that it was in violation of Covid-19 restrictions. Now, the club has locked the ground and all activities have been stopped,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahabaleshwar-authorities-close-down-golf-course-where-anil-ambani-seen-on-walks-101620064150643.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Pune dist sees 7,718 fresh cases, 10 Covid deaths||Pune district, on Monday, reported 7,718 fresh Covid-19 cases and 10 Covid-related deaths, both over a 24- hour period, as per the state health department. Of the 10 deaths reported in the district, three deaths were in Pune rural and seven in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). No deaths were reported in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. In the Pune district there are a total of 8,72,617 Covid cases, of which 7,53,928 patients have recovered. The death toll in the district stands at,774 deaths. Presently, there are 1,08,915 active cases in Pune district. PMC has so far reported 4,42,111 Covid cases and 5,670 deaths as of Monday. Whereas PCMC has reported 2,12,177 cases so far and a total of 1,566 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 2,18,329 total cases so far and 2,521 deaths due to Covid. As per the state gealth department, 59,500 patients were discharged on Monday in Maharashtra taking the total to 40,41,158. The recovery rate in the state is 84.7%. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.49%. Currently, 39,08,491 people are in home quarantine and 28,593 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-sees-7-718-fresh-cases-10-covid-deaths-101620061568800.html
03-05-2021||Pune||COEP launches month-long wellness programme for students||The College of Engineering Pune (COEP) has started a one month ‘mental health challenge’ for students this month with small activities to keep students stress free and regain happiness through studies. Several colleges are already running counselling sessions and mental wellbeing programmes for their students throughout the year. “From the last one and half years since the pandemic started, we are continuously working on our students for their mental wellbeing, as everyone of us are affected due to Covid and need mental support. Initially, we organised various online programmes and sessions for students, but as they were already overloaded with several online lectures and education series, we stopped that and focused more on group activity building, one to one counselling and mentoring sessions by senior students to new students. In the last one year, more than 1,000 students at COEP have benefited from this wellness programme,” said Kshipra Moghe, centre head of COEP wellness centre. COEP is one of the foremost engineering colleges in the country that has introduced a dedicated helpline for their students. Besides, the ‘COEP Mitra (friend)’ and ‘ICareWeCare’ initiatives have made a mentorship programme for this year’s new first year students. Around 600 newly admitted students are divided into batch of 20 students each, while each batch has a final year one student as their mentor along with a faculty teacher. “The new initiative which we have launched is mental health awareness month, which is celebrated in USA, and we are also doing it here for our students. Daily we give small activities or things to do to students which will give joy and a bit of relaxation to them. We all know that situation is worse outside, we are talking about it for a year but now we need to live with this new normal and get going forward. So, our focus was on the mental wellbeing as well as to be productive now in our studies and daily life. We have created a 30-day calendar for students, declared it on social media platforms and told students to share their daily activities,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coep-launches-month-long-wellness-programme-for-students-101620057907967.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Gang of six arrested for robbing senior citizen couple in Sindh colony||The Pune police arrested a group of six men from various places in Maharashtra for locking a couple of senior citizens in their bathroom before stealing valuables from their house in Sindh Colony on April 25, according to Pankaj Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-4, Pune. The six people were identified as Sandeep Bhagwan Hande (25), Kishor Kalyan Changhate (21), Bholesh alias Krushna Kisan Chavan (25) all residents of Pimpalkheda in Gangapur, Aurangabad; Mangesh Bandu Gunde (20), a resident of Ambad in Jalna; Rahul Kailas Bavne (22), a resident of Peer Kalya Seed in Jalna; Vikram Deepak Thapa (19), a resident of Vinay nagar in Indiranagar, Nashik, according to the police. The six people entered the houses of these people by posing as representatives of care-taker bureaus and conducted reconnaissance before returning to the house, locking up the residents and stealing from them. The police have recovered valuables including three motorcycles, gold and diamond jewellery, and cameras collectively worth ₹17,50,000, according to DCP Deshmukh. Two teams were formed to track the men in various locations including Aurangabad, Nashik, and Jalna. Along with the case in which they were arrested, they were also found to be involved in two other cases registered at Chaturshringi police station in the past four months based on the recovered valuables. The two other cases are also similar in nature where the men entered the house, locked up senior citizen residents, and stole from them. Upon further investigation, the police found that the men collectively have seven other cases registered against them in other parts of Pune, Aurangabad, and Jalna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gang-of-six-arrested-for-robbing-senior-citizen-couple-in-sindh-colony-101620057367735.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Absconding Army hawaldar arrested for cheating using fake notes||An absconding Indian Army hawaldar was arrested in Pune on Sunday for being in possession of false currency notes of demonetised denomination and using it to cheat people. The man was identified as Annasaheb Arjun Ghaytidak (36), a resident of Range Hills area of Khadki in Pune. The police are on a lookout for one other person identified as Nabab Ali, a resident of Sanjay Park, in the case. A team of anti-dacoity and vehicle theft cell-2 raided Ghaytidak’s house to initially find 56 bundles of Indian currency notes. The first note in each bundle was the demonetised note of ₹1,000 followed by 99 notes of “Manoranjan Bank of India” printed on them. Similarly, 400 duplicate notes of ₹500 denomination were also found. Upon checking the man’s vehicle, the police recovered six gunny bags full of such bundles. In those six gunny bags, the police found a total of 288 bundles of ₹1,000 notes. The total worth of the face value of all the seized notes was found to be ₹24,35,440. The police also seized the arrested man’s vehicle, a Tata Safari, found to be worth ₹3 lakh. The man was found to be a Hawaldar in the Indian Army who had been absconding from his post at 521 ASC Battalion in Guwahati, Assam since February 2020, according to the police. The police had raided the place based on an anonymous information input but later found a witness called Santosh Ramchandra Raje (43), a resident of Satara who was duped of ₹4 lakh by the duo. The duo had convinced Raje that they had demonetised notes of ₹1,000 worth 200 crore collected from non-resident Indians (NRI). The duo had made Raje believe that the Reserve Bank of India was now exchanging notes collected from NRIs. The duo then promised a 5 per cent commission to whoever could get the new ₹2,000 notes for half of the money they made the victim believe that they had. However, when Raje approached them to take up the job, they took ₹4 lakh from him as deposit. However, as Raje could not find a legitimate method of changing the money, he started asking for his deposit back but never got it. A case under Sections 489(c), 420, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 of the Specified Bank Notes Act 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/absconding-army-hawaldar-arrested-for-cheating-using-fake-notes-101620057247698.html
03-05-2021||Pune||PMC flouts own rules on tree plantation in Hadapsar, Mohammadwadi and Kondhwa||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is flouting their rules for tree plantation especially in areas of Hadapsar, Mohammadwadi and Kondhwa, according to Om Kare, a member of the Hadapsar Mohalla committee, under Hadapsar ward office.A letter was sent by Kare to the PMC road department as well to the Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar bringing to their notice that they were not following their own rules when it came to planting new trees. Kare said, “There are several new roads being built in areas like Hadapsar with road connecting Kalapadal and Chintamani Nagar, Mohammadwadi road, the road along Pune-Kolhapur railway line from Ramtekadi to Sasane Nagar, Phursungi border, Kondhwa to Katraj road, the connecting road from Magarpatta to Koregaon Park and Kharadi bypass to Mundhwa. There is not a single new tree planted.” “According to the tree authority rules and urban street design, any new roads have to have trees as they are essential to provide shade to road users especially, pedestrians and cyclists, to reduce local ambient heat and provide cooler atmosphere as well as improve quality of air by absorbing pollutants,” he added. As recommended by IRC codes, street trees should typically be upright and branched above 2.4m to provide adequate walking clearance under branches. It is mandatory to have tree pits (0.6 X 0.6) which provide space for tree growth. Tree pits can be individual, elongated or connected. They may be surfaced with porous pavers, or grates that allow water to readily flow to the root zone. Vijay Shinde, superintending engineer of the PMC road department said, “We have been planting trees in various areas wherever they are uprooted to make new pavements. I am not aware of the progress of the new roads and if there is any pending work, will inspect and plant new trees accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-flouts-own-rules-on-tree-plantation-in-hadapsar-mohammadwadi-and-kondhwa-101620057187632.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Gutkha products worth ₹2 crore seized from Lonavla||The Pune rural police have detained four people and are on a lookout for three others for producing large quantities of gutkha and other tobacco products in a factory in Lonavla. The total worth of the seized material is estimated to be around ₹2,09,70,000, according to Navneen Kunwat, sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of Lonavla division. The factory was running out of a structure in Fangane village in Lonavla, located along the old Pune-Mumbai highway. “We got information from people in that vicinity that something wrong was happening in a building in that area. We did not know what was happening, so we went there and found these people producing large quantities of something and filling it in drums. We found 118 different types of chemicals. Upon questioning, the people present there revealed that it was gutkha. They produced patents of nine different brands of gutkha when it is illegal to produce gutkha in Maharashtra. So, we are investigating where they acquired the patent from. This product was clearly made illegally,” said SDPO Kunwat. The men were found preparing gutkha of different varieties and revealed that the drums filled with these products were transported to another facility where it was packaged in different brands’ packets, according to the police. “We are investigating where they bought this quantity of raw material from and where they sell it,” said SDPO Kunwat. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and National Food Security Act 2013 was registered at Lonavla rural police station against seven people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gutkha-products-worth-rs-2-crore-seized-from-lonavla-101620057127643.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Police crack December 2019 murder case during investigation of another murder||In the course of solving one murder case, the Pune police detected another murder case that had been undetected since December 2019, according to a statement issued by Hadapsar police station officials. The police were investigating the murder of a woman named Shubhangi Sagar Lokhande (21) who was killed in Shivshaktinagar chowk in Bhekrainagar area of Hadapsar on the morning of April 7. The case was registered at Hadapsar police station under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) when the woman’s body was found. Upon investigation, the police found that the woman had been killed by her husband Sagar Balu Lokhande (23), a resident of Uruli Devachi area of Pune. During interrogation, the man revealed that he was enraged about his wife getting in touch with her former husband, according to the police statement. “During a fight with the arrested man, his wife had revealed that her (former) husband had already killed a man in the past and that he would kill him if he tried to break them up,” read the police statement in Marathi. The former husband was identified as Santosh Sahdev Shinde (27), a resident of Kamthe Ali area of Fursungi in Hadapsar. The police tried to find him at his address to investigate the murder that the deceased woman had allegedly told the arrested man about. However, the police found out that the man had been missing from his own address for the past year and a half. At the time of Shinde’s disappearance, in December 2019, the police found an undetected murder case registered at Hadapsar police station. The deceased in that case was Narsingh Vitthal Gavhane (65) who was found dead in the burning ghats of Fursungi with his head bashed with a brick. The police found Shinde at his sister’s place in Chikhali on April 9 and interrogated him to find that he had killed Gavhane. However, he was found to be Covid-19 positive upon arrest and sent to Sassoon Hospital for treatment. He was remanded to police custody to April 21 and later sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-crack-december-2019-murder-case-during-investigation-of-another-murder-101620057067652.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Covid second wave: Young patients in grip of ‘Happy Hypoxia’||Pune: The second Covid wave has infected many young population (0-25 years), unlike the first outbreak. Young people are reporting lung infections and suffering from “Happy Hypoxia”, a condition where the patient does not know that their blood oxygen level is low and continue with their daily activities. According to medical experts, non-regular monitoring of oxygen saturation levels in these cases could cause death also as the drop could be too steep and youngsters would not realise because of their high immunity and health. The normal oxygen saturation in bloodstream of a healthy person is above 95 per cent, but these cases could display dangerous decline of as less as 40% and would need immediate oxygen support and in critical cases, ventilators as well. Dr Kapil Zirpe, a member on the city and district Covid-19 task force and head of department, critical care at Ruby Hall Clinic, said that patients with mild and severe symptoms show “Happy Hypoxia”. “Some patients who are at home also display drastic drop of oxygen levels which is common in this condition,” said Dr Zirpe. Dr Dnyaneshwar Mote, member of the Pune city Covid task force for Social Action, said that at least 10 per cent of patients showing “Happy Hypoxia” will need critical care. “This condition is seen in patients with mild symptoms or who are asymptomatic. They may not show symptoms of breathlessness but their SPO2 (blood oxygen saturation) levels are dangerously low. This can worsen the Covid symptoms and damage lungs severely,” said Dr Mote. He said patients should regularly monitor oxygen level in blood. “If they notice a drop in oxygen, they must contact their physician immediately and arrange for a bed before symptoms get worse. Patients who are treated in time can recover fast without much lung damage in Covid,” said Dr Mote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-second-wave-young-patients-in-grip-of-happy-hypoxia-101620053168403.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Three Pune doctors arrested for demanding money from Covid patient for ventilator bed||Police in Pimpri Chinchwad, on the outskirts of Pune, arrested three doctors on Monday in an extortion case for demanding and accepting money for a ventilator bed at the municipal corporation’s Covid hospital in Auto Cluster, Pimpri. A case has been registered against them at Pimpri police station.“A teacher from Chikhali was asked for money. She was admitted on April 23 and she died on April 28 while under treatment. All three doctors have been arrested,” said Manchak Ipper, Deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1 of Pimpri Chinchwad police.The arrested doctors were identified as Praveen Jadhav, Sachin Kasbe, and Shashank Rale, according to the police. The three will be produced in a local court.The doctors allegedly charged ₹1 lakh for the bed and shared the amount among themselves, according to the complaint lodged by municipal corporation officials.A case under Sections 384 (extortion) and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and other applicable laws was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-pune-doctors-arrested-for-demanding-money-from-covid-patient-for-ventilator-bed-101620028260860.html
03-05-2021||Pune||2,325 beneficiaries aged 18 years+ get the jab as drive picks up pace in Pune on Sunday||PUNE Covid vaccinations for those aged 18 years and above picked up pace on Sunday since beginning from May 1.A total of 2,325 beneficiaries aged 18 years and above, were inoculated in the district.A total 46 such beneficiaries were inoculated in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. A total of 1,342 beneficiaries were inoculated in the district on May 1, the first day of the drive. Dr Suryakant Deokar, immunisation officer, PMC, said that doses for everyone above the age of 18 years have been given to the centres.“As the turnout on day 1 was less, there were just 200 doses at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. We can inoculate 350 beneficiaries every day at every centre as vaccine stock is available for the next seven days. Beneficiaries should schedule an appointment on the Co-WIN application,” said Dr Deokar.Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad, said that efforts from local bodies helped with the turnout on Sunday.“The control rooms, war room, call centres of Pune rural and municipal corporation played a big role in ensuring good vaccination numbers by urging people to come to the vaccination centres,” said Prasad.PMC aims to reach at least 700 beneficiaries each day. Three centres in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) have a target of 200 beneficiaries each. Pune rural has 14 centres with 100 beneficiaries at each centre expected to take the jab.Rujuta Jalan, a beneficiary who was waiting in line at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Yerwada to take her first jab, said that there were three family members who wanted to take the dose, but the slots got filled quickly.“Until I booked my own slot, the appointments were full for May 2. I have been waiting at the centre for almost an hour as there is a huge line of beneficiaries to take the jab,” said Jalan.Dr Poonam More, medical officer (MO) at the Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, said that there are 200 doses with the hospital as of Sunday.“We received 200 doses and a list of 200 beneficiaries on Sunday. The turnout is good. By afternoon, we inoculated 100 beneficiaries. The beneficiaries who were expected to come on Saturday, but could not, will have to reschedule their vaccination for another day,” said Dr More.Rashmi Malpani, a 36-year old beneficiary at Kamla Nehru Hospital said that she tried to book a slot late on the night of May 1.“I booked the appointment around 10 pm and luckily got Kamla Nehru hospital. By the next afternoon I had taken the jab. Except for the registration and appointment scheduling, the whole process was smooth,” said Malpani.Dr Rajshree Patil, medical officer at Kamla Nehru Hospital, said that by Sunday afternoon the turnout for those aged 18 and above was good.“We have inoculated over 150 beneficiaries. We have 350 doses of Covishield and beneficiaries are expected to schedule an appointment and only then come. Till 2 pm, the turnout was good, unlike the May 1,” said Dr Patil.Vaccination for ages 18+ Pune district has targeted 2,700 vaccinations per dayMay 1PMC -- 46PCMC -- 552Pune Rural -- 744Pune district inoculated – 1,350Total centres -- 33May 2 PMC -- 380PCMC -- 589Pune Rural – 1,356Pune district inoculated – 2,325Total centres -- 19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2325-beneficiaries-aged-18-years-get-the-jab-as-drive-picks-up-pace-on-sunday-101619968077315.html
03-05-2021||Pune||At 0.3 mn, Pune district records most cases in April||Pune district recorded its highest number of Covid-19 cases - 3,07,000, and fatalities – 1,263, in April 2021, since the pandemic broke out last year. According to state health department, areas under Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had 1,53,740 cases with 843 fatalities in April, which saw active cases in the district increase by 41,742. In 2020, when the Covid pandemic peaked in September, Pune district had 57,298 active cases. On April 30, 2021, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,06,019. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19, says that this could be the peak of the second wave and by mid-May, urban parts of the district may see a downward trend.“This could be the highest growth. By third week of May, cases will go down in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, but they likely will not go down in the rural areas, which will take another fortnight to see the downward trend,” said Dr Salunke. Despite the spike in April, the positivity rate has been gradually decreasing, as per Rajesh Deshmukh, collector, Pune. “As the positivity rate has been going down, we can expect the curve to bend,” said Deshmukh. Salunke attributed the surge to a vulnerable population getting exposed to the virus and also to the increased transmissibility of it. “The virus now has been very efficiently transmitted. That is the reason why it is affecting all the family members. If one person is infected, then others are also getting easily infected,” Dr Salunke said. In Pune district, the highest number of cases have been recorded in PMC limits in April. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said that PMC has been relentlessly working to increase bed capacity. “Only in April we have increased our strength of isolation beds, oxygen beds and ventilator beds. Every week we are adding to these numbers. Now the positivity rate has come down. Let’s be optimistic,” said Mohol.According to Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad, cases in the second wave are almost six times higher than the first wave. “For rural areas, currently cases are higher because mass testing is taking place at hotspots. We are getting a positivity of 18-20 %. In each house one person is tested. Because of the testing, positive cases are being identified,” said Prasad. As the caseload has substantially increased, the demand for hospital beds, and especially for medical oxygen has increased. On January 22, the per day demand for medical oxygen in Pune district was 67.5 metric tonnes (MT). On April 22, the demand rose up to 386.1 MT and, on April 29, Pune recorded a demand of 420 MT of medical oxygen. Supply is low in proportion to the demand. On April 29, 353 MT was supplied to Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/april-2021-pune-district-records-highest-number-of-covid-cases-0-307-million-101619967057233.html
03-05-2021||Pune||Covid curbs see drop in Pune industrial production levels in April: MCCIA survey||PUNE Even as state government allowed industrial units to function during lockdown, stricter curbs have resulted in bringing production levels of firms, surveyed by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) in April, down.In its 13th survey, 150 companies from Pune district who participated in the exercise said that their current level of production has decreased from 83% in March to 69% in April, on an average. The production level had seen a dip of 2% in March from 85% in February, as the month had seen only partial restrictions, that too in some parts of the state. As Covid cases saw a massive spike across the state including Pune and Mumbai, the state government, on April 15, imposed a curfew and allowed only essential services apart from industrial units and the real estate sector, to function. Sudhir Mehta, president, MCCIA said, “Supply chains are once again disrupted and we are really concerned about the small, informal manufacturers and contact-based services. The government at the centre and state must front-load their allocations for MSMEs, industries and infrastructure development in FY 21-22.” Despite a drop in production, industrial firms managed to keep it above the level of April 2020, when the entire country was under lockdown and only units engaged production of essential items were allowed to function. “Given the heightened levels of restrictions, the drop was expected. Glad that the drop is not as bad as it was in April 2020. God forbid if there is any more contribution of restrictions, it needs to come along with an increased level of economic activities as impact on livelihoods for those who work at the bottom of the economic pyramid is unbearable,” said Prashant Girbane, director general, MCCIA. The units that participated in the survey said that on average, the number of employees working has decreased from 86% in March to 70% in April. The surveyed companies were also asked about when their production levels were expected to go back to pre-pandemic levels. Twenty-four per cent of the companies said their production was already at pre-Covid levels; 19% of the respondents now said that they expect their production levels to go back to pre-Covid levels in less than three months; and 35% of the respondents said they expect it to take between three and six months; while 22% said it would take more than six months. According to MCCIA, the profile organisations surveyed from micro, small, medium and large scale organisations was 14%, 34%, 21% and 32%, respectively. Also, 66% of the organisations surveyed were from the manufacturing sector, 14% from the services sector and the rest were involved in both manufacturing and services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/production-levels-drop-from-83-in-march-to-69-in-april-mccia-survey-13-101619965317161.html
