04-05-2021||Pune||Fuel prices rise for the first time since February||After February 27, the fuel prices in the city have hiked for the first time on May 4, 2021. The price of petrol increased by ₹0.17, the diesel price increased by ₹0.21, and the rate of premium petrol increased by ₹0.17, however, the price of CNG has remained stable. After the hike, the prices of petrol on Tuesday were ₹96.62 for unleaded petrol, ₹100.30 for premium petrol and ₹86.32 for diesel. This is the first hike in fuel prices in the last two months. The last price hike was recorded on Feb 27. In the months of March and April, fuel prices had marginally declined but on Tuesday prices went up again. “The fuel prices have increased almost after two months. The main reason behind this is the dollar and rupee proportion. The dollar has gone up and the prices of crude oil have also increased. It has gone up to 65 dollars per barrel,” said Ali Daruwala, spokesperson, All India petrol dealers’ association. On Feb 27th, the price of petrol was ₹97.19 which was hiked by ₹0.23 and the price of diesel was ₹86.88 per litre which was hiked by ₹0.16 vut after being stable for almost a month, the fuel prices recorded a marginal decline on March 24th. The price of petrol was ₹97.02, and the price of diesel was ₹86.70 on March 24th. After this, until May 4th fuel prices saw a downward trend. While analysing the recent hike in fuel prices Vivek Velankar, president of Sajag Nagrik Manch and an RTI activist said that various factors have to be taken into account before drawing a definitive conclusion for this price hike. “We have to take one factor into account that unlike last year, there is no complete lockdown in India and also in the world. So, the traffic hasn’t been completely stopped. Industries are functioning, so material transportation has been going on. Passenger transport is not there, so demand must have been reduced but in case of fuels, the prices are not related to the demand. Taxes have not been reduced. They are on par with last year. The rate of dollar has a direct impact. So, to draw a definitive conclusion the variations in these factors have to be checked,” said Velankar. As Covid cases started to surge in February, gradually restrictions were imposed in Pune district. The curbs have been intensified in March and April. It has impacted the sale of the fuel. “Now the sale has come down to 20 per cent as compared to the pre Covid days in Pune district. We had reached 80 per cent sale of the pre Covid days in January and February. In the first week of March, the sale rate was lingering around 70 per cent to 75 per cent Afterwards it came down totally to 10 per cent to 20 per cent. This sale is going on because some industries are functioning. Because of that at least this much sale is going on but as passenger transport and local traffic is halted the sales have reached rock bottom,” said Daruwala. Velankar emphasised on tracking the fuel prices for next few days. “In the last two months, fuel prices marginally reduced. It may or may not be related to the recent assembly polls in five states. We will have to keep a close track on the trend of fuel prices in the next few days,” he said. In order to avoid fluctuations in fuel prices it has been long standing demand of activists to bring fuel under the ambit of GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fuel-prices-rise-for-the-first-time-since-february-101620144737771.html
04-05-2021||Pune||72-year-old farmer killed in hit-and-run||A 72-year-old farmer was killed in a hit-and-run on Sunday in Bivari village of Haveli. The man was identified as Jijaba Sonba Gote (72), a resident of Biwari area of Haveli. The incident happened at 3pm on Sunday when Gote was riding his motorbike to his farm from his house when the incident happened. Merely 100 feet away from his house, his motorbike was hit by a dumper truck which sped past the accident spot without stopping for help. A complaint in the matter was lodged by his son Sagar Gote (36). Assistant police inspector Suhas Patil of Lonikand police station is investigating the case. A case under Sections 279, 304(a), 338 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 132(1)(c) and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/72yearold-farmer-killed-in-hitandrun-101620144557746.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Finance company allegedly dupes businessman of ₹32 lakh||A senior official of a finance company was booked by Pune police on Monday for cheating a Pune-based businessman of ₹32 lakh under the guise of giving him a loan of ₹16 crore. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the allegedly wronged businessman identified as Niles Upasni (48), a resident of Tingrenagar in Vishrantwadi, Pune. “This alleged finance company is located at Wagle Estate in Thane. We are not revealing the name as we are yet to find them,” said police sub inspector LR Satpute of Vishrantwadi police station who is investigating the case. Upasni is a businessman who had initiated a project of building a chemical plant in Mahad MIDC, according to the police. He was looking for funding of ₹16 crore for the chemical plant to be set-up. This company offered him the loan, but in form of mortgage investment of ₹32,38,200 against the loan. The amount was exacted from the complainant as well as his business partners, according to his complaint. However, when Upasni went to the local government office for registration of the project, the finance company representative failed to show up. Upon inquiring further, Upasni found that the finance company office shutters were down and the man who had posed as the company’s national head had switched his phone off, according to the police. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/finance-company-allegedly-dupes-businessman-of-rs-32-lakh-101620144437708.html
04-05-2021||Pune||PMC to pay ₹1 crore to Katraj dairy to acquire land for road widening||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to pay ₹1 crore to Katraj dairy to acquire 4,410 square metres of land for road widening to ease traffic congestion in the area. The proposal was cleared on Tuesday during the PMC standing committee meeting. The move, according to PMC officials, will help ease the traffic problem of Rajiv Gandhi Zoo chowk near the Katraj dairy corner. While there was no fund provision in the 2021-22 budget, the PMC standing committee gave approval to the proposal of the PMC administration to divert allocation ₹1 crore from 11 merged villages’ school repairs and maintenance and to construct compound wall of PMC open lands fund provision. In the 2017 development plan (DP), PMC had proposed a 24-meter proposed road which will pass through the Katraj dairy premises and connect Sarhad school stretch with road near Wonder city. The PMC has partially required land to widen the road, due to this road widening, three residential constructions are going to affect, and nine families will have to be shifted. The dairy has shown a positive response to hand over land to the PMC. The PMC has calculated land amount of ₹1.01 crore which will be given to Katraj dairy administration to rehabilitate nine families to other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-pay-1-crore-to-katraj-dairy-to-acquire-land-for-road-widening-101620144317789.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Theatre personality Ashok Kulkarni passes away||Ashok Kulkarni, the managing trustee of Sahitya Rangabhoomi Pratishthan, which has been a support for the theatre community all across India passed away at the age of 84, on Tuesday, his family members said. Kulkarni, fondly called Ashok Kaka, had recently undergone surgery though his health condition deteriorated later. He had been admitted to Prayag Hospital. Born in Belgaum, Kulkarni completed his school and college education in Belgaum. He held important posts in organisations such as the ‘Indian Demographic Research Institute’ in his career. During his stay in Mumbai, he befriended several experimental theatre and film practitioners. It was the period when stalwarts such as Satyadev Dubey, Vijay Tendulkar, Girish Karnad, Govind Nihalani were starting their careers. Later, Kulkarni retired from Walchand Industries after serving at an important post. After retirement he decided to spend his time once again in his beloved field of theatre. He stayed behind the scenes and made an invaluable contribution to theatre in the last twenty years.He started the Vinod Doshi fellowship to honour young and upcoming artists in the field of performing art. Later, these fellowships were awarded as the Tendulkar-Dubey Fellowship and the Madhu Ganu fellowship. Till date 72 artists have been felicitated with these fellowships.He ran the Vinod Doshi theatre festival and Saarang festival consistently for twelve years, from 2008 to 2020, and added great value to the city of Pune. Several books such as ‘Scenes We Made’ that traced the history of theatre, ‘Ajoon Tendulkar’ written by stalwarts about Vijay Tendulkar’s career in writing, theatre, and films, were published by Sahitya Rangabhoomi Pratishthan. Of these, the book ‘Prayogik Rangabhoomi - Teen Ank’ was recently awarded the Sahitya Akademi Puraskar. With his support, ‘Rangabhaan’ - a workshop for upcoming playwrights was run under the aegis of Sahitya Rangabhoomi Pratishthan for one and a half years. Even in the present Covid times, he was trying to uplift theatre practitioners, and was working towards supporting them to view theatre in a new manner. His demise has created an immense void in the art world. He is survived by his wife, son, daughter and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/theatre-personality-ashok-kulkarni-passes-away-101620144257764.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Care-taker-turned-thief had list of over 100 nursing homes, police find||Sandeep Bhagwan Hande, the caretaker arrested for locking up a couple in their bathroom had a list of 100-125 nursing homes from various areas, according to police. He had also led another group of men into committing a similar offence in December 2020. “He had a list of 100-125 nursing homes from various areas and he used to attach himself with one and tell them that he will try it out for a couple of days before providing his services. He used that opportunity to perform a complete reccee of the place and refuse the job. Weeks later, he would come and steal from there,” said Mahesh Bhosale, police sub inspector of Chaturshringi police station who is one of the officers investigating the case now. Hande is all of 25-years old and has a history of at least seven such known cases against him - one in Kothrud, three in Chaturshringi, one in Jalna, one each in Nigdi and Sangvi. He is now in custody of Pune police until May 10. When he was arrested by Kothrud police station officials, Hande was with Ajinkya Nursing Home. However, while working at the house in Sindh colony, he was attached with the Pune nursing bureau. “He even worked at that house for some time. We will check if Ajinkya agency employed him again. If that is true, they will be made accused too,” said PSI Bhosale. The case has drawn a sharp response from Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) member and activist Vijay Kumbhar who has questioned the police inaction in the case after he was granted bail in the Kothrud case. Kumbhar wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Dilip Valse-Patil. “When the Kothrud case was brought to light, a demand was for necessitating police verification for agencies that provide such services and their employees. However, it was ignored,” said Kumbhar in the letter. He further blamed the police for not taking appropriate action in such cases. “Even if these cases get registered, why is appropriate action not being taken against them? For how many more years will these gangs be given a free hand? What is the reason behind the lack of a permanent solution to this problem?” asked Kumbhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/caretakerturnedthief-had-list-of-over-100-nursing-homes-police-find-101620144137705.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Covid restrictions slow down Ring Road land acquisition process||The land acquisition process for the western part of the Ring Road project to be built by MSRDC has been allowed despite the Covid curbs being imposed in the state, however, it has slowed down the essential Joint Measurement Survey (JMS) procedure in the land acquisition process. Until April 28th, JMS in seven affected villages in western parts of the Ring Road has been completed. There are 38 affected villages on the western side of the Ring Road. With this speed MSRDC’s target to complete JMS procedure before monsoon starts is likely to be missed. The procedure of joint measurement survey started in the last week of March in western parts of the proposed ring road. “We had aimed to complete the JMS before Monsoon starts because it is not possible to do it in that season but now, there are certain problems we are facing as the Covid cases are increasing and curbs are in place,” said Sandeep Patil sub-divisional engineer Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). Patil elaborated the difficulties faced in the process. “Land measurement is done in the farms and the isolated areas, and it is happening smoothly but to get the consensus of a village a meeting with villagers has to be conducted according to the procedure. In these it is difficult to organise it. Also, we don’t want to turn to the hard methods such as doing the measurements in police protection. As per the orders it has to be done with maximum amount of cooperation and consensus,” Patil said. If the joint measurement survey is not completed before Monsoon, then it will resume after the season, but it surely delays the timeframe of the project. Without the completion of JMS, the monetary returns to the affected people cannot be issued. Pune district collector had also ordered the completion of land acquisition process of western part before April 30th. “This process has to be completed to evaluate the monetary returns to be given to the villagers but as they are not sure how much they will get; they are hesitant to let us complete this procedure. We are trying to get help from the people’s representatives from concerned areas to persuade the locals,” Patil said. Until now, MSRDC has completed JMS in seven villages which include Ghotavade,Materewadi, Ambadveth, Bhare, Kasar Amboli, Katvadi, Mordarwadi in an area of 101.0467 hectares. The Pune Ring Road is a proposed circular outer road for the Pune Metropolitan region. The state government has given nod to land acquisition for the 173.70-km ring road project. It is to be implemented by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). The Ring Road project would require acquisition of almost 1,600 hectares of land. The total project cost of this road is ₹26,000 crore and ₹5,000 crore is estimated for land acquisition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-restrictions-slow-down-ring-road-land-acquisition-process-101620143537775.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Private hospitals in Pune await guidelines on procuring Covid-19 vaccine doses||Several private hospitals in Pune are awaiting clear guidelines from the government over procurement of vaccine doses and conducting the vaccination drive which remains suspended due to unavailability of doses. Some private hospitals told PTI that they have been receiving requests from corporates for vaccinating employees and their kin since the government opened the vaccination program from May 1 for the 18-44 age group. "After the government allowed vaccination of people from the age group of 18 to 44 years from May 1, we have been receiving on-site vaccination requests from large corporates. They requested us to organize a vaccination drive for their employees," said Dr S K Raut, one of the directors at the Noble Hospital.Besides corporates, the hospital has been receiving requests from housing societies, and the hotel and hospitality industries, he said.Dr Raut said the Serum Institute of India (SII) told them that 50 per cent of the available doses will be given to the Centre, while 25 per cent doses will be given to state governments and the rest 25 per cent to private hospitals.The SII has not given any timeline on the next availability of vaccines."While the hospital is awaiting guidelines, we are also exploring the possibilities of procuring Sputnik-5 vaccine from Dr. Reddy's," he added.Dr Rupali Suryawanshi, head, Hospital Infection Control, Ruby Hall Clinic, is also awaiting the government's guidelines on the procurement of vaccines by private hospitals. "The government should tell us from where should we purchase the vaccine. We were also talking to the SII but it seems they too don't have clear guidelines as far private hospitals are concerned," she said.She recalled that the government had issued a clear notification on various aspects of vaccination, including costing, when the drive was rolled out for healthcare workers and other categories in the past. "Till these things get cleared, the ground level work for vaccination cannot start as the number of beneficiaries in the age group of 18 and 44 is very big," Dr Suryawanshi said, adding the hospital has been receiving many requests for tie-ups with companies which want their employees and their kin vaccinated. Authorities at Jehangir Hospital said they are also awaiting notification from the government. "There is no clarity as of today and we are hopeful that the picture will become clear about various aspects like the supply-chain logistics, pricing etc in the next couple of days," said Arti Irani, Head, Communications, Jehangir Hospital.Medical authorities at Sancheti Hospital said they are also receiving inquiries from various organizations about vaccination sessions. "We have applied to become a vaccination centre as we have been receiving inquiries from individuals and organizations for vaccination. However, since there is no clarity on how private hospitals should go about the vaccination, we are not giving any assurance to those who are approaching us," said Parag Sancheti, orthopaedic surgeon and chairman of the hospital.Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharti Hospital, said vaccination is currently halted at private hospitals. "It seems vaccination at private hospitals is unlikely to start anytime soon," he said.Dr Oswal observed that less than 10 per cent of population has received the first dose of the vaccine while only 2 per cent people have received the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-hospitals-in-pune-await-guidelines-on-procuring-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101620137219463.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Riverfront devp has more under-currents than free-flowing solutions||Over 250 individuals attended an online meeting last Sunday on the proposed Mula Mutha riverfront development project which had a presentation from a municipal official. Conducted very cordially by Sajag Nagrik Manch, the meeting provided information about the project, estimated to cost ₹2,619 crore. Participants highlighted several concerns they feel should be addressed by the city authorities. Fundamental questions raised at the Sajag meet were: “Who asked for this project?” “If your mother is ill, do you take her to the hospital or the beauty parlour?” “Why this massive expense for Pune’s citizens in Covid times?” Similar concerns have been expressed by a member of Parliament, and other citizens, in letters to the municipal commissioner last month. There is agreement with the riverfront project that the current state of the rivers is of concern, especially that untreated sewage is discharged into rivers. There is also agreement on removing debris and waste, and preventing future dumping. However, there are different views about what exactly are the other problems being addressed. Since there isn’t an agreement about the problems, there is certainly no agreement about the solutions. The project highlights flooding impacts on residences and business close to the river, and proposes construction of high walls and embankments for protection.But why were buildings permitted in flood prone areas in the first place. Now, a cheaper, less destructive solution may be to rehabilitate flood-affected households in other locations. Removing debris and roads in the riverbed would improve the river’s carrying capacity. However, constructing metro pillars in the river would again reduce it. NGOs have highlighted studies from IITM that indicate an increasing number of extreme rainfall events in the country due to climate change. They also draw attention to a report by TERI ‘Assessing Climate Change Vulnerability and Adaptation Strategies for Maharashtra’ prepared for the state government Environment Dept, which projects an increase in rainfall by 10 to 32.5% by 2030. We are already experiencing this in Pune. The NGOs point out that creation of walls and embankments along the river will further inhibit the drainage of flash flood waters, creating greater risk for people living along the streams draining into the rivers. Further, the project proposes commercialization of the flood plains of the river to raise funds, for conserving the river. However, if the river bed and flood plains are destroyed, what is left to be conserved.The cumulative impact of construction of metro pillars, pipelines and the changes in the concretized streams and paving in the surrounding landscape as well as the increasing frequency of extreme rainfall events need to be taken into account. The municipal corporation needs to address urban flooding at a cityscape and regional level, rather than through modifying the river channel and building walls. It is to the credit of the project consultants that springs have been mapped and would be integrated into the project design. On the other hand, the project includes beautification of the banks and laying cycling and jogging tracks. Beautification is proposed with creation of ‘rural riparian’ banks, but ecologists disagree. Dr Swati Gole, Ecological Society cautions that the construction of walls to contain floods, creation of artificial green spaces on the embankments and a continuous body of impounded water would completely destroy the river biodiversity. Rocky outcrops and natural banks are part of this valuable biodiversity. A study by the Ecological Society shows the different habitats along the river, the conservation concerns, and a different approach to river restoration. The report is available at https://tinyurl.com/ES-CEE-MMReportVisits to the river show direct dependence on the river ecosystem such as collection of medicinal plants, small patches of vegetable growing, sheep grazing, and fishing. Instead of formal green landscapes that displace some of the poorest citizens of Pune, the design could integrate such subsistence uses of the river ecosystem. In fact as early as the 80s, Shri Prakash Gole spoke about creating utility points for laundries and rickshaw washing and treatment of their wastewater using eco-friendly technologies like root zone beds. Public surveys and consultations were done to develop the proposals. However, now the full project proposals are available. Other project documents such as the metro line, scientific inputs on climate change, as well as the ecological study of the river are also now available. All of these need to be considered together. Now is the time for widespread deliberations on the proposals with multi-disciplinary scientists, especially ecologists, and the public. The municipal corporation should not be in a hurry to implement this large-scale project without such deliberation. The rivers are a defining feature of our city. The Mula Mutha and other rivers of Pune need protection, conservation and restoration, but construction and commercialization will be counter-productive and may increase risk. Let the experiences, concerns and knowledge from multiple minds inform the way forward, much like a river itself forms.Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-riverfront-devp-has-more-under-currents-than-free-flowing-solutions-101620126557678.html
04-05-2021||Pune||3 doctors held in Pune for charging ₹1 lakh for ventilator bed||The Pune Police on Monday arrested three doctors for charging a family of a patient ₹1 lakh for a ventilator bed at a hospital in Pune's Pimpri Chinchwad area.As per the police, a complaint has been lodged by the Municipal Corporation and a probe is underway.This comes in the middle of the devastating second wave of Covid-19.Several other similar instances have been reported from across the country. The police have taken action against several people for hoarding and black marketing Remdesivir, oxygen and other medical equipment used in the treatment of Covid-19.As per the state health department, there are currently 1,08,915 active cases in Pune. As many as 9,717 deaths have been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3-doctors-held-in-pune-for-charging-rs-1-lakh-for-ventilator-bed-101620104681846.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Vaccine shortage leaves second dose beneficiaries miss their jab date in Pune||Pune: Many second dose beneficiaries, including senior citizens, were unable to get the slot for inoculation as the city faced shortage of vaccine and there was limited stock in Pune district.On Monday, only 728 beneficiaries received vaccines in Pune rural. As per district health department data, no beneficiaries above the age of 45 years received vaccination in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Monday.As the vaccination drive for 18 years and above started from May 1, only 1,495 beneficiaries who were not in the age group of 18-44 have received jabs on May 1.Vilas Pingale, a 65-year-old beneficiary who took the first dose on March 20, said that he was given Covishield.“I am due for my second dose, but since the last one week, there has been a shortage. I have been repeatedly going to vaccination centres and returning empty-handed. While the doses were reported as limited last week, there is no stock at all this time and many vaccination centres are not functioning. No one has a clear idea when the doses will be available,” said Pingale.Malvika Jha, 49, is awaiting her second dose after the first taken on April 2.“I took my first dose as soon as the age group above 45 years old was open for getting vaccinated. I got Covishield and as it’s reported by the science community to take the second jab after 45 days, mine is due on May 17. Considering the shortage of vaccine, I’m worried that I may miss the date of second dose,” said Jha.Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer, said that there are no doses supplied to PMC since April 27.“On April 27, 35,000 doses were given to us and it has been utilised. We do not have vaccine stock for beneficiaries above 45 years of age,” said Dr Deokar.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that on April 28, Pune district received 80,000 doses.“After that no vaccine supply has been received for 45 years and above beneficiaries. We are hoping that we will get the vaccine supply on May 4,” said Deshmukh.Vaccination driveOn Monday, 2,507 beneficiaries between the age of 18 and 44 years received jabs. While 1,262 were inoculated in Pune rural, 665 in PMC and 580 in PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccine-shortage-leaves-second-dose-beneficiaries-miss-their-jab-date-in-pune-101620055927629.html
04-05-2021||Pune||New hotspots emerge in Pune rural areas||Pune: Rural areas of Pune district are reporting higher positivity rate than urban parts of the district, according to the district health officials. The positivity figure, the rate at which people getting tested for Covid receive positive results, in Pune district was recorded 24.51 % for the week between April 26 and May 2. Rural parts, which accounts for 40% of around 10 million population of Pune district, recorded positivity rate of 33.09 % compared to 21.32% and 20.80% in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits respectively. During the week, 24,670 Covid cases were identified in rural parts against 74,534 tests conducted. The per day positivity rate in the rural parts stayed above 30% for the week, unlike the urban parts where it fluctuated between 15% and 25%. According to the data obtained from district administration, there are currently 465 villages in Pune district which are considered hotspots. According to officials, Indapur tehsil has 64 hotspots while Velhe has only five. According to Ayush Prasad, zilla parishad CEO, it will take another week before rural parts will start seeing a Covid case curve fall. “The virus cases in rural areas are expected to rise in rural areas for the next five-six days as we have increased testing, and are identifying and isolating residents. We are taking steps to break the chain,” Prasad said. The senior official said that Covid curbs will help check the rise in cases. According to Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19, the positivity rate in urban areas has been going down and rural parts will follow suit in the coming days. “By the second or third week of May, cases will go down in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. It will take another fortnight for rural areas. By June, the district will show a downward trend,” Dr Salunke had said on Monday. Covid positivity rate of the week (April 26 - May 2) Rural areas of Pune district report higher positivity rate than urban parts‘Pune district Cases: 67,658 Tests: 275,944 Positivity rate: 24.51% Pune rural (Gram panchayat + municipal councils) Cases: 24,670 Tests: 74,534 Positivity rate: 33.09% PMC Cases: 27,514 Tests: 129,023 Positivity rate: 21.32% PCMC Cases: 14,726 Tests: 70,791 Positivity rate: 20.80% Hotspot villages in Pune district: 453 (Taluka-wise distribution of hotspot villages) Indapur - 64 villages Ambegaon 49 villages Purandar 49 Baramati 48 Junnar 47 Shirur 46 Haveli 41 Daund 33 Khed 25 Bhor 24 Mulshi 21 Maval 13 Velhe 5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-hotspots-emerge-in-pune-rural-areas-101620051486824.html
04-05-2021||Pune||Monday musings: From the bubonic plague to Covid, Pune’s crematoria burn through memories||Crematoria have never been in such focus as they are today in India. Pyres are burning round the clock as Covid fatalities surge every day. The foreign and Indian press has shown images from cremation grounds from across the country, much to the criticism of some. In Pune, the wait for cremation is extended, as 170-180 bodies are being brought in daily, although official figures reported by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the State health department do not match with records from the crematoria. Is this the first-time the city is witnessing such scenes? During the 1896-97 bubonic plague that hit the city, Pune, then called Poona by the British ruling the nation, saw scenes as scores of bodies were cremated one after another. There’s no precise record of the actual number of fatalities, though old reports and historians such as Mandar Lawate, say that around 5,000 deaths were recorded in Pune between October 1896 and May 1897. Given that the population of city - including those residing in municipal limits, cantonments and the suburbs – was 0.161 million, the fatality rate was in the range of 3.1 %. With many succumbing to the plague, Pune’s Omkareshwar ghat on the banks of the Mutha was flooded with bodies being cremated for months. During the period, the ghat stretching from Omkareshwar temple to Lakdi pul (near Deccan), was the only place for cremating bodies as compared to 21 crematoria that Pune has today. Pyres were seen burning from a distance, day and night, as being witnessed these days in many cities. “The situation was grim. British officer WC Rand had appointed police personnel to note down records of bodies coming in to the cremation ghat. Once the body was cremated, police used to visit the residence of deceased as part of a house-to-house search for infected patients and suspects. However, the search wasn’t just limited to identifying suspects. The houses where patients succumbed to the plague were cleaned, fumigated, dug-up (to destroy rats) and lime washed. The family members of the deceased used to be taken to a segregation camp at Swargate, while infected patients were shifted to a temporary facility at Sangam ghat near Shivajinagar,” said Lawate. Sassoon hospital was reserved largely for British or European patients, while special plague hospitals were erected in various parts of the city, one each for the Hindu, Muslim, and Parsi communities. More than the grief of passing away of loved ones, locals from Pune were extremely unhappy with suppressive measures by 34-year-old Walter Charles Rand, an Oxford-educated officer of the Indian Civil Service, to contain the plague. Rand was serving in Satara when he was appointed on February 10, 1897, as an assistant collector and chairman, Poona Plague Committee. In his plague report drafted in July 1897, Rand, in his introductory remarks mentioned: “The outbreak of bubonic plague with which I have to deal with in this report is the first that has occurred in Poona within the memory of living man, while of the occurrence of a similar epidemic in former times I am not aware of any authentic record. At the time of the present outbreak, the disease was quite unknown to the inhabitants of this part of India.” On containment measures, Rand explained in detail the gravity of the disease and urgency with which it had to be dealt. “There was, it is true, no Indian example of the suppression by strong measures, of an epidemic of the plague which had established itself in a large town, but the possibility of so suppressing the disease had been demonstrated at Hong Kong in 1894. It was certain that if the plague was not to be allowed to run its course, but was to be stamped out of Poona, stringent measures would have to be taken,” Rand observed in his report made available by National Library of Scotland. The report was later submitted to the British regime in England by RA Lamb, chairman, Poona Plague Committee, post Rand’s assassination by the Chapekar brothers. As the discontent against Rand grew in Poona, Damodar, Balkrisha and Vasudev shot Rand and Lieutenant Charles Ayerst at Ganeshkhind (now Pune University). While Ayerst died immediately, Rand succumbed to the injuries on July 3, 1897. Scared by the pandemic, many fled the city and took shelter at Fergusson College, which then was outside Pune. The situation was reported in great details by Lokmanya Tilak’s “Kesari”, then a weekly newspaper. The plague took a break intermittently and returned every after few years, though its intensity lowered. Like Covid, the bubonic plague did not discriminate between rich and poor. At the same time, many came forward to help, just as the Pune, in the grip of Covid, is seeing today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-from-the-bubonic-plague-to-covid-pune-s-crematoria-burn-through-memories-101620038466378.html
