05-05-2021||Pune||Man in police custody for killing havaldar||A police havaldar was murdered on a public street in Budhwar peth early on Wednesday morning. The havaldar identified his assailant in his final moments in hospital which helped the police catch the accused within an hour of the murder. They police arrested Praveen Mahajan (34), a resident of Budhwar peth, over suspicion of his involvement in the killing. He has been remanded to three days in police custody, according to the police. The deceased cop has been identified as Sameer Sayyed (48), a resident of Khadak police lines. Sayyed was a havaldar attached to the Faraskhana police station. Police believe he was attacked when heading home. The deceased was found with deep cut marks on his neck, stomach, and chest, according to police. He was found lying in a pool of his blood near a restaurant close to the defunct Shrikrishna Talkies in Budhwar peth. The police suspect he was killed around 1am. Mahajan has a history of violent crimes and has several on occasion violated externments handed out to him in the past. Even now, he was serving a one-year externment, said Priyanka Narnavare, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. “There was some dispute which led to the murder [Sayyed’s] but it is too premature to say anything [conclusively]. We are also chasing a suspect in a second murder,” said Narnavare. A complaint in the matter was lodged by sub-inspector Shrikant Sawant of Faraskhana police station. “When we recieved the information and went to the spot, the havaldar was alive. On his way to the hospital, he told his colleague who had done it. So the man was caught immediately. Within half an hour of reaching the hospital, he was declared dead,” said assistant commissioner of police Satish Govekar of Faraskhana division of Pune police. The people who were out on the streets and witnessed the attack are in the process of recording their statements, according to ACP Govekar. A case under Sections 302 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 37(1)135 of Maharashtra Police Act; Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act has been registered at Faraskhana police station. Commercial sex worker killed in her house A 24-year-old sex worker was killed in her house in the Kachra building of Budhwar peth on Wednesday. The woman lived on the first floor of Kachra building in the red-light area of Pune. The woman was a native of West Bengal as is the suspect in the case, according to senior inspector Rajendra Landge of Faraskhana police station. “We are close to catching the man. He was a regular customer and a friend of her husband. They had had multiple fights as the woman had asked him not to tell her husband. He came to her house at 3am and killed her,” said PI Landage. A case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC has been registered at Faraskhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-in-police-custody-for-killing-havaldar-101620231996563.html
05-05-2021||Pune||PMC extends Swach contract, but evaluating other options||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has extended the contract of Swach, a non-profit responsible for door-to-door waste collection in the city by another month but is also checking out options to appoint other agencies for merged villages.The plan is to continue with Swach in the old city limits. Swach is a PMC supported non-profit organization for door-to-door waste collection. PMC renews the contract with Swach every five years, which ended in December 2020. Based on the complaints of corporators, the PMC standing committee was earlier pursuing bids of other agencies for fair competition in the collection and segregation of garbage in the city. However, due to Covid-19, there was no general body meeting taking place and hence the decision was pending but it was passed in a general body meeting in March 2021 to extend Swach’s contract for two months. Now, the standing committee has given another one-month extension to Swach on the background of Covid-19 situation. One of the PMC officials said, “In the coming days, we are working on the proposal to call tenders for merged villages and give extension to Swach in the old city limit areas. In the Covid-19 situation, if we carry the fresh tender for garbage collection of garbage, it will hamper the existing waste collection system. So, without disturbing the existing Swach system, we are working to call tenders for merge areas.” Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman said, “The administration demanded to give an extension of three months to Swach. However, we have given an extension by a month and instructed the administration to start a new tender process.” Kunal Khemnar, PMC additional municipal commissioner said, “We prepared all necessary steps to call fresh tenders for door-to-door waste segregation and collection. Now, the committee has given a month’s extension to Swach. After the merger of 23 villages, we will check the option of appointing other agencies.” Ajit Deshmukh, head of solid waste department of PMC said, “We have mentioned in the proposal that there is a need to give extension to Swach for five years. On the other side, there will be a merger of 23 new villages in the PMC limit. There is no proper system to collect garbage and Swach is also not covering these areas. Therefore, the administration will have to outsource garbage transportation and collection but, it will take some period.” Swach covers around 8.5 lakh properties in the city and gets ₹4.5 to ₹5 crore from residents every month in addition to ₹2.5 to ₹3 crore paid annually by PMC as supervision fees. However, there are numerous complaints from corporators, and some citizens are against Swach workers for not lifting garbage properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-extends-swach-contract-but-evaluating-other-options-101620231696406.html
05-05-2021||Pune||No frequent heat wave conditions reported in April: IMD||As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), like March 2021, the heat wave conditions in April 2021 were occasional and also for shorter periods over very small pockets. In Maharashtra and rest of Central India, no frequent heat wave conditions were observed and the maximum temperature over Maharashtra and Central India was below normal by 1 to 3 degrees Celsius.Explaining the cause of fewer heat waves, OP Sreejith, scientist, climate monitoring and forecast, IMD Pune said that the cause of isolated heat waves in Central India is that we are experiencing La Nina conditions this year. “We generally observe fewer heat waves during the La Nina condition. Also, the major reason for fewer heat waves in the region is attributed to regular wet spells observed over western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India and adjoining central parts of India in April. Due to the presence of lower-level wind convergence on many days in April this year, Maharashtra and adjoining parts of peninsular India, experienced rainfall and thunderstorm activities at regular intervals, thus reducing the heat intensity in April. The warmer days with higher maximum temperature were relatively less in number due to frequent rainfall activity,” said Sreejith. He further added that a few occasional shorter duration spells of heat wave were reported at isolated pockets in other parts of the country like Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. According to IMD officials, the month of April this year was the 12th warmest for Central India since 1901 with an increase in day temperature by 0.6 degrees Celsius. As per data shared by IMD, the maximum temperature over Central India that includes Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha exceeded the normal temperature during April by 0.6 degrees Celsius.According to the department, the subdivision of Konkan and Goa from west coast is likely to report warmer than normal day temperature in the month of May.“As predicted for the month of May, the Konkan and Goa region may have warmer than normal day temperature. The temperature may vary due to various local weather patterns that are at play. For other parts, local forecasts are given by IMD. For monsoon, IMD will issue an updated forecast by the end of May,” said Sreejith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-frequent-heat-wave-conditions-reported-in-april-imd-101620231636315.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Chairman of Badve group passes away||Shankar Prabhakar Badve, chairman of the Badve Group of Companies passed away on Tuesday at the age of 82. Born in Jodhpur, in 1938, his father Dr Prabhakar Badve was a veteran doctor in the Indian Armed Services. Shankar Badve, after completing his B.E. Mech from College of Engineering, Pune joined Bajaj Auto Limited and after serving for 37 years, superannuated as a plant head of the three- wheeler division. Post his retirement in 1987, along with his elder son, Shrikant Shankar Badve, he laid the foundation of Badve Group of Companies. By his vision and enormous efforts Badve Group reached ₹5,000 crore turnover and is one of the reputed auto component manufacturers in India having its presence in seven states and 28 manufacturing facilities across India. Badve group caters to all major OEMs in the like of Bajaj Auto, Honda Motors, Hero Motocorp, Mahindra and Mahindra among others. Shankar Badve has left behind his wife, two sons, one daughter, two daughters-in-law and grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chairman-of-badve-group-passes-away-101620231396307.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Remdesivir vial stolen from Sassoon Hospital||A vial of Remdesivir injection used for treating Covid-19 patients was reported stolen from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) in the first week of May. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a nurse who works in the Covid-19 unit of the hospital. The missing vial was a 200mg dose of Remdesivir by Remdac company worth ₹1,200, according to police. The hospital staff had received Remdesivir vials for the admitted Covid-19 patients at the hospital. The vials per patient are handed directly to the hospital by the local administration since the shortage of the drug had caused several cases of black marketing of the experimental drug. The hospital had received vials for a set number of patients on the evening of May 1. The drugs were handed over to the hospital staff on the morning of May 2. One injection was administered on the morning of May 2 and the empty vial was returned. However, when she came back at 2:30pm for the second dose, the new vial was missing, according to the complaint. After searching for the missing vial until the morning of May 3, the hospital staff decided to lodge a complaint. “We are told that the people who are involved in the treatment are the only ones who have access to the store. We are investigating everyone involved,” said assistant police inspector Harish Thakur of Bundgarden police station who is investigating the case. A case under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/remdesivir-vial-stolen-from-sassoon-hospital-101620231336309.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Three sandalwood trees stolen from Yerawada jail premises||Three sandalwood trees were reported stolen from the premises of women’s section at the Yerawada Central jail. The theft happened between 4pm on April 24 and 10:30am on April 25, according to jail officials. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sudhir Gangarde (51), a supervisor at the Yerawada Central jail. The trees that were stolen were believed to be over 15-years old, the cost of the three trees are estimated to be around ₹1, 30,000. The trees were planted in the restricted area of the open jail meant for women. The open jail is meant for prisoners who are either at the end of their term or have a lenient sentence. The trees have not been uprooted but cut from the ground level, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 379 and 447 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Felling of Trees Rules was registered at Yerawada police station. Police sub inspector S Bhosale of Yerawada police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-sandalwood-trees-stolen-from-yerawada-jail-premises-101620231276255.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Unused subways and FOBs in a poor state: survey||The Parisa NGO has found the conditions of foot over bridges (FOBs) and subways across the city to be in a poor state in an independent survey conducted earlier this year. The survey assessed the condition of 13 pedestrian subways and nine FOBs in Pune after a physical site visit and conditions using parameters defined in the city’s pedestrian policy.This report is yet to be presented to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), but shows that many facilities of subways and FOBs are poor in terms of lighting, ventilation, have no firefighting equipment, and have water seepage.According to Priya Pharanade, Parisar NGO junior programme associate, the organisation conducted the survey between December 2020 and January 2021 by visiting 16 subways, of which conditions of 13 were noted. “During our survey, we found that three subways are closed, while we found that there are two subways for vehicle movement and a pedestrian subway. Similarly, we surveyed 10 FOBs of which only one FOB was closed. After conducting the survey, we think that subways and foot overbridges are undesirable and should not be constructed, and if the authorities are planning more they should be maintained and should be used by people,” said Pharande. “It should be maintained, so pedestrians can use it. Some of the subways and FOBs are closed because of not being maintained properly and others are not used much as it is not convenient. This means that large amount of public money has been wasted on FOBs and subways which in the absence of proper maintenance makes them a dead expenditure,” added Pharande. According to Pune’s pedestrian policy, PMC should ensure regular maintenance and security for the pedestrian infrastructure (including FOBs, subways) to retain it in a good, clean, usable and safe condition at all times. Ward officers are responsible for pedestrian infrastructure in respective ward areas and necessary coordination with other departments such as road, traffic, electrical, garden department. “They have to ensure regular maintenance and security of existing FOBs, subways to retain it in a good, clean, usable and safe condition at all times in the pedestrian policy,” Pharande said. Box Total surveyed subways- 16 Condition noted down- 13 Closed subways- 3 Vehicle + pedestrian subway - 2 Total surveyed FOBs - 10 Open FOBs- 9 Closed FOB- 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/unused-subways-and-fobs-in-a-poor-state-survey-101620230196052.html
05-05-2021||Pune||PMC headquarters fail to keep visitor count as per lockdown norms||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) headquarters could emerge as a potential Covid hotspot with residents crowding the premises despite restrictions on the number of functional staffers since the last two weeks and posing risk of the virus spread. Many visitors are seen without masks and violating social distancing rules. Large number of visitors has been observed at the health and building permission department. Those who visited the offices following the Covid protocol a few days ago expressed fears that unchecked crowding could lead to spread of the virus infection.During lockdown, PMC has issued guidelines that only 15 per cent of the staff would remain on duty and outsiders would need mandatory pass to gain entry into the premises.However, visitors to the PMC headquarters claim that many are gaining entry without being checked. “The offices are getting many visitors and it is a cause of concern. We request PMC to toughen measures and ensure that only genuine ones are allowed inside the campus,” said Somnath Patil, a visitor with mandatory pass.Social activist Anagha Deshmukh said, “Most people seen inside the building visit the health department and could be Covid positive patients or can be asymptomatic as they usually come to take letters from the department for free medicine or availing scheme for poor patients or other health related work.”Ajit Kankariya, who visited the health department office, said, “I saw people getting inside without being checked at the main gate. They don’t wear masks properly and social distancing norms are being violated blatantly. Only those who have the pass must be allowed while those not wearing masks must be fined.”.Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “Only citizens with genuine work and mandatory pass are allowed. We will ensure that the strictest protocols are followed so that we can make the surroundings healthier for citizens.” He said steps will be taken to check the increase in footfall at PMC main office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-headquarters-fail-to-keep-visitor-count-as-per-lockdown-norms-101620229295994.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Pune dist sees 9,084 fresh Covid cases, 93 deaths||Pune: Pune district, on Wednesday, recorded 9,084 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours and 93 Covid-related deaths as per the state health department. Of the 93 deaths reported in the district, 33 deaths were in Pune rural and 59 in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). One death was reported in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. In the Pune district, there are a total of 889,629 Covid cases, of which, 765,455 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 9,920 deaths in the district. At present, there are 114,254 active cases in Pune district. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 448,504 Covid cases and 5,754 deaths till Wednesday. Whereas PCMC has reported 215,955 cases so far, and a total of 1,527 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 2,25,170 total cases so far and 2,582 deaths due to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-sees-9-084-fresh-covid-cases-93-deaths-101620227195682.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: “Kasba Pune” Gao, with its movers & shakers||Time travel is not an easy task. But, as we jump across to Pune’s medieval period, from the early medieval and ancient era, the hazy blur starts changing to a clearer picture. The discovery of paper and use of written correspondence for recording court proceedings and grants grew in the medieval period, which updates us about the political and administrative events of medieval Deccan.The Bahamani rule in Pune continued without a hiccup from 1347 till the 1480s, but the kingdom started disintegrating due to internal conflicts. Malik Ahmad Nizam Shah I, was the son of Nizam-ul-Mulk Malik Hasan Bahri, originally a Hindu Brahmin (originally Timappa) from Bijapur (or Bijanagar). Ahmed Nizam Shah was initially appointed as governor of Beed and Daulatabad and was honoured with title “Nizam-ul-mulk”. As the Bahamani Sultans were made puppet monarchs under hands of Baridshahi prime ministers, Ahmad Nizamshah, who was Junnar governor then, rebelled against the Sultan and successfully defended the attack. He established the new kingdom of Ahmednagar with the early capital at Junnar near Pune; it was subsequently shifted to Daulatabad.Pune to the south of Junnar, thus, became part of the Nizamshahi kingdom of Ahmednagar in the 1490. This period witnessed the migration of many families from Karnataka province to the Pune region.The Thakaars, were a Brahmin family who migrated to Pune, and were later responsible for the establishment of the Gram-daivat, or village deity of Pune, the Kasba Ganapati. Shaligram, Kavalange/Kalange, Kanade, Dhere, Vaidya, Nilange, Bharait and Bharange, were the eight original resident Brahmin families (aath-ghare) of Pune. Pune had some significant Kanadi Brahmin families such as Dharmadhikari, Honap, Nilange and later, the Panses. Before arrival of kokanastha Peshwas, Pune was occupied primarily by deshasta Brahmins such as Purandares and Pethes, who had mansions built in southern Kasba and practised Vedic learning.Zambres are the oldest known resident family of Pune, spanning a period of 800 years.Around 1510 CE, Bengal’s famous saint Chaitnaya Mahaprabhu Maharaj visited Pune. His disciple, Govinddas, described Pune as “Purnanagar”, and in his verses says that the citizens of Purnanagar were well versed in the various fields of knowledge. The pathshalas in the town taught Vedic and Bhagawat literature. The views of the scholars were well accepted. Thus, Pune appears to be an important centre for study of religion and an educational hub, even back in 16th century CE.Pune functioned as Kasbe Pune - a tehsil-like headquarter, as well as a large village, under Nizamshahi. During this period, we find records of various families in the Pune region who were appointed to administrative positions which were passed on to the generations in a hereditary manner. The Zambre family were the Patils of Kasbe Pune and the remains of their open office called Zambre chawdi, existed near Gujarat High school in Kasba peth, until recently. They served as village head, head of police and justice, and were responsible tax collection. The Bharat Itihas Samshodhak Mandal’s secretary and historian, C G Karve, reports its existence in the form of a two-storeyed building till 1943. The Ladkat family were appointed as Patils for the Mali area and till today, they are responsible for upkeep of Nava Kalbhairav temple in Pune. Rajashris were the Brahmin Kulkarnis of Pune. Traditionally, Kulkarni was a title used by people who maintained the accounts and records of villages, used in collecting taxes. Dharmadhikaris were Upadhyays or the religious heads also responsible for religious teaching and decision making. The Saptashri family provided the priest for the Nageshwar temple.As Pune functioned as a Nizamshahi Pargana, the Shitoles were appointed as Deshmukhs, responsible for revenue collection, taxation, police and judiciary for the Pune Pargana. The “Deshmukhi vatan” of Pune and the adjoining territory was granted in a hereditary capacity. They were supported by the Deshpande-Honap family who were responsible for record keeping of the Pargana. Indian villages and towns did not grow as strictly planned townships in historical times, except for a few exceptions. However, there has been an organic method to the madness of its seemingly chaotic growth.The story of Kasba Pune followed the same logic and the core grew organically in the beginning. It had narrow meandering lanes and narrower by-lanes (alis, gallis and bols), distinctly medieval in their layout. Most of the houses then were made of “bhendyachya vita” (unbaked bricks) and few with rectangular book- shaped baked bricks. Like most medieval towns, it was built for pedestrian or animal drawn traffic. Houses were densely packed and close to each other opening into courtyards in the centre. A prominent village deity, such as Kasba Ganpati, marked the religious centre of the settlement. Unlike European settlements, the wards of Kasba were mixed-class areas where rich and poor lived in the same place - stately wadas surrounded by smaller houses and huts of the poorest. This was quite different from modern towns where economic class- based neighbourhoods are the norm. However, these neighbourhoods were caste–based. Thus people of same caste and often, occupation, whether rich or poor lived close to each other.In the last column, we saw potters living near Kumbhar Ves and the Mali community cultivating in Mali were near the Nagjhari stream. Bhoyis, or the fishermen, occupied the area next to Kumbhars near the river Mutha and even today, the oldest fish market in Pune functions from the same area. A small Wadar (stone workers) community stayed next to the fisherman area. A significant Muslim population occupied the area around Dhakta Shaeikh Salla dargah and the area within Killa-e-Hissar. As seen in most medieval settlements, the Mahar and Mang communities lived on the outskirts, to the northeast of Kasba; a stark caste divide was observed. The Kasai community lived next to them due to similar occupational interests. Central Kasba was occupied by Shimpis (tailors), Shoshka Kasars (bangle makers), and Tavastha Kasar/tambats (coppersmith) who lived along streets with respective names. In these kinship/community areas, they built temples and shrines to their community deities (for instance, the Twastha Kasar Mandir, of the Kasar community). Professionals and artisans like Tambats and Shimpis had their workshops and shops at the street levels, while they lived above or behind these. Thus there was hardly any separation between home and workplace.Thus, the canvas of the Nizamshahi period for Kasba Pune and its inhabitants materialises through a collation of names, faces and spaces, as per the archival records of the 16th century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-kasba-pune-gao-with-its-movers-shakers-101620212194935.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Police hawaldar and a sex worker found murdered in Pune’s Budhwar Peth||Bodies of a police hawaldar and a commercial sex worker were found in Budhwar Peth area in Maharashtra’s Pune district early on Wednesday morning. Police say the two were killed in separate incidents two to three hours apart. One suspect has been arrested for allegedly killing the policeman, while a hunt is on to arrest the suspect in second murder case.The cop was identified as Sameer Sayyed (48), a resident of Khadak police lines while the deceased woman was found to be 24-years-old. Sayyed was a Hawaldar attached to the Faraskhana police station. Police believes he was attacked when heading home.Sayyed’s body was found with wounds caused by sharp weapons in Budhwar Peth and the police suspects he was killed around 1am. They have detained a man named Praveen Mahajan (34), a resident of Budhwar Peth, over suspicion of his involvement in the killing.“He has been detained and will be arrested after his medical tests are done. For the sex worker [murder] case, we are yet to find a complainant and the process of registration is underway,” said a police officer at Faraskhana police station, who didn’t wish to be named.Mahajan has a history of violent crimes and has several times violated externments handed out to him in the past. Even now, he was serving a one year externment, said Priyanka Narnavare, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.The police officer at Faraskhana PS said the 24-year-old woman was suspected to have been killed in the same area 2-3 hours after Sayyed’s murder. However, the DCP said it was too early to draw conclusions.“There was some dispute which led to the murder [Sayyed’s] but it is too premature to say anything [conclusively]. We are also chasing a suspect in the second murder,” said Narnavare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-hawaldar-and-a-sex-worker-found-murdered-in-pune-s-budhwar-peth-101620206302761.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Pune doctor resumes treating Covid-19 patients day after virus takes his father away||A 45-year-old doctor working in a private hospital in Pune resumed duty a day after his father's death due to Covid-19 even as his mother and brother were still battling the disease.Talking to PTI, Dr Mukund Penurkar, who is a physician and has been treating Covid-19 patients along with his wife, said he thought serving patients would be the best tribute to his 85-year-old father."As coronavirus cases increased in Pune last year, and since I and my wife are treating Covid-19 patients in the Sanjivan Hospital here, I sent my parents to my brother's place in Nagpur for the sake of their health," he said.But amid the current second Covid-19 wave, his brother contracted the infection last month, and later his parents also tested positive for the disease, he said.The doctor said his brother and parents required oxygen beds and the situation in Nagpur was precarious in terms of bed availability. He then arranged a cardiac ambulance and got all three of them shifted to the Pune-based hospital where he works."My father, who was aged and co-morbid, was diagnosed with renal failure. While undergoing treatment, his heartbeat also increased and he was diagnosed with pulmonary embolism (blockage of arteries in lungs). His blood pressure also became low and he died of Covid-19 on April 26," the physician said.Dr Penurkar said when he moved his parents here, his father was of the opinion that he should continue to serve the patients in these difficult times. At the time of his father's death, his mother and brother were also undergoing treatment in the hospital."My mother could see the situation in the hospital and told me to continue serving the Covid-19 patients as the services of MD physicians are required at this time," he said.Dr Penurkar said he performed the last rites of his father alone and resumed duty the next evening. "Fortunately, my mother and brother have now recovered," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-doctor-resumes-treating-covid-19-patients-day-after-coronavirus-takes-his-father-away-101620194925019.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Dive into the past: Tilak tank swims into the future with a 100-year heritage of sports service||The Lokmanya Tilak swimming tank in Pune was an old stone quarry with some natural springs when it was inaugurated on April 30, 1922. In its centenary year, Punekars recall some fond memories of the tank that has trained many swimmers. The Tilak tank hosted crowd-puller water polo matches that were so popular that they were advertised outside colleges in the city. “This tank came into being for the erstwhile Deccan Gymkhana which was established in 1906. The gymkhana officials dreamt of sending Indian athletes to the Olympics,” said Amit Golwalkar, secretary of the Tilak tank. A meeting about this dream was held at Deccan gymkhana with its members and Sir Dorabjee Tata who wanted to send Indian athletes to the 1920 Antwerp Olympics. With the help of leased land belonging to Shirole Patil a colony was built to cover the cost of constructing an Olympic size pool. The old stone quarry was used to get the stones to build this colony of bungalows surrounding the gymkhana, thus using the quarry to create the swimming pool. The mine had natural water and on the day of Gudi Padva on April 30, 1922, it was inaugurated by NC Kelkar, who was the then president of Poona Municipality. “The water was green in colour and initially people were afraid of getting into the deep end, but the attraction of swimming in an Olympic size pool was so much that parents would come along to see their children swim,” said Kalpana Agashe. Kalpana was around 4-years old when her father and her elder brother taught her how to swim. She went on to become a national swimming champion and later a coach for Vimlabai Garware school and now has her own students. “Whenever it rained, students would avoid coming to tank since it was open to air and had crude steps and border. That was the time for all the water lovers, coaches’ juniors and seniors to play volleyball with the half team in water and others on sides, or even hold relay swims. We had a lot of fun,” Agashe said. But what attracted a lot of people to the tank were the water polo matches which had the most audience during that time. “I was part of water polo and I remember that posters would be put outside colleges to advertise these matches and the Tilak tank would be fully surrounded from all sides, with people shouting, ‘shoot the ball’,” recalls Golwalkar. For veteran swimmer and coach Sham Karandikar, Tilak tank has some fantastic memories. “I was coaching at the tank for 25 years from 1977 to 2001 and used to swim regularly. The green water of the pool would often make people cringe at going into the deep which was around 7 feet or more and then there was a diving area of more than 15 feet deep. There was even a cement slide that students often enjoyed, some of the parents would be afraid of sitting on the steps then as there were many snakes in the crevices, but the love for swimming made people come every day. This was one of the biggest pools of 100 metres length,” said Karandikar. The current Tilak tank is an upgraded version of the earlier version which housed an olympic size pool of 50 metres with eight lanes and charged only ₹2 as fees. Now, the tank has 1,500 permanent members and a floating population in the summer which bring in around ₹60 to 70 lakhs in revenue. Latest upgradations The pool has been upgraded and offers a variety of sizes; an Olympic size of 50 metres and eight lanes, a mini short course, a newly built 25 metres pool with eight lanes, a baby pool of 25 metres with four lanes and a special walking pool of 20 metres by three metres for aqua therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dive-into-the-past-tilak-tank-swims-into-the-future-with-a-100-year-heritage-of-sports-service-101620144617859.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Crowds, vendors on footpath outside Market Yard defy Covid norms||Even though Market Yard authorities have applied various restrictions within the premises, huge crowds continue to gather outside the gate, as vendors gather to sell vegetables.When HT visited Market Yard, it came across two contrasting scenes – a sea of people gathering near hawkers in front of gate number 1; and covering once you enter inside the market, there are fewer traders and customers.Market Yard is closing one access lane every day.“The huge numbers of hawkers sitting on Shivneri road footpath are putting us on the back foot, even after implementing curbs. From Wednesday, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), municipal commissioner and Pune Police are going to conduct inquiries about hawkers who have encroached on this footpath,” said Madhukant Garad, administrator and secretary, APMC, Market Yard, Gultekdi Pune.In the past as well, APMC have tried to bar hawkers from standing on the footpath.“There are many who are from the Pardhi community who to fight if you conduct an inquiry,” Garad added.Within the premises, a huge crowd gathers on Monday and Friday, with Market Yard closed on the weekends.“Tuesday to Thursday there is a very decent crowd in Market Yard, with 50 per cent shops closed and all rules followed. Only on Monday and Friday social distancing norms are not followed by the buyers,” said Rupesh Paygude, who runs a vegetable retail shop in Warje.Vegetable vendor Sanjay Dhote, who was standing on the footpath said, “APMC should have allowed us to stand inside then on the footpath. Where should we go to sell the vegetables, if not on the footpath.”Since April 20, Market Yard has not allowed hawkers within the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/crowds-vendors-on-footpath-outside-market-yard-defy-covid-norms-101620141258869.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Vaccinations for 45+ expected to resume from May 5 as vaccine stock arrives||PUNE After a lull of almost four days, vaccination for beneficiaries aged 45 years and above, will kick-start again from May 5. Pune rural, on Tuesday, received 40,000 doses of Covishield and additional doses of Covaxin as well. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope in Mumbai also said that the state received nine lakh doses on Tuesday.“These doses will be sent to various districts of Maharashtra. This stock will last for two days,” Tope said, speaking to reporters in Mumbai.On Tuesday, 761 beneficiaries above the age of 45 years were inoculated in Pune rural. No beneficiaries were given any jabs in this age group in PMC and PCMC on Tuesday.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that there are vaccine doses likely to come from the centre.On Tuesday, 2,575 beneficiaries between the ages of 18 to 45 years were inoculated. Of these, 1,321 beneficiaries in Pune rural, 668 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 586 in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) received the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccinations-for-45-expected-to-resume-from-may-5-as-vaccine-stock-arrives-101620140537517.html
05-05-2021||Pune||Covid lockdowns cause drastic drop in accidents on Pune-Mum eway||PUNE Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the series of curbs and at least two complete lockdowns since 2020, vehicular movement on the Pune -Mumbai expressway has reduced. As a result, the number of accidents on the expressway has also dropped for 2020 and 2021, as compared to earlier years. As per data shared by the Highway State Police, Pune division, in January to April 2021, saw a total of 62 accidents took place on the eway, with 29 commuters losing their lives. In all of 2020, the e-way saw a total of 203 accidents with 81 fatalities. Last year, during lockdown, the e-way was open only for vehicles providing essential goods and services. This year, only commuters with proper an e-pass issued by the police can use the e-way.Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent, of Police, highway police, said, “Several initiatives have been taken on the expressway to reduce the accidents.One of them is taking action on speeding vehicles. At various spots police are deployed and round-the-clock vigilance is kept on the e-way for emergencies. Also, heavy vehicles are told to compulsorily travel in the left lane at a slow speed. Those not following the rules are penalised,” “We mainly focused on speed and seat-belts on the e-way to curb the accidents. Also the response time of our team increased during this period,” he added. Tanmay Pendse, an activist working for the safety of people using the expressway, said, “Due to the strict restrictions imposed in the state and the overall Covid situation the traffic is less on the highway this year. Also the highway police team has helped curb accidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-lockdowns-cause-drastic-drop-in-accidents-on-pune-mum-eway-101620139277426.html
