06-05-2021||Pune||Police squad to ensure NIBM, Kondhwa areas stick to curbs||Pune: The police have formed teams that move on autorickshaws in Kondhwa- NIBM areas to check unnecessary public movement on streets. Police personnel in vans have been stationed to keep citizens indoors.The initiative was started last week following complaints from residents of people seen loitering on roads. The police in vans stationed at important chowks on Kondhwa-NIBM road tell citizens not on necessary errands to leave the place.“When the city is under lockdown, some citizens in this part of the area are seen stepping out for unnecessary reasons. We want the police to take action against them and help break the chain of corona infection,” said Ashraf Shaikh, resident of NIBM.Another NIBM resident Sagar Pillay said, “Salunke Vihar is witnessing huge crowds in the morning where social distancing and mask violation is taking place with impunity. Police patrolling has to be intensified to check the crowd.”Kondhwa police inspector Sardar Patil said that patrolling has been increased across the area. “We are taking action and urging citizens to stay indoors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-squad-to-check-loiters-on-roads-in-nibm-kondhwa-areas-101620322133043.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Pune dist touches grim Covid death toll of 10,000 till date||PuneOn Thursday, Pune district touched the mark of 10,000 deaths due to Covid since the pandemic started last year. As per authorities, Pune district reported a spike with 9,731 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours and 79 deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours.Of 79 deaths reported on Thursday, 42 were in Pune rural, 34 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Three deaths were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 451,668 Covid cases and 5,788 deaths till Thursday. Whereas PCMC has reported 218,369 cases so far and a total of 1,530 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 229,323 total cases so far and 2,624 deaths due to the virus.In Pune district, there are a total of 899,360 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 774,178 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 10,000 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 115,182 active cases in Pune district.As per the state health department, 63,842 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 4,227,940 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 85.54%.Across Maharashtra, 62,194 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 853 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.49%.The state health department stated out of 28,661,668 laboratory samples, 4,942,736 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 17.25% patients till Thursday.Currently 3,826,089 people are in home quarantine and 29,406 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-touch-grim-covid-death-toll-of-10k-till-date-101620321953088.html
06-05-2021||Pune||MCCIA body distributes Covid equipment worth ₹100 crore under “Mission Vayu”||Pune: The Pune Platform for Covid-19 Response (PPCR) managed by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) has implemented two phases of “Mission Vayu” by donating 7,800 oxygen concentrators, 875 BiPaP ventilators, and 50,000 pulse oximeters across India. “Mission Vayu” is one of the civic-led initiatives to support the healthcare infrastructure and tackle the pertaining oxygen shortage across India. It is anchored by various corporate partners and foundations, including Singapore-headquartered investment firm Temasek and Temasek Foundation. The three-phased project with an estimated investment of ₹100 crore has been planned, implemented and executed in less than 10 days since its launch. The costs are jointly shared by Temasek, Temasek Foundation, ACT Grants, the Swasth Alliance and 1,000+ donors and members of PPCR. Air India, Singapore Airlines, Olam International, Amazon India and Kerry Logistics have supported the logistics of airlifting these essential equipment from Singapore to India for “Mission Vayu” phase 1, 2 and 3. In the first phase, 550 BiPaP ventilators and 7,500 oxygen concentrators were airlifted from Singapore and donated to the worst-affected districts of Maharashtra, Delhi and other affected areas. The second phase was launched to ensure medical supplies for patients in remote places. 325 units of heavy duty BiPaP ventilators, 51,000 oximeters, over 20 ventilators were distributed to hospitals, trusts and support groups in states largely affected by the Covid crisis, including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Karnataka. With rising critical cases and subsequent shortage of life-support equipment, PPCR has now launched phase 3 of “Mission Vayu” to donate 500 additional units of heavy-duty BiPaP ventilators to hospitals, trusts, social organisations, support groups, and district administrations across India. With requests pouring in across India, it will help ensure timely intervention and support to the patients nationwide. Sudhir Mehta, lead and coordinator, Pune Platform for Covid-19 Response and president, MCCIA, said, “We are grateful to our partner organisations, members and donors, for making this possible. For more than a year, we have continued to supplement efforts to mitigate the adverse effects of the pandemic and we pledge to support it going forward as well. Extending our efforts and supplies all over India is the need of the hour and we shall continue to do so, to the best of our abilities.” PPCR platform set up at MCCIA is a volunteer group of members of civil society who came together to minimize the impact of the Covid outbreak in Pune city and its surroundings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mccia-body-distributes-covid-equipment-worth-rs-100-crore-under-mission-vayu-101620314212576.html
06-05-2021||Pune||APMC, PMC conduct anti-encroachment drive on Shivneri road||Pune: To curb footfall on Shivneri road near Market Yard, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) carried out an anti-encroachment drive against roadside vegetable hawkers on Wednesday and Thursday. “The two-day exercise helped to check public movement in the area as residents flouted lockdown norms and were seen not following social distancing and wearing masks. We have decided to conduct such drives twice in 15 days as we have observed that the hawkers return after a few days. A squad of 10 persons will keep a check on encroachers,” said Madhukar Garad, administrator and secretary, APMC Gultekdi Market Yard Pune. Currently, APMC is not allowing hawkers to sell vegetables within the premises. “We have allowed 50 per cent wholesalers to run their shops on the premises. We will reopen other points of sale only after lockdown restrictions ease,” Garad said. “Only 50 per cent hawkers were seen on footpath today and no vendor after 11 am, unlike previous days,” said Prashant Hiremat, resident of Shivneri road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/apmc-pmc-conduct-anti-encroachment-drive-on-shivneri-road-101620313612492.html
06-05-2021||Pune||PMC plans bigger chimneys to address overloaded crematoria||Pune: The electric crematoriums in Pune are in need of urgent maintenance by the civic authorities due to non-stop operation as many bodies arrive for last rites. The chimneys at crematoriums are getting blocked due to smoke particulate getting stuck in the duct either leading to furnace failure or spread of smoke inside crematoriums, according to Pune Municipal Corporation officials. The civic body plans to install bigger chimneys to replace the existing ones to mitigate the crisis as part of its environment-friendly mission of smoke reduction. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol has taken up the issue with PMC administration after environmentalist Vishwambhar Choudhury made an appeal to enhance the breathing capacities of chimneys by carrying out necessary scrubbing of pipes and recommended installation of bigger and new chimneys as the existing ones are one decade old. Dr Choudhury had shared a Facebook post about the smoke emanating from crematorium chimney affecting the environment. Shrinivas Kandul, PMC electric department head and incharge of crematoriums said, “The 13 electric crematoriums in the city are facing overload since the past one year and their maintenance is long due causing regular breakdowns. It is also letting out toxic smoke into the atmosphere, causing inconvenience to nearby residents. We are taking steps to address these issues.” The official said regular cleaning of chimney pipes is done to check smoke released in the air. Mohol said that the civic body will work on the recommendations made by Dr Choudhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-plans-bigger-chimneys-to-address-overloaded-crematoria-101620312533049.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Dance tutor arrested for sexual harassment of teenager in Pune||PUNE: A 40-year-old dance tutor was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for alleged sexual harassment of a young woman in a house in Hinjewadi area on Wednesday. The arrested was identified as Sandeep Jagdish Pardeshi (40) of Warje Malwadi. Pardeshi used to visit the house of a business owner couple to teach their four-year-old daughter. A complaint was lodged by a 31-year-old woman who owns the business with her husband, according to the police. “The couple had found him through online search. He had started working for them on February 15 and was going to their house between 6pm and 7pm every day ever since,” said sub-inspector Ravindra Muddal of Hinjewadi police station. The complainant and her husband were hosting an 18-year-old girl from their native place in Patna, Bihar. “She had come to spend vacation time with them. The man used to call her to the bathroom under the guise of giving him talcum powder and then sexually harass her,” said PSI Muddal. The teenager had not told her hosts what Pardeshi was doing until May 4 when she revealed the events of the past days. “The complainant, in whose house the girl was living, asked the teacher to not come on May 5 and spoke with the girl. On May 6, they decided to catch him in the act,” said PSI Muddal. On May 6, the man allegedly went inside the bathroom and kept the door ajar. He then asked the teenager to bring him talcum powder while stripping his pants, according to the complainant. However, instead of the teenager, the 31-year-old complainant opened the bathroom door to find him in a compromising position, according to her complaint. Pardeshi allegedly ran away from the house and was arrested by the police later on Thursday. A case under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dance-tutor-arrested-for-sexual-harassment-of-teenager-in-pune-101620301072292.html
06-05-2021||Pune||State, Centre should sit together, find solution on Maratha quota: BJP MP||BJP MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati said on Wednesday that the Maharashtra government and Centre should decide the way forward after the Supreme Court earlier in the day declared reservation for the Maratha community in the state as unconstitutional. Talking to reporters here, he said both the previous BJP government and the present MVA government had put forth the case for Maratha quota strongly before the court, and appealed people to maintain calm. "The previous BJP-led government enacted the law and the High Court also validated it. The present state government also put forth its side in the court aggressively," Sambhajiraje said. "But despite all these efforts, the SC gave this verdict, which is unfortunate for the Maratha community but we have to accept and respect it," he said. The BJP MP, however, asked how other states could violate the 50 per cent cap on reservation. "The state and the Centre should decide the way forward over the issue. All the experts should sit together and study why other states can get quota (over 50 per cent) and not Maharashtra," he said. The state government should immediately offer increased seats to the Maratha community in educational institutes for which it would not need the court's permission, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-centre-should-sit-together-find-solution-on-maratha-quota-bjp-mp-101620275805487.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Vaccination drive for second dose beneficiaries resumes in Pune city||The vaccination drive for 45-plus beneficiaries resumed in Pune city on Wednesday after four days of dose unavailability. The district administration has also added three more centres for Covaxin beneficiaries between the age group of 18 and 44 years from Wednesday.The priority second doses for 45 years and above beneficiaries of Covishield were administered at 97 centres on Wednesday after Pune city received 73,800 doses on Tuesday late evening. Along with this, 18 centres in Pune city were administering Covaxin to beneficiaries above the age of 45 years.Rubal Agarwal, Pune additional municipal commissioner, said Covishield centres were dedicated for priority beneficiaries who took the first jab before March 20.“For Covaxin, 18 centres are directed to give priority to beneficiaries who took the first jab before April 5,” said Agarwal.Pune district on Wednesday reported 61,426 beneficiaries receiving the jabs. Of this, 55,330 were beneficiaries above the age of 45 years. The vaccination drive picked up pace as 12,099 beneficiaries in PMC, 31,034 beneficiaries in Pune rural and 12,197 in PCMC received the jabs on Wednesday. Since May 1, only Pune rural was administering vaccines to beneficiaries but the number was not very high due to limited vaccine stock. On Wednesday, there were a total of 474 vaccination centres in the district.Shekhar Patil, a 50-year-old beneficiary who received the second jab after waiting for almost a week, said there was a little rush at the centre but he got his jab.“It is over 45 days since I took my first dose. I am happy that after visiting vaccine centres for almost a week, I finally received the second dose. It is a good decision to give second-dose beneficiaries priority. Vaccination is important to keep everyone safe and break the chain of infection,” said Patil.Vaccination for 18-44 year group On Wednesday, 6,096 beneficiaries reported receiving the first jab of vaccine in Pune district. Of these, 2,080 beneficiaries were in PMC limits, 2,474 were in Pune rural and 1,538 were in PCMC. Even though vaccination at two centres ran smoothly, many beneficiaries reported difficulty in registering for new sites.Karuna Kadam, 28, said she faced problems like scheduling an appointment at new centres.“Some of my friends got the registration done, but scheduling an appointment was difficult. However, we are still trying to get an appointment at centres that are administering Covaxin vaccine,” said Kadam.Agarwal said that the vaccination drive in the city will continue on May 6 as well.“The remaining doses are less with PMC. But the drive will continue to inoculate beneficiaries on May 6 as well,” said Agarwal.Three more vaccination centres for 18-44 year group in the cityCentre--VaccinesKamla Nehru Hospital--CovishieldRajiv Gandhi Hospital--CovishieldJayabai Sutar Hospital-- CovaxinAnnasaheb Magar Hospital--CovaxinMurlidhar Laigude Hospital--Covaxin||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccination-drive-for-second-dose-beneficiaries-resumes-in-the-city-101620229776112.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Maharashtra govt opens two helplines to check fake child adoption messages going viral on social media||Over the last few days, several messages regarding the adoption of children who have lost their parents due to Covid have been making the rounds on social media platforms. Taking cognisance of it on Tuesday, a state-wide online meeting was held by the state women and child development department, along with all the authorised adoption agencies in Maharashtra. It was decided to help such children as per legal guidelines and stop any illegal activities going on. Also two dedicated helpline numbers have been issued for the public. As per the order issued on May 4 by Manisha Biraris, assistant commissioner, women and child development department and programme manager, Integrated Child Protection Scheme, “Several messages are going viral on social media platforms regarding adoption of children who lost their parents due to Covid. All these messages are wrong and children are not adopted through such messages as there is a proper system in place for adoption. If there are any such children who have lost their parents due to any reason or their relatives are not ready to accept them, then there are dedicated authorised organisations in each district to help them. If anyone knows about such children then can get in touch with the local child welfare committee or police for help.” One such message viral on social media read: “If anyone wishes to adopt a girl, please feel free to contact 09711104773 (Priyanka). One girl is 3-days old and another is 6-months old, they have lost their parents recently due to Covid. Please help these kids get a new life, spread the word.” The woman whose number is given in this message did not send it. She helps women victims of domestic violence so has to answer all calls. She has contacted the Central Adoption Resource Agency (CARA) for help. She said: “The message regarding adoption is a false and wrong message. Someone has fraudulently added my name. India has special, strict laws related to adoption. If you come across such a message, delete and inform those forwarding to do the same. Call 1098, for all issues concerning children of all ages.” Sharmila Sayed, administration in-charge at Sofosh, a Pune-based NGO which runs two child-care institutions that take care of destitute , abandoned or relinquished children, and also disabled children, said, “Yesterday I was a part of the state-wide online meeting held by the department, and such fake or wrong messages are confusing the public. Those who wish to adopt a child should not go for short cut or illegal ways. There is a proper legal system in place which needs to be followed for adoption and normally it takes 2.5 to 3 years to adopt a child legally. Our appeal would be not to spread such fake messages.” Helpline numbers 8308992222 and 7400015518. Operational all the days between 8 am and 8 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-govt-opens-two-helplines-to-check-fake-child-adoption-messages-going-viral-on-social-media-101620227675650.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Katraj zoo under stricter Covid prevention cover||Pune: Male Pawan (5) and female Subbi (9) are the two lions that are major attraction at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research centre, before Covid pandemic left the zoo outside human limits. “The lions and tigers, included in the 440 animals, are monitored regularly and are healthy. The park is sanitised, including the vehicles that enter the premises bringing food for animals and other purposes,” said Dr Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research centre.Post the report of eight Asiatic lions at Hyderabad zoo contracting the coronavirus on Tuesday, the environment ministry has directed zoos, national parks and sanctuaries to remain closed and the officials to strictly follow precautionary measures. “The notification released by the Central Zoo Authority on April 30 includes prevention to sample collection to detection in suspected cases and safety protocols for animal keepers,” said Jadhav.The zoo has limited access to enclosures and holding areas to essential staff. The animal keepers usually wear double masks, face shields, latex gloves, and personal protective gear and regularly undergo RT-PCR tests.Datta Bhagwan Chandane, a senior animal handler who takes care of lions and four Royal Bengal tigers, said, “I have already had my shot of vaccine. We are taking utmost care of animals. We sprinkle bleach powder around the cage and its surroundings. While feeding them or even grooming them, we first dip our feet into potassium permanganate (disinfectant) and always wear gumboots, two layers of hand gloves, plastic and latex gloves,” said Chandane, wearing a mask and head cover before calling out to Subbi, the lioness to get into the enclosure. “The staff while handling the animals maintain a two-meter social distancing and avoid unnecessary contact with animals. Food supplied to animals are cleaned, disinfected and meat is sterilised by dipping in hot water (above 65 degrees Centigrade) for 10 minutes,” Jadhav said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/katraj-zoo-under-stricter-covid-prevention-cover-101620224615824.html
06-05-2021||Pune||Clerics, educationists drive the campaign to remove vaccine hesitancy during Ramadan in Pune||Pune: Prominent clerics and leaders in the city are creating awareness among the Muslim community about the importance of vaccination in the fight against Covid-19. The vaccination drive is taking place in the city during the Muslim community’s holy month of Ramadan. While many took the jab before vaccine shortage disrupted the drive, now they are ready for inoculation after breaking the fast following the beginning of Ramadan from April 13, according to community elders. The clerics have appealed for early vaccination as a preventive measure from Covid. The management of Poona College, one of the Muslim educational institutions in the city, has come up with a detailed advisory. “In view of the current pandemic and the severity of Covid-19 cases, I have been directed by the general secretary to inform you all and to impress upon you and your entire teaching and non-teaching staff to take the vaccines at the earliest. This will enable you all to work in a carefree atmosphere when the school reopens. Please note that the vaccines are safe and not fall prey to rumours. Inoculation is the best form of defence to fight this pandemic and follow ‘Covid Appropriate Behaviour’. We hope you will take these instructions from the management seriously,” reads the message from the educational body that runs schools and colleges. Those who took the vaccine before Ramadan have decided to take the second dose after breaking the fast. The dose shortage had left many to miss the vaccination. Anwar Shaikh, Poona College principal, said, “Many Muslims took the vaccine before Ramadan. Long queues were seen outside vaccination centres due to shortage of doses, and many were sent away without getting the jab. We have told the staff to get vaccinated, but they cite doses are unavailable. The state must provide sufficient vaccines to all.” Sajid Shaikh, who is following the Ramadan fasting, said, “I am open to taking the vaccine in Ramadan but there is shortage. I will take the jab after breaking the fast or after Taraweeh prayers. Our religious scholars have advised us to get vaccinated at the earliest and have also launched awareness campaigns.”Maulana Qari Idris , president, Jamiat E Ulema E Hind, Pune ,said, “We have appealed to the community to get vaccinated. In Ramadan, vaccines can be taken after breaking the fast.” Maulana Abbas Amir Hamza of Jama Masjid Kondhwa Budruk said, “Many campaigns have been started to spread awareness about the importance of vaccination, besides counselling sessions to clear doubts about the inoculation drive. However, community members have reported about vaccine shortage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/clerics-educationists-drive-the-campaign-to-remove-vaccine-hesitancy-during-ramadan-in-pune-101620220534309.html
