07-05-2021||Pune||Call centre team leader booked for molesting junior||The Yerawada police have booked a team leader of a prominent call centre company for allegedly molesting a woman staffer. According to the complaint lodged by the victim, the accused stalked her, passed lewd comments and molested her. The company management did not take any action against the accused, the victim in her complaint stated. According to the police, the team leader who has been working since 2020 with the staffer and allegedly molested her and passed vulgar comments on her clothes. The woman bore the brunt for a while as he was his senior and later lodged a complaint with the management, but no action was taken. Yerawada police station in charge Yunus Shaikh said, “We have lodged a case and the investigation is on.” Tech company spokesperson, said, “The company has a zero-tolerance policy against sexual harassment at the workplace and has developed governance structures, practices and procedures to ensure that ethical conduct at all levels is promoted across our value chain. We would like to reiterate that the complainant is still a company associate, and the charges have been strictly investigated and resolved through an independent sitting by the POSH committee, that included a third-party representative recommended by the complainant herself. The corporate ombudsman also conducted an investigation on this matter, and the case closure report was submitted to the complainant. All the relevant documents will be shared with the investigating authority to resolve the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/call-centre-team-leader-booked-for-molesting-junior-101620406860749.html
07-05-2021||Pune||Tadiwala gang booked under MCOCA||The city police have booked nine members of a Tadiwala -based gang under stringent provisions of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The gang had planned to kill another rival in the area. The police in their report stated that the accused computed to kill a 14-year-old youth in the area and attacked him with swords, choppers and iron rods. It is the 30th case in Pune where the city police have taken action aimed at neutralisation of crime syndicates in the city. The accused booked have been identified as Vinod alias Vilya, Sunil Waghmare, Sahil alias Sonya Raju Waghmare, Shyam Kishore Kale , Shubham Anil Dhiwar , Ramnath alias Papa Sonwane , Sagar alias Soggy Kishore Gaikwad , Aniket Khandare, Atul Mhasekar and gang leader Tipya latif Shaikh. According to the police, all the accused except Tipya have been arrested and sent to jail. The proposal regarding booking the accused under MCOCA was taken after the local police station prepared a report on the dangerous activities of the gang. The report mentions that the criminals were found trying to spread fear in the area amongst the citizens. After the arrest of Gajanan Marne alias Maharaj, the city police had lodged as many as eight criminal cases against him. Earlier, there were 23 cases lodged against him at different police stations. He was later booked under MCOCA. At the same time, in the first week of April, the Pune police had booked gangster Shubham Kamthe of Hadapsar, along with eight other gang members under the provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The accused were booked after the orders for a crackdown on the crime syndicates were issued by Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tadiwala-gang-booked-under-mcoca-101620402600281.html
07-05-2021||Pune||Pune Police save online beer buyer ₹1.5 lakh||A Pune resident had to pay a heavy price for his beer craving as he fell prey to a cyber fraud. A total of ₹1.5 lakh was siphoned off from a 55-year-old’s account while ordering beer online during lockdown. However, the quick reporting by the complainant generated hope as officials expressed possibility of the recovery of the funds after the Pune police cyber cell managed to freeze the funds that had gone into one of the accounts of an e-commerce site and would be returned to the victim’s account in a week time.According to officials, the fraudsters duped the gullible customers ordering liquor online by sending remote device control apps and taking control of the victim’s smartphone and siphoned the money from the accounts.Ravindra Gawari, police sub inspector, cyber cell, Pune police, said, “As no wine or liquor shops are open due to the restriction, a man in the city browsed for a number to purchase beer online. During his search, he found one number and called; the person asked him to pay ₹10 as some charges and sent him a link to download an app.”He added that unsuspecting, the complainant downloaded the app, presuming that it could a portal through which he needed to order the beer online.“However, the link which was sent by the man was nothing but remote device control app link through which he gained the access of the complainant’s smartphone and while asking him to transfer ₹10 as some charges, the fraudster stole the bank credentials such as id and password and transferred ₹1,50,900 lakh from his account,” said Gawari.After the transaction of the amount, the complainant immediately called one of his retired police officer friends who advised him to approach the cyber cell without wasting time.“The man came to the police station with the complaint. We immediately verified the transaction message and found a mention of an e-commerce firm. We then approached the nodal officials of the e-commerce site and appraised them about the dubious transaction and requested them to freeze the payment,” said Gawari.Gawari said that at the pan India level, there is a group called “Stop Banking Fraud’ which comprises police officers from various states, nodal officers of all the banks, nodal officers from payment gateway firms, and e-commerce sites.“So, if we receive such complaint, without wasting time, information about the dubious transaction is shared on that group and the concerned nodal officer helps to freeze the payment and stops it from going to the fraudster’s account,” said Gawari.He added that in the present case, the nodal officer has stopped the payment, and now the legal process to bring the funds into the complainant’s account is on and the funds will be returned to his accounts in a week’s time.“The fraudsters might have tried to purchase something through the e-commerce site and made the transaction by transferring the funds from the complainant’s account,” said Gawari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-save-online-beer-buyer-rs-1-5-lakh-101620402540277.html
07-05-2021||Pune||Priority for second-dose beneficiaries, limited stock leave 18+ group to await their jab in Pune||Pune: Even as there is an increasing demand in Pune for Covaxin among those in the 18-44 age group, they may face acute shortage of indigenously made vaccines considering that the state government is planning to take out doses meant for youngsters to those above 45 years scheduled for second dose. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said there has been an inadequate supply of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to Maharashtra. This, according to Tope, is leading to a situation where many of those above 45 years and scheduled for second dose, are not getting it. The Covaxin second dose, according to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and central health ministry guidelines, has to be given within 42 days unlike Serum Institute manufactured Covishield, which can be administered till 56 days for second dose. “In view of the shortage of Covaxin, we will have to give doses meant for the 18-plus category to those above 45 years. These people above 45 years cannot wait more than 42 days for the second dose, which is extremely important and is considered a booster dose,” said Tope while speaking to the media in Mumbai. In Pune, Rubal Agarwal, PMC additional municipal commissioner said that for May 7, the vaccine doses are distributed. “Covaxin and Covishield will be available for May 7 at the designated centres with 111 centres for Covishield and four centres for Covaxin. However, the situation from May 8 is unclear as of now as the vaccine stock with the PMC is over. If we get fresh stock on May 7, then the centres will be functional on May 8,” said Agarwal. She said as on Thursday, Covaxin is available for first dose and not for second dose. In the last two days, vaccination among 18 years and above in Pune city has increased due to three new centres where Covaxin was administered to beneficiaries. However, now this supply will also be limited as the stock will be diverted to inoculate 45 years and above beneficiaries. On Thursday, 6,096 beneficiaries of 18-plus age group reported receiving the first jab of vaccines in Pune district. Of these, 2,851 beneficiaries were in PMC limits, 2,474 were in Pune rural and 2,122 in PCMC. Of 6,096 beneficiaries in the district, 3,535 beneficiaries were administered with Covaxin and 2,965 were given Covishield on Thursday. Nisha Parkhe, a 28-year-old beneficiary from Kothurd, said that she had booked an appointment at vaccination centre for Covaxin. “The slots for Covishield vaccine are already booked and despite several attempts in the last few days, I have not been able to book the slot for Covishield. Hence, I booked the slot for Covaxin and will take the jab on May 7,” said Parkhe. Another beneficiary, Harshal Shelkar, 35, who received the jab on Thursday said that he preferred Covaxin over Covishield. “I prefer the indigenously made vaccine Covaxin. The efficacy of Covaxin is also better. Moreover, due to limited doses of Covishield, there was a huge rush to book an appointment. I got the Covaxin appointment right away and was able to take the jab on Thursday,” said Shelkar. Vaccination drive for 45 years and above Pune district on Thursday reported a total of 22,957 beneficiaries receiving the jabs. Of this, 16,457 were beneficiaries above the age of 45 years. On Thursday, 7,506 beneficiaries in PMC, 7,170 beneficiaries in Pune rural and 1,781 in PCMC received the jabs. On Thursday, there were a total of 285 vaccination centres in the district. Of 285, 30 were Covaxin centres and 255 were Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/priority-for-second-dose-beneficiaries-limited-stock-leave-18-group-to-await-their-jab-in-pune-101620318712766.html
07-05-2021||Pune||Demand for ICU beds high in Pune despite drop in positivity rate, active cases||Pune: The number of active Covid patients in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limit has reduced by 13,245 in the last 15 days (April 20- May 5). The positivity rate of the city has also come down to 21%. Yet, these numbers have not eased the patient load at hospitals. The count of hospitalised patients and demand for ICU has not reduced. According to the medical experts, home quarantined patients who have developed moderate symptoms are being now getting admitted. Also, patients from outside civic limits are getting admitted at city hospitals. The number of patients on oxygen support has increased by 600 since April 20. “Patients in home isolation are getting admitted now, besides admission of outstation cases,” said Dr Sanjeev Vavre, assistant health officer PMC. Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble hospital, said that the number of patients in Covid OPDs has decreased, but hospital admissions have not come down. “Home quarantined patients with asymptomatic or mild symptoms are getting hospitalised. The condition of patients admitted in small hospitals is unmanageable but then tend to shift them to big hospitals. For example, admission of critical patients from the outskirts of PMC has increased. In the last few days, ICU demand is going high. Now there is scope to admit patient on oxygen beds. It was impossible last week,” Sale said. Covid cases from rural parts of the district, which have emerged as new hotspots, are also getting admitted in city hospitals. The COEP Covid Jumbo facility was restated from March 22. Of its 2,250 patients admitted, 650 are outstation cases. “These patients are from PCMC, rural parts, Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur. Saving lives is priority. Over 2,250 patients are undergoing treatment at the jumbo facility since the second wave,” said Rajendra Muthe, PMC deputy commissioner. “Number of patients who do not need critical care has reduced, but the demand for ICU is still high. Ventilators are still not vacant. Outstation patients visit hospitals in the city after seeing the Pune dashboard system bed availability status online. The hospitals are under pressure because of the patient count,” said Dr Vinod Bharati, Rising Medicare Hospital Kharadi. According to the Pune division dashboard for bed availability, there are 210 designated hospitals in PMC area to admit Covid patients and 12,080 beds are allotted for Covid patients. On Thursday afternoon, no ventilator bed out of 806 was available in the city. Count of active and hospitalised patients May 5 Active patients in PMC 39,732Patients in hospital 8,633Home isolation 31,099Critical patients 1,415Patients on O2- 6,634April 20 Active patients in PMC 52,977Patients in hospital 8,619Home isolation 44,358Critical patients 1,277Patients on O2 – 6,034Allotment of beds in PMC limits (as on Thursday afternoon) Covid hospitals 210Allocated beds for Covid 12,080Vacant 2,230Isolation beds without oxygen 3,432Vacant 1,556Isolation beds with oxygen 7,227Vacant 667ICU beds without ventilator 615Vacant 7ICU beds with ventilator 806Vacant 0||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demand-for-icu-beds-high-in-pune-despite-drop-in-positivity-rate-active-cases-101620308332315.html
