08-05-2021||Pune||Woman, child killed in hit-and-run by 21-year-old student||A woman and a year-old child that she was carrying were killed in a hit and run incident in Kondhwa on Friday afternoon. While the police found the car driver who caused the accident, the identity of the deceased, who were found to be beggars, is yet to be verified. The accused driver was identified as Shreyas Kurle (21), a resident of Mohammadwadi who was driving a Maruti Suzuki Brezza car. Kurle is a driving license holder and a second-year student of bachelor’s in commerce at Fergusson College. He has not been arrested by the police. The woman, who had no identification with her, was wearing a grey coloured saree and is believed to be between 30-35 years of age, according to the police. The woman was roaming with the child on the street near Yewalewadi around 3:30pm when they were hit by a speeding car. The police later found another three-year-old girl who was with the woman but is too young to understand what happened. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the police as the identity of the woman could not be verified in order to contact the next of kin. A complaint was lodged by police naik Vishal Kamble of Kondhwa police station. “We found the girl very close to the accident spot, but she cannot say anything and does not own any identification. We roamed all over Yewalewadi for two days before admitting her to Sofosh at Sassoon Hospital. We could not get a name for her, so we called her Pari. If anybody knows of the woman, they should come to the police station,” said assistant sub inspector PP Doifode of Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 304(a), 279, 184 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 119/177, 132(1)(c) of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-child-killed-in-hit-and-run-by-21-year-old-student-101620492908838.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Parts of city witness intense spell of rain on Saturday||The city on Saturday witnessed a spell of intense rainfall in various areas during the evening hours. As per the weather department, Lohegaon reported 6.8 millimetre rainfall, Pashan reported 4.4 millimetre rainfall and Shivajinagar reported 0.3 millimetre rainfall on Saturday. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD, Pune said that there are multiple weather systems that are influencing the weather over Maharashtra.“There is a trough line from Northern central Madhya Pradesh to western Vidarbha and an upper cyclonic circulation over North interior Karnataka which are the reasons for rainfall activity in Maharashtra. Due ot this, rainfall in four subdivisions are likely in the next few days. Gusty winds and hails at isolated areas until May 9 are also likely,” said Kashyapi.He added that rainfall is likely in Pune to occur until May 9. “After May 10, the rainfall activitiy is likely to reduce and the day and night temperature in Pune city will also be pleasant,” said Kashyapi.The day temperature at Shivajinagar was reported to be 38.2 degrees Celsius, Pashan reported 38.3 degrees Celsius and Lohegaon reported a day temperature of 39.4 degrees Celsius, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The night temperature on Saturday in Pune was at 23.1 degrees Celsius at Shivajinagar and 24.6 degrees Celsius at Lohegaon. “Partly cloudy skies with very light rain towards the evening are forecasted until May 10. Along with light rainfall, there will be lightning and thunderstorms,” said IMD officials. Along with Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Satara, Gondia and Nagpur reported light rain on Saturday. Three subdivisions in the state will also continue to experience light rainfall until May 10. “Marathwada, Central Maharashtra and Vidarbha may witness light rain at isolated areas along with lightning and thunderstorm. From May 11, the weather will be dry in the state,” said IMD officials. The highest maximum temperature reported on Saturday was at 42.2 degrees Celsius at Akola and the lowest minimum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 20 degrees Celsius reported from Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parts-of-city-witness-intense-spell-of-rain-on-saturday-101620492788871.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Satara policeman’s 65-year-old mother killed in Warje||A 65-year-old woman was killed near her house in what is believed to be a robbery gone wrong in the late hours of Friday in Warje Malwadi area of Pune. The woman was identified as Shahabai Arun Shelar (65), a resident of Ramnagar area of Warje. She runs a scrap yard while her son is an assistant sub inspector in the Satara police force. The woman was killed using a square shaped metal pipe with which she was bludgeoned in the head, according to the police. The accused attacked the woman between 9pm on Friday and 5am on Saturday when she was found. She was found by two workers who work in her scrap yard run out of a tin-shed where she was working when she was attacked. The assailant is believed to have taken the keys from her person and used it to ransack the cupboard in her house located nearby. Cash worth ₹65,000 was stolen from the cupboard that was ransacked, according to the complainant. A complaint in the matter was lodged by her policeman son identified as Vitthal Shelar (42) who lives in Ravivar peth area of Satara city. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 460 (all persons jointly concerned in lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night punishable where death or grievous hurt caused by one of them), 380 (robbery) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Warje Malwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/satara-policeman-s-65-year-old-mother-killed-in-warje-101620492668860.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Schools demand financial aid to remain afloat||School management and authorities across the city fear that a lack of state support in terms of financial package will adversely affect the schooling system in the city. On the background of parents demanding a reduction of school fees for the forthcoming term and the impending fear of state government crackdown if school fees are not reduced on compassionate ground, school authorities believe a financial package like the one given to other sectors must be provided. The establishments cost like rent, maintenance, payment of salaries to teachers and non-teaching staff has emerged as a cause of concern before schools as they gear up for a fresh academic year starting next month. “With fees trickling and many parents taking undue advantage of government and court orders, schools are struggling to meet their financial obligations.Apart from salaries and maintenance expenditure, we have to provide for technical upgradations too. The government is not giving any concession in electricity bills; at least they should compensate the schools to the tune of fee collection lost if any fee reduction is enforced. Schools will have to maintain their own standard,” said Benjamin Simon, principal, Kline Memorial School. According to Siddhi Mittal, principal of Sanskar Public School, Covid-19 has hit all sections of the society and school is one of them. “We have shut the schools as per the government order and online education is being imparted as per the state rule. We are paying heavy rent for the school, and it is a major challenge to meet the teachers and non-teaching salary and also maintenance plus other expenses. If any school employee contracts infection, we support them with our funds. Now with schools closed, it is only through fees we can keep ourselves afloat otherwise we all are in trouble. Our plea for taking complete fees must be considered on humanitarian grounds and concession can be granted to those in dire trouble,” Mittal said. “We also faced problems regarding rent, loan and infrastructure. We have waived the school fees of some needy and deserving school students as a humanitarian gesture during this tough period and are ready to extend any help needed to parents,” Mittal added. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had ordered strict action against schools who fail to reduce fees on compassionate grounds for parents who are undergoing a severe financial condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-demand-financial-aid-to-remain-afloat-101620492608867.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad Covid centre ward boys caught selling Remdesivir illegally||Three ward boys from a local hospital were arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Friday for trying to sell Remdesivir injection used for Covid-19 treatment in the black market. The three were identified as Nitin Haridas Gund (23), Sahar Kakasaheb Waghmare (24) both residents of Vijaynagar in Kalewadi and Akshar Babaraj Darade (19), a resident of Maitri Chowk area in Pimpri, according to the police. “These are ward boys from the Covid centre. They had two injections and they were selling each for ₹40,000. The market price of one of the injections is Rs899 and the other is Rs3480,” said Bhagyashree Yadav, food and drug administration officer. The FDA officer is also the complainant in the case. The police caught them in possession of the two injections along the road that connects Delux Chowk with Kalewadi, according to the police. The officers of Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch received information about the black-market trade and set up a trap during which the FDA officer was called to verify the drug. The officials of Pimpri police station have the custody of the three men and are investigating the case for further details including where they sourced the injections from. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 188, and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with relevant Sections of Drug Price Control Order, 2013; Essential Commodities Act, 1955; Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 was registered at the Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwad-covid-centre-ward-boys-caught-selling-remdesivir-illegally-101620492428779.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Hospital officials booked for holding body over non-payment of bill||The officials of a hospital in Talegaon area of Pune district were booked by Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Friday for allegedly refusing the body of a Covid-19 victim to his son over non-payment of hospital bill. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sudhir Ganesh Loke (23), a resident of Malawali in Maval area. Loke’s father Ganesh Shankar Loke (50) was admitted to the Maharashtra Institute of Medical Education and Research (MIMER) hospital in Talegaon. “We have given a letter to the hospital after registering the case to seek information about who the chief of the hospital is. While the hospital officials say that the family members did not come to collect the body, the family members are alleging that they did go to collect it but they were denied access claiming non-payment of bill,” said assistant police inspector Digambar Atigre of Talegaon Dabhade police station who is investigating the case. The family had applied for the benefits of Mahatma Jyotirao Phule public health scheme which ensures free treatment for the poor people. The 50-year-old succumbed to Covid-19 on May 1, according to the complainant. “They had applied for the scheme benefit. The total bill was of ₹70,000 and they had paid ₹15,000 to the hospital and ₹55,000 was pending. They had submitted the patient’s Aadhaar card and documents, but the bill had not been sanctioned until May 3,” said API Atigre. The family members conducted last rites of the deceased and then submitted a complaint at the local police station. A case under Sections 297 (trespassing on burial places) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospital-officials-booked-for-holding-body-over-non-payment-of-bill-101620492368803.html
08-05-2021||Pune||House-help who stole ₹60 lakh arrested in Lucknow||A man who worked as a house-help in Pimpri-Chinchwad was arrested along with his father and two brothers by Pimpri-Chinchwad police from Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh in a case of theft of ₹60 lakh cash on April 28. The arrested man was identified as Anodkumar Rajkumar Yadav (28) while his relatives were identified as father Rajkumar Munishwar Prasad Yadav (54), and brothers Ankit Yadav (26) and Anuj Yadav (22), all residents of Meena Market area of Indiranagar in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The arrest was made by a team of officials from Pimpri police station with the help of police officials of Gazipur police station officials of Barabanki district. The police have recovered ₹45,69,500 from the men of the total stolen amount. While ₹99,500 was recovered from the father of the accused, the remaining amount was found in the possession of the main accused. Anodkumar worked as house help for three engineers working for a major construction company. The three lived in a housing society near Gandhinagar slum of Pimpri. The amount of ₹60 lakh was kept in a cupboard in their house and was meant to pay the salaries of workers on the company’s construction site. The cupboard was accessed using a duplicate key and the house help had gone missing since the theft had come to light. Therefore, a case under Sections 381, 408 411, 414, 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Pimpri police station on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/househelp-who-stole-rs-60-lakh-arrested-in-lucknow-101620492308790.html
08-05-2021||Pune||21-year-old held for killing pavement dweller||A 21-year-old man was arrested by Pune police on Friday for the murder of a 65-year-old pavement dweller in Camp area of Pune on Thursday. The arrested man was identified as Mohammad Azad Shah (21) who lived near the place where the deceased used to sleep. The deceased man, identified as Ismail Shaikh, lived on a pavement in Modikhana area near Pulgate, Camp. He was found dead on Thursday afternoon with his head bashed in the place where he had set up a plastic sheet shed and slept. The police arrested him based on information collected by police naik Mohseen Shaikh. “When asked about the reason behind committing the murder, the accused revealed that the deceased man used to insult him for using drugs and did not allow him to use drugs near the place where he slept. The deceased man used to ask him to go back to U.P and talk about the accused to his sister-in-law which had enraged the accused,” read a statement from unit 2 of Pune police crime branch. He told the police that he bashed the man’s head around 3am on Thursday when he was asleep. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Lashkar police station. Man arrested for killing elder brother A 22-year-old man and his friend were remanded to the custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police until May 11 for killing his elder brother for allegedly mistreating their mother and drinking excessively. The arrested man was identified as Manoj Dnyaneshwar Borhade (25) while the arrested men were identified as Akshay Dnyaneshwar Borhade (22) and Sandeep Dilip Survase (24) all residents of Borhade Vasti in Moshi. The younger sibling killed the elder one using a sharp weapon allegedly as he was upset over his habit of drinking, brawling, fighting with their mother, and spending money on multiple partners, according to the police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at MIDC Bhosari police station on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/21yearold-held-for-killing-pavement-dweller-101620492248820.html
08-05-2021||Pune||State to conduct drone surveys to promote tourism and monitor encroachment around dams||The Maharashtra water resource department has decided to use drone surveys for tourism planning, encroachment monitoring, asset mapping, and post disaster mapping and planning of mitigation measures among other things. The government has prepared a Model Request for Proposal (MRP) and set a deadline to complete the survey within 22 months after assigning work to agency. The state government has issued an order to carry out the drone surveys in respective divisions. There are more than 3,000 small, medium and large dams spread across the state. According to the water resources department, drone surveys can be helpful for mapping of such locations, generate 3D views and available facilities which can further be put online for promotion of tourism. Currently, most of the activities are performed manually in the conventional manner which is a time-consuming activity. The huge amount of time and human effort are invested in the manual environment which results in a delay at different stages of the project which directly impacts the entire project life cycle. Tourism planning Dams and their surrounding environment naturally provide for a scenic tourism venue. However, considering the location constraints and the land available with the Water Resource Department (WRD), tourism activities would be feasible at select locations only. Drone surveys can be helpful for mapping of such locations, generate 3D views and available facilities which can further be put online for promotion of tourism. This can be a revenue generating activity for the state and monitoring of the activities, adds to safety measures, and prevents encroachment. Increase revenue Rajendra Mohite, chief superintendent engineer of WRD said, “We have good backwater areas which can be utilized for tourism purposes. We can develop tourist spots on the Private public partnership (PPP) model. It will help to get additional revenue to the department.” Mohite added, “Day by Day, the water resources department is facing a manpower crunch. The survey will help to give accurate areas of the dam’s backwater, irrigated and non-irrigated area. In Pune district, Maharashtra Krishna Valley development corporation (MKVDC) carried out a successful drone survey. Every irrigation corporation gets money from water taxes from irrigated and non-irrigated areas. We have to use funds for dam, canal maintenance from these revenue resources. Drone surveys will help to boost revenue as well as keep watch on illegal practices such as water theft, encroachment on rivers.” Integrate data with GIS TN Munde, chief superintendent engineer of Pune water resources division said, “The drone survey will mainly focus on project progress monitoring. It includes an evidence-based project progress monitoring system. The data can then be integrated with GIS for location specific, site specific and works specific services. The GIS tag and geometry enabled video and report data regarding project information and relevant documents.” “Maharashtra Water Resources Department’s (WRD) projects are in areas which can promote tourism, proper planning will help in facilitating tourism as well as protecting the catchment areas and its assets,” he added. The various potential works identified for which WRD intends to use aerial / drone based geospatial technology mapping are such as project progress monitoring of ongoing WRD projects, inspection of safety and health of dams and other irrigation structures, 3D mapping of WRD assets, planning for tourism related activities, water quality monitoring, catchment area management, project irrigation potential analysis, post-disaster mapping and planning of mitigation measures and assessment of crops for irrigation billing. Water quality and encroachments The survey will include finding out illegal sources of irrigation and encroachment. The agency will mark the illegal source of irrigation from the canal, mark the illegal source of irrigation from reservoir, mark the illegal source of irrigation from the river, mark the gaps in canal network, identify and mark the leakages in the canal network and mark the encroachment into the river, reservoirs WRD land and colonies. Drone surveys will be used for assessing water quality. It could monitor water bodies. Remote sensing imageries can be used to measure the qualitative parameters of water bodies such as turbidity, water temperature (WT), pollutants, floating materials, weeds. Drones can map the water surface and aquatic weeds on the dam water surface, map the water turbidity, assess dam environment health, monitor the expansion of the vegetation in the dam over the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-to-conduct-drone-surveys-to-promote-tourism-and-monitor-encroachment-around-dams-101620492128771.html
08-05-2021||Pune||No clarity on evaluation process of Class 10 students||PUNE The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Certificate (MSBSHSE) has not decided as of yet about the process to evaluate students of Class 10 for their final results. The board in April cancelled Class 10 exams and postponed the Class 12 exam due to a surge in Covid cases.Dinkar Patil, chairman, MSBSHSE, said that there has been no decision as of yet. “There is no final decision taken as of yet for the evaluation process of Class 10. We are exploring multiple options regarding the evaluation process and the decision will be taken soon,” said Patil.Prathmesh Kulkarni, a Class 10 student from the city said that the evaluation process should be decided soon.“We had multiple examinations at school so far, some were online and some were prelims. These examinations should be used to evaluate us for Class 11. We have prepared the whole year even after facing hurdles through online education,” said Kulkarni.Another official from the board said that the process has to be unbiased and fair. “The board is taking its time as there are multiple students from all across Maharashtra who faced issues. In such a situation, the process of evaluation should be fair and unbiased. The process should be fair to students who are in the remotest part of the state as well as those living in the city,” said the official, on the condition of anonymity.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association said that the board and State Centre for Education Research and Training (SCERT), has asked principals from schools to send their feedback on how to assess students.“We are to submit various suggestions regarding the evaluation of the students for Class 10. The intention is to find an unbiased methodology which can test students from the city as well as rural background,” said Gaikwad.He further added that unlike the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), the state board school may have difficulty in assessing students through internal marks.“If the schools have to evaluate then the marks of every child would be high,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-clarity-on-evaluation-process-of-class-10-students-101620487208546.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Pune dist reports 8,998 fresh Covid cases, 63 deaths in 24 hrs||As per authorities, Pune district reported a spike with 8,998 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Over 63 Covid deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Of deaths reported in the district on Friday, 11 deaths were in Pune rural and 52 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). No deaths were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 454,277 Covid cases and 5,840 deaths till Friday. Whereas PCMC has reported 220,342 cases so far and a total of 1,530 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 233,738 total cases so far and 2,635 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 908,358 Covid cases. Of this, 777,783 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 10,063 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 120,512 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 37,386 patients were discharged on Friday in Maharashtra taking the total to 4,265,326 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 85.36%.Across Maharashtra, 54,022 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Friday and 898 Covid -19 deaths were reported on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.49%.The state health department stated that of 28,930,580 laboratory samples, 4,996,758 have been tested positive till Friday. That is 17.27% patients till Friday.Currently 3,841,431 people are in home quarantine and 28,860 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-8-998-fresh-covid-cases-63-deaths-in-24-hrs-101620410581112.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Preparing for third wave: Paediatric Covid units for children in Pune||Following observation from medical experts that the possible third Covid wave may severely affect children, deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar has told Pune Municipal Corporation to reserve hospitals for paediatric patients. He instructed officials to arrange paediatric facilities in rural and urban area. In Pune, officials said the civic body has planned to set up a dedicated paediatric unit for children diagnosed with Covid at its Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada. Since last year, 3.05% (149,224) of total Covid cases so far are from the age group of 0 to 10 years while 6.92% (338,397) are between 11 and 20 years, according to a report of medical education and drugs department. While all above the age of 18 years are covered for inoculation, there is no vaccine available for below 18 age group. Referring to cases among children, state health minister Rajesh Tope said a special task force for paediatrics are being constituted at the state level. Speaking to reporters after a Covid review meeting in Pune, Pawar emphasised the importance to be prepared for the third wave. He acknowledged the warning given by experts about infection of children in the third wave and claimed that the administration is taking steps to prepare for this situation. “It is decided that Rajiv Gandhi hospital in PMC limits will be reserved for children. Similar instructions have been given to Pimpri Chinhwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). I have instructed the divisional commissioner, collector, CEO zilla parishad, PMC and PCMC commissioners to arrange paediatric facilities in corporation limits and also at each tehsil level. Currently it is a prediction by experts, but we should be prepared,” Pawar said. In Mumbai, Tope announced the plan to deal with the third wave and ensure the safety of children. “We are constituting a special task force for paediatric cases. We are not vaccinating those below the age of 18 years. So, they have to be taken care of. We have to make the paediatric medical infrastructure such as paediatric beds, paediatric ventilators, paediatric FNCU beds ready. On Thursday, CM talked to many paediatricians through a video conference,” Tope told reporters in Mumbai. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray during a meeting with paediatric doctors across the state instructed them to prepare for the third wave. Pawar said the issues faced during the second wave should be avoided in the third. “We faced scarcity of oxygen, ventilators, Remdesivir and vaccines in the second wave. We want to avoid these problems and better the medical infrastructure, like the oxygen plant in Dalvi hospital has started. Sassoon plant will be fully operational soon,” Pawar said. Age-wise distribution of Covid cases in Maharashtra for 4,893,349 cases Age cases Up to 10 years – 149,2243.05 % of total cases11-20 years – 338,3976.92% of total cases21-30 years – 867,36917.73% of total cases31-40 years – 1,088,15722.24 % of total cases41-50 years- 886,80918.12% of total cases51-60 years – 734,66415.01 % of total cases61-70 years – 505,29110.33 % of total cases71-80 years – 243,4724.96% of total cases81-90 years- 69,4311.42 % of total cases91-100 years – 9,7530.20% of total cases101-110 years - 7820.02% of total casesTotal cases: 4,893,349Source: Medical education and drugs department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/preparing-for-third-wave-paediatric-covid-units-for-children-in-pune-101620410401139.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Rajiv Gandhi zoo masterplan in the works despite Covid interruption||The master plan for redevelopment of the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre has been put to work in phase one and two simultaneously but has fallen behind schedule due to restrictions imposed by Covid-19. PMC approved the plan to develop a new ecosystem making use of the unused land existing in the 130 acres which will house 10 new exotic species, reptiles and mammals in the next three years. “Although this pandemic has put a spoke into the plans and its implementation, we have managed to complete 95 per cent of the work on some of the enclosures for mouse deer, three species of jungle cats in 150 sq. metres in four enclosure and the lion enclosures. The second phase of the plan was to develop the Katraj lake post desilting into a roosting ground to attract migratory and local birds by creating small islands in the lake,” said Rajkumar Jadhav, director of Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre. He also added that the relocation of the snake park is stuck due to paucity of funds. “We have planned according to the Central Zoo authority’s housing plan for animals and reptiles. The new space is around 12,000 sq. metres and 150 reptiles of 29 species in the zoo’s collection at an estimated ₹2.5 crore. Initially we were to create space only for native reptiles but now we have added four exotic reptiles including anaconda and six exotic animals which include giraffe and zebra, meanwhile the lion enclosure spread around 2,500 sq. metres are almost ready,” Jadhav said. According to the official, the newly built four enclosures are for leopard cat, jungle cat, spotted cat and the giant Indian squirrel which will be interesting for visitors who will get to see three cat species together. “It will take another year or so to complete, the next three years will be vital for the zoo, seeing the way, the work is progressing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rajiv-gandhi-zoo-masterplan-in-the-works-despite-covid-interruption-101620401940245.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Fuel prices in Pune reach new high, petrol ₹97.31 per litre||Petrol prices in Pune reached a record high on Friday at ₹97.31 per litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.The petrol and diesel prices surged for the fourth consecutive day with the rate of petrol breaching the previous record on February 27, when it was ₹97.19 per litre.Besides petrol, the price of diesel also reached a record of ₹87.17 per litre, more than the previous high of ₹86.88 per litre. After the break in March and April, when prices had either stabilised or declined, they have started to soar from May 4.The transporters have expressed deep discontent over the price fuel price hike and especially the record prices of diesel.“Now passenger transport is completely closed and only goods transportation is going on. Most transportation is of the essential goods as the pandemic is raging. The hike in diesel price is a major blow to the transporters. The ultimate cost of these excessive prices will have to be sustained by transporters because traders won’t negotiate the transportation rates. How are we supposed to carry on? We are constantly writing to the central government to control the prices and give us some concessions,” said Baba Shinde, director (Maharashtra), All India Motor Transport Congress.Sagar Ghare, a delivery person associated with a food home delivery app in the city said that their profit margin is getting impacted because of the petrol price hike. “The companies already have reduced our per home delivery commission. In addition to this now fuel prices have started to increase again. There are restrictions imposed and we do not have any other opportunity but to continue with this to earn a livelihood. But it is becoming difficult now,” Sagar Ghare said.“The members across the board suggested that the government should be proactively engaged to address the concerns of the transport sector,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fuel-prices-in-pune-reach-new-high-petrol-selling-at-rs-97-31-per-litre-101620401880149.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Urns gather dust at crematoria as Covid fear keeps kin away in Pune||The rise in Covid deaths and bodies arriving at crematoriums has left the bereaved hesitant to visit the premises again to collect urns containing ashes of their near and dear ones over fear of Covid infection.According to civic officials, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had to conduct mass awareness campaigns in September last year after the Covid outbreak in March and virus deaths caused fear among residents about spread of the infection even from bodies. The authorities said that after the body is cremated at 650 to 750 degrees Celsius, the virus does not exist.“Though people are aware that ashes does not contain the Covid-19 virus, the spike in death in the second wave and the long wait to cremate bodies have caused residents to develop cold feet over visiting the crematoriums again to collect ashes,” said one of the official from Vaikunth, Navipeth, on the request of anonymity.Arun Jangam, body disposal officer deployed at Amardham Hindu Smashan Bhumi, Yerawada said, “Though people are coming to collect urns unlike last year, many are taking a long time after the last rites to collect ashes.”Few residents are visiting the crematorium in Talegaon to collect urns.“As the number of daily cremations has increased over the past 10 days, few are visiting again to collect. The situation was normal till the second week of April,” said Kailash Patil, body disposal officer, Talegaon.Body disposal officers said that there will not be any need to hold mass awareness programmes like last year. PMC has allowed all 21 crematoriums in the city to conduct the final rites of Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/urns-gather-dust-at-crematoria-as-covid-fear-keeps-kin-away-in-pune-101620401760250.html
08-05-2021||Pune||No jab drive for 45-plus today, only 4 centres for 18-plus in PMC||Only four vaccination centres for 18-plus beneficiaries will be functional on May 8, as per the officials of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The vaccination drive for beneficiaries of 45 years and above age will not be functioning from May 8, as the district again faces shortage of vaccine doses.Rubal Agarwal, PMC additional municipal commissioner, said only four vaccination centres will be functional for 18-plus beneficiaries where only Covaxin will be administered.“The stock for Covishield is over. And so, there will be only Covaxin given to 18 to 44 years of beneficiaries at four centres across Pune. These centres are Jayabai Sutar hospital, Annasaheb Magar hospital and Murlidhar Laygude hospital where there will be 500 doses each given to the centre. Also, Sassoon General hospital will have 200 doses of Covaxin on May 8,” said Agarwal.She said the 45-plus beneficiaries will not receive any vaccine on May 8 as there is no stock remaining. “When the new vaccine stock arrives, we will resume the vaccination drive,” said Agarwal.On Friday, 6,155 beneficiaries were inoculated in Pune district. Of these, 2,592 beneficiaries were in PMC, 2,015 in Pune rural and 1,548 in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).Speaking about the vaccine stock, Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that the doses are likely to get over by Friday evening.“There are fresh vaccine stocks expected on May 9 for 45-plus beneficiaries. However, the vaccination drive until then will be slow due to the shortage. On Thursday late night, we had received 25,000 doses of Covishield which were utilised on Friday. There is no Covaxin stock with us as of now,” said Dr Deshmukh.He said the vaccine stock for 18-plus beneficiaries is available with local authorities.“Vaccination drives for 18-plus beneficiaries will continue smoothly for the next few days as doses are available, but senior beneficiaries will have to wait for a while to get the jab,” said Dr Deshmukh.On Friday, 35,457 beneficiaries were inoculated in Pune district. Of these, 29,302 were above the age of 45 years. There were a total of 367 centres in the district that inoculated 12,994 beneficiaries in PMC, 10,947 in Pune rural and 5,361 in PCMC on Friday.Four centres for 18-plus vaccinationFor Covaxin only*Hospital--Doses*Jayabai Sutar Hospital--500*Annasaheb Magar Hospital--500*Murlidhar Laygude Hospital-- 500*Sassoon General Hospital--200*Source: PMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-jab-drive-for-45-plus-today-only-4-centres-for-18-plus-in-pmc-101620401640157.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Lonavla, Bhor and Baramati talukas under total lockdown||The administration on Friday has imposed complete lockdown in Lonavla city and Maval and Bhor talukas to check the spread of Covid infection. These popular tourist spots in Pune district have seen an alarming spike in positive cases, forcing the local administration to announce lockdown. Sub divisional magistrate Rajendra Jadhav of Bhor taluka was given additional charge of Maval taluka at a review meeting held on Thursday with local authorities in Maval. Maval taluka will be under strict lockdown from May 7 to May 12. “Marketplaces will be closed till May 12 and only emergency medical services and medical shops will remain open. Milk delivery is allowed only between 7 and 9 am,” said Jadhav. Lonavla city police have launched rapid antigen tests (RAT) of people seen on the streets from Friday morning.Dilip Pawar, senior inspector and incharge of Lonavla city police station said, “We started nakabandi and checking of people from 7am. At least 215 tests were done and 36 tested positive, which is almost 20 per cent. All of them were immediately taken to nearby Covid care center for checkup and treatment.” In Bhor taluka, villages showing surge in cases are sealed and entry-exit points are monitored. In Baramati taluka, strict lockdown is imposed since last two days. “Baramati city and taluka is under seven-day strict lockdown. Only companies and factories in Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area will be running as per the state government guidelines. We have instructed police to lodge an FIR on people out on streets without any reason,” said Dadasaheb Kambale, sub divisional magistrate of Baramati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lonavla-bhor-and-baramati-talukas-under-total-lockdown-101620401580159.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Medicinal plants in demand for terrace and balcony gardens||The current scenario of medical oxygen scarcity during the Covid pandemic has seen a preference among residents to opt for medicinal plants, known to improve air quality as per the traditional medicine system, for their private gardens. Nurseries in the city are seeing a rise in demand for plants like tulsi, turmeric, ashwagandha (withania somnifera) over the past few months.Medical experts caution residents to contact doctors before consuming any medicinal plant or herb as a cure or prevention against Covid-19. “Many customers are buying tulsi nowadays as it is known to increase the supply of oxygen and absorbs harmful gases like carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide. Even as the shop is closed because of the lockdown timings, many are contacting us and visiting us in person. Demand for turmeric and ashwagandha is also on the rise,” said Ravi Dhole, who runs a nursery in Vimannagar.Bapu Survase from Krupa plant nursery, Uruli Kanchan, said, “Generally, the demand for tulsi increases during Aashadi Ekadashi festival, but this time it is seen as we are in the grip of Covid pandemic. Customers are going by the advice of elders and following the traditional medicine system and buying plants that purifies the air.”“The demand for indoor and garden plants is seen during the last weeks of May as monsoon starts in June. Rose plants are the favourite, but residents are now buying tulsi and other medicinal plants,” said Ulhas Patil, Balaji Rose nursery, Singhad road.Swapnil Deshmukh, an Ayurvedic doctor, said, “As per the traditional medicine system, certain plants are good for health and its constituents are scientifically proved to provide health immunity.”“We get oxygen from tulsi and planting more than one rope of the plant is beneficial. Intake of certain medicinal plants daily is important for health,” said Dr Ashwini Varpe.Ajay Aggarwal of Wanowrie, who has a big terrace garden at his place, said, “I believe in growing my own oxygen and food so I grow herbs and veggies at my place. Every plant gives oxygen so maintaining a habit of plantation is important.”Pooja Kale of Baner said, “I have a separate section of medicinal plants at my terrace garden. Earlier people used to question on why I give so much space to these plants which are not attractive, but now they are following suit because of the pandemic situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/medicinal-plants-in-demand-for-terrace-and-balcony-gardens-101620401460127.html
08-05-2021||Pune||Local authorities should decide on total lockdown as per virus cases, bed availability, says Ajit Pawar||With Covid caseload on the rise in rural parts of Pune district and new hotspots emerging, Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar said that the decision on complete lockdown should be taken by the local authorities considering virus cases and bed availability. The minister said the current curbs imposed in Pune will continue. Pawar was speaking in Pune after the Bombay High Court instructed the state administration to impose complete lockdown in Pune to check the virus cases. “As the head of the state, the CM will decide on HC suggestions. In the meeting, most favoured the continuation of current curbs and stricter implementation. If the number of people roaming around unnecessarily is reduced, then it will show good results,” Pawar said. In the last few days, the positivity rate in urban parts of the district has reduced, but cases are rising in rural areas.“Regarding rural parts, officials from Baramati have taken the decision to impose seven-day lockdown and I approved it,” he said. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said that Pune city doesn’t need complete lockdown. “The number of cases in Pune is going down. There is no need to impose complete lockdown. I fear that the numbers presented before the court were not correct,” Mohol said. Pawar said the Pune mayor should appoint a lawyer to represent the case of PMC. “Collective numbers from Pune district, and not of PMC alone, were presented before the court and the court may have felt the necessity to suggest complete lockdown. The mayor should appoint a lawyer to put the case of PMC before the court,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/local-authorities-should-decide-on-total-lockdown-as-per-virus-cases-bed-availability-says-ajit-pawar-101620401340201.html
