09-05-2021||Pune||Rampant exotic plantations have reduced avian diversity across Pune: study||According to a recent study conducted by researchers of the department of Zoology from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), avian diversity has been reduced in the city to rampant exotic plantations. The study found that original vegetation on the hill of Pune city is home to 86 bird species as compared to the exotic plantation where only 38 bird species are found. The study also revealed that 14 migratory bird species were seen in original vegetation as compared to only four migratory species in exotic vegetation across Pune city. The paper regarding the same was published on May 2 by researchers from Pune in the ‘Tropical Ecology’ by Springer Journal. The study further revealed that exotic plantations have the lower richness and high dominance of woody plant species compared to savanna patches. Currently, original vegetation to the hills in Pune city are under threat of non-scientific plantation forestry, therefore awareness among citizens, policymakers, forest officials are necessary for its conservation, said researchers. Kiran Choudaj, PhD student at department of Zoology at SPPU said that he decided to work on this topic for his PhD thesis and started exploring different reasons for the decline in the number of bird species in exotic plantations. “I carried out work for two years (2017-2019) over the five hills in the city, that are, Chaturshringi, Vetal, Bavdhan reserve forest, Pashan-Baner, Pachgaon-Parvati (Taljai tekdi). During this study, we observed a total of 86 bird species in savanna patches and 38 bird species in exotic plantations. Grassland birds such as Jungle Bush Quail, Jacobin Cuckoo, Shrikes, Indian Roller, White-bellied Minivet, Pipit, Rosefinch, Buntings were absent in exotic plantations. Higher percentage of omnivore birds while lower percentage of predator and herbivore bird species were seen in exotic plantations, as compared to Savanna vegetation,” said Choudaj. He further added that the study observed that there were only four migratory bird species in exotic plantations which was found to be very less as compared to 14 bird species which were seen in original vegetation. “In exotic plantations, Gliricidia (Gliricidia sepium), African Blackwood (Dalbergia melanoxylon) and River Tamarind ( Leucaena leucocephala) were the abundant exotic plant species present. Gliricidia was the most dominant and densely planted species over savanna vegetation. Its allelopathic secretions have herbicidal and insecticidal activities which have reduced grass and herb cover which was present before in those regions. River Tamarind also secretes allelopathy secretions and is regarded as one of the world’s worst invasive plant species. Thus, due to the decrease in the grass-herb cover there is a decrease in the animals that are dependent on it, ultimately leading to decrease in the bird species,” said Choudaj. The guide to the study, Varsha Wankhade, associate professor with the department of Zoology at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) said that common citizens perceive the savanna patches as of low conservation value compared to the plantations. “One key reason is that the citizens think that these savanna patches are manmade and thus not ancient. The citizens believe in the myth of existence of a ‘thick forest’ sometime back in history, which was degraded by humans and now we get the savanna patches. Emerging research shows that savanna patches are not ‘degraded forests’, savannas existed even before humans started using them. Global and Pune savannas is quite ancient. These remnant savanna patches are slow to recover once destroyed by plantations. Destroyed savanna patches require at least a century or more of time to recover their plant species richness in that case weedy plant species have the ability to thrive in recovering savanna but some of the savanna species may not recover easily. This implies that little savanna patches which have been left must be preserved at any cost and to conserve these patches some of the savanna specialist birds should be used as mascots,” said Wankhade. She added that birds like the Yellow-wattled Lapwing and White-bellied Minivet can be used as canvas for saving these grassy patches. “Awareness and sensitization about these grassy habitats among citizens, planters, managers and policymakers are necessary for the conservation of these unique habitats,” said Wankhade. Kiran Choudaj and Varsha Wankhade published one more article in the journal of Threatened Taxa, titled ‘Changed avian assemblage of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus in the last four decades. “In this study, we tried to assess the bird diversity of the SPPU campus and Khadki pond which is adjacent to campus in two time periods 1976 and 2018. In 2018, we failed to notice 34 bird species out of 90 bird species listed for campus and pond in 1976. A major reason for the decline in bird diversity is due to changes in the campus habitat from low scrub jungle, fallow lands and grassland to buildings, roads, and exotic plantations. Increased human settlement surrounding the campus is also one of the contributing factors for the decline in bird species on the campus. Khadki pond was a perennial pond, now transformed into the seasonal pond that has been overtaken by natural vegetation due to blockage of water channels,” said Choudaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rampant-exotic-plantations-have-reduced-avian-diversity-across-pune-study-101620577575092.html
09-05-2021||Pune||RESQ transit centre treats animals beyond district borders||The forest department and RESQ Wildlife Transit Treatment Centre (TTC Bavdhan), a 35,000 sq. ft. facility which has the capacity to house 120 wildlife animals based on the type of species has now gone beyond Pune city and district in lending their expertise in treating and rescuing animals. The latest animals to be treated were pangolin which was found in Raigad and a hyena in Nashik. According to Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forest, “The work done at TTC is rapidly getting known through the district now that there have been 70 animals rescued and treated at the centre. The rescue and release of the pangolin from wildlife traffickers who had kept her tied in a jute bag for days, with help from Satara and Junnar forest divisions and the RESQ team travelled a long distance where they hiked deep inside the forest to release the pangolin at a safe and secure location.” The Wildlife Transit Treatment Centre has 16 mammals which includes Indian Hyena, Indian Jackals, Pangolin, Barking Deer and several monkeys, 14 reptiles which includes different species of turtles, tortoises and some injured snakes under recovery and 40 birds - Bonellis Eagles, Eurasian Eagle Owls, Spotted Owlets, Black Shouldered Kites, Parakeets and several others. The team also managed to save 37 Star-Back Tortoises from Pune and Thane Forest Department that were repatriated in Chandrapur near Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) after a 16-hour journey by road. “Several forest departments send animals to us from outside Pune division. Either orphans for special rehabilitate or critical cases needing surgery and intensive post-operative treatment and care,” said Sumedh Tarde, RESQ volunteer. “Wildlife comes to us in very critical condition or as orphans, and their treatment and rehabilitation is challenging. Some are more resilient and some are very sensitive. Our rehabilitation success rate which is based on how many fully recover and go back to their natural habitat varies between 60-85 per cent based on species,” said Neha Panchamia, founder RESQ Charitable Trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/resq-transit-centre-treats-animals-beyond-district-borders-101620577393967.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Two arrested after video of minor boys being stripped, molested emerges||Two men were arrested on Saturday while the Pimpri-Chinchwad police are on a lookout for 17 others for stripping and molesting three minor boys over suspicion of their involvement in petty thefts in Pimpri. “We have arrested two people. This incident is from two to three months ago. The investigation is on,” said police inspector Bhojaraj Misal of Pimpri police station. The two arrested were identified as Kapil Taak and Vijay Chavan, both residents of Pimpri area. The acts in the video were allegedly performed in public space with benches that lead to the spot used for Ganesh visarjan near the river road area of Pimpri. The others booked in the case include a man who has previously been accused of murder. The three boys were stripped, hurt on their genitals, assaulted, and dogs were set free near them with an intention of putting them in harm’s way, according to the visuals on the video of the incident that was shot. As per the complaint lodged by the mother of one of the three survivors, the three were subjected to those acts over suspicion of their involvement in a theft at Pimpri vegetable market. The video landed in the custody of the police after which a case was registered. The boys were allegedly warned against telling anyone about the assault and being seen in that part of town. “The case was registered on April 30. Chavan has completed his time in police custody and is now in judicial custody. Kapil Taak was arrested from Nashik two days ago and is in police custody till May 11,” said PI Misal. The rest of the men are on the run from the police. A case under Sections 377 (unnatural sex), 363 (kidnapping), 343 (wrongful confinement for three or more days), 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), rioting of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4 and 8 of Protection of Children form Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012 was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-after-video-of-minor-boys-being-stripped-molested-emerges-101620577333959.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Forest department working to prevent repeat of 2019 flash floods||In order to prevent flash floods this monsoon, the department of forest has taken an initiative to create bunds and check dams atop Taljai Hills. The department has been working on the behest of local corporators and guardian minister and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar who wrote to the authorities to find solutions to avoid 2019 flash floods. “We were approached by the local corporator and some local residents living near Taljai who requested if the forest department could do something to avoid the flash floods that caused destruction in 2019. Initially, we asked the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to look into the matter after conducting a survey, but the authorities said that the hill was in our jurisdiction, hence we thought of an environmental, sustainable and ecological friendly concept that could benefit the entire city,” said Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests. According to Patil, the forest department began their survey a month ago and are now clearing the Taljai hill of Gliricidia which is a medium size leguminous tree of zero bio-gradable value and instead plant native plants. “There are JCBs at work also to create small and medium bunds and check dams to help control the water flowing down towards the city. We have around two hectares of these trees to be cleared and plant native plants which will help in percolating rainwater.” Several societies are directly hampered by the water flowing downhill from Taljai hill, Savarkar Society, Sahakar Nagar and others. Suresh Buddhisagar, resident of Savarkar Society said, “We faced problems two years ago due to the illegal compound wall constructions allowed by PMC in the area surrounding us. Until the 70s, our society was the last one to be built officially. Now this area has undergone a lot of changes with several illegal constructions built over natural water outlets of Taljai hills.” According to Buddhisagar, the PMC constructed concrete roads which blocked the water outlets, choking the drainage system. The water now flows on the road consequently causing flood water to rise and breach compound walls, causing the water gush into houses. “This flow further connects to the nallah near Gajanan Maharaj temple. There is no proper provision of maintaining the water overflow. There are number of nallahs in this area which further connects to Ambil Odha. However, due to mismanagement of rainwater disbursement and illegal construction of slums near Taangwala Society, Lakshminagar area resulted in the Ambil odha Crisis. After writing to officials, we finally got the local corporators to look into the matters and the forest department is now building check dams so that the water atop in the quarry at Taljai does not percolate downhill,” said Buddhisagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forest-department-working-to-prevent-repeat-of-2019-flash-floods-101620577274054.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Indian women’s rugby team captain Vahbiz Bharucha optimistic of the sport’s future||Last month, right in the middle of the pandemic, Pune was at the peak of a devastating debacle due to Covid-19. Regardless of the situation, city-based physiotherapist Vahbiz Bharucha, who is the captain of the Indian women’s rugby team, had to mark her presence in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). On April 10, a squad of 12 women from the national rugby team, along with 12 other local Kashmiri women players, had come together to accomplish a collective goal at Srinagar’s sprawling TRC turf ground. “For the past few months, the Indian Rugby Football Union (IRFU), aka Rugby India (the nodal body for rugby in India) has been holding multiple discussions with the union sports minister Kiren Rijiju, primarily seeking support to scale up the sport’s position nationally but due to poor representation of the game in mainstream media, Rijiju wasn’t too confident about where the team stood in terms of its performance and merit. He wanted to check whether the players were really promising enough. So, he asked us to show up at Srinagar and play an exhibition match, which would help him make a judgment,” informs Bharucha, when asked about the reason for the team’s J&K expedition. She adds that on behalf of IRFU, the team also made a couple of presentations, and she feels, from the looks of it, Rijiju seemed impressed. “He shared some encouraging updates about the exhibition matches on his social media platforms. This has sent out an optimistic message for us. However, we haven’t yet heard from the ministry in an official capacity,” she said.The women from the team are scattered across different pockets of India, from Delhi to Siliguri, Bhubaneshwar, Kolkata, and Patna, and so on. Back from Srinagar, and Vahbiz, just like the other teammates, has been busy prepping for the nationals. “I try to clock in about two-and-a-half hours of fitness training daily. Rugby demands a lot of speed, stamina, focus, and strength—everything packed into one individual. I focus on running and bodyweight workouts—there’s a lot of endurance, power, agility and speed that I am focusing on,” she marks, adding that the team has a set of coaches in South Africa and Mumbai, and they regularly determine fitness targets and exercise regimens for the girls. The anticipated timeline for the nationals would’ve been somewhere between the end of May to June but there’s no confirmation on that front so far,” she said. Sounding slightly apprehensive, Bharucha said, “We are not sure if the nationals are going to happen, given the Covid-19 havoc in the country. Also, if the matches happen, the funds required would go up significantly as all the safety guidelines, and quarantine rules would have to be adhered to. Let’s see what happens.”For the team, the immediate plan of action may not be too clear but what remains undeterred despite all the odds is the team’s preparedness to hit the ground running. As the captain of the team, Bharucha believes in leading by example. “Thanks to social media, the team is connected. I make sure I regularly post videos and pictures of my workouts, training, and diet. Of course, if need be, I also lend a listening ear to any teammate, who wishes to talk to me about any challenges in achieving the fitness goals,” she said. Bharucha is certain that good times are in store for the game in the coming future, given the rising numbers of women players. “Serious participation and awareness about the sport are going up steadily over the years. Also, the state of Odisha recently struck a partnership with IRFU, with a view to develop rugby as a professional sport in India. This is so reassuring,” she smiled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/indian-women-s-rugby-team-captain-vahbiz-bharucha-optimistic-of-the-sport-s-future-101620577213922.html
09-05-2021||Pune||PMC ward offices, departments disobey standing committee’s decision on expenditure||Despite Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee’s decision to cut down 10 per cent amounts from capital works, ward offices and heads of various departments are not following order. Now, the chief account of the corporation has instructed all ward offices and departments to follow the order to raise funds for Covid-19. On the other hand, civic activists have raised questions on spending on health infrastructure in the annual budget allocation. In 2020, PMC had taken a decision to cut down 20 per cent on various developments. Last year, the PMC utilized more than ₹150 crore on the development of health infrastructure related to Covid-19. In 2021-22, the civic body allocated around ₹350 crore to set up oxygen producing plants and oxygen bed Covid centres, purchasing Remdesivir injection, ventilators, and medicines. Most of the funds were diverted from project works. When the standing committee has taken decisions to divert big budget development work, ward offices and various departments are utilizing funds on the minor works such as repairing food paths, changing drainage and water lines, changing paver blocks in each ward office area. Taking cognizance of spending on minors works, PMC chief account has issued an order to all departments and ward offices to consider standing committee decision to cut down 10 per cent development works while floating tenders and carrying out development works. Ulka Kalsakar, PMC chief accountant officer said, “At present, Covid-19 patients are increasing gradually. The state has imposed a partial lockdown. We need funds to control the Covid-19 and use funds to purchase masks, foods for quarantine patients, to spend funds on purchasing medical equipment and provide medical service. We will have to secure a certain amount of funds so that it can be used for medical emergencies.” “Standing committee has already given permission to cut down 10 per cent funds on capital work. However, the order is not followed by the ward officers and department heads. So, we have issued orders to keep in mind while issuing tenders, work orders and issuing tender advertisements. We don’t know how much we will need in the future to spend on health related issues, so it is advisable to make financial arrangements right now,” she added. Civic activist questions spending on health infrastructure On the other hand, civic activists have raised questions on the spending on health infrastructure by PMC. They have said that PMC is spending crores of the budgets on minor and non-essential work such as changing paver blocks, cement concretisation of lanes, seating benches and footpath repair work instead of health infrastructure. Vivek Velankar, civic activist said, “Every year, PMC spends crores of funds on non-essential works. This year, the corporation has approved an annual budget of ₹7,500 crore. It is an inflated budget, and they are also using footpath repair and concretization by lanes. It should stop.” “According to Velankar, due to spending on non-productive work, PMC has embarrassed itself in the high court over the health infrastructure issue. “PMC lawyer submitted an affidavit in Bombay high court that PMC doesn’t have financial capacity to spend on health infrastructure as compared to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Actually, that is not the case. PMC has enough funds, but they are not using it on infrastructure issues,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-ward-offices-departments-disobey-standing-committee-s-decision-on-expenditure-101620577034002.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Covid positive patient dies by suicide in hospital||A Covid-19 infected patient was found hanging in a hospital in Talegaon on Sunday morning. The incident was reported from Maharashtra Institute of Medical Education and Research hospital (MIMER) in Talegaon. The 44-year-old patient had been in the hospital since May 1 and was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection, according to the police. “He was in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for the past few days. He was found in the storeroom in the hospital. A telephone wire was found around his neck and no note,” said senior police inspector Bhaskar Jadhav of Talegaon Dabhade police station. The police suspect that the man had died by suicide due to the infection he was suffering from. However, the exact reason could not be ascertained immediately. The police are verifying whether the man had any financial struggles. He is survived by a wife and two children. He was found by the hospital staff on Sunday morning and the incident was reported to the local police. His death was recorded in an accidental death report at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-positive-patient-dies-by-suicide-in-hospital-101620576913985.html
09-05-2021||Pune||House-help arrested for theft||A house-help was arrested by Pune police on Sunday for allegedly stealing from her employer’s house in Kalyani nagar area of Pune on April 28. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sandeep Thusu (33), a resident of a residential society in Kalyani nagar. “We have arrested the woman but cannot reveal anything just yet. The woman kept going to work at the house even after the theft. The couple suspected what must have happened because nobody else had entered or left their house,” said assistant police inspector Sameer Karpe of Yerawada police station. The complainant has submitted in his complaint that the he was sitting in the hall of the house with his wife while the house help was working in the other parts of the house when she allegedly stole from the bedroom. The woman allegedly entered the bedroom when the couple were not looking and opened the drawer of the wooden cupboard in the bedroom in which the jewellery was kept. The woman allegedly fled with gold jewellery worth ₹3,89,500, according to the police. A case under Section 381 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/househelp-arrested-for-theft-101620576793970.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Former employee arrested for murder of 65-year-old in Warje||A former employee of the 65-year-old scrap yard owner, who was found dead near her house in Warje Malwadi, was arrested for her murder in the late hours of Saturday. The arrested man was identified as Afsar Aslam Ali (19), a resident of the area where the murder was committed. The woman was identified as Shahabai Arun Shelar (65), a resident of Ramnagar area of Warje. She runs a scrap yard while her son is an assistant sub inspector in the Satara police force. Ali was found sitting inside a City-Link bus in an attempt to leave the state, according to the police. Upon checking his luggage, the clothes he had worn during the murder were found in it. He was arrested by officials of anti-dacoity and vehicle theft unit-1 of Pune police crime branch, according to a statement issued by the Pune police crime branch. Ali worked in Shelar’s scrapyard four to five months ago. He allegedly killed the woman using a square shaped metal pipe by hitting her on the head with it late on Friday night, according to the police. She was found by two workers who work in her scrap yard run out of a tin-shed where she was working when she was attacked. A complaint in the matter was lodged by her policeman son identified as Vitthal Shelar (42) who lives in Ravivar peth area of Satara city. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 460 (all persons jointly concerned in lurking house-trespass or housebreaking by night punishable where death or grievous hurt caused by one of them), 380 (robbery) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Warje Malwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-employee-arrested-for-murder-of-65-year-old-in-warje-101620576734011.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Former Congress minister, son booked for domestic violence||A case of domestic violence was registered on Sunday against Congress leader and former minister Balasaheb Shivarkar his son former corporator Abhijeet Shivarkar based on the complaint of the son’s doctor wife. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Sneha Shivarkar (37) who is married to former corporator Abhijeet Shivarkar (38) and lives with him and his family in a resident of St Lawrence Colony in Wanowrie area of Pune. However, for the past few weeks, the complainant had been living separately from the accused husband. “The complaint had come months ago. It was sent to the Women’s grievance cell for counselling where some sessions must have happened. After that the complaint was sent to us saying counselling is not helping,” said senior police inspector Deepak Lagad of Wanavadi police station. Along with her husband and his father, the two others booked in the case were identified as mother-in-law Kavita Shivarkar (66) and sister-in-law Sonali Pardeshi (40), according to the police. The complainant has claimed that the alleged extra marital affairs of her husband and physical abuse by him led her to lodge a complaint. A case under Sections 498(a) and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-congress-minister-son-booked-for-domestic-violence-101620576673912.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Your Space: Timely test results will help check Covid-19 spread||Residents are getting the results of RT-PCR, test for diagnosing Covid-19, as late as after five days in some cases, as it has become mandatory for selected workforce and residents are also coming forward to give swab samples. While the delay in getting test results poses risk of spread of the virus, what steps should authorities take to streamline the system and ensure timely delivery of diagnosis report? Increase testing centresDelayed RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test results are causing a lot of hardship to people. Flights are missed and asymptomatic people pose risk of Covid infection spread. The government should set up more testing centres and take steps to speed up the process for timely release of results. Also, they must have rapid antigen testing (RAT) done to identify positive cases and contain the spread. It’s because of the delay that people are resorting to fake reports.Mehzabin Saiyed Zilla parishad should arrange testing campsTo undergo RT-PCR test was a challenge in our neighbourhood. There are private players who were overloaded since the government mandated the test for all staff and vendors. Hardly any private partner was taking samples. The situation improved when the Covid test mandate was removed. The cost charged by private vendors is more than the government regulated rates. Few vendors are charging ₹1,000.We request the zilla parishad to set up more testing centres, mobile vans for RT-PCR and antigen testing near big housing societies or at ward level. This will serve the purpose of getting tests done at the earliest and avoid delays which may worsen with respect to infected residents and their close contacts.We also struggled to get our workforce, housekeeping staff and security tested. Even the gram panchayat team approached us that they will conduct door-to-door test for residents who show symptoms, but later denied due to shortage of staff. We appreciate if testing resources and manpower is increased by the zilla parishad.Girish RaghuwanshiDelay in test results affected our businessFollowing the directive from authorities for mandatory RT-PCR test for hotel staff, we arranged our staff to undergo the Covid test. However, the reports came after four days as the lab cited overload of cases. This long delay affected our business and caused apprehension among staff. It would be better if the agencies concerned launch mobile van facility for carrying out the Covid tests and release results in time.Vaidehi SuryavanshiTest is sometimes bothersome for residentsRT-PCR is just a formality asked by hospitals and families are pressurised to get it done if they want to admit their already sick members. I understand that the medical facilities are also under pressure, but why put that on our heads. It is obvious that a person will seek admission only because his symptoms are worst and yet the hospitals will admit only after the test. Doing the test is fine, but the time lost in getting the result is bad for those suffering. People are afraid and it would be better if the officials ease off on not asking for these tests when the patient is getting worse and symptoms can be visibly seen.Shumita MahajanTest should only be for symptomatic casesGiven the present huge turnaround time for RT-PCR tests, the recent guideline by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) to enable rapid antigen test (RAT) for non-symptomatic and inter-state travellers should be strictly followed, as RAT is time efficient. RT-PCR should be applied only for symptomatic cases, thereby reducing the load on diagnostic centres. The local authorities should also find viable ways to cut down the time lag between sample collection at hospitals and transporting to the testing lab. Very few hospitals have their own in-house test facility.Hary KurupSelf-discipline should be top prioritySelf-discipline in following the Corona protocol and vaccination is the best way to restrict the spread of Covid. Imposing RT-PCR tests on all and sundry will result in overload of system and might deprive those who urgently need to test. We need to identify and set up micro containment zones and enforce strict regulations for these zones.Col KD Pendharkar (retd)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-timely-test-results-will-help-check-covid-19-spread-101620557173437.html
09-05-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: A solo act play, on stage and online, hits home social message||One of the last plays that I saw live, in a theatre, was “Every Brilliant Thing”. This was in 2019. Weird. Yes. But let’s move on, shall we? Even though it’s nearly two years since I watched it, the play is still fresh in my head. This statement is meant more for the play than my ability to remember things. Adapted from the eponymous play written by Duncan Macmillan and Jonny Donahoe, the Indian version was adapted and directed by Quasar Thakore Padamsee and produced by Toral Shah and Vivek Rao of theatre company QTP. Vivek Madan is the protagonist and the only actor who has rehearsed the play! We’ll get to the details in sometime.Before the play begins, Vivek walks amongst the audience. Chats with them informally. He hands a few people some chits with a seemingly random number written on it and requests them to open it only when he calls out that number. Once everyone has arrived and is seated, he walks to the centre of the stage and addresses everyone and the play starts. Just this structure of interacting with the audience beforehand diminishes the line between pre-show and actual performance. You are a part of the atmosphere from the moment you enter the auditorium. The story starts with a seven-year-old boy, finding out that his mother has just tried to take her own life. It starts with him asking his father a series of “why?”, because naturally a seven-year-old hasn’t understood the reason behind this act. “Every Brilliant Thing” is an interactive piece of theatre. So, Vivek asks an audience member to play his seven-year-old self and he plays his father. The person playing the son just responds with a “why?” to every explanation that Vivek, as a father, can give. Most adults have a hard time understanding what depression is, let alone a seven-year-old child. So, in whatever he grasps from that situation, he starts making a list for his mother. A list of every beautiful thing he has encountered. He decides to make a list of hundred things first. When he realises that there is so much beauty around, he continues with the list well beyond the hundred. While the subject of the play is extremely serious, the writing and presentation isn’t. But it is this combination that hits the message home!The protagonist grows up, makes friends, gets into a relationship, gets married and continues his dialogue with his parents. All other characters are played by members of the audience picked by Vivek. I wasn’t aware about this format till I watched the play and it was one of the best evenings I had experienced in a long time. The crowd that day was sensitive, some were even natural actors. It was a cathartic experience and it made me understand what a few of my friends might be going through in real life. I even gifted a ticket to one of them for the next show.Once we entered the new normal, Quasar and company took this play online. As far as I know, Quasar wasn’t too keen as he belongs to the group of people who doesn’t consider online performances as “theatre”. But he was convinced that the need to discuss this subject during the lockdown was extremely important and they decided to go ahead with a limited run. I bought a ticket for my entire family and watched it with them. The play had been adapted again for the online performance – with Vivek at his house in Bengaluru, Quasar and the technical team in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Lucknow! It was a good show but like any other play, I felt the impact was a lot better when I watched it live.But what was different about the online performance was that after the show there was a two-minute break and the audience was asked to stay behind to have a conversation. And the producers had made sure that the conversation was conducted by a psychologist. This sensitivity towards the material and the subject was new to me! The producers understood that many of the audience members might be isolated, probably out of work and also dealing with their personal demons. They wanted to provide a way if they wanted to vent if the play triggered them in any way. This kind of social responsibility is hard to find.I do not know what the future holds for theatre in general. But if I were to make a list of every brilliant play I have ever watched, I am sure “Every Brilliant Thing” will feature in it till the end.Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-a-solo-act-play-on-stage-and-online-hits-home-social-message-101620556933729.html
