10-05-2021||Pune||Real estate developers worry slow vaccination may adversely impact sector||While the lockdown has already impacted many construction sites after workers preferred to return to their native places, the slow vaccination process has added worry to the real estate developers who feel the inadequate supply may further affect the sector. “Under the second wave of lockdown which has hit us very badly, all sectors have been affected including real estate. Vaccination is the only solution and if vaccination drives speeds up, then we will soon see near to normalcy by the year end,” said Satish Magar, chairman of Credai National. He was speaking at the webinar organized by Credai Maharashtra to guide developers during pandemic.Those present on the occasion were Credai national vice president Shantilal Kataria and Anant Rajegaonkar, Credai national advisory board chairman Jitendra Thakkar, Credai Maharashtra president Sunil Furde, secretary Sunil Kotwal along with 854 members of Credai Maharashtra along with many developers from across the country.In Pune, as many as 14.5 lakh persons have been given the first dose so far while the process has slowed down in the past few days due to inadequate supply of vaccines. “Many home buyers in Maharashtra, who are caught in the second wave of Covid should be given a four-month extension for property registration and should not be penalized after the extension,” expressed Kataria. “Construction workers, who are the backbone of the construction sector, are currently returning to their villages. Therefore, it is not possible to complete the construction on time. This sector is facing endless difficulties. Today, there are more than 12 lakh registered workers in Maharashtra and about 250 businesses are directly and indirectly dependent on this sector. It is our role to co-operate fully with the state government to prevent layoffs”, he added.“The honourable high court has proposed the state government to consider a strict lockout to prevent the further outbreak of Covid-19 but if this is implemented it will have an adverse effect on the construction sector. If the labourers go back to their hometowns, then there will be a delay of several months to complete the projects,” Furde said “Not only are the developers supplying groceries and other necessities to construction workers, if there is sufficient availability of vaccines, the Credai will soon undertake a comprehensive campaign to vaccinate the workers in proper coordination with the state government.” added Furde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/real-estate-developers-worry-slow-vaccination-may-adversely-impact-sector-101620669739395.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Ramwadi underpass diversion causing inconvenience to commuters||The Ramwadi underpass was closed by Pune traffic police on April 24, 2021, in anticipation of MahaMetro starting work on construction of six pillars, which is causing problems among residents living in Kalyani Nagar and Viman Nagar, causing them to take longer detours to travel between Koregaon Park and Viman Nagar. “I was going to my doctor for a follow up and we had to go round up, although there is not much traffic, it causes a lot of inconvenience when a person is in a hurry to complete his work and return back home. I am aware of the metro beginning their work on this stretch but with almost 60 per cent of the labourers not there, why close the underpass early,” said Qaneez Sukhrani, Viman Nagar Citizen’s Forum. The forum has also written to DCP traffic and to PMC authorities demanding to open up Ramwadi underpass so that inconvenience is not caused to public. Currently, commuters are subject to a long 7-km detour from Kalyani Nagar to Viman Nagar. They have also suggested that traffic police should not shut down Ramwadi when there is no immediate work from Metro in those areas where the underpass is without work, man and machinery, it is unnecessarily inconveniencing local public and those going to airport. DCP traffic Rahul Shrirame stated that he personally visited the Ramwadi underpass and diversion made for completion of work until October 2021. In a letter, DCP said, “I would like to submit in broad sense of public interest that MahaMetro undergoing construction work from Civil court to Ramwadi work is in progress. Ramwadi underpass is a small narrow path so pillar cannot be installed at the centre of road so pillars are to be constructed at both sides of the narrow underpass road. MahaMetro rail has assured to complete the work in six months so they sought permission for work and diversion of traffic as the underpass road is narrow and cannot run traffic when work is on. Due to the Covid 19 pandemic and lockdown, there is less traffic on the road so instructed the metro to gear up the work. As we do not know till how much time the pandemic will stay, I discussed with metro officials to fasten the work and complete it on time. This decision is taken in public interest and there is no such interest to cause inconvenience to traffic and public. Hence, the decision to close Ramwadi underpass is taken practically considering the less traffic during lockdown along with traffic diversion with utmost convenience for people and traffic.” Ganesh Sonawane from Maha Metro said, “We are working on the stretch from Kalyani Nagar to Viman Nagar and we feel that this is the best period to work as there is less traffic on the road. We are working with 50 percent of the labour force and have brought all the resources to work on this stretch to meet with the deadlines and if possible, finish before the deadline. We are aware that it is causing an inconvenience to the locals at this moment but once this mega project is ready, traffic will be smooth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ramwadi-underpass-diversion-causing-inconvenience-to-commuters-101620664578796.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Pune market faces shortage of Konkan Alphonso, traders say price unlikely to come down||The supply of Alphonso mangoes from Konkan has almost been reduced by 40 per cent to 50 per cent this year and the rates are still higher than usual and unlikely to come down, according to traders. According to the APMC officials, currently 2,000-2,500 boxes are coming in daily in the Pune market which is far less than the normal supply during this time of the year. Traders claim that the rates are unlikely to come down as the Devgad mango season will be over in 3-4 weeks and the supply may not improve in the required proportion. From the beginning of this year’s season, the demand has dominated the supply of Ratnagiri mango. “The supply is low, and the rates are still high for a box of mangoes from Konkan. Currently, around 2,000-2,500 boxes are coming in daily in the market. Each year the supply is more than double during this time of year. This year the supply has come down to almost 50 per cent. Akshya Trutiya is delayed almost by a month this year. The chances are less that the supply would increase before Akshay Trutiya. Monday was the day when more boxes were expected as the mangoes require 3-4 days to ripe before they can be consumed,” said Baba Bibawe, head of fruit market department, Market Yard Pune. As the supply is lower than the demand, the rates of mangoes produced in Konkan areas of Ratnagiri and Devgad are still high. “Each year during this season 8,000-10,000 boxes of mangoes from Ratnagiri and Devgad arrived in the market daily. Now, only up to 3,000 boxes are coming into the market. Last year, in this season the cost of one box of 4-7 dozen mangoes was around ₹1,000- ₹1,500. But this year the same box costs around ₹1,500- ₹3,000. Karnataka mango is available in ample quantity, a box of two dozen costs around ₹350 ₹700. Mangoes were expensive during the time of Gudi Padwa. Now, Aksay Trutiya is this week, but the shortage supply and high cost has continued,” said Yuvraj Kachi, mango trader in Market Yard Pune. Vilas Bhujbal, president - Market yard commission agents claimed that the rates are unlikely to go down as the Konkan mango season is coming to an end in next few weeks. “Karnataka mango is available, but the supply is lesser than last year. The rates are unlikely to go down now as the season is coming to an end. The demand is still there, families at least buy one box as per their budget. Currently, hotels, juice centres are closed due to curbs. That’s why, the demand is comparatively less. If these establishments had been open, the demand would have increased exponentially and the rates would have gone much higher than the present rates,” said Bhujbal. The export of mangoes has continued this season. Officials in the Maharashtra State agricultural marketing board said that export in the USA may begin after May 14th. “Last year, the export to America didn’t happen. This year, discussions are going on. Now the major problem is the availability of flights. Export in Europe, Middle East, Japan has been going on,” said Bhaskar Patil, deputy general manager of the Konkan division- Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board. Box 1) Rate of Konkan Mangoes Retail ₹800- ₹900 per dozen Wholesale – ₹1500- ₹3000 for a box of 4-7 dozen 2) Rate of Karnataka Mangoes Retail ₹300- ₹400 per dozen Wholesale- ₹500 to ₹800 for 3 dozen 3) Rates of other mangoes * Payari ₹500 to ₹600 for 4 dozen and 5 dozen Crate – ₹30- ₹40/kg * Lalbaug- ₹20- ₹30/kg * Badam – ₹25- ₹40/kg * Totapuri – ₹20- ₹25/kg * Mallika – ₹30- ₹40/kg||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-market-faces-shortage-of-konkan-alphonso-traders-say-price-unlikely-to-come-down-101620664458671.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Minor booked for attacking man who allegedly caught his theft||A 16-year-old boy was booked by Pune police for attacking a 19-year-old who had caught him over suspicion of stealing in Mundhwa area of Pune on Sunday. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Rohan Pawar (19), a resident of Keshavnagar area of Mundhwa. The teenager was caught by the residents of Keshavnagar around 9:30pm on Saturday as they believed that he was trying to steal from people under the cover of darkness. “We have not found anything that was stolen from him, but we have registered the case based on the complaint. We have informed his family and called him tomorrow (Tuesday) to the police station,” said police sub inspector Gajanan Bhosale of Koregaon Park police station. According to the complainant, the teenager returned to the area and attacked on his left knee with a sharp weapon. A case under Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Koregaon Park police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-booked-for-attacking-man-who-allegedly-caught-his-theft-101620664398649.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Despite centralised Remdesivir distribution, cops recover 27 vials from black market||Two separate units of police in Pune district have collectively seized a total of 27 Remdesivir injections that had landed in the black market, within a day. The injections are floating in the clandestine black-market weeks after the district collector’s office centralised the process to regulate the flow of the experimental drug from the manufacturers to the hospitals treating the patients directly through the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In one raid, the Pimpri-Chinchwad police found 21 vials of the drug, while in the other raid, the Pune rural police found six vials of Remdesivir. The three arrested by officials of Wakad police station of Pimpri-Chinchwad police were identified as Krushna Ramrao Patil (22), a nursing staff member at Crystal Hospital in Thergaon; Nikhil Keshav Neharkar (19), a delivery executive living in Annex Hospital, Chinchwad; and Shashikant Raghunath Panchal (34), a chemist working at Ayushri Medical store in Chinchwad. They were collectively found in possession of 21 vials of the drug and cash, according to the police. Patil and Neharkar were arrested by police at 2:45am on Sunday at a check post along Kalewadi Phata. Two vials of Remdesivir were found in their possession while the permit for sale was absent, according to the police. “After taking them in custody, they revealed that the Remdesivir injections found from them was taken from Ayushri Medical in Chinchwad in order to sell at a price higher than the one prescribed,” read a statement from Pimpri-Chinchwad police. Upon searching Panchal’s Maruti Swift car, the police found a total of 19 more vials. All the vials were of Hetro company. They have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with relevant sections of Drug Price Control Order, 2013; Essential Commodities Act, 1955; and Drug and Cosmetics Act, 1940 registered at Wakad police station. In another incident, the Pune rural police found three men in possession of six Remdesivir and one Actemra (Tocilizubam) injection in Kurkumbh MIDC area in Daund at 2pm on Sunday. The three men were identified as Dattatray Maruti Londhe, Aditya Anirudha Wagh, and Amol Narsingh Munde, according to the police. The three also had cash worth ₹51,500 and were found moving near the gates of a company in the MIDC area on one Activa and one Santro car. A case under relevant sections of IPC and Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940 was registered against them at Daund police station. As per the district collector’s order, the distribution of Remdesivir has to be done directly to the hospitals. In a nutshell, the seven distributor companies and hospitals in the district have to give their stock availability and requirement numbers to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials respectively and the FDA, along with the district collector’s office deconstructs the figures to put the hospitals in touch with the right distributor. However, due to various lacunae, including friction in the procurement process and leak in the hospitals, the vials land up in the black market. “The Pune Municipal Corporation has provided us with a Google form. This form does not ask for the names but the number of patients who require Remdesivir. The information that we fill in the google form goest to the FDA every evening. The information is processed and on a WhatsApp group, a list is published. This list lets us know which distributor has been allocated to us for the drug. We contact the distributor, and the location is decided thereafter,” said Anuradha Temkar, executive assistant of director, Poona Hospital while explaining what the hospitals are required to do. “The process is highly monitored. Hospitals have to register the patients in their hospital who require the injection and submit it to the FDA officials. The district collector’s office along with FDA allocates stock to the hospital. Procurement is done by hospital. Every company gives their list of availability to the district authorities. Every hospital representative comes to the distributor to purchase the stock. It is random allocation as per available stock with stockists in particular region,” said Nilesh Amritkar, Shloka Enterprises, Sadashiv peth who is a distributor for Jubilliant. While the process has reduced the struggle for patients at major hospitals, the fear instilled by unavailability by the hospital forces relatives of patients to explore the black market to save their loved ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/despite-centralised-remdesivir-distribution-cops-recover-27-vials-from-black-market-101620664338786.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Don’t hand out Remdesivir prescriptions to patients or relatives: Dist admin to hospitals||The district administration has warned Covid hospitals regarding handing out Remdesivir prescriptions to the Covid patients or relatives. In the Remdesivir distribution order issued on Monday from the collector’s office, hospitals are specifically asked not to handover Remdesivir prescription to relatives. The order states that because of these prescriptions, black marketing of Remdesivir has been taking place. From April 11, the retail sale of Remdesivir was banned in Pune district and the Remdesivir injections have been distributed in a centralised control room established in the Pune collector’s office. The district administration warned Covid hospitals that if they continue to handout Remdesivir prescriptions to relatives, the supply of Remdesivir from the collector’s office will be stopped the concerned hospital. The same warning had been tendered in the order issued on Saturday. On Monday, 7,740 Remdisevir injections were distributed among 624 hospitals in Pune district. Currently, in order to procure Remdesivir, hospitals need to place an order with the control room in the collector’s office. Then as per availability and the proportion of oxygen beds, the vials of this anti-viral drug are allotted to the hospital. But there have been instances where hospitals are still handing out prescriptions to the relatives and they had to go in search of the injections. Hospitals are also asked to use this drug judiciously and keeping the guidelines issued by the task force in mind. “From April 11, Remdesivir has been made available directly to the hospitals by the collector’s office. Remdesivir is not available at chemist shops as hospitals are still handing out Remdesivir prescription to relatives, the black marketing of this drug is encouraged. Hospitals should not give Remdesivir prescriptions to relatives to get the drug otherwise the supply to such hospitals will be stopped,” the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dont-hand-out-remdesivir-prescriptions-to-patients-or-relatives-dist-admin-to-hospitals-101620664278705.html
10-05-2021||Pune||SCERT surveys students for decision on CET exam for FYJC admission||After the state education department cancelled Class 10 exams due to the rising cases of Covid-19, questions have been raised by parents, students on the structure of Class 11 admissions. In an attempt to find a solution, the state education department with the help of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Pune is conducting an online survey, through which all Class 10 students are asked their opinion about holding a Common Entrance Test (CET) for First Year Junior College (FYJC) Class 11 admissions. Earlier the deadline to submit this online survey form was until Sunday which has now been extended until May 11. This survey is for students from all boards including the state, CBSE and CICE where they need to give answers to simple questions and their opinion on whether CET should be held or not. The state education department has given a link of the online form for the survey: https://www.research.net/r/11thCETEST. While only students are allowed to participate in it, school administrations have been asked to send out the survey link to maximum students. “It is a simple survey to be done by students of Class 10 from all the boards. The link has been sent on our official website and its deadline has been increased until May 11. Till now we are getting a very good response from students and over 2 lakh students have submitted their response. We appeal to all the Class 10 students to please give their valuable opinion which will help us to take further important decisions regarding conducting CET,” said Vikas Garad, SCERT deputy director. While students have welcomed this move, Siddhant Miraje a class 10 student said, “We are happy that the state government cancelled the examinations in such tough times and now are asking students’ opinion to conduct CET exams. In my view CET should be taken so that students will get proper marks through which admission can be given to them.” The proposed CET exam will be held around in the month of June or when the Covid cases decrease in the state. It will be a multiple-choice questions (MCQ) test and students will be provided optical mark recognition (OMR) sheets for answering them. There will only be one paper with 100 marks with questions from all subjects and two-hour duration to complete it. Those students who clear this CET exam will get the Class 11 admissions as per their performance. Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar said, “This year’s Class 11 admissions are going to be tough, but it is good that the state education department is thinking about CET exam. It will help the college administration to fill up the seats and there will be proper allocation of seats as per the performance of students in the CET exam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/scert-surveys-students-for-decision-on-cet-exam-for-fyjc-admission-101620664218840.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Former MP Shambhajirao Kakde dies at 90||Former member of parliament Shambhajirao Kakade, died due to age-related ailments in his Pune home on Monday morning, family members said. He was 90 years old and is survived by his wife, three children and their families. Kakade, the last of socialist leaders from the city, represented Baramati Lok Sabha seat, which is currently the stronghold of Sharad Pawar family. During his active days in politics, Kakade was known as an arch-rival of NCP president Sharad Pawar. Known as Lalasaheb in social and political circles, Kakade was elected to the Lok Sabha from Baramati in 1977 and 1984 as a Janata Party candidate. Expressing grief, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said Baramati had lost a strong political personality. “He was the veteran leader of Janata Dal and put a great impact on the state’s politics. He worked towards giving direction to the new leadership,” Pawar tweeted. During 2004 Lok Sabha elections, Kakade had withdrawn from the race from Baramati after Pawar announced his illness in the middle of the campaign heat. “Kakade had issued a statement to the effect, saying he was withdrawing from the poll race in support of Pawar who was suffering from a serious disease,” he said. He also worked with contemporaries like S M Joshi, Mohan Dhariya and Nanasaheb Gore Kakade defeated congress stalwart Vithalrao Gadil in 1977 Lok Sabha polls, which happened after emergency was lifted. During 1984 by polls, he won from Baramati when Pawar extended his support. Kakade’s nephew Viraj had also once contested from Baramati but lost the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-mp-shambhajirao-kakde-dies-at-90-101620663618684.html
10-05-2021||Pune||SPPU’s centre for innovation gets leader status by MSIS||In the Maharashtra State Innovation Society’s (MSIS) recent evaluation of incubators that are funded by them at various public universities, Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) newly established Centre for Innovation, Incubation and Linkages and SPPU Research Park Foundation was chosen as the ‘leader’ in February 2021. MSiNS have categorised incubators in three categories based on the work and progress so far namely beginners, emerging and leaders. In a very short time, the centre has created a mark for itself, which will now open opportunities for start-ups to get funds as ‘seed capital funding’ through MSIS funding. Set up in 2018, the Centre for Innovation, Incubation and Linkages (CIIL) has been working very closely with start-ups in and around Pune and has quickly scaled up with many innovative start-ups, a sizable number of mentors and a very modern incubation centre.\ The assessment was based on the large number of activities done by the centre to spot the right kind of start-ups, engagement with various colleges from the affiliating system with more than 275 colleges attached to the university through this, support through funding of patents, large scale ongoing events and meaningful partnerships with the likes of Entrepreneurship Institute of India (EDII), Ahmedabad, PCSIC (Pimpri-Chinchwad Start-up Innovation Cell), TiE Pune to name a few. Few of the start-ups here have also received funding from external sources and have received many laurels byways of prizes from IIM-C, IIM Udaipur, and IIT-B. Dr Apoorva Palkar, director, CIIL-SPPU said, “This recognition is really helpful for new incubators like us who are working hard to make a mark by spotting grass root innovators and providing them a platform through incubation centre, providing advisory, mentorship and handholding at the most crucial juncture of their venture,” “The centre today has more than 40 start-up companies engaged with us that are nurtured through SPPU- research park foundation and the next cohort training of 60 start-up companies is underway through the virtual mode,” she added. SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “SPPU has focused on innovation, start-ups through systematic work that has resulted in our progression in the direction of job givers than job seekers. This recognition is a baby step, and we shall strive towards innovation excellence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppus-centre-for-innovation-gets-leader-status-by-msis-101620663558740.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Father allegedly slits throat of year-old son before killing wife and himself||A family of three, including a year-old infant was found dead in Kadam Wak Vasti area of Haveli taluka in Pune. The incident came to light on Sunday morning, according to the police. The man is suspected to have killed the child and his wife before dying by suicide. The deceased man was identified as Hanumant Shinde (38), while his wife was identified as Pradnya Shinde (28) and their year-old son was identified as Shivtej Shinde, according to police. “The man was unemployed and due to financial constraints strangled his wife and slit their child’s throat before hanging himself in the bedroom,” read a statement from officials of Loni Kalbhor police station. The man’s father Daryappa Shinde has lodged a complaint and a case under Sections 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Loni Kalbhor police station. The couple had two other children including their eldest son and younger daughter. However, the daughter and son were in the living room with their grandfather when the murder was committed. “He used to be a driver on a cement truck. His father used to do the same when he was working, and his brother also works in the same profession. The brother, who is the breadwinner in the family and lives in the same house, was at work when it happened. The deceased man was in a state where he had stopped talking and stopped going to any kind of work,” said Kalyanrao Vidhate, assistant commissioner of police, Hadapsar division, Pune police. “He used to work as a driver but had to let go of that job last year. Since then, he did some odd jobs and his father had gotten him the job of a helper in a private company but around one week ago, he had left it saying it was not for him,” said police inspector (crime) Subhash Kale of Loni Kalbhor police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/father-allegedly-slits-throat-of-year-old-son-before-killing-wife-and-himself-101620663258691.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: The political economy of the Marathas in Maharashtra||Last week when the Supreme Court quashed reservation in jobs and education to Maharashtra’s politically dominant Marathas, every political party came forward to position itself. Understandably so, political outfits cannot afford to be seen against Marathas that constitute almost 33 per cent, including Kunbi-Marathas, of the overall population in the state. For the community, the verdict by the five-member constitution bench is a setback as its finds itself fragmenting among various groups with loyalty to different political parties. The community has over the decades retained its clout in Maharashtra’s politics, keeping its power share intact. If Maharashtra has had more than 60 per cent of its chief ministers from the Marathas, the community has a fair representation in the cabinet or in the state assembly. Over the years, its politics is shaped by identity where Hindutva and caste have been at the core. On the economic front, Marathas are a stratified community. Dalit write Anand Teltumbde, who has written extensively on caste system in India, has observed in his Economic and Political weekly piece that Marathas have witnessed threea -fold stratification. The lowest at the hierarchy are either land-less or marginal farmers. They are mostly from Maharashtra’s Marathwada and account for the largest number within the community. It’s for the same reason, the demand for reservation gained maximum traction in this region. It is for this section many political parties have sought reservation, citing they account for a majority of the community. The same class, attracted towards caste- based outfits such as Maratha Mahasangh, Sambhaji brigade and Chhawa, has largely remained dissatisfied with those within the community holding on to power. This section is largely trapped in the agriculture sector without access to urban resources. The Gaikwad Commission constituted by the then Devendra Fadnavis government in its report had highlighted that a large section of Marathas are economically and educationally backward. The Supreme Court, however, found no merit in exceeding the existing 50 per cent ceiling of quota, which could have accommodated Marathas. In the middle are those having control over land and resources through various institutes like cooperatives and credit societies. Many in this category have control over rural credit and banking. There are many in this category whose next generation has migrated to bigger cities such as Pune and Mumbai for jobs. In the cities though, this section has not been able to dominate the economy. On the contrary, many have had to settle for a secondary position, not in consonance with Maratha pride. The top category in the Maratha stratification is one that has direct control over power. This section, no matter which party is in government, has enjoyed the fruits of power. This has at times led to increasing gap between Maratha elite and the community, with the former using identity politics to gain power without ensuring the benefits reach the community at large. Since 1950s till the 1980s, this class was with Congress party. However, as party’s political fortunes begun to change, the section within the community shifted to first Shiv Sena, then Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and later to BJP. In 2014, many among Maratha-Kunbi voted for BJP. In their paper, prominent political scientists Rajeshwari Deshpande and Suhas Palshikar observed: “The discursive space of backwardness on the one hand facilitates a suitable construction of caste ideology that covers up material deprivations at least in a tokenist manner and also keeps intact the consensus around the theme of social justice. On the other hand, the Mandal discourse legitimises caste as a political category and creates small openings within practices of democracy, for assertions of traditional caste dominance. This is what the Marathas attempted during the more recent times — despite, but also, because of their dominant political position in the state.” Today, the community that assumed control of the state’s political apparatus seeks tag of backwardness as many within it couldn’t taste the benefits of post-globalisation economy. While the community draws its dominance from the caste cluster of Marathas and Kunbis, which makes its numerically strong, economically, a large section of it hasn’t been able to achieve material growth. Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-the-political-economy-of-the-marathas-in-maharashtra-101620643338924.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Free food, books home delivered: mandals in Pune make life easier||PUNE Life in lockdown is anything, but easy. To give a helping hand to students in Pune city, the Seva Mitra Mandal is giving out meals, twice a day, to 150 students. Several Ganpati mandals in Pune are contributing in various ways to help the needy. The Seva Mitra Mandal is located in Shukrwar peth. “Since the lockdown started we began getting calls from students living in our area. There are hundreds of students living here who have come from other districts for studying. Most are dependent on food messes, but now they cannot afford it. So we decided to start daily meals for students, for lunch and dinner. 150 students are registered with us, who takeaway food parcels from our Ganpati temple,” said Shirish Mohite, Seva Mitra Mandal president. Tushar Katkar, one of the students who food from the mandal, said, “I am from Latur and preparing for competitive exams. I came back to Pune in February with a hope that all things are normalised. I am stuck here and do not have enough money. Seva Mitra Mandal helped me and many other students by giving us food.”Similarly, another Ganpati mandal has come up with a unique idea to help children who are now bored at home watching TV and playing mobile games. Sainath Mitra Mandal on Shivaji road has started an unique concept of “Lockdown library” for children. Books are being delivered to children to to discourage them from screen time.Piyush Shah, president of the mandal, said, “It is summer time. Schools and their online lectures or tests are over and children are at home. Due to lockdown no one goes out unless it is an emergency, and most of the children only watch TV or play mobile games. To distract them and encourage their reading habit we started this initiative of through our Ganpati mandal. There are around 16 Ganpati mandals across Pune city who are working under this initiative. Volunteers give the books at home and children read them. Right from the peth areas, Sinhagad road, Ahmednagar road, Vishrantwadi, Hadapsar, Dhankawadi and Katraj, in all thse areas mandals are working.”“We got 5,000 books from some wholesalers and then we classified books as per the age of the child. Then through the social media platforms we spread the word and started getting a good response. We give the book to a child and then request their parents to give that book to another child after reading the book,” added Shah. Welcoming this initiative, Anshul Anil Mohite, a 12-year-old who got books to read from the library said, “I am so happy to get these books to read. All are story books and in different languages. In the last one year I hardly read any other book apart from my study books. We also get bored at home and only watching TV, now I am looking forward to get more books from the library.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/free-food-library-books-home-delivered-ganpati-mandals-pitch-in-to-make-life-under-lockdown-easier-for-youth-101620569413573.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Sirens, crematoria running non-stop leave Pune residents with “stress fatigue”||PUNE Constant ambulance sirens around hospitals have impacted the lives of residents living in these areas; as has the non-stop running of crematoria in the city. Most residents in these areas keep their balcony doors shut for the whole day and take different routes to go out, if at all. April saw Pune district suffer its highest number of Covid fatalities, 2,938, which subsequently saw an increase in ambulance movement. “On normal days we never used to bother. What has happened now is whenever we switch on the TV, we see ambulances on screen. Also, when you stand on the balcony, we see more than one ambulance. All this annoys us,” said Anil Jagtap who stays near KEM hospital. On Saturday, the Regional Transport Office (RTO) also issued an order for ambulance drivers which read: “In accordance with the complaint of the citizens, ambulance drivers have been instructed to avoid the unnecessary use of horns and sirens to reduce noise pollution. It is affecting the health of the citizens. Sirens should not be used in residential areas, especially at night. Action will be taken against the owner and driver of the ambulance under the Motor Vehicle Act if the rule is violated.” The situation is not different with the residents staying near the crematoria. “Here it is not about the ambulance siren, but the chimney’s emitting continuous smoke from the crematorium. Whenever you look out of the window, the scene repeats itself, every day. My father then keeps repeating, ‘how many people are succumbing every day’,” said Virendra Thorat who stays near Vainkuth crematorium, Navi peth. Ambulance driver Mahesh Surve from Thergaon adds, “We generally consider it our duty. The problem only arises if we discuss it more.” Banking professional Mehul Chavare said,” I have started avoiding passing the Vaikunth crematorium since April. It does not give good start to your day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ambulance-sirens-crematoria-running-non-stop-leave-residents-in-these-areas-with-stress-fatigue-101620568873490.html
10-05-2021||Pune||Hospitals in Pune city ramp up preparation, stock-up on medicines in anticipation of Covid’s paediatric 3rd wave||Pune has already begun preparations for the much-anticipated Covid-19 third wave, where children are likely to be the worst affected due. Experts have said that the third wave would affect children the most, as they have not been vaccinated. In addition, children are also vulnerable to Post-Covid Inflammatory Syndrome also known as Paediatric Inflammatory Multisystem Syndrome (PIMS), post recovery. City hospitals, including those under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), have begun preparations focused on the paediatric Covid-19 testing and treatment. Dr Aarti Kinikar, senior paediatrician and head of department of the paediatric ward at Sassoon General Hospital said, “We have started preparing for the third wave, where it is anticipated that children would be the most affected. We have identified wards which could be taken over in if the numbers rise, including ICU beds. We have also hired consultants to recruit manpower and stocked medicines and surgicals as required. We hope that the wave doesn’t come.”“Right now we have about 35-40 beds, including ICU beds, scattered across the hospital for paediatrics and OBGYN which would go up to 100 as per our plans. We have identified one floor which is right now being used for paediatric-plus- healthcare workers, but then, if need be, we will dedicate it for paediatrics without compromising on the adult Covid-19 facilities. We are hoping that the adult cases reduce,” Dr Kinikar added.Dr Kinikar also said that Sassoon has a dedicated medical gas pipeline system project which would ensure smooth oxygen supply in case of the third wave. “We are also seeing a rise in the PIMS cases which have started coming in from the past one month. This may suddenly increase in the third wave, like we are seeing in European countries and in America too. If the pattern is the same then we may require separate medicines in addition to the ones we require to treat adult Covid-19 patients.”In April alone, the district saw the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic, which included six fatalities among those aged below 20 years, of the total 2,938 deaths. The PMC is also working on a dedicated Covid hospital for children at the Rajiv Gandhi Hospital facility. Sunil Tingre, MLA from Yerawada, who has funded the project through his MLA funds, said, “Considering the third wave many doctors predicting that it could affect young children as well, a Covid hospital for children is being set up at Bharat Ratna Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Yerawada. It will be the first children’s hospital in the state. The hospital will have a total capacity of 200 beds. There will be 150 oxygen beds and 50 ICU beds. Rs1 crore has been provided from my MLA fund and also a large amount of funds has been made available under CSR. On Friday, May 7, I inspected the hospital along with additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal. Instructions have been given to complete the work as soon as possible with necessary facilities.”Dr Jitendra Oswal, paediatrician and deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, said, “We are ready with a dedicated paediatric Covid unit which would be manned by a paediatrician, and also a Covid-positive mother delivery facility. We have also started newborn-to 18-year old RT PCR and antigen testing facilities. In addition we have a dedicated six-bed Covid PICU and NICU, with a facility of mechanical ventilation.” “We anticipate that the third wave would also see a shocking number of children suffering from post- Covid inflammation, a rare but serious condition which typically surfaces after four-six weeks of the Covid peak. The Pune peak was April 8, with above 7,000 cases and around seven-eight per cent of positive cases were children. Many of these children may have antibody positivity. More children may die of inflammatory syndrome and less from active Covid infection,” Dr Oswal added.Dr Oswal also said that of the 4.893 million Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, 10 per cent have been reported in those aged less than 20 years and so ,4,89,300 children have tested positive for Covid. He said, “Even if we consider 0.1% will have inflammatory syndrome then we will have 489 children in Maharashtra alone, and if not recognized early then they are likely to die. Many paediatricians may not be aware of the diagnosis and treatment of this condition and so we need expert manpower and also special drugs like IV immunoglobulin, plus Methylprednisolone in most, and Tocilizumab in a few cases which have to be stocked.” Dr Pradeep Suryavanshi, a paediatrician in the city, said, “At Sahyadri hospital we have had about 11 newborns who tested positive in the second wave and we also had two rare and interesting cases of newborn Covid cases, One case with convulsions and one case with heart failure.Both responded to steroids. We have put forward our study for publication in international journals. We have also had 67 Covid-19 positive kids suffer from PIMS and the common symptoms included fever, rash, breathing problems, hypotension and loose motions. Unfortunately, we had one death in these 67 cases.” Dos and don’ts to protect children from Covid-191. Don’t go outside - garden/ play area2. Less screen time3. Involve kids in logical thinking/indoor games4. Any fever – take Antigen/RTPCR test5. Immediate separation from family6. Healthy members of the family should take care of Covid positive children7. High protein diet8. Wear a mask||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospitals-in-city-ramp-up-preparation-stock-up-on-medicines-in-anticipation-of-covid-s-paediatric-3rd-wave-101620566953386.html
