11-05-2021||Pune||Two NCP youth leaders booked for morphing pictures of PM, CM Yogi||The cyber cell of Pune police has booked two youth leaders of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday on charges of allegedly morphing pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and making it viral on social media with the intention of defaming the political leaders. The accused has been identified as NCP youth wing state secretary Mohsin Shaikh and Shivajirao Javir. Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) social-media cell co-coordinators Vineet Vajpayee, Rupesh Pawar and Gaurav Shetty lodged the FIR under section 469 (forgery for the purpose of harming the reputation of any person or knowing that it is likely to be used for that purpose) and section 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The complaint alleged that the duo uploaded morphed pictures of Modi showing him as the Hindu God of death ‘Yama’ (carrying bodies of the Covid victims at a crematorium). The FIR stated that Javir allegedly uploaded objectionable content about the PM and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The accused sent texts and circulated photographs with the intention to malign the images of the two national leaders with an ill-intention and defamation, the complaint stated. Vajpayee said that they were forced to lodge an FIR on grounds that the images and content were defamatory, and they wanted to take legal action against acts done by opposition parties. It may be recalled that the Pune cyber-crime cell police had booked 13 persons for posting objectionable edited photos and abusive content about chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj last week after complainants said that it had hurt sentiments of the people. In yet another case, the Airport police have taken into custody a person identified as Rajesh Pandarinath Kakade (52), a resident of Sinhgad road for posting defamatory post regarding chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on a social media site related to reservation in jobs and education related issue. Shiv Sena leader Anand Ram Goyal, a resident of Lohegaon lodged a complaint with the police stating that he saw the post on Facebook and approached the police seeking penal action. Police Inspector Gajanan Pawar of Airport police station said that the complaint application was given, and the accused was tracked using cyber technology available at the cybercrime cell. “He has been taken into custody for the defamatory content uploaded on May 9 and further investigation is on in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-ncp-youth-leaders-booked-for-morphing-pictures-of-pm-cm-yogi-101620750626979.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Software engineer booked for sexual abuse of 10-year-old niece||A 37-year-old software engineer was arrested for sexual assault of his wife’s 10-year-old niece for the past three years and another minor boy from the victim’s family was also booked in the case. “She is currently undergoing tests at Sassoon hospital. The man is in custody. The abuse started when she was 7-years old,” said police sub inspector Chhaya Borkar who is investigating the case. A complaint against the engineer was lodged by his wife who is a housewife. The other person booked in the case is a minor brother of the complainant who lives in Chandipur area of Baleswar district in Odisha. The boy has not yet been apprehended. The girl is the offspring of the complainant woman’s sister and had moved to Pune in 2018 to live with the complainant in Pune. The abuse at the hands of the engineer started in 2018 and continued till May 10 when the child revealed the abuse to her maternal aunt. The minor boy was in the know of the sexual abuse by the older man and yet proceeded to sexually abuse his niece, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 376(2)(i), 376(2)(n), 376(d), 506 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 4, 5(g), 5(l). 5(n) and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012 was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/software-engineer-booked-for-sexual-abuse-of-10-year-old-niece-101620750567002.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Marathi TV actor robbed on E-way||Marathi television actor Yogesh Madhav Sohoni (32) was allegedly robbed on Saturday morning while he was on his way to Pune on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway. The actor was travelling to Pune and was approaching the Somatne exit along Pune-Mumbai Expressway around 7:50am on Saturday in a Volkswagen Verna. At this point in his journey, a white Mahindra Scorpio with tinted glasses started following Sohoni. A person from the car signalled him to stop on the left side of the road after which Sohoni stopped his car. The man accused Sohoni of causing an accident of his car which had resulted in injury to one person, according to Sohoni’s complaint. The men threatened to file a police case against Sohoni lest he agreed to pay ₹1, 25,000 in damages, according to his complaint. “There had been no accident on my way to Pune. I immediately went to the police after the incident. There has been no update in the case yet,” said Sohoni. The actor claims that he was verbally abused and forcibly taken to an ATM in the area. The men allegedly made Sohoni withdraw ₹50,000 and fled with the money. “We received the complaint only yesterday. We started the investigation in earnest immediately. We have some leads, and we will have an update soon. This is the first such case along the expressway that I have encountered since my transfer here in February,” said police inspector Sunil Pinjan of Shirgaon police outpost of Talegaon Dabhade police station. A case under Section 392 (punishment for robbery) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marathi-tv-actor-robbed-on-eway-101620750507040.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Court orders demolition of 22-storied building in Kondhwa||A Pune city court has ordered demolition of a 22 storied building constructed by Clover Developers in Clover Highlands Co-operative Housing society in Kondhwa. Nine residents of the society had approached the court stating that the construction of buildings was not part of the plan when the society handover took place in 2007. The petition before Pune civil court senior division was filed in 2018 by the litigants in the form of a suit for declaration, cancellation and injunction under specific relief act and Section 7 of the Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act, 1963. Judge SMA Sayyed in his order stated that all the revised and sanctioned plans after the plan dated Feb 6, 2007,stand cancelled being void ab initio. “If these defendants failed to comply the said order within stipulated time, plaintiffs are at liberty to demolish the said structure by incurring own expenses and recovered the said expenses from defendant.” the order stated. The order added that, “Defendant No. 1 (Clover Developers Private Limited) and two ( Everjoy Co­-operative Housing Society Limited (Phase­1) are hereby directed to pay rupees five lakhs jointly and severally to the plaintiffs as compensation towards damages, harassment and mental agony and inconvenience caused to them within four months from the date of this order. ” The court in its 95-pageorder directed Clover Developers Private Limited, through its directors Raj Kanaksen Bhansali and Dhiren Nandu, and the neighbouring Everjoy Co-operative Housing Society Limited (Phase 1) ‘against undertaking any construction of building 8 and building 9 (buildings in dispute)’. The judge also directed by the way of a mandatory injunction that the two buildings in dispute be demolished, within a period of four months from the date of the order. Maj R Dave, one of the petitioners said, “When the first barricades came up, I’d walk past it with my dogs and think to myself, that someone should do something about it, to restore our land and facilities to us. In time, I realized that the “someone” would have to be me. And there were some others who thought alike. We didn’t know enough when we started out, but with a determined and industrious team who put together an indisputable trail of documentation, with belief in the judicial system, resilience in the face of such odds, a gutsy advocate and some luck, we stood up to be counted.” Everjoy co-­operative housing society representative Kiran Wagaj said, “The builder is not affecting any additional constructions in the building in which plaintiffs have purchased flats. Our construction is phase wise we have completed phase 1 and now another phase is going on. Flat purchase society is well aware about the right of defendant to effect construction of second phase and they have ratified the right of Clover to effect additional construction in their general body meeting. Clover Highland society has filed suit but subsequently they withdrew the suit. Plaintiffs do not have locus standi to file suit. The court has stayed an order for 90 days i.e. until the appeal period. We are challenging this judgement before honourable high court. As per section 7A of Maharashtra flat ownership act consent of flat purchasers are not required for construction of second phase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/court-orders-demolition-of-22-storied-building-in-kondhwa-101620750447043.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Members of Azad Samaj Party in police custody for protesting outside Ajit Pawar’s residence||Ten members of Azad Samaj Party (ASP) were remanded to three days in custody of Pune police by a local court in case of allegedly attacking police officials during a protest held in front of a residence of Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister of Maharashtra. The protest was against the state government’s decision to withdraw the 33 per cent reservation in promotion to posts in government service to provide promotions of government officials of the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), Vimukta jati, and nomadic tribe (VJNT) communities. The Government Resolution (GR) cited a Bombay High Court decision from August 4, 2017, that invalidated reservation in promotion of government officials to make the decision. The GR further stated that the Supreme Court has not put the order on hold which means that the HC order is still applicable. As a result, the April 20 GR that announced reservation in promotion, needed to be amended. The 10 in custody include Bhimrao Dattu Kamble (31), Abhijit Madhukar Gaikwad (32), Rafik Rustom Shaikh (37), Ankit Parshuram Gaikwad (21), Darshan Baburao Ubale (25), Datta Mohan Bhalshankar (38), Vinod Lakshman Waghmare (34), Mahesh Vaijyanath Thorat (21), Sahar Virbhadra Javai (23), and Sharad Gautam Lokhande (23), according to the police. The protesters burnt a copy of the government resolution passed on May 7 in front of the house owned by DCM in Rane Circle area of Bhosalenagar in Pune. “Members of Azad Samaj Party arrested by Chaturshringi police for protesting outside residence of Ajit Pawar, DCM, and Maharashtra state against government resolution passed on May 7 taking away reservation in promotion of Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribes. Defense lawyers argued for the accused that the Section 353 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) is being misused here as protesting is one’s fundamental right and so it is fundamental duty of state i.e., police to see that the fundamental right is not violated,” said a statement of the defence lawyers including advocates Tosif C Shaikh, Deepak Gaikwad, Kranti Sahane, Jaydeep Doke, and Ravi Wadmare. A case under Sections 353, 188, 269, 270, 143, 145, 147, 149 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, 2005; Section 2 and 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Chaturshringi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/members-of-azad-samaj-party-in-police-custody-for-protesting-outside-ajit-pawar-s-residence-101620750387003.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Pune police team attacked in Ghaziabad, U.P||A team of Pune police was attacked and chased, and their vehicle was vandalised, by locals of Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh on Monday. The team had gone to the locality to bring a woman for questioning in the case of murder of a police hawaldar in Budhwar peth area. The officials were of Faraskhana police station where the murder case has been registered. “They had taken a private car from here to find the woman in relation with the man arrested in the murder case. They had local assistance and got dispersed in the process of finding her and the car was vandalised. Nobody was hurt in the attack,” said Satish Govekar, assistant commissioner of police, Faraskhana division of Pune police. The car being vandalised was a Tota Innova registered in Pune. In two separate videos that have emerged on social media, the vandalism of the car and the attack on the police officials is visible. At a distance of a few meters from the car, a group of young men can be seen kicking a man, suspected to be from the Pune police team, who is on the ground. “Ghaziabad police has taken immediate action on the incident with the Maharashtra police team that was here to find/arrest the accused in a serious case in the jurisdiction of Nandgram police station on May 10 by registering a case under the strictest sections, and arresting the six accused,” read the direct translation of a tweet by Ghaziabad police in Hindi. The cost of damages caused to the car, which had damaged glasses and bonnet, could not be verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-team-attacked-in-ghaziabad-up-101620750267045.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Fashion designer alleges rape by Delhi man||A Pune based fashion designer alleged that she was raped by a 28-year-old man from Delhi, police officials said on Tuesday. According to the First Information Report (FIR) registered at Chandan Nagar police station in Pune, the alleged incident had occurred on February 26 night at a hotel in Pune after the accused forced the 23-year woman to eat sweets laced with drugs. The police have registered a case under section 376 of IPC and under the Information Technology Act, 2000. Pune police have also booked three more persons, including two women, for allegedly blackmailing the victim and circulating her objectionable photos and videos. The complainant alleged the accused extorted gold jewellery from her, police said. According to police inspector Sunil Thopte, the police have not made any arrest so far due to Covid-19 situation in Delhi.As per the FIR, the woman, who hails from Latur, is currently staying in Pune where she is pursuing a computer software course and also working as a fashion designer. “All the four accused are residents of Delhi. The victim came into contact with a man on Instagram in February this year, who introduced her to a woman,” said Thopte. The woman, who is also an accused in the case, in turn, introduced the victim to the main accused and told her that he works as a lawyer in the Delhi High Court. The victim later went to Delhi on the invitation of the main accused and the woman for sightseeing, the FIRstated.However, she left Delhi abruptly on February 17 after the main accused proposed a marriage. “Later, he and his friend hired a car to travel to Pune from Delhi to meet the victim. On their request, she even arranged for their stay in Kharadi area of the city,” the official said. On the night of February 26, the main accused forced the complainant to eat some sweets after having dinner at a hotel following which she fell unconscious and raped her, the FIR stated. He later threatened her and also assured a marriage. He forced the victim to come to Goa where he raped her again, it said.The accused also took money from her under various pretexts. The complainant later came to know that the main accused was married with a son. As per the FIR, the accused sent her objectionable photos and videos to the victim’s family members and friends when she warned them of filing a police complaint. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fashion-designer-alleges-rape-by-delhi-man-101620750207001.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Centre praise ‘Pune model’ for drop in Covid positivity rate||Pune: On Tuesday during a media briefing, the health ministry praised Mumbai and Pune model which have successfully brought down the positivity rate. Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry said the model helped drop the positivity rate from 41.8% to 23.4%. The district reported 7,665 Covid cases and 43 deaths due to the infection, on Tuesday, according to the state health department. The district’s progressive count went up to 0.938 million of which 0.832 million and 10,160 deaths have been declared due to the infection. Currently, 95,731 are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 2,581 new cases which took the final count to 463,524 and with 18 more deaths, the toll went up to 5,889. PCMC reported 1,441 new cases which took the total to 227,235 and with two more deaths the toll went up to 1,532. Pune rural reported 3,643 new cases which took the total to 247,715 and with 23 more deaths the toll went up to 2,681. Praising the Pune model, the health ministry stated that the model has worked effectively to bring down the positivity rate. Agarwal said, “The way in which Pune contained the upsurge of Covid-19 cases drew praise from the ministry, as a fine example that shows how containment measures can help restrict the spread of the disease. When Pune witnessed a 69.7% case positivity rate in the first week of March 2021, it started measures like night curfew, imposed from 11 pm. to 6 am. This resulted in two things, reduction in growth trajectory of Covid cases and reduction in positivity rate, as positivity rate reduced from 41.8% to 23.4 %. We have observed that strict measures like restrictions on mass gatherings and on intermingling of people along with closing of non-essential activities for a period of 15 days reduce the rate of growth of cases and cases start plateauing.” Pune saw over 12,478 vaccinations on the day. Pune city reported 6,739 vaccinations, PCMC 1,560 and Pune rural saw 4,179 beneficiaries get the jab. Of the total vaccinations, 3,746 were of Covaxin and 8,732 of Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-praise-pune-model-for-drop-in-covid-positivity-rate-101620749967019.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Civic council worker seizes vegetables sold by his mother for flouting Covid restriction norms||Leading by example, a municipal council employee in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar district has seized vegetables being sold on a handcart by his mother in violation of the pandemic restrictions.A video of Rashid Shaikh seizing the vegetables placed on the handcart parked near his house in Pathardi town and dumping them in the municipal council vehicle has gone viral on social media."As the restrictions are in place due to Covid-19, vegetable vendors are supposed to sell their produce by moving from one place to another. They are not supposed to set the stall at one place or sit in the market," said Shaikh who works as a conservancy staff with the Pathardi municipal council.Shaikh said he had warned his mother who sells vegetables in advance about the rules."I had alerted my mother that all the vegetable vendors are supposed to sell their produce while on the move. During our drive, I found my mother had parked a handcart of vegetables outside our house in the main Bazar area. To send a stern message that violators will not be spared, I initiated the action and seized vegetables," said Shaikh.Shaikh, 36, is a member of a flying squad authorised to take action against traders and vendors who flout the lockdown rules.Pathardi Municipal Council Chief Officer Dhananjay Kolekar praised Shaikh for his act."After spotting his mother selling vegetables on a handcart outside their house during a drive, Shaikh seized vegetables. He has led by example," Kolekar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-civic-council-worker-seizes-vegetables-sold-by-his-mother-for-flouting-covid-restriction-norms-101620738403611.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Giving life back to Pune’s life-giving Mula-Mutha river||Once the heart of life and culture of Pune, the Mula-Mutha has now become a receptacle for solid waste, sewage, and encroachments. The life-supporting functions of the river are significantly reduced as it passes through Pune. The intention of the river rejuvenation programme must be to improve the health of the river as a natural entity. A healthy riverine ecosystem requires that its natural processes, flow regimes, and biodiversity be retained. CEE and the Ecological Society conducted a scientific study of the Mula-Mutha river to develop an approach for restoration of the river ecosystem. A summary of the key recommendations* are presented here. Riparian zone restoration The riparian zone, that is the banks and flood plains along the flowing body of water, is the most critical element for biodiversity. This zone is a refuge for fauna, and can improve water percolation and reduce soil erosion. Multiple past studies indicate reduction in species and populations of vegetation along the Mula-Mutha. The report recommends restoration addressing the segment-specific damage: From Warje, where the Mutha enters Pune, till Mhatre bridge: Removal of debris, and careful plantations of native vegetation mimicking the better segments of the river upstream, are recommended to restore the riparian zone. From Mhatre Bridge to the Sangam with the Mula: Channels constructed in the past have resulted in a severely-degraded ecosystem with low biodiversity. Removal of man-made hard channels and debris, and recreating the riverbank habitats are recommended. From Sangam and Naik Beyt till Mundhwa: The river has relatively better water-flow and lesser built-up structures. This was the segment that Salim Ali had wanted to declare as a bird sanctuary. The recommended approach here is: no further disturbance, let the river heal itself. Habitat creation Walls, sewage pipes and roads destroy natural habitats in the ecosystem. Physical features like potholes, sandy surfaces on the riverbed, boulder piles, are rich habitats for different types of flora and fauna. These must be restored or re-created using natural materials. Water quality Water quality is one the most important factors in river restoration. No untreated sewage should be discharged into the river. An adequate number of decentralised sewage treatment plants, rather than few large STPs, is a critical need. Measures to prevent truck-loads of debris and solid waste dumps into the river are also crucial. Household chemicals contribute to deterioration of the water quality. Natural alternatives to chemical domestic products such as soaps, shampoos, detergents must be promoted. Aquifers and hydrology A minimum (environmental) flow of water should be maintained throughout the year to sustain life in the riverine habitats. Streams such as Ambil Odha and Nagzari, and natural springs that feed the river should be restored along with the main river body. Increased concretisation of the cityscape has reduced the area of exposed soil, in turn reducing water percolation and ground water recharge. It is recommended to limit the impervious surfaces along the riverbanks and in areas of higher groundwater recharge. Flood control and encroachments Every year as flood intensity increases, the rejuvenation programme must recognise the regulatory functions of a healthy riverine ecosystem. No further construction should be permitted within the blue flood-lines. The banks must be conserved as riparian habitat. Constructions within the flood lines must be relocated and debris removed. Facilities for citizens Since historical times people have been using the river for their daily needs. Now, since the river needs rest for its restoration, the need is to re-integrate fragmented open spaces into a continuous riparian zone. Human activities may be judiciously managed in an eco-sensitive manner, instead of opening up a continuous public realm. Zones for grazing may be demarcated and fishing regulated to prevent over-exploitation. Dhobi ghats, vehicle and animal washing activities may be given alternative locations. Existing ghats, places of worship and heritage structures along the river may be repaired and cleaned up, keeping to the existing built-up space. Facilities such as gardens, riverside nature trails, properly-designed eateries may be planned at a few locations. The limited construction this would entail should take care to preserve the natural topography of the riverbank. The use of natural materials like mud bricks, lime, timber is preferred over the use of concrete. Manual labour, where feasible, is preferred over use of machines. Examples of innovative access barriers of natural hedges, board walks and zones for human use are presented in the report. The ecological approach to riverfront development of the Mula-Mutha river, proposed by these NGOs, suggests segment-specific conservation of natural elements including meanders, banks, wetlands, streams and springs. It balances between benign neglect, managed ecosystem restoration and human use. With Dr Swati Gole and Dr Gurudas Nulkar, Ecological Society*Full text and maps available at https://www.ecological-society.com/mula-mutha-riverfrontSanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-giving-life-back-to-pune-s-life-giving-mula-mutha-river-101620732867822.html
11-05-2021||Pune||Corporators accused of running pvt token system for vaccine drive; Pune mayor defends allegations||PUNE Even as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has increased the numbers of vaccination centres in the city, citizens and activists, allege that the entire vaccination process is being hijacked by corporators. Corporators, and their followers, are being accused of setting up a token system for those wanting to get jabs, especially for the second dose. The PMC has a total of 116 vaccination centres across the city. However, five wards have only one vaccination centre each, while all of the remaining wards have at least two centres each. Of these 116 centres, five are reserved for vaccination of those in the of 18-to-44 year age group. Corporators have provided basic support, such as chairs, covered waiting spaces, water and other necessary backup aid.Bhapu Kamble, a resident of Vimannagar said, “My wife and I took the first dose of Covishield on March 23. I got a message for the second dose due on April 20. I was trying to book an appointment and it did not happen. At the Viman nagar centre volunteers asked me to come at 7am for a token. I went continuously for three days to get a token, but did not get it. Finally, my son approached the local corporator’s office. He arranged for the vaccination without a token.” Citizens allege that tokens also go to party workers who bypass the queues.Mulrlidhar Mohol, mayor, said, “There is a lot of pressure on the PMC health staff. They have to take care of swab collection centres, crematoria management, and ambulance services. There is a lack of manpower to provide these facilities. Corporators are helping medical staff manage the crowds by distributing tokens. They also take care of senior citizens with seating, water and snacks.” Mohol added: “I appealed to all to avoid any irregularities with the vaccinations and to help PMC increase its vaccination numbers.” Haribhau Joshi, a resident of Kothrud said, “When I could not get an appointment for my second shot, one of my neighbours told me to approach my local corporator. I called the office, and he fixed my appointment without a token.”Suryakant Devkar, PMC’s assistant medical officer said, “Central government provides vaccines for 45+ and above and the state is getting vials for the age group of 18 to 44. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal takes the decision on how to distribute these to each centre. Normally, we distribute 100 doses to each centre. We hand it over to the ward medical officer.” Another medical officer, requesting anonymity, said after the mistreatment of two senior medical officials by public representatives, the morale of the staff is down. “We are feeling insecure and we don’t confront corporators or political parties. We just do our job of vaccinating people. We don’t bother who sends or recommends them. If we question them, they put pressure and mistreat us. ” Dr Abhijit Vaidya, founder and national president of the Arogya Sena said, “The rate of vaccination in the country is three per cent. Corporators are interfering. How can people take political advantage in this pandemic situation?”Prashant Jagtap, city president of the Nationalist Congress party (NCP) and corporator of Wanowrie, said, “Vaccination is controlled by the mayor, standing committee chairman and leader of the house in the PMC. They decide the slots. They are unevenly distributing vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/corporators-accused-of-running-pvt-token-system-for-vaccine-drive-mayor-defends-allegations-101620658038383.html
