12-05-2021||Pune||Two men arrested for online scam involving nude videos||Two men have been arrested in Rajasthan in a case involving at least 100 males, in the age group of 25 to 55 years, being duped in an online scam involving nude videos of the victims. The accused posed as women, befriended the victims and then solicited the nude videos, based on which the victims were then blackmailed. The duo have been arrested by the Rajasthan police following an investigation by a special squad under Pune DCP (Crime) Bhagyashree Navtake. Senior Inspector D S Hake, part of the probe, said police have found bank accounts, IP address and are in touch with the Rajasthan Police regarding the case. “We visited Rajasthan and our investigations revealed that they extorted and blackmailed their victims and took sums ranging between ₹3,000 and ₹25,000. Currently, the duo is in the custody of Bharatpur police in Rajasthan and after their investigation is complete, their custody will be given to the Pune cyber police. We have received 100 such complaints from different areas of Pune.” According tricksters used photos of women as their profile shots and chatted with victims. They then used a voice modulation software due to chat. “We are taking strong action in this case,” inspector Hake added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-men-arrested-for-online-scam-involving-nude-videos-101620840164515.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Govt officially issues order about cancellation of exam, questions on FYJC remain||Days after it made an announcement, the Maharashtra government officially issued a General Resolution (GR) on Wednesday stating that the Class 10 exam has been cancelled. However, the fresh announcement wasn’t clear about how and on what basis students will be admitted to FYJC course. In a recent survey by the Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT), 65 per cent students have said that they want a common entrance test for first year junior college (FYJC). The GR stated that the decision was taken to cancel the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination due to the ongoing pandemic. This GR also states that an independent decision will be taken regarding the evaluation of Class 10 students and the admission process for Class 11. Board officials noted that a common entrance test will be beneficial for students. “If internal mark assessment is used for admission for Class 11, the overall marking can be inflated by schools. To avoid this, the common entrance test would be fair and unbiased towards the students of state board as well as other boards,” said board officials. The survey conducted by Maharashtra SCERT saw the participation of over 3 lakh students from across Maharashtra. Around 65 percent students said that a common entrance test for class 11 would be beneficial to the students. SCERT deputy director Vikas Garad said that along with a survey to find out if students want a common admission test for class 11, principals from various schools were also asked to participate in a survey to understand how prepared they were for the internal assessment of students. “Around 17,487 schools have said that they are ready for internal assessment to evaluate students of Class 10. A total of 21,110 schools are there across Maharashtra,” said Garad. Prathmesh Kulkarni, a student of Class 10 said that the decision to cancel the examination is welcomed. “I think a common entrance test for class 11 will be a fair platform to evaluate all students ahead of their admissions. It will also help students who have studied hard and also students from other boards,” said Kulkarni. Education experts noted that though some students have given a positive response to the entrance test for Class 11, interest of students from rural parts of the state should also be kept in mind before the board takes the final decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/govt-officially-issues-order-about-cancellation-of-exam-questions-on-fyjc-remain-101620836503757.html
12-05-2021||Pune||SCERT’s new venture to provide students with app for reading practice||Under the ‘Right to Read’ program, the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Pune has developed an app for students which will enable them with the necessary tools required for English reading practice on their smartphones. This venture is an extension of the ‘Right to Read’ initiative which was started in 2018 when the Government of Maharashtra, Schoolnet and EnglishHelper signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU). Under this MoU, the Right to Read program was implemented in 65,000 government schools in the state. This technology-driven method enables students to enhance their reading skills in English. Vikas Garad, SCERT deputy director said that this ‘Right to Read’ initiative has reached over 20,000 schools in Maharashtra. “Of the 65,000 government schools, we were successful in reaching over 20,000 schools in the state. Some schools had technical challenges and sometimes needed to sort them and reach the children. However, since 2020, schools have been shut and online education has begun,” said Garad. As a result, students could not reach out to schools for technical needs like computers and required software to take assistance from this initiative during the pandemic. “In order to address this issue, the NGO has come up with an app or application that every student can access. These will help the students access all the required things on their phone,” said Garad. SCERT is yet to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to start this. “We have all the required documents in place and soon we shall sign a MoU so that students across Maharashtra can access this application and learn to read English better. After signing the MoU, students can access this application free of cost,” said Garad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/scerts-new-venture-to-provide-students-with-app-for-reading-practice-101620835663634.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Man opens fire outside NCP MLA Anna Bansode’s office||A man was detained by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for firing a gunshot outside the office of Anna Bansode, legislator from Pimpri and a member of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Wednesday. A suspect named Tanaji Pawar has been detained by the police. The shot was fired outside Bansode’s office in the vicinity of Chinchwad railway station around 1pm. “The shell was found outside the office. We have seized his weapon and are investigating further,” said Ratan Kavade, assistant commissioner of police, Pimpri division of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The MLA was in his office when the shot was fired, according to the police. Further, the police procedure is ongoing as the police are investigating the man’s past history and possible reason for firing. A case will be registered at the Pimpri police station. “There’s a (garbage) contractor named Anthony and Tanaji Pawar is his supervisor. For the past 10 days my PA has been calling to employ two boys. While speaking with me and my PA, there was a verbal scuffle between them. Today he was in my office for 5-7 minutes after which he came out and directly started firing. I was close to the door of my office when he shot in my direction, but a boy named Sadik pushed his hand and it missed. He fired two shots before my men stopped him,” said Bansode. Two other men had accompanied Pawar, one of whom was also carrying a weapon, according to Bansode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-opens-fire-outside-ncp-mla-anna-bansode-s-office-101620835543542.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Mobile shop owner booked for molesting minor||A mobile shop owner was booked for molesting a seven-year-old under the guise of getting her thumb print for Aadhaar card registration. The man was identified as Pavan Suresh Kolapkar, a resident of Muktewadi area of Chakan. The incident happened at a shop where the man worked called ‘Raj Mobile’ in Vedant Sankul area of Khed, Pune. The woman was trying to get an Aadhaar card made for her daughter. The shop provided the service of registering. “The parents dropped the girl to the mobile shop to get her thumb print and (retinal scan done) and went to a nearby shop to get photo copies of some documents made. They returned in less than 10 minutes and found the man in the position,” said senior police inspector Ashok Rajput of Chakan police station. The man has, however, not yet been arrested. When asked about the validity of the private mobile store as an Aadhaar center, senior PI Rajput said, “That will be a part of the investigation whether they have the permit to make Aadhaar cards. There is a list of valid Aadhaar centres.” A case under Section 354 (assault or use of criminal force to any woman) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 1 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCOS) Act was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mobile-shop-owner-booked-for-molesting-minor-101620835423590.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Inoperative streetlights irk commuters on Bavdhan-Pashan rd||The deserted roads due to Covid restrictions in addition to total darkness due to the non-functioning of streetlights on Bavdhan-Pashan road has made travelling harder for essential service commuters. The streets lights are non-functional on the patch until it connects to NDA Pashan road where all the streetlights are working. “Those who travel every day, they are getting use to this road but yesterday one of the food delivery services’ people hurt himself as he could not see the divider on the road. It’s been more than 10 days that the streetlights are not functional,” said Nishant Tupe, a daily commuter on the road. A blocked portion of the road for metro work is adding to the commuters’ problems. “The worst I feel is that only one patch is facing such problem; the lights at NDA Pashan road are completely functional. The common people are facing a lot of problem,” said Deepak Jadhav, a resident on Bavdhan-Pashan road. With restrictions in place, the road has become more prone to accidents. “At 9pm, when I return home there are no passing of vehicles and darkness brings uneasy feeling while commuting,” said Nisha Dutt, a nurse and a resident of Bavdhan. A pizza delivery boy said, “We don’t visit this location every day, our many delivery boys are facing problems to commute whenever we have orders from residents of this road.” An official from PMC electronic department said, “Due to ongoing metro work at Chandani chowk, street lights are not functional. Work is under progress and all street lights will be functional in a few days. On both the sides, street lights will be functional and repair work is also going on the complete stretch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/inoperative-streetlights-irk-commuters-on-bavdhan-pashan-rd-101620835243503.html
12-05-2021||Pune||10-year-old apprehended for killing eight-year-old brother||A 10-year-old boy was sent to observation home for juveniles in Satara on Tuesday for killing his eight-year-old brother in Naygaon village of Khandala area of Satara on Monday. The parents, both in their 30s of the children are natives of Bidar, Karnataka and had moved to Satara to work in the fruit gardens of a Pune-based farmer. While the elder child is in Class 5, the younger one was in Class 3, according to the police. The animosity between the two brothers was caused by preferential treatment meted out to them by their parents, according to the police. “The parents in general trusted the younger one more than the elder one. They would trust the younger one with household responsibilities like maintaining keys. This made the elder one mad, according to his statement to us. Some days before the incident, there was a fire in their house. While we do not know how the fire started, the younger one was threatening to tell their parents that the elder one had started it. That had led to a fight between them,” said police inspector UR Hajare of Shirval police station in Satara. The younger boy picked up an axe from the nearby papaya garden and was walking towards their house when the elder boy assumed that he was coming to hit him, according to the police. The 10-year-old rushed towards the younger one and in the resultant struggle, the elder one hit the 8-year-old’s head with the flat end of the axe, according to the police. “There were fractures on his skull. After the first blow, he hit him few more times during the struggle. The axe fell on the ground and the 8-year-old fell near it. The elder one then pulled at the axe, and it left a deep gash on the 8-year-old’s throat, which must have killed him,” said PI Hajaze. The series of events happened around 25-30 meter away from the house where they lived. When their parents returned in the evening, they looked for the younger one and found his body and the axe at a distance from his body. The body was at the edge of a fruit garden and the trees had not grown more than 3-4 feet long, according to the police. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the child at Shirval police station of Satara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10yearold-apprehended-for-killing-eight-year-old-brother-101620835123463.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Noble cause: Pune contractor builds rly ramp||Pune: The ramp built to offload four liquid oxygen tankers from a track of Loni railway station early Wednesday morning was built in record four days by a private railway contractor. The “Oxygen Express” arrived from Odisha as the state government sought aid from other states for oxygen supply. Mallikarjun Bankapure from Loni, private contractor for railways, erected the ramp for free. “It is a noble cause. Generally, the cost of setting up such a ramp is ₹5 lakh. As we are in grip of Covid-19, we all should do our bit to ease difficulties faced by citizens,” Bankapure said. “As we got to know about the tankers arriving at the Loni railway station, as per the instruction from railway officials we started our work four days ago. We had to level the surface to the height of tracks, 1.3 meter, by putting six layers of solid mix of mud and rocks,” he said. The private contractor said that the work included fabrication for stopper that was carried out within the given time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/noble-cause-pune-contractor-builds-rly-ramp-101620835063474.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Man duped relative of ₹50,000 for procuring Tocilizumab||A man was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for cheating his relative of ₹50,000 under the pretext of providing them with Tocilizumab injection used for treatment of Covid-19 infection. The arrested man was identified as Anuj Sopan Naikare (31), a resident of Yamuna nagar in Nigdi. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Anil Govind Thombre (47), a tax consultant living in Thomas Colony area of Dehuroad, according to the police. Thombre’s nephew Rohit Bhosale (22) was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection at Shubhashri hospital when the hospital asked the family to arrange for the drug. The arrested man offered to source the drug which he told the complainant was priced at ₹50,000, according to the complainant. Thombre handed him ₹50,000 on April 29 after which Naikare failed to bring the drug as well as return the money. The police have arrested him on Tuesday. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dehuroad police station. Assistant police inspector Prasad Gajjewar of Dehuroad police station is investigating the case. “We have arrested him. He is in police custody till tomorrow (Thursday),” said senior police inspector Vilas Sonde of Dehuroad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-duped-relative-of-rs-50-000-for-procuring-tocilizumab-101620834943474.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Odisha’s “Oxygen express” rolls into Pune; then headed to Nagpur and Nashik||A train from Angul, Odisha, carrying oxygen, arrived in Pune at the Loni railway station on Tuesday night. Oxygen supply for critical Covid patients has been in short supply in the city. The state government sought aid from other states and this oxygen supply is also destined for Nagpur and Nashik. The Pune railway division has geared up preparations at three of railway stations - Loni, Khadaki and Gur Market railway station in Kolhapur., where oxygen containers will be unloaded. The “oxygen express” first stop is Pune. “We have made all the arrangements at Loni railway station. A special ramp has been made, from where the tankers will be unloaded. We are in continuous touch with the train and it left Bhusawal at 2.40 pm. This is the first train carrying oxygen coming to Pune,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/odishas-oxygen-express-rolls-into-pune-then-headed-to-nagpur-and-nashik-101620821203021.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Applying for travel e-pass? Do not make these five mistakes||The number of applications for travel e-passes rejected by the Pune police is more than double the number of passes granted so far, since the system was reinstated - 1,11,243 e-pass applications received until May 11 - 28,698 e-passes granted through covid19.mhpolice.in portal What to watch for1) Applicants do not provide identification for all people travelling. 2) Medical fitness certificate or a negative Covid-19 test report within 72 hours of testing not provided. 3) Documents supporting reason for travel not attached: medical certificate, wedding invitation, death certificate or graveyard registration, hospital note or appointment letter or hospital admission-related documents 4) Clear copy of required documents to be attached in PDF format; copies cannot be blurred or not in PDF format. 5) People who need to undertake air travel will be granted e-passes if they attach their air tickets along with their applications E-pass team 1 inspector, 2 assistant inspectors, 2 sub-inspectors, and 20 staff members “Henceforth, citizens who have applied for e-pass and application has been rejected, can tweet doubts in @CPPUNECITY. In case of any doubts, mention in the tweet token number issued upon application and application will be reviewed.” - Pune police statement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/applying-for-travel-e-pass-do-not-make-these-five-mistakes-101620821082725.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports over 7,000 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 933,516||Pune district reported 7,714 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking its Covid-19 count to 9,33,516, while 142 more patients died due to the infection, a health department official said.He said the death toll rose to 14,642 with 142 patients succumbing to the infection in the western Maharashtra district.Also, 3,486 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, the official said."Of the 7,714 cases, 2,404 were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation areas, where the count rose to 4,50,133. With 1,547 cases, Pimpri-Chinchwad's Covid-19 tally increased to 2,32,904," he said.The number of positive cases in rural and Pune Cantonment Board areas increased to 2,50,479, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-over-7-000-new-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-933516-101620757429212.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Pune hospitals claim rise in Mucormycosis cases; state to give free treatment||Hospitals in Pune are now claiming a rise in the number of Mucormycosis cases, the treatment for which is costly.Once a rare infection, Mucormycosis, commonly called the “black fungus” has now become an increasingly common complaint among patients who have recovered from Covid-19.In severe cases, the infection could lead to loss of eyesight and in rare cases, death.Hospitals are also finding it difficult to admit such patients due to the non-availability of beds for non-Covid patients.Sahyadri hospital is now seeing 40-50 black fungus cases a month across its four branches.Dr Kailash Sant, ENT specialist at Sahyadri hospital said, “We are seeing an increasing number of cases from all over and the interiors of Maharashtra coming to Pune for treatment. Those who have recovered from Covid-19 should be vigilant as post-Covid Mucormycosis has become a cause of concern in the second wave. The mortality rate is almost 50% where the brain is involved and about 20% in nasal and orbital involvement. Judicious use of steroids in treatment of Covid-19 and strict control over blood glucose levels can bring down the risk of Mucormycosis.”Doctors at Noble, where a patient underwent reconstructive surgery after losing his eye two weeks ago, said hospital has seen about 40 cases in the last one month alone.Dr Abhishek Ghosh, a microvascular reconstructive surgeon from Noble hospital who treated the patient, said, “From mid-March to mid-April, we saw six to seven cases. Recently, in the last 30 days we have seen 30 to 40 cases of Mucormycosis. Around 80 per cent of people do well post treatment. Because of increased awareness, we are able to save a patient’s eyesight, as they are coming at early stages. Early diagnosis and treatment are critical in saving vision and life in such patients.”Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble hospital said, “We are not able to admit more non-Covid19 patients due to unavailability of beds, but we are seeing a rising number of such patients.”Ruby hall has about 15 such patients currently undergoing treatment. Also Rising Medicare hospital, Symbiosis Lavale hospital, Rao Nursing home and Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital are all treating black fungus cases.Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director, Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital said, “Currently there are three cases of Mucormycosis under treatment and we have seen 10 cases which came in in just the last two months. We also saw two deaths due to the infection.”District administration does not have a count on how many such cases have been reported in the city. District health officer Dr Bhagwan Pawar said, “We do not have any such number on how many reported cases of Mucormycosis. However, the district task force has sent out an advisory to government hospitals to take all necessary precautions and seek administrative help when required.”Free treatment for Mucormycosis: Tope In view of the costly treatment, the state government has decided to include expenses under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. “The treatment for Mucormycosis is costly. So the government has decided that Mucormycosis patients will be treated for free under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana,” said Maharashtra health Minister Rajesh Tope speaking to reporters in Mumbai.According to the health minister, 2,000 cases have been reported and eight people have died of this infection in the state so far. “We are making special wards for these patients. An awareness campaign to educate people about the infection will also be organised while government is planning to procure drugs to treat the infection,” Tope said.“The incidence of Mucormycosis among corona patients with uncontrolled diabetes is on the rise and the state government has decided to procure 0.1 million injectable vials effective against the disease. A request has been made to Haffkine Institute for the same and the procurement process will be carried out by issuing a tender,” he said.The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter welcomed the government decision to offer free treatment for Mucormycosis.“It is known that this fungal infection of Mucormycosis is common in diabetics and in cases of Covid-19 treated by injudicious use of steroids. We, at IMA are making our members aware of the above facts and training them in proper treatment. We are sure that the government will show a similar proactive approach,” stated IMA in a press release issues on Tuesday.Mucormycosis – keep black fungus at bayInfection mainly affects people who have health problems or take medicines that lower the body’s ability to fight germs and sickness, commonly known as low-immunity status or immune compromised individuals.Early signs include headache, facial numbness, nasal stuffiness, reduced vision, vision loss, inability to open the eye and redness in the eye.If you notice any symptoms, immediately visit doctor for diagnostic nasal endoscopy examination. Mucormycosis is seen in the deep areas of the nose and sinuses (as blackish discoloured mucosa), which may not be visualised by conventional methods of nose examination.Early diagnosis with MRI &CT scan of nose, sinuses, jaw bones, orbit and brain will formulate treatment protocol.This will include early administration of antifungal drugs, tight control of blood sugar level , plus timely intervention by endoscopic radical debridement surgery to reduce fungal load from sinuses.Treatment consists of tight control of blood sugar levels (daily basis) and maintaining normal function of kidneys and other organs.However in instances where the disease is detected late and involves eye/ jaw bones, extensive surgery may be the only choice and can result in disfigurement of face.In some cases the treatment may involve a multidisciplinary approach and involve a physician, diabetologist, infectious disease expert, microbiologist, ENT endoscopy surgeon, eye surgeon, oral surgeon, neuro physician, nephrologist and neurosurgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-hospitals-claiming-rise-in-number-of-black-fungus-cases-state-to-give-free-treatment-for-mucormycosis-condition-101620744686687.html
12-05-2021||Pune||Lockdown has cost MSRTC ₹50 crore since April, with only 7 buses on the road||PUNE The state-wide lockdown has severely affected public transport with the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s (MSRTC) Pune division running a loss of at least ₹50 crore so far, since April. Daily, not more than seven buses are running across the Pune division. Daily income which was ₹1 crore per day, pre-lockdown, is now at Rs1 lakh per day. “As the statewide lockdown started the number of daily passengers travelling on MSRTC buses from Pune division has been decreasing. Before lockdown, from the Diwali period last year till the end of March we had gained momentum, and through our 750 daily bus operations, daily income had reached ₹1 crore. Then it started dropping in April,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, divisional controller, MSRTC Pune. “The buses that run are mostly between Pune and Mumbai for emergency services. Daily income has gone down to around ₹1lakh. Also, buses have been converted into goods’ carriers the state as per orders,” added Gaikwad. There are three major ST stands in Pune city, at Swargate, Wakdewadi and Pune railway station. Mahesh Sarnaik, secretary of the state ST bus passengers’ forum said, “Due to the strict restrictions in the state, police e-pass is compulsory to travel inter- district. Those in an emergency should also allowed to travel by MSRTC. Some restrictions need to be relaxed so people can travel taking all the necessary safety precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lockdown-has-cost-msrtc-rs-50-crore-since-april-with-only-7-buses-on-the-road-101620742286482.html
