14-05-2021||Pune||Mobile thief arrested in Narangibaug||The Pune police crime branch arrested a mobile thief from Narangi Baug area of the upscale Bund Garden area of the city. Acting on a tip off that the accused was on his moped standing at a location in Narangibaug, a team of crime branch sleuths of unit II laid a trap and arrested the accused. He has been identified as Prabhakar Ramesh Singh (21), a resident of Tadiwala road and five stolen mobiles have been recovered from him in person. According to the investigators, the mobiles were stolen from shops located in Bund Garden, Koregaon Park, Market Yard and Lonikand areas of the city. Singh drove a two-wheeler without a number plate while targeting the shops for mobile theft so that he could not be caught by in surveillance cameras and also wore a cap. Police inspector Mahendra Jagtap is the investigating officer in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mobile-thief-arrested-in-narangibaug-101621009199527.html
14-05-2021||Pune||UGC grants autonomy to Garware College||Maharashtra Education Society’s Garware College of Commerce has been conferred an autonomy by the University Grant Commission (UGC) in the month of February 2021. The autonomy status will be for a period of 10 years (2021-22 to 2030-31). The college received an official letter on Friday from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) confirming the status. Currently, around 3,000 students seek education in Maharashtra Education Society’s Garware College of Commerce. It offers BCom, MCom, BBA (CA), BBA. (IB) courses, as well has as a PhD research centre in the Commerce section. The entrepreneurship development cell, the placement cell, and the commerce lab are the USPs of the college. Due to its continuous student-centric approach, the college in its third cycle of accreditation has bagged ‘A’ grade from NAAC, Bengaluru. It has also won the ‘Best College award’ from the SPPU. Autonomy will help the college offer additional career-oriented courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ugc-grants-autonomy-to-garware-college-101621009139550.html
14-05-2021||Pune||SPPU exploring option of open-book exams||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has begun making major changes in the format of the second semester examination which is scheduled to be held soon. One of the main proposals is to have an ‘open-book exam’ for this semester. The decision will be taken in the SPPU’s board of examination meeting to be held on Saturday. The first semester examination is being held in online mode for students from first to last year of all the courses. The exam is conducted of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method in online mode. The university’s own SPPU Edutech foundation company is conducting this exam. While going forward with the second semester exams, other alternative options to conduct exams are been explored by SPPU. Despite the use of proctored test method, there are many cheating cases found in the first semester exams. It was found that students were using other electronic gadgets and internet surfing to give answers in the online exams. Many students have got high marks suddenly, so to make the examination more transparent, new alternatives of conducting the exams are being evaluated. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “As the new technology is upgraded, we also need to change the ways of examination. The number of students appearing for the online exams has increased and even the passing percentage has increased drastically. Also, we have found that the number of cheating cases has increased during the first semester. So, we are now going to look for some other alternatives for exam like open book exams for the second semester exams. The final decision will be taken in the meeting which will be held on Saturday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-exploring-option-of-open-book-exams-101621009079651.html
14-05-2021||Pune||Maratha leaders hopeful after Centre files review petition||After the Central government filed a review petition in the Supreme Court (SC) over the Maratha community reservation verdict, Maratha outfits are hoping to get some relief. Vinayak Mete, Shiv Sangram party leader held a press conference today at Patrakar Bhavan and expressed his views over the new development. “We had filed the petition on behalf of Shivsangram organisation over the 102nd constitutional amendment in the SC and made the Central government party in it. While the central government’s attorney general was personally present and he submitted the affidavit, it was mentioned that even after the 102nd constitutional amendment it is possible to give reservation to a certain section of the society,” said Mete at the press conference. “Taking support of the Shivsangram petition, the Central government has submitted their review petition in the SC. While the state government has done nothing over it and the current Mahavikas Aghadi government is just fooling people. The leaders from all the three parties are only creating drama, confusing the Maratha community and not doing anything in terms of legal fight. Due to the fear that the Maratha community will come on the roads, the state-wide lockdown was extended until May-end,” added Mete. While on May 18, the Shivsangram organisation along with other Maratha organisations is going to protest all over the state outside the district collector and Tehslidar offices which will be called as ‘Ishara Nivedan protest’ and after the lockdown is over, from June 1 to 5 the first huge public protest of Maratha community will be organised in Beed. Maratha outfits will hold a press conference in view of the Centre filing a review petition in the Supreme Court on Maratha reservation. Centre has filed a review petition in the SC challenging its verdict over the 102nd constitutional amendment saying that the amendment has done away with the powers of the state concerning the reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maratha-leaders-hopeful-after-centre-files-review-petition-101621006019337.html
14-05-2021||Pune||No delivery of vehicles on auspicious Akshaytritiya, customers, dealers unhappy||Due to strict lockdown restrictions in the state, all non-essential shops are closed which has impacted the sale of vehicle deliveries on Akshaytritiya, considered to be an auspicious day to bring home a new vehicle. In 2020, there was a similar situation where both the day of Gudhi Padwa and Akshaytritiya went without the sale of new vehicles. This has made showroom dealers and agents furious as their business is completely down. Even the people who had booked their vehicles and were only waiting to take the delivery on these auspicious days are now angry over the delay. “I had booked the car a month back and had planned to take the delivery on Akshaytritiya but suddenly these new lockdown restrictions came, and everything stopped. Our entire family is waiting to take the delivery of our car and hope that these showrooms are allowed to give the deliveries out,” said Mihir Purandare, an IT professional. Even last year when there was a complete lockdown across the country, the two dates of major festivals were missed and there was huge pendency of vehicle deliveries. Similar situation has occurred this year too, when both these days again went into lockdown restrictions and people didn’t receive their vehicle deliveries. A four-wheeler showroom manager who wanted to be anonymous said, “We are receiving calls daily from our customers who have booked the vehicle and demanding for delivery. But as we cannot open the showroom as it is not allowed legally, we tell them to wait till the lockdown is lifted. Still if anyone wants the delivery immediately, we gave them an option to take it directly from our go down without registration.” While the resale cars market is also down and there are no deliveries done this festive period. Atula Jain, owner of Jain Motors said, “All the cars which we got for sale are lying inert and there is no business for us due to the lockdown. We cannot open the shop legally, customers can’t come to choose the cars and no business is being done. The state government should now give some relaxations to do business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-delivery-of-vehicles-on-auspicious-akshaytritiya-customers-dealers-unhappy-101621004099283.html
14-05-2021||Pune||PMC to float global tender next week for Covid vaccine||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to float a global tender next week to procure Covid vaccines for Pune similar to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). After BMC floated a global tender for vaccines, politics over vaccine procurement began in the city. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader of the house in PMC Ganesh Bidkar made allegations that the state government was not allowing the PMC to float a global tender. PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar clarified that there was no need for the state government’s permission. Despite the clarification, Bidkar wrote a letter to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to allow the global tender. Pawar clarified in a press conference that there was no need for the PMC to seek the state government’s permission to float a global tender. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We have started the process of floating a global tender. The administration is studying the tender documents of BMC. After finalizing the term and condition of global tender, we will float the tender. It will take almost a week. We will try to float the tender next week. In the first phase, we need at least 25 lakh doses.” He further said, “We sent a letter to the city-based Serum Institute to directly purchase vaccines from them. I sent a letter to Serum through e-mail and also spoke to senior officials of the institute. However, they haven’t given any confirmation till date. The city needs vaccines either from the global market or from Serum Institute, what is first, we are ready to procure it.” Aba Bagul, Congress leader in PMC said, “The citizens want vaccines. PMC should have to purchase vaccines from companies or float a global tender. I appealed to all party leaders that don’t politicise vaccination drives. There are lots of issues to take political advantage but spare the vaccine issue and save lives. It is public money and used for their welfare.” Prashant Jagtap, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city president said, “BJP is politicising the vaccine issue. At present, people need vaccines and not politics. When the state and PMC commissioner is saying there is no need to take permission from the state or central government, BJP has highlighted the issue. Now, it has been cleared that no permission is required for the global tender process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-float-global-tender-next-week-for-covid-vaccine-101621004039250.html
14-05-2021||Pune||JICA tender process affected due to lockdown, date extended||The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) funded pollution abatement of Mula-Mutha river project’s estimate cost has reached ₹1,511 crore and now the tender process has also been delayed due to lockdown. The PMC has extended the tender of the JICA project to May 31, 2021. Jagdish Khanore, project head of JICA said, “The tender documents selling date has been extended up to May 31. The actual last date was March 30, 2021. However, due to the pandemic induced lockdown, there are restrictions on movement. Bidders requested the PMC to extend the date of selling documents.” He further said, “Most of the bidder companies are outside the Pune city and they are facing a problem to get documents. The process of the tender is an offline process.” The project was sanctioned by the Central government under the National River Conservation plan (NRCP) in2015.The actual project cost was ₹990.26 crore. However, due to delays, the estimated cost has gone to ₹1,511 crore. Under the JICA project, the PMC will construct 11 new sewage treatment plants (STPs) in different parts of the city to reduce the pollution of Mula-Mutha. The project will create an additional treatment capacity of 396million litres per day (MLD) over the existing treatment capacity of 477 MLD, laying of 113.6 kms of sewer lines and renovation/rehabilitation of four existing intermediate pumping stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jica-tender-process-affected-due-to-lockdown-date-extended-101621003799226.html
14-05-2021||Pune||College students seek fee reduction due to pandemic situation||Pune: With the next academic year to start soon, many undergraduate and graduate students in Pune have sought the intervention of state education authorities and college management to reduce admission and college fees. Like last year, the students are worried that lockdowns and restrictions have severely hit the financial condition of their families and reducing college education expense is the only way forward for them to continue their studies. “I completed my graduation in Science last year and took a year-long gap due to Covid-19 pandemic. I am planning to take admission for post-graduation this year, but the fees for some courses in private universities and colleges are too high. The state education department should take steps to make college education possible for those from all economic strata,” said students Ketaki Ghanekar. Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will start the second semester from next month. While the exams are taken online due to the Covid situation, admission for new courses will start by August. Kuldeep Ambekar, student and president of Students Helping Hand organisation, said, “Many students come from rural areas and cannot afford fees because of their economic situation. Some have to leave their studies because they cannot pay fees. We have written to the education department to address the issue.” Pratik Mhaske said, “I have completed my diploma in Computer Science and want to purse a graduation degree. I did not take admission last year due to Covid pandemic, but the fees for courses this year is high.” Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar said, “The Covid pandemic has hit education with many students struggling to pay fees. We have received request from students on reducing fees or waiver, but the final decision lies with the state higher education department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/college-students-seek-fee-reduction-due-to-pandemic-situation-101621001699177.html
14-05-2021||Pune||Step up vaccination to protect children in possible third Covid wave, say experts||As vaccination has been stopped for the 18-44 years age group from Thursday in Pune city, medical experts note that if elders do not follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, children may be at more risk. With predictions of the third wave of Covid being more dangerous to children, doctors have suggested that parents and grandparents should get vaccinated as soon as possible to keep the children safe.Dr Dnyaneshwar Mote, a member of the Pune city Covid task force for social action, said that the age group of 18 to 44 years should be a priority to vaccinate.“The beneficiaries in this age group usually go outside for work and other essential things, so the chances of them getting infected is more. Beneficiaries in this age group are also working professionals. Many families depend on them financially. In such cases, they should be the priority,” said Dr Mote.Dr Maheshkumar Lakhe, consultant, Internal Medicine and Infectious Disease, Columbia Asia Hospital, Pune, said that ceasing the vaccination of young people between 18 and 44 years of age, people who are mobile, largely asymptomatic in the second wave, and more likely carriers and transmitters of the virus, can pose a threat of infection to both elderly and children.“Considering that most of the elderly people have received both the doses of their vaccines as their inoculation started early and that no vaccine in India is approved for children yet, makes the latter more vulnerable to contracting the infection from their parents,” he said.“People aged less than 45 years can have children as young as a newborn or a toddler who are far less immune to a novel virus than a teenager or an adult. It is important to step up universal adult vaccination against Covid-19 urgently as global experience indicates a possible third wave that has affected children more, especially in the European countries, vaccinating adult people as much as possible is the best way to safeguard our children from the virus until we have vaccines suitable for them,” said Dr Lakhe.Dr Aarti Kinikar, head of the paediatric department of the Sassoon General Hospital said that parents and grandparents should follow strict Covid appropriate behaviour.“Due to shortage of vaccines, there is a delay in inoculating beneficiaries between 18 to 44 years of age. However, this should not deter beneficiaries who are 45 years and more from getting their jab. Also, Covid appropriate behaviour is a must for all to keep children safe,” said Kinikar.‘Increase gap between two doses of Covishield’On Thursday, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), a central government panel, suggested increasing the gap between two doses of Covishield. As per the recommendations by the panel, the second dose of Covishield should be taken between 12 to 16 weeks. Earlier, this gap was four to eight weeks. The panel, however, did not suggest any change of time for the second dose of Covaxin.The NTAGI recommendations will be sent to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/step-up-vaccination-to-protect-children-in-possible-third-covid-wave-say-experts-101620989220486.html
14-05-2021||Pune||Rural Pune hot spots put on alert to control Covid spread||On the evening of May 10, an auto rickshaw with a loudspeaker rode through the Bhigwan village making an announcement that the residents knew was coming: a complete lockdown starting from the midnight of May 12. Bhigwan, a business hub in Indapur tehsil located on the Pune-Solapur highway, and known for its fish market, had just come out of a Janta curfew, which was far stricter than the curbs imposed by the state government on April 15. In this Janta curfew, only medical shops were permitted to remain open. Bhigwan is among the 107 villages of Pune district that were recently put on a first-of-its-kind list brought out by the Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune’s district collector, on May 7. The list categorised the hot spots as “alert” (the caseload was high and not reducing) and “high alert” (the caseload was high and increasing). Bhigwan was among the former and at least 159 villages and/or municipal councils made it to the latter. On May 11, Pune district recorded 7,714 new Covid-19 cases and almost 48% came from villages and municipal councils. Though the state government has imposed strict curbs, at least four of the 15 tehsils in Pune district (Baramati, Bhor, Maval and Indapur) have imposed week-long complete lockdowns last week. “The number of cases has been going down in Pune district. In Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, cases have reduced. But in the rural parts, the number of cases is high. So, containment planning has been done in rural areas. Aggressive testing is going on and emphasis has been given on early detection and isolation. With these measures, cases will come in control in rural areas,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. As cases began to surge in Maharashtra starting February -- it remained the most affected state in the country for most of March and April – the spread of Covid-19 hit both densely populated urban centres as well as rural parts of the state which have little access to health care infrastructure. However, even as cases seem to have come under control in urban centres like Mumbai, the positivity rate in rural parts of the state have shot up in the last few weeks. For instance, rural Pune reported a test positivity rate of 28.07% compared to PMC, the district’s urban centre, which reported 18.18% positivity rate in the week of May 3-9. PMC which has the highest number of confirmed cases in the district started to show a downward trend of positive cases from the third week of April. In the first 12 days of May, 47,542 new positive cases were recorded in rural Pune; by comparison, 32,546 new cases were recorded in PMC and 26,303 new cases recorded in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Even if we were to take recoveries into account, out of 88,851 active cases in the district on May 12, PMC recorded 27,014, PCMC recorded 20,869, while rural parts of the district recorded 39,529. Pandurang Salavade, the sarpanch (village head) of Dorlewadi village in Baramati tehsil (an “alert village”) expressed shock at the severity of the second wave. “There have been 185 cases in Dorlewadi [till date]. During the first wave, we registered 30-35 cases in the village. There were no deaths. This time, there have been 12 deaths, all in May. The entire village is terrified and is seriously following lockdown rules,” he said. Shubhangi Nale is an ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) member in Dorlewadi. One of the tasks assigned to her at the start of the pandemic was to survey 50 families every day to detect early the onset of the Covid-19 infection. She was also tasked to monitor symptoms of Covid patients in home isolation and, since the beginning of this year, to spread awareness about the vaccination drive to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Nale said that last year she didn’t fear for her life, but this time around, the speed at which the infection has spread is terrifying to her. “I have been working as Asha worker since 2009 and it is a completely different experience working in Covid pandemic. I was not scared of working last year. This time I am afraid of the way the virus is spreading. I can’t work from home. I have to go and interact with people. Most of the time we don’t even know that the other person has contracted the virus. I am taking more precaution this time,” Nale said. Many villagers were lax about wearing masks and often visited weekly markets without maintaining physical distance. “It has been a year since the pandemic has begun. Why people haven’t adopted basic behaviour required to fight this disease is beyond me,” Nale said. The health infrastructure in rural parts is under pressure to accommodate the caseload in the second wave. There are 56 hospitals and Covid Care Centres with 2,293 beds (1,190 oxygen beds; 137 ventilator beds), which serve all 14 municipal councils in the district; 138 hospitals with 5,911 beds (1,966 oxygen beds; 188 ventilators beds) must suffice for 1,866 smaller villages. But this isn’t evenly available. Dorlewadi has a population of 6,500. Most households do not have equipment like oxymeters and thermometers and if symptoms are identified, Nale tries hard to convince villagers to get tested. However, for that, they must visit Baramati, six kilometres away as there isn’t a testing centre in the primary healthcare centre in the village. If someone needs to be hospitalized, they must visit Baramati town. The administration has been trying to increase bed capacity and hire more medical professionals in order to improve the quality of treatment. “Our primary aim is early detection and early treatment. With this target we have shown results. We have hired additional medical personnel for Covid duty. We have continued the vaccination drive. There is a plan to build a pediatric hospital in each tehsil. Through CSR, the work to make oxygen plants operational has started at 17 places,” said Ayush Prasad, CEO Zilla Parishad-Pune. Work orders to install oxygen generation plants at 10 hospitals have been issued and ₹50.14 lakh funds have been secured through District Planning Committee funds for this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rural-pune-hot-spots-put-on-alert-to-control-covid-spread-101620931252462.html
14-05-2021||Pune||15 “phishers’ targeting US citizens busted in raid on Lonavla villa||PUNE The local crime branch of the Pune rural police busted a gang of 15 men who, inspired by the web series “Jamtara”, started an operation to dupe American citizens using phishing attacks.The 15 men were found in a villa in Indrayani Society, Waksai, Lonavla, in a late-night raid on Wednesday. The men had rented the property for ₹40,000 per month and had been duping American citizens using voicemails since the beginning of the first lockdown in the country, according to the police.The 15 people were identified as Abhinav Deepal Kumar; Babu Raju Singh; Abhishek Sanjay Singh; Mohammad Zama Akhtarhusain Mirzi; and Shantanu Sham Chhari, all residents of Mira road in Thane; Nilesh Yelji Patel; Shahid Shoeb Shaikh; Imtekhab Nijamuddin Sheikh; and Shailesh Sanjay Upadhyay, all residents of Malad, Mumbai; Ninad Nandlal Devlekar, a resident of Badlapur East in Thane; Rakesh Arun Jha, a resident of Mansarovar in Navi Mumbai; Deep Prince Chakravarty a resident of Nalasopara West in Thane; Vinod Subhashchandra Ray, a resident of Virar West, Thane; Gaurav Devendra Varma, a resident of Vikroli in Mumbai; and Vinayak Dhanraj Uchedar, a resident of Kandivali East, Mumbai, according to the police.“They are all Class 12 failures. They changed passwords and deleted some files when they realised that a raid was underway. We have no way of knowing exactly how many people they must have duped,” said senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of Pune rural police.The owner of the house was identified as Kaushal Jagdish Rajpurohit, who lives in a separate location in Lonavla.“The house owner was not in the house when we found these people. There were plants of ganja on the plot that he owns. So NDPS sections have been invoked,” said PI Ghanwat.A case under Sections 419 of Indian Penal COde, Section 66(c), 66, and 75 of the Information Technology Act, along with Section 8(c), 20(b)(ii), 20(a) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered at Lonavla rural police station on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/15-phishers-targeting-us-citizens-busted-in-raid-on-lonavla-villa-101620918350876.html
14-05-2021||Pune||Misuse of state funds for CSWs: Pune police arrest five||PUNE A week after HT reported how funds meant for sex workers (CSWs) as part of assistance offered by government during lockdown had been siphoned, Pune police arrested five persons in the case on Thursday. According to officials, an FIR has been filed against six persons, including three women from KayaKalp, an NGO. The complaint accuses the six of diverting the state funds. As per the complaint the accused took ₹10,000 out of every ₹15,000 they accessed, on the pretext of paying government officials. Dattawadi police arrested Gauri Gurang (32), a resident of Dhanakwadi; Savita Karishma Lashkare (26), and Sarika Lashkare (30), both residents of Yerawada; Amol Mali (25), and Mahesh Ghadsingh (20). The sixth suspect, identified with a last name as Sonawane, is currently not traceable, said police. “The accused were produced before the court which remanded them to police custody till May 17,” said assistant public prosecutor Kiran Bendhar. The state government had released ₹7.94 crore to be transferred to 5,296 bank accounts belonging to sex workers in Pune based on a Supreme Court order that victims of the flesh trade be compensated by the administration with provision of foodgrains and cash. The court ruled that no documentary proof must be taken from victims while delivering the welfare measures. HT reported that how part of funds went to the bank accounts of women not CSWs, living in Annabhau Sathe nagar, Tarawade vasti, and Mohammadwadi. “The Dattawadi police conducted an inquiry of 75 women and found out that 6,000 sex workers were eligible for the funds. We have spoken to 75 women who were not sex workers and yet, were paid this amount. We are now investigating the list provided by Kaya Kalp to see how many of the women registered are genuine sex workers,” said police inspector Krishna Indalkar, an investigating official in the case. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has also ordered n inquiry under sub-divisional magistrate Santosh Kumar Deshmukh. “I have spoken to 20 of the women that the police inquired into and they all pointed to an individual running an Aids control organisation. We are preparing the data which will be presented to the collector on Monday,” said Deshmukh. Saheli Sangh, an NGO, and the National Network of Sex Workers (India), have meanwhile protested and condemned the corruption. “We have been conducting a rapid assessment survey among the 2,000-odd sex workers in Budhwar peth and so far, we have covered 358 women of which 138 are saying they did not receive the money even after submitting documents,” said Tejasvi Sevekari of Saheli Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-arrest-5-for-misappropriation-of-state-funds-meant-for-csws-101620916130808.html
