15-05-2021||Pune||NDRF deploys teams to Goa, Mumbai||In order to prepare and assist in the possible rescue and relief operations of cyclone Tauktae, the National disaster response force’s (NDRF) Pune unit has sent a team to Goa and three teams to Mumbai. “We have deployed three teams in Mumbai, one in Goa, and 14 teams are ready in Pune. These teams can be deployed in any part of the country in a short time. The cyclone is around 250-300km away from the western coastline. The possibility of it hitting Maharashtra will be either late night today or tomorrow morning. It is at quite a distance from Maharashtra. Therefore, the effect on Maharashtra’s coastal districts will be less. There may be wind and rainfall in some areas but to deal with this, the state government and NDRF are completely equipped,” said commandant Anupam Srivastav of NDRF. The teams left in the early hours of Saturday and is expected to have reached Goa by afternoon. “The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a weather forecast regarding pre-cyclone watch for south Gujarat and Diu coasts (Depression over Lakshadweep area). As per the forecast, it is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours and will possibly intensify further. It is very likely to move north-north-westwards and reach near Gujarat coast by May 18th morning and the warning has been issued for Lakshadweep Islands, Kerala, Tamil Nadu (ghat districts) and Karnataka (coastal and adjoining ghat districts),” read a press release by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) of India. IN Murthy, the operations official at corporate headquarters of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) in Delhi has directed all concerned airport officials to take measures. “Keeping safety in mind and to minimize damage to the airport infrastructure, airports are advised to plan as per as per the SoPs and guidelines. To safeguard the airport infrastructures, precautionary measures as per check lists for pre-cyclone and post-cyclone are being ensured by concerned airports,” read the PIB release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ndrf-deploys-teams-to-goa-mumbai-101621090144937.html
15-05-2021||Pune||10 per cent rise in PMC’s share for the Swargate-Katraj metro project||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will have to increase its financial share in the proposed underground Swargate-Katraj metro extension route. The PMC, which is already battling a shortage of revenue in light of the pandemic, will have to now contribute 15 per cent of the overall project cost. Earlier, the PMC was to contribute 5.44 per cent; however, the Centre has reduced its contribution. PMC Commissioner Vikram Kumar has now tabled a proposal in the standing committee to approve 15 per cent financial contribution for Swargate-Katraj Metro extension project, which is expected to be a major relief for those living on Satara road. The standing committee meeting scheduled next week is likely to discuss the proposal. While the total estimated cost of the project is ₹4,283 crore, PMC will have to contribute ₹733.85 crore in the project including ₹248.62 crore of land acquisition and rehabilitation cost. Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman said, “As per Central government directives, PMC will have to increase its share in the project.” In the existing Pune Metro project which is underway between Swargate to Chinchwad and Vanaz to Ramwadi, PMC’s financial contribution is only 10 per cent. As per Central urban development ministry officials, the union government has reduced their financial contribution and instructed PMC to contribute 15 per cent of the overall project cost.” Ulka Kalaskar, chief accountant officer of PMC said, “Earlier, the civic body was supposed to contribute only 5 per cent of the amount in the project. Now, our share has increased, and we will have to pay 15 per cent of the total project cost.” The administration has sought a nod to cancel the earlier (March 2021) proposal passed in the general body meeting earmarking 5.44 per cent on the total project cost, which was ₹233.00 crore for the land acquisition and rehabilitation purposes. The new proposal has now sought a standing committee nod for the increased allocation of ₹733.85 crore including ₹485.23 crore as 15 per cent financial contribution in the project and land acquisition and rehabilitation cost of ₹248.62 crore. A PMC official said, “During recent project monitoring meeting, Maha-Metro informed deputy chief Minister Ajit Pawar that centre is not going to give 20 per cent share in Swargate- Katraj project. After that deputy chief minister instructed PMC to increase its share. Now, PMC and state will contribute 15 per cent each and central will give 10 percent contribution. Remaining 60 per cent will be raised in the form of loan.”The PMC has also mentioned that they will not take any financial liability in the terms of state and Central government loans. Maharashtra Metro railway Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) will follow up with the state and Central government for implementation of the project. According to the Detailed Project Report (DPR) prepared by Maha Metro last year, the per kilometre cost of the metro line is estimated to be ₹783.85 crore. The 5.4 kilometre Swargate-Katraj stretch will be underground and will cost ₹4,283 crore. There will be four stations on the stretch, which is an extension of the Swargate-Nigdi line being developed by MahaMetro. -------------------------------------- Header: The Swargate-Katraj Metro Length of the proposed project-5.464 km- Estimated per kilometre cost - ₹783.85 crore- Total estimated cost of project - ₹4,283.72 crore Estimated cost for rehabilitation, resettlement and land acquisition- ₹248.62 crore Land required for the project: 19,350.733 sq. m Name of four stations *Swargate *Gultekdi (Market yard) *Sai baba Mandir *Katraj junction Expected footfall Year Footfall 2027 –95,000 2037 –158,000 2047 –187,000 2057-197,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10-per-cent-rise-in-pmc-s-share-for-the-swargate-katraj-metro-project-101621090083834.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Man cuts himself to evade arrest, booked for attempted suicide||A man was booked for attempted suicide for cutting himself to evade arrest by Pune police in the early morning hours of Friday. The man is identified as Billusingh Prabhusingh Taak (30), a resident of Dhangarvasti in Haveli. He is currently undergoing treatment at Sassoon General Hospital for the wounds caused during his attack on self and the fall from a motorbike that he suffered while running from the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by police naik Amit Babasaheb Salunkhe of Lonikalbhor police station. The parliament had passed the Mental Health Care Act in 2018 which states that “Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code any person who attempts to commit suicide shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, to have severe stress and shall not be tried and punished under the said code.” However, cases do get registered under Section 309 of IPC on multiple occasions. In fact, the use of hurting oneself to evade arrest is witnessed by police on multiple occasions. The police had gone to arrest him after he was identified as a suspect in a case under Section 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380 (theft in a dwelling house etc.,) Of the Indian Penal Code. The crime detection team of Lonikalbhor police station had set a trap near his house to arrest him in the theft case around 5am on Friday. The man realised the set-up and tried to flee from the police on a motorbike. However, he slipped and fell on the road along Urulidevachi Palkhi in Haveli. He fell near a field and started running in it. However, when he realised that the police were closing in, he used the knife in his possession and cut himself on his hands, neck, and stomach, according to the police. The case was registered against him under Section 309 (attempted suicide) of the Indian Penal Code at Lonikalbhor police station. While his relation to the Taak crime family of Ramtekdi, Hadapsar is not yet confirmed, this method of evading arrest is known to have been used by the criminals from Ramtekdi - Taak, Kalyani, and Dudhani families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-cuts-himself-to-evade-arrest-booked-for-attempted-suicide-101621090023841.html
15-05-2021||Pune||110 graduated medical cadets to join fight against Covid Armed Forces Medical Services||As many as 110 medical cadets, including 21 female cadets of the 55th (C3) batch of the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) were commissioned as medical officers into the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) on Saturday. The Passing out Parade (PoP) for commissioning AFMC Medical Cadets had to be called off for the first time since 1982 due to the prevailing Covid-19 restrictions. The medical cadets were commissioned by Lt Gen Nardeep Naithani, commandant AFMC, in a brief ceremony at AFMC. Among the 110 cadets, 94 Cadets were commissioned into the Army, 10 in the Indian Air Force, and six in the Indian Navy. The newly commissioned medical officers were administered oath of allegiance to the Constitution of India by Col AK Shakya, Col Training, AFMC. In his commissioning address, Gen Naithani congratulated the newly commissioned officers for joining the AFMS which is the finest integrated medical organization in the country. He stated that C3 batch has the unique distinction of having the entire batch that entered AFMC in 2016 graduating together with 100 per cent success, which he said is the best tribute to the teachers at AFMC. Gen Naithani reminded the graduating batch that they were joining the medical profession at a time when the country was passing through a difficult phase and exhorted them to put their knowledge and skills acquired at AFMC to provide the best possible care to their patients as they join the Nation’s battle against Covid-19 as Covid warriors. He expressed confidence that, given their academic rigor and training, the newly commissioned medical officers would always measure up to the highest standards expected from military doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/110-graduated-medical-cadets-to-join-fight-against-covid-armed-forces-medical-services-101621089963710.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Tauktae’s impact on onset of monsoon in Maharashtra too early to predict, scientists say||As cyclone Tauktae further intensifies in the Arabian Sea, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the southwest monsoon may now reach Kerala by May 31, a day prior to the normal date. However, how the cyclone will impact the monsoon’s arrival and withdrawal in Maharashtra is being studied, said IMD scientists. OP Sreejith, scientist and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group (CMPG) at IMD Pune said that once the cyclone conditions are over, the picture will get clearer. “It is difficult to say at this time when the monsoon will reach Maharashtra. We can get an idea after the dissipation of the cyclonic storm currently over the Arabian Sea. However, the current formation of the cyclone will strengthen the cross-equatorial flow and help strengthen the monsoon flow. At the same time, a direct correlation cannot be made between the cyclone and the monsoon onset,” said Sreejith. According Sreejith, cyclones in Arabian Sea which are moving towards Yemen and Oman may adversely affect the southwest monsoon. “But for cyclone Tauktae, it’s path is parallel to the Indian coast and so there are chances that it will help the monsoon to advance,” said Sreejith. As per the weather department, the monsoon advance over Andaman and Nicobar Islands is very likely around May 21. However, the past data suggests that there is no association of the date of monsoon advance over the Andaman Sea either with the date of monsoon onset over Kerala or with the seasonal monsoon rainfall over the country. As per a recent paper published by Elena Surovyatkina, researcher from Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Germany, monsoon will reach central part of India which includes south-eastern part of Maharashtra state, western part of Chhattisgarh state and the northern part of Telangana state between June 21 to June 29. “Pre-monsoon isolated rainfall may appear in the period from 14 -17 June. The continuous monsoon rainfall is expected to start from June 29 in the region,” stated the paper. Cyclone watch Meteorologists from IMD said that the cyclonic storm ‘Tauktae’ is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm until Saturday evening. Thereafter, it is further expected to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm until the morning of May 16. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around May 18 afternoon/ evening according to weather department. On Saturday, no rainfall was reported in Pune city. As per IMD, the day temperature in Pune city was 36.8 degrees Celsius and the night temperature was 24.4 degrees Celsius. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that ghat areas around Pune may receive heavy rainfall. “There is a chance of cloudy weather in the city on May 16. The ghat areas may receive heavy rainfall. Moderate rain (15.6 – 64.4 mm) with isolated heavy (64.5-115.5mm) rainfall is very likely in ghat areas. Thunderstorm and lightning, likely on May 16,” said Kashyapi. Kolhapur and Mahabaleshwar reported rainfall on Saturday. In Konkan and Goa, Ratnagiri and Panjim also reported rainfall. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 42.2 degrees Celsius at Akola and the lowest minimum temperature reported was at 18.4 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tauktaes-impact-on-onset-of-monsoon-in-maharashtra-too-early-to-predict-scientists-say-101621089843700.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Pune rural continues to report maximum Covid cases||The district, on Friday, reported 6,155 new Covid cases and 30 deaths on Friday, as per the state health department. Pune rural continued to report maximum cases and deaths.Pune rural reported 3,172 new cases which took the progressive count to 259,300 cases and with 21 deaths the toll in the rural areas went up to 2,757.Pune city reported 1,939 new cases which took the progressive count to 469,935 and with six more deaths the toll went up to 5,965.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 1,044 new cases and the progressive count went up to 233,858 cases and with three more deaths the toll went up to 1,540.The progressive count of the district stands at 963,093 cases, out of which 856,745 have recovered and 10,320 deaths were declared and 96,028 are active cases undergoing treatment in the hospital or are in home isolation.Vaccination for 45+ at 15 centres todayPune also saw 12,255 vaccinations on the day, out of which 2,554 were from Pune rural, 7,816 were from Pune city and 1,885 from Pimpri-Chinchwad. Vaccination was conducted at 125 session sites.On Saturday, PMC has planned vaccination at only 15 centres for all those aged 45 and above and all the centres would provide only Covaxin shots for second dose only. “None of the centres would provide the first dose,” said mayor, Murlidhar Mohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-continues-to-report-maximum-covid-cases-101621077543919.html
15-05-2021||Pune||0.35 million people fined in Pune for violating Covid norms||The Pune police have fined as many as 0.35 million people and recovered 17.85 crore in fines from violators between March 2020 and May 13, 2021.Fines were collected especially for not wearing a face mask at public places and not following social distancing norms and overcrowding.Ashok Morale, additional commissioner (crime), said, “It is mandatory to wear a face mask for self-protection and citizens must follow the rules. During travel, it is seen that they don’t wear masks which is increases the chance of virus spread. Hence penal action is being taken on a daily basis against the violators.”According to the crime branch officials who are monitoring and assessing the cases, an average of 2,000-3,000 persons are being challaned on a daily basis for not wearing masks and violating social distancing violations.The police observed while taking action against those not wearing masks under Section 188, the citizens had been quarrelling with the policemen for paying ₹500 as a fine.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) national directive for Covid-19 management states: “Wearing of face cover is compulsory in public places; in workplaces; and during transport”.The directive empowers the police to prosecute people without masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/035-million-people-fined-in-pune-for-violating-covid-norms-101621077245738.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Shelters in Pune see rise in enquires, admissions of children, elderly||As the pandemic hit the city, people were not only worried for their health, but also for their well being. Loss of jobs and drastic fall in income forced many to abandon their old parents and in some cases seek shelter for their kids. Thus leading to a rise in the number of enquiries and admissions at shelter homes in the city.Maher Ashram, which has two centres, at Bhima Koregaon and Wagholi located in the periphery of Pune city is now seeing a large number of requests for admission for old people as well as kids.Sister Lucy Kurien, founder and director of the shelter home, said, “Since March 2020 we started getting calls seeking admission for old people, men and women and also kids. We even had an enquiry for a kid who lost both his parents to Covid-19 and is still undergoing treatment in the hospital. However, for such orphans the state is responsible and every admission has to be through and child welfare committee and so we cannot directly admit the child,” she said.“We do keep getting request for such admissions even on a temporary basis as both the parents are in the hospital or have died due to Covid-19 and the child needs a caretaker and a place for quarantine,” she said.Kurien also said, “We have opened our shelter home for Covid-19 affected kids and senior citizens who need admission on a temporary basis. In some cases, the younger members are infected and they cannot risk keeping old parents at home.”“From March 2020 to March 2021, we have admitted about 251 women for various reasons including husband’s job loss or suicide. We admitted about 119 children who came for temporary shelter because both the parents are sick or even because of increased tension in the house leading to domestic violence we have even had young girls who are brought in by the police because their parents were forcing them to get married. We have had 53 men who came to seek admission after they were forced to stay on the street. We have also had nine deliveries. We are also getting requests seeking ration kits from single parents who do not have any source of income,” she said.Priti Vaidya, director of Kinara Old Age Home, also saw an increased number of requests and a rise in homeless people on the streets.She said, “We are seeing a rise in the number of requests for admissions and we have also got more homeless people on the streets now. Earlier there used to be just 1-2 admissions in months, now we have admitted about 8-10 people in the last three months. These are senior citizens who are aged about 60 years of age who had come here to seek work. These are mostly from the Hindi-speaking belt of the country. They had come here to seek work but during the lockdown, they could not leave as they did not have any money.”“Before taking them in we also test them for Covid-19 so that other members are safe. Also, we often get enquiries from children who want to admit their senior citizen parents, but we scrutinize every case before we admit them,” she said.Another old age home, Manuski NGO’s owner Sayli Gayatre said, “We do keep getting a lot of enquiries, however, we have stopped taking in new admissions. In fact, we do not even allow visitors and relatives to come in because this would expose all our members to the infection. So when we get any calls we simply refuse admission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shelters-in-pune-see-rise-in-enquires-admissions-of-children-elderly-101621077123833.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Pune’s positivity rate of Covid over 23%; private labs see sharp drop in tests||For the past three days (May 11 to May 13) Pune’s positivity rate has stayed above 23 per cent which is a higher percentage considering the restrictions in place. Also, the demand for Covid tests at private labs has dropped sharply in the past few weeks.Despite the proportion of the rise in the number of cases in rural areas, the number of tests being done has not risen accordingly, say experts.On May 9, 37,400 tests were conducted in the district and 1,1498 were conducted in rural areas. While on May 10 at least 30,159 tests were conducted in the district out of which 7,970 were conducted in rural Pune. On May 11, 32,695 tests were conduct in the district and 10,236 in rural Pune, while on May 12 and 13, 42,233 and 38,551 tests were conducted in the district and 14,769 and 13,869 in rural areas respectively.Pallavi Jain, managing director of Krsnaa Diagnostics, said, “We have seen a fall in the demand for Covid-19 RT-PCR tests from Pune city. While earlier in the month of March we were conducting 2,000 to 3,000 tests daily this went up drastically to 8,000-9,000 tests on a daily basis. This has now again come down to 2,000 to 3,000 tests daily.”Pune city’s positivity rate for May 13 (18.78%), May 12 (13.81%) and May 11 (20.04%) has been lower than that of Pune rural which was about 23.70%, 23.86% and 30.83% which is much higher than the district’s overall positivity rate.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) Zilla Parishad, said, “The rate of new Covid-19 cases from Pune rural is increasing just like those from other rural areas of the country. However, since last week the number of Covid-19 tests in rural Pune has also increased which will help in early detection and controlling the spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-positivity-rate-of-covid-over-23-private-labs-see-sharp-drop-in-tests-101621076943862.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Maharashtra aims to produce 3,000 MT liquid oxygen daily: Ajit Pawar||The state’s target is the produce 3,000 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid oxygen daily, said Ajit Pawar after attending the weekly Covid review meeting in the city on Friday.Pawar said that district and state administration has been preparing for the third Covid wave in terms of bed capacity, vaccination and oxygen generation.“Currently, we are generating 1,200 MT liquid oxygen and the aim is to increase it by 1,800 MT, “ he said.“The production of oxygen has been ramped up and two plants have been activated in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits and two plants have been made operational in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Also, 44 plants are proposed in the district including eight in PMC, seven in PCMC and 29 in rural areas,” he said.“Private hospitals also should install oxygen generation plants,” he addedHe also asked private hospitals in Pune to prepare facilities for pediatric Covid patients as the medical experts have observed that the third wave may severely affect children.“We are planning at corporations and tehsil level and we are conducting meetings with paediatricians. Beds are planned in Sassoon, Naidu and YCM, but private hospitals such as Ruby Hall Clinic, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and Research Center, Bharati Hospital among others also should plan accordingly. We will guide parents on how to take care of Covid positive children,” Pawar said.He mentioned that the plight of Remdesivir has reduced.Pawar also warned about the post-Covid fungal infection Mucormycosis or ‘black fungus’ and instructed administration that there shouldn’t be a shortage of medicines.“Patients have been identified in rural, PCMC and PMC areas. The medicines for this treatment is expensive. I will conduct a meeting about the availability of these medicines. There shouldn’t be a shortage,” he said.Pawar also warned about the post-Covid fungal infection Mucormycosis and instructed administration that there shouldn’t be a shortage of medicines. “Patients have been identified in rural, PCMC and PMC areas. The medicines for this are expensive. I will conduct a meeting about the availability of these medicines. There shouldn’t be a shortage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-aims-to-produce-3-000-mt-liquid-oxygen-daily-ajit-pawar-101621076703744.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Maharashtra govt should get 50% of Covaxin produced in Pune, says Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar has emphasised that given the dire situation the state government should get 50 per cent of Covaxin produced at the Pune plant in Manjari Khurd.Pawar was in the city to attend the weekly Covid review meeting on Friday.The Bombay High Court has cleared Bharat Biotech’s way to make idle vaccine manufacturing unit in Pune district operational, the company will soon conduct a dry run of the machinery. Covaxin a vaccine against Covid -19 is likely to be produced at the plant.“Bharat Biotech’s machinery has arrived in Pune. Their effort is to manufacture Covaxin in the city and it will take at least three months. Once this production starts it will add to the supply. I have instructed divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao to talk to officials from Bharat Biotech to get 50 per cent vaccine from states’ quota to Maharashtra government. So that our citizens will benefit,” said Pawar.A division bench of Justices KK Tated and NR Borkar on May 6 heard an application filed by Karnataka’s Biovet Private Limited, seeking direction to the Maharashtra government to hand over possession of the manufacturing unit at Manjari Khurd village in Pune.The unit was first being used by Intervet India Pvt Ltd, a multinational and subsidiary of Merck & Co after the land was granted to it in 1973 to manufacture vaccines for foot and mouth disease. Later, Intervet decided to exit business operations in India and entered into an agreement with Biovet for the transfer of the land and manufacturing unit.Pawar said that though the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech have been trying to enhance the production capacity of vaccines, there are limitations for the production and the central government has not given permission to other vaccines after the Sputnik V vaccine.He added that in the remaining 50 per cent quota of produced vaccines, there are a lot of contenders for the vaccine procurement.“Vaccination has begun in private companies, private hospitals and industries for their employees. Out of the total production of the vaccine, it will be distributed as 50 per cent to the Centre and the rest of the 50 per cent includes all the states plus private establishments. Vaccination in the private sector has started in Mumbai but the rate for a dose is different. Some may be able to afford it. But common people have the right to get vaccines,” Pawar said.Health minister Rajesh Tope, on Wednesday, announced that the inoculation drive of the 18-44 years age group was being temporarily halted by the state government. On being asked when this drive will be resumed, Pawar responded that the drive will begin as soon as more vaccines would be available.“We started vaccination for 18-44 years, age group, from May 1, but vaccination supply is low. Many people from the 45 and above age group are due for a second shot. So we decided to halt inoculation of this age group and add state procured vaccines in the Centre’s vaccine quota. It will be used for the second dose,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-govt-should-get-50-of-covaxin-produced-in-pune-says-ajit-pawar-101621076464935.html
15-05-2021||Pune||Like a bridge over troubled water... friends in deed||Fear of getting infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus has left a severe impact on people’s mind, and even relatives are refusing to come forward to help patients. While on the other hand, friends are extending help without any hesitation.Many of those living as tenants or staying in paying guest accommodation (PG) in the city are facing trouble after testing positive for the virus.Ashok Rungta, who stays alone in a rented room at Wakad, was caught in a fix when he was told to get admitted at the New Jijamata Hospital, Pimpri, after testing positive for the virus.“I called my cousin who stays in Aundh, with his family, so that he can complete formalities at the hospital. But he politely refused, due to the fear of infecting his family and himself,” explains Rungta, who spent six days in the hospital before getting discharged.During tough times, Rungta’s friend-cum-colleague working at Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) Bhosari, Vishal Diwanji stepped up by providing home-cooked food thrice a day and also handled all the administrative procedures of the hospitals.“I followed all the norms while visiting the hospital. My family members know Ashok for the last two years and did not hesitate to help. Even now, we are providing him food from home as he has been told to take rest for 15 days,” said Diwanji.Sunil Lakhan, a watch guard at the garden near Dange Chowk, performs his duty from 8 am to 3 pm and then goes to Aditya Birla Hospital to help his neighbours, who are taking treatment for Covid.“Sunil sir and Sunita ma’am (Rajan) have supported me and my family in the last two years. For the last five days, their kids who tested negative are living with us. We provide them tiffin and whatever they need in the hospital,” said Lakhan.Sunil adds, “I thought my brother would take care of my eight-year-old son and 10-year-old daughter and take them to their house in Baner, but they denied help due to the fear of getting infected. I was not expecting this since my children are Covid negative. Glad my neighbour is helping me.”Meanwhile, elderly couple Prasad and Urmila Girme, who were advised home quarantine after suffering from mild symptoms were offered help by their maid Rachana Shete, who has stayed back in their house at Karvenagar.“Their son stays out of Pune so I could get myself accommodated in one of the rooms. I am happy that their second test came negative,” said Shete.“My sister who stays on Paud road could not help me as her son was reluctant to deliver tiffin at my place. I am blessed to have a maid like Rachana,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fighting-covid-supportive-friends-stand-through-thick-and-thin-101621000439092.html
