16-05-2021||Pune||After Goa and Mumbai, NDRF teams airlifted to Gujarat||The National disaster response force (NDRF) operation in Pune has deployed five more teams for relief work on Sunday in light of cyclone Tauktae. The teams were airlifted from Pune to Ahmedabad and Goa. Five other teams were deployed until Saturday - one in Goa and four in Mumbai. “Five teams of NDRF will shortly airlift from Pune technical airport to Ahmedabad, Gujarat amid Cyclone Tauktae,” read a statement from an NDRF official on Sunday. In Goa, vehicles were stuck in Margaon as the rainfall and winds had caused tree felling. The ambulances and vehicles heading towards a major hospital were stuck due to the blockages. “Road leading to TB hospital, Margao was blocked due to falling of heavy trees and was cleared by Goa team amid of heavy rain as supplies are cut to the hospital due to this block,” read the NDRF statement. The ministry of Earth Science of India predicted the movement of the cyclone and issued warnings and possible measures to be taken. “It is very likely to intensify further during next 24 hours. It is very likely to move north-north-westwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) around May 18 early morning,” read a statement from the ministry of Earth Science of India. Rainfall warnings were issued until May 19 in parts of Kerala, Karnataka, South and North Konkan, Goa, Gujarat, and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-goa-and-mumbai-ndrf-teams-airlifted-to-gujarat-101621178287114.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Gusty winds, rainfall to continue until May 17: IMD||With the very severe cyclonic storm ‘Tauktae’ passing through the coast of Maharashtra and Goa, Pune district and Pune city has experienced gusty winds and sporadic rainfall on Sunday. According to IMD officials, strong winds and rainfall will continue in Pune district until May 17. The city reported light rainfall with cloudy weather throughout the day, and many ghat areas in Pune district were on alert for heavy rainfall. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune said that gusty winds and heavy rainfall at ghat areas in the district is expected until May 17. “We have already issued a warning for heavy rainfall for ghat areas in the Pune district. This may continue on May 17 as well. Cyclone Tauktae is moving slowly towards Gujarat. However, along with the cyclone, there is a trough line over Konkan and Goa and Madhya Maharashtra which is further regulating the weather over Maharashtra,” said Kashyapi. He added that from May 17, strong winds will not grip Pune city and district. “From May 18, the rainfall is likely to decrease in Pune district and the city,” forecasted IMD. Kashyapi added that cyclone Tauktae is very likely to reach Gujarat as a very severe cyclonic storm. As per IMD, cyclone Tauktae is very likely to intensify until May 17. It is also very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) around May 18 early morning. “The areas where it will make landfall in Gujarat may cause huge losses to life and property. Due to the cyclone, in Konkan and Goa isolated places may witness heavy rainfall in the next few days. Gusty winds will be experienced until May 17 in Konkan and Goa,” said Kashyapi. He added that in Central Maharashtra, ghat areas will see heavy rainfall on Sunday and May 17. “Marathwada and Vidarbha may experience light rains for the next few days,” said Kashyapi. Pune on Sunday reported rainfall of 2.8 millimetre in Shivajinagar, 1.2 mm rainfall in Lohegaon and 2.3 mm rainfall in Pashan. The day temperature on Sunday dipped as low as 30.2 degree Celsius as per IMD. Whereas Lohegaon reported day temperature at 31.5 degree Celsius during day. Along with Pune, Kolhapur, Mahabaleshwar, Nashik, Ratnagiri, Sangli and Satara also reported rainfall. Panjim on Sunday reported 124 mm rainfall.Aurangabad and Parbhani in Marathwada and Akola and Amravati also reported rains on Sunday.The highest maximum temperature reported across Maharashtra on Sunday was at 42.7 degree Celsius at Brahmapuri. And the lowest minimum temperature reported was at 17.7 degree Celsius at Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gusty-winds-rainfall-to-continue-until-may-17-imd-101621176607007.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Fire department responded to more tree falling incidents than fire in 2020||Due to concretisation of roads and development, tree falling incidents are increasing continuously in the city. According to the Pune fire department statistics, in the past two years, the department has responded to more tree felling incidents than cases of fire in the city. The fire department registered 1,269 incidents of tree falling against 975 fire incidents from January- December-2019. In 2020, the fire department recorded 1,152 tree falling incidents whereas they got calls of 699 fire incidents. Due to cyclone Tauktae, Pune city is also experiencing rain and strong winds. In the last two days, the fire department has registered more than 20 tree falling incidents across the city. According to fire department statistics, tree falling incidents are increasing from 2015 in the city. In 2017, a total of 1,201 tree falling incidents were reported. Not only environmentalists but also garden department officials allege that most of the trees that were standing on public land suffered damage or were lost due to negligence as the soil cover around these structures were lost to unscientific trimming or concretisation around them, forcing many to tilt during the rains and lose their stability. Excessive concretization, road digging Ashok Ghorpade, chief superintendent of PMC garden department said, “A major stretch of roads in the city along the internal roads owned by societies, have witnessed rampant concretisation over the last few years. In several areas, there is no soil left around the trunk of the tree. It is completely concertized thus stunting their growth. It does not get oxygen to grow, and it leads to plunge trees. Such trees will eventually collapse during the rains. Digging of roads for lying service lines or underground cables damages the roots of trees and uneven trimming of branches of trees is another reason trees fall in the city.” During former civic chief Mahesh Pathak’s time, the garden department had issued circulation to the road department which had mentioned details of concretisation near trees. The PMC road department is also not following instructions of the garden department. As per PMC road department officials, most of the corporators use their local ward development funds to concertise lanes and internal roads, more than ₹300 crore are spent on concretization of small roads. Demand of maintenance cell City based environmentalist Dr Sachin Punekar said, “The PMC has started rampant cement concretisation of internal roads or areas. It has completely stopped water percolation. Therefore, water is logging in the city and the tree’s holding capacity has gone down and they are falling down often in the city. The PMC garden department and tree authority should have to form a mechanism for tree maintenance. Trees are suffocating due to concretization. We cannot blame it on heavy rain. Trees are living entities. The PMC should have to diagnose tree falling phenomena as it is increasing in the city and work to minimise or stop it.” NGT order In 2014, the National Green Tribunal ordered in one of the hearings of Navi Mumbai based environmentalists that a three feet circumference around the trees must be kept free of any concretisation. This will help in the growth of the trees and will help retain their stability. VG Kulkarni, chief superintendent engineer of the road department, said, “It is not the major reason for tree falling, it may be one of the reasons for tree falling. Uneven chopping of tree branches also imbalance trees and they plunge during heavy rains. We are taking precautions to provide adequate space for trees to breathe and grow naturally.” PMC chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise said, “Due to the lack of soil around the trunk weakens the roots of trees and it falls down. Tree falling incidents have increased since the last few years in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-department-responded-to-more-tree-falling-incidents-than-fire-in-2020-101621176427073.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Some trains cancelled due to cyclone alert, flight operations unaffected||The Pune railway division on Sunday cancelled some of their train operations due to the Tauktae cyclone alert to prevent any mishap in the train journey. The two trains which are cancelled due to the cyclone alert are special train number 01192 Pune-Bhuj express departing on May 17 and special train number 01191 Bhuj-Pune Express departing Bhuj on May 19. In addition to these, two trains which railways have cancelled due to the low occupancy are special train number 01493 Pune-Danapur Express leaving on May 16 and train number 01494 Danapur-Pune Express departing from Danapur on May 18 towards Pune. Earlier, Pune railway division had cancelled several trains due to the low occupancy, one of them was special train run as per the Deccan Queen scheduled time between Pune and Mumbai. While last month, some other trains were also cancelled due to poor occupancy and not getting passengers. These trains include - Pune-Nagpur weekly special train, Pune-Ajni weekly special train, Pune-Amravati weekly special train and Kolhapur-Nagpur bi-weekly special. All these trains were originating from Pune railway division, due to less occupancy of less than 15 per cent these trains were cancelled by the railways. On the other hand, none of the flight operations were either cancelled or diverted from the Pune international airport due to the cyclone alert. All the scheduled flights arrived and departed as per its timings from the airport. “There is no change in the flight operations from the Pune airport until now due to the cyclone alert,” said Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/some-trains-cancelled-due-to-cyclone-alert-flight-operations-unaffected-101621176306912.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Your Space: Scale up medical oxygen supplies||Prime Minister has recently lauded Maharashtra government’s efforts to check the spread of Covid-19 during the ongoing second wave. While the medical oxygen crisis is hitting the headlines after the shortage of beds and vaccine, should not the authorities take steps for hospitals to generate their own oxygen to meet the rising demand? Sugar factories should produce medical oxygenHospitals with independent oxygen manufacturing ability are the need of the hour. We need to invest around 20 per cent of budget in health infrastructure to mitigate the crisis. There is a need to train every youth of the country for Covid-19 management. Dedicated online and offline education is required for teachers and youth to fight against Covid-19 and related requirements. Why are we late when medical experts have observed that the second and third wave is expected? Spike in positive cases and deaths is reported across India. It seems that the health system is unable to handle the crisis and residents are apprehensive and confused about hospital treatment. Even the WHO says that they know much about the virus, and they are still learning.India is a country with huge population, expert medical professionals and big pharmaceutical companies, then why not a proper strategy is laid down at the national, state, district and local administration level? Medical oxygen is an indispensable medicine in the treatment of Covid-19. We have to ask for help from other countries. Why not all our sugar factories produce oxygen and supply across the country. Medical oxygen logistic and supply chain also matters. Dr Aftab Anwar ShaikhRamp up medical infra in district Each district collector has to manage adequate supply of medical oxygen, hospital beds, isolation wards for Covid-19 patients and a well-planned vaccination drive at a time when the country is struggling to meet the logistical challenges which a collapsing healthcare system of our state is being exposed every day. There is a need for the administration to have prepared a detailed plan to tackle the deadly second wave of coronavirus and put in place a contingency plan. The government had not anticipated that the cases could shoot up any moment and that an oxygen plant could come in handy if more people fall sick because of the disease. Without much ado, they should have set up oxygen plants. Money is a crucial requirement for setting up a robust healthcare system that needs many ambulances, ventilators, beds, oxygen plants, vaccines, medicines, trained medical staff, nurses and policy makers among others. The government must use a combination of resources, including district planning and development funds, state disaster relief funds, and mobilised the CSR units to meet the expenses for starting up oxygen plants. Efforts should be made to utilise medical resources and set up oxygen plants in the district. This is the best way to lead forward and become self-sufficient.Sanjay KumarSet up more oxygen plantsThe mechanism of setting up oxygen plants will further strengthen public health system and enable long-term systematic augmentation of its availability in a cost-effective manner. Adequate and uninterrupted supply of oxygen is an essential pre-requisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid -19, in addition to various other medical conditions where this need arises. Installation of PSA Oxygen Concentrator Plants in public health facilities is an important step to reduce the health facility’s dependence on the system of store and supply and to enable these facilities to have their own oxygen generation capacity. This will not only increase the total oxygen availability pool, but also facilitate providing of oxygen support in timely manner to patients in public health facilities. Ashlesha DetheTake proactive steps to ensure adequate supply of O2While talking about the medical oxygen availability in healthcare facilities across the country, the government must take various proactive steps to ensure adequate supply of medical oxygen. The government should believe in proactive and graded response to the pandemic to augment oxygen supply and we are in an extremely comfortable position when it comes to supply of medical oxygen. Various steps need to be taken for infrastructure augmentation, ensuring uninterrupted oxygen supply, monitoring and coordination with state governments and proactive interventions.Ashish BalgudeIn-house O2 generation facility mustThe basic aim behind establishing oxygen generation plants at government hospitals in the district headquarters is to further strengthen the public health system and ensure that each of these hospitals has a captive oxygen generation facility. Such an in-house captive oxygen generation facility would address the day-to-day medical oxygen needs of these hospitals and the district. In addition, the liquid medical oxygen (LMO) would serve as a “top up” to the captive oxygen generation. Such a system will go a long way in ensuring that government hospitals in districts do not face sudden disruption of oxygen supplies and have access to adequate uninterrupted oxygen supply to manage the Covid-19 patients and other patients needing such supportAnita BishtCentre has approved setting up of O2 plantsPrime Minister Narendra Modi has given direction of boosting availability of oxygen to hospitals, the PM CARES Fund has given in-principle approval for allocation of funds for installation of 551 dedicated Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Medical Oxygen Generation Plants inside public health facilities in the country. The availability of Liquid Medical Oxygen has to be increased each day with contributions from private and public steel plants, industries, oxygen manufacturers as well as through prohibition of supply of oxygen for non-essential industries. The state government has to ensure that oxygen supply to various states happen in a smooth, unhindered manner and there is a need to fix responsibility with the local administration in cases of obstruction. We have to also explore various innovative ways to increase production and supply of oxygen. Various measures are being undertaken to rapidly increase the availability of cyrogenic tankers through conversion of nitrogen and argon tankers, import and airlifting of tankers as well as manufacturing them, but setting up oxygen plants is essential all district places.Judicious use of med oxygen vitalThe PM stressed on the need to ensure faster transportation of oxygen to states and it was discussed that railways is being used for rapid and non-stop long distance transport of tankers. The medical community also pointed out about the need for judicious use of oxygen and how an audit in some states has decreased oxygen demand without affecting the condition of patients to be done. Oxygen plants are the answer and judicious use of oxygen is the need of the time.Saleem Hakim||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-scale-up-medical-oxygen-supplies-101621162208794.html
16-05-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: The story of adapting for stage||I have written a few plays some years back, but I know I am not a writer. But at the same time, I would say that if I had some source material at hand, the process becomes relatively easy for me. Though it’s been a few years since I have written a play, I would like to talk about my personal process of adapting a story into a play. The first play that I adapted and directed was a short story named “Cycle” by a renowned writer in Marathi, Vyankatesh Madgulkar (I am about to narrate the gist of the entire story here, so in case you want to experience the story in its original form first, please refer to his book called “Jaambhlaache Diwas”). “Cycle” is about a school teacher in Pune who has promised a bicycle to his son if he secures the first rank in class. The son keeps securing it for three years and the teacher is still unable to afford it, making him feel extremely guilty. Finally, he buys a used cycle on a whim making his son extremely happy and reliving himself of the guilt. But the teacher finds out that one of his own students has died in a road accident while riding that same cycle and his happiness turns to fear. When he returns home that evening he finds his son absent and the cycle missing. His wife and two daughters are crying at a corner and he fears the worst! They are too afraid and distraught to tell him anything. But seeing his desperation, his wife finally breaks her silence and tells him the truth – their son has lost the cycle and has gone outside to search for it! The son returns home, unsuccessful in his attempt at retrieving it. He looks at his father, waiting for him to explode. But the teacher seems happy instead, leaving the entire family pleasantly confused! The descriptions of the teacher’s state of mind at various places were heart-wrenching. It had transported me to the world of the protagonist and I was so engrossed that by the end of it I felt this gush of warmth in my heart. The minute I heard it, I knew what the scenes were going to be. The overall scene outline wasn’t a challenge. The real challenge was getting the craft of conveying the emotions. During that period of time I was personally not fond of a narrator in a play. I used to find that format of writing extremely escapist. Of course, I do submit that it was my lack of experience back then. The plays which had a narrator who spoke directly with the audience, that I had read or seen by then, did not hold my interest. Since then, I have come across plays that have used that format really well. Anyway, so I had decided not to use this format. Then, the question arose – how to convey the information in the story which is written as the mental turmoil of the teacher? He doesn’t express his emotions to anyone in the story! So, I introduced new characters and new situations that would make the protagonist speak his mind. To give an example, in the first scene itself, when his son tells him that he has secured the first rank, the teacher gives him a chalk as a prize. Even the son accepts it gracefully and leaves. All this is witnessed by a school peon who notices to his surprise that the teacher doesn’t seem too happy about this. When he asks the teacher about it, he reluctantly confesses what his predicament is. It is the peon that encourages the teacher to just go and buy a bicycle and get done with it. This, I believe, is a catalyst for the next scene where he actually purchases it. He finally expresses it to someone and when that person, one who is economically weaker than him, tells him to go for it, really sets the ball rolling. When he learns about his deceased student, the teacher goes through a roller coaster of emotions about how fast youngsters ride their bikes and how can they be so careless and not worry about their parents. For these emotions to come out, we had a new situation wherein, when he is thinking about all this at a bus stop, a school-going kid falls from the cycle in front of him. This triggers the teacher and the emotions flow through words aimed at the student in front of him but the subtext really is different. One thing that I realised involuntarily after adapting this story in a play is that the most important thing is to envision and build the world the story is set in. The craft of writing and staging will follow when that choice is made. This helped me a lot when I adapted two more stories of extremely different genres — “Baapjanma” and “Dalan”. But more about that in the next segment. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-the-story-of-adapting-for-stage-101621161967673.html
16-05-2021||Pune||‘Leader with huge potential’: PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi pay tributes to Rajeev Satav||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Satav breathed his last on Sunday morning, succumbing to complications related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), for which he tested positive nearly three weeks ago. Satav, who represented his home state of Maharashtra in the Upper House tested negative last week; he passed away at around 5am on Sunday, after being diagnosed with post-Covid complications.Also Read | Congress MP Rajeev Satav dies of post-Covid complications in PuneHere’s how leaders, including those from his party, the Congress, paid their condolences after Satav’s demise at a young age of 46:Vice President Venkaiah Naidu (chairperson of Rajya Sabha): “I’m deeply shocked by the untimely demise of Rajya Sabha member, shri Rajiv Satav due to Covid-related complications. He was a dynamic parliamentarian and deeply committed to serving the people.”I am deeply shocked by the untimely demise of Rajya Sabha member, Shri Rajiv Satav due to Covid-related complications. He was a dynamic parliamentarian & deeply committed to serving the people. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members & his followers. Om Shanthi!Prime Minister Narendra Modi: “Anguished by the passing away of my friend from Parliament, Shri Rajeev Satav Ji. He was an upcoming leader with much potential. Condolences to his family, friends and supporters.”Anguished by the passing away of my friend from Parliament, Shri Rajeev Satav Ji. He was an upcoming leader with much potential. Condolences to his family, friends and supporters. Om Shanti.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman (Rajya Sabha MP): “Saddened by the passing away of Shri Rajeev Satav. He was an active member of the Rajya Sabha. Condolences to his family and friends.”Saddened by the passing away of Shri Rajeev Satav @SATAVRAJEEV. He was an active member of the Rajya Sabha. Condolences to his family and friends.Rahul Gandhi (Congress MP and former party president): “I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress.”I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress.It’s a big loss for us all. My condolences and love to his family. pic.twitter.com/mineA81UYJPriyanka Gandhi Vadra (Congress general secretary): “In Rajeev Satav, we’ve lost one of our brightest colleagues. Clean of heart, sincere, deeply committed to the ideals of the Congress and devoted to the people of India.”In Rajeev Satav we have lost one of our brightest colleagues. Clean of heart, sincere, deeply committed to the ideals of the Congress & devoted to the people of India.I have no words, just prayers for his young wife & children. May they have the strength to carry on without him pic.twitter.com/Z1q6UPmkbKDefence minister Rajnath Singh: Saddened by the untimely demise of young Rajya Sabha MP, Shri Rajeev Satav. His passion to work towards the progress of his home state Maharashtra was noteworthy.”Saddened by the untimely demise of young Rajya Sabha MP, Shri Rajeev Satav ji. His passion to work towards the progress of his home state Maharashtra was noteworthy. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti.In a statement, Congress president Sonia Gandhi described Satav’s demise as a “personal loss.” Calling the late Congress leader a “trusted colleague” and a “friend to all of us,” Gandhi called Satav a “rising star” of the party. Born in the city of Pune, Satav breathed his last in his home city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/leader-with-huge-potential-pm-modi-rahul-gandhi-pay-tributes-to-rajeev-satav-101621148502715.html
