17-05-2021||Pune||Pune reports 2,996 new Covid cases, 14 deaths||Pune: As per the state health department, Pune district reported 2,996 new Covid-19 cases in just 24 hours on Monday. The district also reported 14 more deaths due to the infection. This took the total count in the district to 0.976 million of which 0.890 million have recovered, 10,489 deaths were declared and 76,160 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune rural reported 1,522 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 266,506 and with four more deaths the toll in the rural areas went up to 2,803. Pune city reported 740 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 473,816 and with seven more deaths the toll went up to 6,083 while PCMC reported 734 new cases, the progressive count went up to 236,359 and with three more deaths the toll went up to 1,545.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-2-996-new-covid-cases-14-deaths-101621268770523.html
17-05-2021||Pune||PMC sets up flood control cell to monitor water level in dams||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to set up a 24x7 flood control cell to monitor the Khadakwasla, Mulshi and Katraj lake water levels. On Monday, PMC took the decision to provide adequate manpower to operate the flood control cell 24x7, from June 1 till December 31, 2021. The cell will help alert the respective officers to plan rescue and rehabilitation operations where needed. Against the background of the Ambil odha flood situation in the past, the cell will also monitor the Katraj lakes (upper and lower). When the upper Katraj lake is overflowing, excess water flows into the lower lake located at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park. From there it flows into the Ambil odha (stream), before it meets the Mutha river. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal issued the order to set up the cell. Staff will be deputed from different departments, including property tax, health, vehicle, road, construction, water supply, solid waste management, building permission, gardens, and the public relations department. Ganesh Sonune, head of the disaster management cell, said, “After the Ambil odha flood incident, we have decided to include Katraj lakes to monitor water levels and rainfall.” Pune was hit twice by floods in 2019. First, in early August, and then, in September, heavy rain (87.3 mm) caused the Ambil odha and other smaller canals to overflow. At least 17 people were killed. The water flooded residential areas of Katraj-Kondhwa road, Sahakarnagar, Satara road, and Sinhagad road. It caused mass destruction of properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-sets-up-flood-control-cell-to-monitor-water-level-in-dams-101621265050343.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Rainfall likely to reduce Tuesday onwards: IMD forecast||Pune city which was placed under a yellow alert due to the passing cyclone Tauktae on Monday reported a rainfall of 3 millimetres while Lohegaon reported 0.8 mm of rainfall, however, from May 18th the rainfall is likely to reduce, according to IMD officials. For May 18, the IMD has not issued any warnings for Pune, however, partly cloudy skies with light rains are forecasted for the city. Across Maharashtra, north of Konkan and Goa and some parts of Vidarbha may recieve rainfall on May 18. On Monday, along with Pune, Mahabaleshwar, Nashik, Satara, Mumbai, Aurangabad and Nagpur reported rainfall. As per IMD, due to the ongoing rains, the highest maximum temperature was reported at Jalgaon on Monday at 39.8 degrees Celsius whereas the lowest minimum temperature reported across Maharashtra was at Mahabaleshwar at 17.4 degrees Celsius. Cyclone Tauktae is now the strongest pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone after 2010 and third strongest pre-monsoon Arabian Sea cyclone since 1982 onwards, according to data revealed by India Meteorological Department (IMD). Researchers at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said that cyclone Tauktae intensified from category 1 to category 4 cyclone in just 24 hrs. The IMD has also termed Tauktae as Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm (ESCS). Dr Mruntunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD said that there is a trend of rapid intensification of cyclones in the Arabian Sea since 1990. “There is a trend of rapid intensification of cyclones in the Arabian Sea. It may not be termed a phenomenon but there is a trend,” said Mohapatra. He further added that in the Bay of Bengal, it is likely that a low-pressure area will form. “However, how severe it will be is unclear as of now. We are monitoring the conditions closely,” said Mohapatra. Vineet Kumar Singh, researcher at IITM noted that this intensification is due to the warmer sea surface and subsurface temperature. “In our research, we have previously observed that warmer sea surface and subsurface have rapid intensification of cyclones. In the case of Tauktae as well, you can see that the cyclone intensified from category 1 to category 4 in just 24 hours,” said Singh. He attributed the warmer temperatures to global warming and climate change. “All across the globe, we can see a trend of warming temperatures. The warmer sea surface and subsurface temperature is seen to provide more energy to the cyclones” said Singh. According to IMD data, this is the first time since 1976 and second time since 1900 that a cyclone in May is going to hit Gujarat coast with wind speed greater than 35 knots. “As an impact of the cyclone Tauktae, Ratnagiri reported 364 millimetre rainfall in just 24 hours,” said Singh. As per recent updates by IMD, ESCS Tauktae is moving at a speed of 15 kilometres per hour as of Monday. It is likely to move north-northwestwards and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva, east of Diu on late night of Monday. The wind speed forecast by IMD is 155-165 kilometres per hour and gusting to 185 kmph. In the recent years, India has seen super cyclones like Maha, Amphan and Nisarga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rainfall-likely-to-reduce-tuesday-onwards-imd-forecast-101621264990426.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Tauktae effect: Interruptions in work from home due to frequent power cuts||Gusty winds coupled with rain as a result of cyclone Tauktae affected those working from home during the weekend through Monday morning as parts of Pune witnessed frequent power outages. Areas like Baner, Balewadi on the western parts of the city and Kondhwa and NIBM road on the eastern parts were the worst affected due to power outage affecting those working from home due to the Covid pandemic. In Baner and Balewadi, there was no electricity since Sunday evening while voltage kept fluctuating during Monday morning. “As it was a Sunday there was no work, but today we were worried as my work from home began. The electricity supply went on and off several times, affecting my work but we can understand that it is due to winds and continuous rain,” said Ameya Karambelkar, an IT professional and a resident of Baner. Sachin Alande from Sukhsagar nagar in Bibwewadi however had to miss his morning work. “I have a morning shift starting from 8am until 4 pm, when I started my work within an hour electricity went off and it kept on fluctuating, there was no continuous supply till afternoon and due to which I missed a major deadline at work today. When I called up to the local MSEDCL office, no one picked up the call,” said Alande, a working professional from KPO industry. Parts of Hadapsar too witnessed disruption in electricity supply for around seven to eight hours before it was restored by afternoon. Vipul Alekar, working professional from Hadapsar said, “On Sunday, we had a power cut for around eight hours in the evening. On Monday morning, there were power outages at least for 10 times. We couldn’t do any office work, or any household works like washing clothes in the washer. Rain and wind have brought in grass and tree leaves the electricity transformer in our area.” The rains began late on Sunday and continued through Monday morning. Overnight, Shivajinagar in Pune reported 8.2 mm rainfall while Lohegaon reported 6.2 mm and Pashan reported 9.9 mm rainfall. The gusty winds that caused damage to houses and school buildings in rural parts and tree falling incidents in some areas of city on Sunday, stopped by morning, the rain stopped by noon. Nishikant Raut, MSEDCL’s public relation officer of Pune zone said, “The cyclone and rain effect are certainly there in some parts of the city though there was no major power cut for long hours anywhere in Pune. Our team of workers were functioning round the clock since yesterday to act on the complaints received, due to tree fallings and other disturbance there was power cut or fluctuations happening. Now everything is under control and going on smoothly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tauktae-effect-interruptions-in-work-from-home-due-to-frequent-power-cuts-101621264930328.html
17-05-2021||Pune||54-year-old in custody for sexual assault of minor||A 54-year-old man was remanded to custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Monday for sexual assault of a three-year-old girl in Chakan. The arrested man was identified as Kaluram Shantaram Gawade (54), a farmer who was currently residing in a residential building in Chakan, Khed. “The man is known to the child. He approached her in the garden. He is in custody now,” said senior police inspector Ashok Rajput of Chakan police station. A local court remanded the man to four days in police custody on Monday. The girl was in the garden of a residential building when the man approached her and forced her to have unnatural intercourse with him, according to a complaint lodged in the matter. The crime was committed around 8pm on May 14. A case in the matter was lodged in the early morning hours of May 16. A case under Sections 376(2)(i)(j)(n) and 377 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4 and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCOS) Act, 2012 was registered against the man at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/54yearold-in-custody-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-101621264870361.html
17-05-2021||Pune||₹6 crore worth sandalwood seized, five arrested||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested five men and recovered 207 sandalwood trunks worth ₹6 crore from them, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The five arrested were identified as Nilesh Vilas Dhengre (35), a resident of Sangamner in Ahmednagar; MA Salim (43), a resident of Shimoga in Karnataka; Vinod Prakashh Fernandes (45), a resident of Katkarwadi in Navi Mumbai; Zakirhusain Abdulrehman Shaikh (50), a resident of Trombay in Mumabi; and Mintobhai alias Nirmalsingh Manjitsingh Gill (36), a resident of Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai, according to the police. Dhengre, Salim, and Fernandes were first arrested by the officials of Wakad police station, Police Naik Vandu Gire and Hawaldar Rejendra Kale, who were on a night patrol on the night of May 12, according to the police. They were in a Maruti 800 car in Tathawade area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. The front number plate of the car was missing, and the back number plate was broken which allegedly raised the suspicion. “The two people who were standing behind the car ran away when the police started asking them questions,” read a statement from the police. The police found pictures of the red sandalwood in Dhengre’s phone which was shared with someone. The technical analysis of his phone led the police to track the truck. The truck was full of 207 red sandalwood tree trunks weighing 6.420 tonne. The total worth of the seizure including the trunks, one truck, a Maruti 800 car, and two mobile phones as estimated to be ₹6, 52, 45,000, according to the police. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468, 471 (using forged as genuine), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 379 (theft), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 41 and 42 with 45, 52, 65(a), 69 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927; and Sections 37 and 82 of Maharashtra Forest Rules, 2014 was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rs-6-crore-worth-sandalwood-seized-five-arrested-101621264750537.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Absconding RTO agent who duped multiple citizens nabbed||The Pune police crime branch have arrested an RTO agent who was absconding since 2017 in connection with a case related to cheating scores of citizens to the tune of lakhs of rupees. The accused was identified as Vishal Sonawne (41), a resident of Jambhulwadi on Katraj road who had allegedly promised to complete the RTO work related to vehicle passing and registration work for his victims and duped them on the pretext of completing their work. Sonawane took vehicle registration from a company and for that an advance of ₹4.50 lakh was taken. He did not complete the said work and an FIR under IPC 420 (cheating ) was lodged against him at Mundhwa Police Station. The investigation was handed over to Crime Branch Unit I which during a detailed investigation found that the accused had cheated a number of persons including big companies and took lakhs of rupees from them. The crime branch investigation led the sleuths to Bund Garden police station where they found another FIR lodged against him. The modus operandi of the accused was to set up office in plush areas and released advertisement on just dial as RTO agent to trap new victims. The sleuths received an information that accused was visiting powerhouse area in Rasta peth. Based on the information of police constable Yogesh Jatap, a team of crime branch officials under the guidance of their in-charge police inspector Bharat Jadhav laid a trap and arrested the accused. Jadhav said, “During custodial interrogation, he revealed the crimes he had committed and also told us about involvement in defrauding case, an FIR of which was lodged at Kondhwa police station. We are investigation as more leads are emerging in the case.” Besides Kondhwa, Mundhwa and Bundgarden , cases have been lodged against him at Bharati Vidyapeeth and Khadki police stations respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/absconding-rto-agent-who-duped-multiple-citizens-nabbed-101621264690379.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Private hospital refuses to release Covid victim’s body for three days; Pune admin launches inquiry||Pune: A private hospital in rural parts of Pune has come under fire from the relatives of a Covid-19 deceased person. The relatives complained that the hospital held back the body of the deceased for over three days and kept it in the morgue. Following the complaints raised by the relatives and the local MP, the district administration has launched an inquiry. The district administration has formed an eight-member committee chaired by civic surgeon Dr Ashok Nandapurkar. The committee would visit the hospital on Tuesday. Dr Nandapurkar said, “The hospital is a private medical college and we got the complaint that the patient died due to Covid-19 on May 1. The body was discharged three days later. We will visit the hospital on Tuesday and investigate.” Member of Parliament, Shrirang Barne, said, “I got a call that the hospital, Maharashtra Institute of Medical Education and Research or MIMER, refused to release the body for three days due to pending bill. The deceased was a vegetable vendor and bills were to be cleared through MPJAY (Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana) which was not done because the hospital had not informed the authorities about the death. I reached the hospital and the authorities later handed over the body.” Dr Suchitra Nagre, trustee and executive director of MIMER, said, “The allegations are wrong. The body was not held back because of pending bills, but the relatives could not claim the body as it was weekend. May 1 was holiday and May 2 was Sunday so they did not take it and we had only 2-3 staff present at the hospital. On Monday, the MP visited the hospital along with the relatives who claimed that we had not handed over the body, however we tried to convey our side. The body was handed over immediately. In our 25 years of working as a medical college, we have never held back a body or even a patient because of pending bills. However, during this unprecedented Covid situation, we feel that our work is not appreciated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-hospital-refuses-to-release-covid-victim-s-body-for-three-days-pune-admin-launches-inquiry-101621264630360.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Cyclone Tauktae: Minor damage in rural areas, 14 cases of tree falling reported on Monday||In comparison to Sunday, fewer cases of tree falls were reported on Monday due to the inclement weather caused by the passing cyclone Tauktae. However, cases of minor damages to homes have been reported in rural parts. Pune city and rural parts experienced less intensity wind with rainfall on Monday. In total, 14 cases of tree falls were reported in the city from areas of Katraj, Dhankavadi, Koregaon Park, Hadapsar, Somwar peth and Ganeshkhind Road. In rural parts, minor damage to houses and school buildings have been reported in Khed, Bhor and Mulshi tehsil. The administration has started the panchanama procedure to assess the damage caused to houses and the agriculture sector. “All the necessary precautions were taken. We also spoke to public representatives. We had given specific instructions and made sure that those were followed. Total damage to roofs across Pune district is only reported from Mulshi, Bhor and Khed. The damage has been done in the narrow ghat areas and the speed of wind was over 100-120 km/hr. The administration had taken necessary precautions because of which no loss of life and severe injury has been reported in the rural parts. The damage to property has also been minimised,” said Ayush Prasad, Pune Zilla Parishad CEO. The cases of tree falling were also reduced on Monday. On Sunday, 40 cases were reported until 9 pm. “On Monday until 4 pm, we attended 14 calls of tree falling but most of them were in the early morning. As the alert has been issued, we request people to be at safe places,” said Nilesh Mahajan, a fire officer in PMC fire department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cyclone-tauktae-minor-damage-in-rural-areas-14-cases-of-tree-falling-reported-on-monday-101621264630918.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Case of attempted murder against “victim” in fight over WhatsApp status||A case of attempted murder was registered by Pune police against a 28-year-old deceased man based on a complaint by one of his assailants in Bibwewadi area on Sunday. While the deceased was identified as Madhav Waghate, the complainant was identified as Sawan Gawli (23) who is currently in police custody for Waghate’s murder. Waghate was found dead in the small hours of Saturday near the house of his friend named Sunil Khapte in Bibwewadi. A group of around 10 men attacked Waghate with tube light, rods and cement blocks, according to a complaint by one of his friends. “Gawali is under arrest. All these people involved in the case are known to each other. Waghate was in a fight over some reason with a man from their locality. Gawli had kept a status to wish this man on his birthday and that enraged Waghate,” said police sub inspector Atul Thorat of Bibwewadi police station who is investigating the case. The status update was to wish Anand Nivrutti Kamthe, according to the police. The reason behind the rivalry between Kamthe and Waghate could not be verified immediately. In his complaint, Gawli submitted that when he was standing with his friend Sunil Ghate near the Ganapati Temple in Bibwewadi on Saturday, Waghate approached him and threatened to kill him. He then attacked Gawli with a sickle, bamboo, and stones, according to Gawli’s complaint. There have been no arrests in this case yet. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), rioting of Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1)with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-of-attempted-murder-against-victim-in-fight-over-whatsapp-status-101621264570415.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Ganesh idol makers stare at losses due to lockdown in Pune||Pune: Ganesh idol makers in the city are facing a livelihood crisis as the Covid lockdown has caused shortage of raw material and sharp drop in demand for their product. The traditional idol makers in Peth areas said that the demand for Ganesh idols has come down to mere 30 per cent as compared to 2018. According to them, the 2019 floods hit their business and they had to sustain huge losses. And the Covid outbreak in 2020 followed by continuous lockdowns extending to 2021 has made their survival difficult. Naresh Mhatre, a Navi Peth-based idol maker, said, “Our family used to make 3,000 to 4,000 idols during the season, but it now come down to 500-600 and that too with materials shortage it would be difficult to reach half the mark. We usually start receiving orders in March and April, but this year we are waiting for enquiries even as late as May as many of our customers are down with Covid or have lost their near and dear ones to the virus. The pandemic situation has ruined the business and the hope of revival till the festival draws near is dim,” he said. Abhijit Dhondphale, another artisan, said, “The Centre and state governments must take a firm decision on allowing POP for idol making. The livelihood of many idol makers and their families is at stake due to the Covid lockdown and restrictions. We are facing raw material shortage due to restrictions on transport and other factors.” Environment minister Prakash Javadekar had deferred ban on use of Plaster of Paris (PoP) for making Ganesh idols in 2020, by one year with the aim to help artisans. However, the decision was criticised by environmentalists as PoP is harmful to the environment. Meanwhile, on May 13, 2020, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had published guidelines banning the use of PoP, thermocol, and single-use plastic for making idols across India. Dyes and toxic chemicals used to colour idols, too, were proposed to be banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ganesh-idol-makers-stare-at-losses-due-to-lockdown-in-pune-101621263970350.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Pune admin supplies low dosage tocilizumab vials to hospitals over shortage||Pune: Apart from regulated supply of tocilizumab vials to hospitals, the district administration has also brought down the dose among the 980 vials distributed to hospitals on Monday. The dosages were supplied to 107 hospitals across Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune rural. Instead of the regular 400 mg dose in each vial of the immunosuppressive drug used in the treatment of Covid-19, the administration on Monday supplied 80 mg vials. According to doctors, a severe Covid-19 patient needs 400 mg of each dose which could be two doses if the health situation does not improve. With the present supply, hospitals will have to give five vials to such Covid cases. The district administration has asked hospitals and doctors to exercise caution while administering the drugs. On Monday, in a letter to district hospitals that had requested tocilizumab 400 mg vials, the admin supplied 40mg vials. Just like remdesivir, the distribution of tocilizumab is also restricted by the Pune district administration. Hospitals are unable to procure the drug directly. The letter signed by Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh states: “the demand for tocilizumab has risen steadily and the drug is not made in India but imported and distributed by Cipla across the country. The earlier stock distributed on May 4 was tocilizumab 400 mg. However, the stock provided on May 17 is 80 mg. So, it is advised that the prescription must be in accordance with the Covid patient’s severity.” As per an annexure by the central government, tocilizumab 400 mg must be administered slowly over NS IV over 60 minutes and the patient can be given an additional dose if the condition worsens. As a patient may need up to 800 mg of the drug, now 10 injections of the current dose have to be administered. Dr HK Sale, executive director of Noble hospitals that received 20 such vials, said, “With 20 vials of 80 mg dose, we can treat only four severe Covid cases as one patient needs dose of 400 mg. We have also been told to ration the drug.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-admin-supplies-low-dosage-tocilizumab-vials-to-hospitals-over-shortage-101621255389979.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Congress leader, Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Satav dies due to post-Covid complications||PUNE Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Satav died on Sunday due to post-Covid complications, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said. Satav was 46. A member of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), Satav breathed his last at 5am, four days after he was diagnosed with a fresh infection of the Cytomegalovirus, Tope said. The last rites will be conducted on Monday morning, his family members said. Satav had earlier contracted SARS-CoV-2 for which he was undergoing treatment at Jehangir Hospital. “Satav became RT-PCR negative on May 9. However, he succumbed to secondary pneumonia with multi-organ dysfunction syndrome,” the hospital stated in a statement. “He had recovered from Covid-19 and was taking some immunosuppressant drugs. He later developed a fresh infection due to which he had fibrosis in the lungs. Despite the best efforts of the doctors, he succumbed to the infection,” Tope said. Cytomegalovirus is a common virus that can cause complications for people with a weakened immune system. Satav was admitted to Jehangir hospital on April 23, a day after he tested positive for Covid-19. Due to some complications, he had to be shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and was on ventilator support. Last week, Satav recovered and tested negative for Covid-19. However, the fresh infection led to deterioration in his health, resulting in him being put on ventilator support again. “It’s very sad news. He was very close to me. I was in Pune to visit [him at the] hospital and enquire about his health. However, I lost my friend at around 5am,” said Tope. According to another Maharashtra minister, Vishwajeet Kadam, Satav’s lungs were heavily infected due to infection, which made it difficult for doctors. Senior leaders, including those from his party, paid their condolences. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his condolence message tweeted: “Anguished by the passing away of my friend from Parliament, Shri Rajeev Satav Ji. He was an upcoming leader with much potential. Condolences to his family, friends and supporters.” Hailing from Hingoli, which he represented in the Lok Sabha between 2014 and 2019, Satav was considered a close associate of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. “I’’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of Congress. It’s a big loss for us all. My condolences and love to his family,” tweeted Rahul Gandhi.Maharashtra Congress leaders said Satav’’s death is an irreparable loss. The NCP and Shiv Sena also expressed shock at his demise. NCP president Sharad Pawar said Satav’s death was shocking. Pawar described him as a studious and aggressive leader. Born on September 21, 1974, Satav studied at Pune’s Fergusson College and then, at the ILS Law college. Before becoming Lok Sabha MP, Satav was a legislator in the Maharashtra assembly.In the Congress, Satav, considered a close associate of Rahul Gandhi, was in charge of party’s affairs in Gujarat, where the Congress put up a spirited fight in the last assembly elections. Vice-president Venkaiah Naidu (chairperson of the Rajya Sabha) in his condolence message tweeted: “I’m deeply shocked by the untimely demise of Rajya Sabha member, Shri Rajiv Satav due to Covid-related complications. He was a dynamic parliamentarian and deeply committed to serving the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/congress-leader-rajya-sabha-member-rajeev-satav-dies-due-to-post-covid-complications-101621251730491.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Ajit Pawar’s social media conundrum is all about the timing||Last week when Maharashtra government decided to appoint a private agency to handle the social media accounts of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, it drew sharp criticism from all the quarters. One reason for criticism was the government was willing to pay ₹6 crores amid raging Covid crisis when state is grappling with paucity of funds. The ₹6 crores was for a year -2021-22. Pawar later ordered he does not need a separate agency though debate continued to rage on. Was it for the first time government was appointing outside agency to operate social media accounts? Various institutions within the government - be it Police or municipal corporations or ministers - have hired services of private agencies to handle their social media accounts. The success recipe for social media these days is more important than the actual work done by respective entities. It helps politicians, police and other government agencies to create an image that is appreciated by an outside world. At the same time, a lot of it is also useful to common citizens. In one of his interviews in January 2020, K Vekatesham, former police commissioner, Pune, said, “After the city police became active on social media, people’s engagement with police had increased, while at the same time their faith in the law enforcement agency also improved.” This was after the city police roped in a private agency to operate its Twitter, and other social media accounts, in 2019. The digitally-savvy Pune police started using pop culture and millennial slang to speak to youngsters. From several witty responses, to polite yet firm messages, netizens began enjoying the quick and smart replies on the Pune police Twitter handle that had shut out some “extra smart” accounts, asking about drugs or the cell numbers of women. The active social media account helped Pune police carve out a better image for its Pune unit. To handle the accounts, Sunchika Pandey, a Mumbai- based journalist-turned-social media consultant helped the Pune police. Pandey had previously helped the Mumbai police stay ahead in the social media game. “My agency’s job is to only guide them on strengths and weaknesses of social media, which can make or mar anyone’s image,” Pandey had said in her interview to Hindustan Times in 2020, (Meet the Meme Queen who radicalised Pune police’s social media game... for the better). For many agencies, Pandey and her media firm have been game changers. While Pandey did not share specific details, agencies in Pune and Mumbai hiring her services were paying crores of rupees. So why did Ajit Pawar invite criticism that forced him to immediately ask the government not to go ahead with his proposal to hire a specialist agency to handle his social media account? There are many ministers and politicians who have roped in private agencies to do the same. In Pawar’s case, it was more due to timing and the payment, which in previous instances did was not made public. The proposal was to spend ₹6 crore on the deputy chief minister’s social media accounts, even though the government has a Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR) department.The department has a staff strength of 1,200 across Maharashtra with an annual budget of ₹150 crore. If the DGIPR, as claimed in the same order issued to hire a private agency for Pawar’s account, lacks professional and technical competence to handle social media, the government could spend the same money that it was to allocate for Pawar to train the staff. That will be of use to all the ministers, including the chief minister, and to various departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-ajit-pawar-s-social-media-conundrum-is-all-about-the-timing-101621248130686.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Bibwewadi, Aundh-Baner have most micro-containment zones in city; Dhole Patil road has none||The Dhole Patil road ward, one of the wards in the city that saw the most Covid-19 cases during the beginning of the pandemic in April-May 2020, currently has no active micro-containment zones.Bhavani peth and Warje-Karvenagar wards too, have reported a drastic fall in the number of micro-containment zones, each reporting just one active zone - a single building. Bibwewadi and Aundh-Baner are currently reporting the highest number of micro-containment zones, 37 and 34 respectively. As of May 12, the city has a total of 230 micro-containment zones, most of them, housing societies.As per Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data, the city has 230 active micro-containment zones which includes 31 buildings, 156 societies and 43 others. The most zones are in Bibwewadi and Aundh-Baner, followed by Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar, and Yerwada-Kalas-Dhanori.The least number of zones are in DP road, Bhavani peth, Warje-Karwenagar, Kasba-Vishrambaugwada and Kondhwa-Yewalewadi. The highest number of new cases continue to come in from Hadapsar-Mundhwa and Ahmednagar Road-Vadgaonsheri. The spread of micro-containment zones in these wards is thin. On May 13, 2021, Dhole Patil road reported 57 new Covid-19 cases, while Bhavani peth had 24 new cases. On the other hand, during the same period, Bibwewadi reported a total of 76 new Covid-19 cases, while Aundh-Baner reported 180 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bibwewadi-aundh-baner-have-most-micro-containment-zones-in-city-dhole-patil-road-has-none-101621179247064.html
17-05-2021||Pune||COEP jumbo facility blames oxygen shortage for not running at full bed capacity||PUNE In August 2020, Pune got its first Covid-19 dedicated jumbo facility, constructed on the grounds of College of Engineering Pune (COEP).The facility has a capacity of 800 beds - 600 oxygenated and 200 ICU.However, despite the facility till date, has never operated at capacity. As of May 16, COEP has 700 operational beds which the civic body plans to increase it to 740. That would be still 60 beds short of its planned capacity. The agency which runs the facility said that the facility could not meet its capacity because of the shortage of oxygen, and is still dependent on external oxygen supply. The COEP jumbo facility was inaugurated online by CM Uddhav Thackeray on August 24, almost six months after the first Covid case was detected in Pune on March 9, 2020. In September 2020, the city saw the peak of the first wave, and in April the second wave hit harder. During both periods, citizens faced a shortage of oxygenated and ICU beds. Incidents where people lost their lives to the infection as they could not get the right treatment and admission into any hospital, are rife. Dr Shreyansh Kapale, director of Medbros, which is running the facility, said, “The facility could not operate at full capacity because of the oxygen shortage. Currently, we have 700 beds and during the last peak we could not admit more patients as the existing oxygen capacity was just enough for the existing patients. Currently, the number of new cases is going down and we have enough oxygen.” Dr Kapale said there is no shortage of staff or financial aid restricting the facility. The PMC now plans to add 40 more beds to the facility which will bring the total number to 740. Of the 700 beds, 520 are oxygenated beds, 119 are ICU beds without a ventilator, and 61 have ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coep-jumbo-facility-blames-oxygen-shortage-for-not-running-at-full-bed-capacity-101621178527100.html
17-05-2021||Pune||Cyclone Tauktae: Trees fall in city, damage to homes and schools in rural Pune||Strong winds accompanied with rains due to cyclone Tauktae inflicted damage to over 95 homes and school buildings in two villages in Khed while several incidents of tree fallings were reported from the various parts of Pune during Saturday and Sunday. The district administer has put local machinery ready for relief and rescue with India Meteorological Department (IMD) issuing a yellow alert for Pune. Officials said school and gram panchayat buildings along with homes in Bhorgiri and Bhivegaon villages under Khed tehsil suffered damages although no casualties were reported. “Tin roofs atop schools, Anganwadi and Gram panchayat were blown away while over 90 homes incurred moderate to serious damage. The people were aware of the danger and have already started repair work on Sunday morning. We have offered them a shelter in a nearby Ashramshala,” said Vikrant Chavhan, sub divisional officer, Khed Tehsil. According to the Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad no serious damage has been reported from other rural parts till Sunday evening. In city too, gusty winds were experienced since Saturday evening throughout Sunday. It led to 31 cases trees falling incidents in various parts of the city, according to fire brigade department. “We are taking care that no inconvenience is caused to the citizens and roads being cleared immediately,” said Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, PMC. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar also held a meeting with ward officers on Saturday and instructed officials to be vigilant in case of heavy rainfall. Covid hospitals under PMC have also been asked to keep supporting staff ready in case of waterlogging. “We don’t need to shift Covid patients like Mumbai as we do not have a coast, but we have told PMC covid hospitals such as jumbo facility, Naidu, Dalvi to keep support staff ready just in case of heavy rainfall. There shouldn’t be waterlogging,” said Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, PMC. Elaborating on the preparations in rural areas Ayush Prasad, Pune Zilla Parishad CEO said the contact officers from district headquarters have been appointed to support local teams from Sunday (16th May) 2pm until Tuesday (18th May) 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cyclone-tauktae-effect-trees-fall-in-city-damage-to-homes-and-schools-in-rural-pune-101621176366948.html
