18-05-2021||Pune||Dist collector regulates supply of medicine for Mucormycosis||Pune: Following the rise in cases of post-Covid disease Mucormycosis in the district, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has directed the supply of Amphotericin B, drug used to treat the disease, under the control of collectorate.A control room has been set up at the collectorate from May 18 to regulate the supply and distribution of Amphotericin B. The step has been taken to prevent the black-marketing of the anti-fungal drug. Distributors of the injection have been ordered to inform the district administration about available stock. All hospitals have been asked to inform officials about the number of patients undergoing Mucormycosis treatment, available injection stock, and demand. Flying squads have been constituted in the district to check appropriate distribution, sale at approved price and use by hospitals of Amphotericin B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dist-collector-regulates-supply-of-medicine-for-mucormycosis-101621355594682.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Paper leak case: Lt.Col rank officer remanded to police custody||The lieutenant colonel-rank officer arrested by Pune police on Monday from Secunderabad in Army recruitment question paper leak case was remanded to police custody by a court in Pune on Tuesday. Bhagat Preetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi (44) was remanded to police custody till May 25 by Additional Sessions Judge SR Navander. His arrest was made after a storekeeper from Delhi Cantonment, Vira Prasad Kotiswamy (41), who was arrested on May 15, revealed that the officer had sent him the paper, according to Laxman Borate, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, Pune police. Kotiswamy is also in police custody. “An internal inquiry was conducted by the Indian Army and then he was handed over to us. They have given us a phone that he owned but that is not the one he used to send the question paper. We have to recover that phone,” said ACP Borate. Explaining the reason for seeking remand, Public Prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal claimed that the officer had breached protocol that required him to not use his phone. “He was the presiding officer on the committee that decides on the matters related to the question paper. A CD is provided to the presiding officer and the password is also provided to open the CD. Use of phone is not expected in this process. He used his phone and sent the question paper,” said PP Agarwal. However, defence advocate Sudhir Shah claimed that the name of the officer had failed to appear in the chargesheet in the case. “The case was registered on March 1. The chargesheet has been filed. But his name is not come in it,” said Advocate Shah. Two cases were registered on March 1 based on the police action that resulted in cancellation of the recruitment exam on February 28 at 40 centers for 30,000 aspirants. While one case was at Vishrantwadi police station, the other one was at Wanowrie police station. The chargesheet in Vishrantwadi case was presented to court on April 27 while the one in Wanowrie case was presented in April 30, according to the police. Kotiswamy and Lt Col Bedi have both been arrested in the case registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/paper-leak-case-lt-col-rank-officer-remanded-to-police-custody-101621354213686.html
18-05-2021||Pune||PMC floats fresh tenders for ₹134-cr Singhad road flyover project||Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has floated fresh tenders for the flyover project on Sinhgad road. The civic body had earlier suspended the tendering forthe project after private contractors came up with higher quotes than the civic body’s budget estimation of ₹117 crore. The fresh tender is ₹134 crore. PMC city engineer (projects) Sriniwas Bonala said, “Fresh tender advertisement has been released for the construction of the flyover. The plan cost based on last two years’ estimation is around ₹134 crore, including GST, royalty and other charges. A budgetary provision of ₹17.05 crore has been made for the work this year.” he said. PMC proposed the flyover project after demands from residents and elected representatives who raised increasing traffic problems on the arterial road connecting suburban areas Hingne Khurd, Anandnagar, Vadgaon Budruk, Vadgaon Dhayari, Narhe, Ambegaon Budruk, Nanded City and Khadakwasla. According to PMC, the Bengaluru-Mumbai bypass puts additional burden on the road. According to PMC, the project’s first phase includes a 2.5km-long proposed flyover between Rajaram bridge and Fun Time Multiplex at Vadgaon Budruk. The flyover, once completed, would streamline traffic flow on Sinhgad road and provide direct access to commuters exiting Pune and those entering the city through Sinhgad road junction and going towards Swargate Chowk area. According to the engineering department, the flyover will have two wings with two lanes each and the wing for traffic towards Vadgaon Budruk will begin after Rajaram bridge chowk while the other wing for commuters travelling to Swargate from Vadgaon Budruk will start from Indian Hume Pipes junction. Corporator Manjusha Nagpure said, “We constantly followed up the plan with the government and ensured that the standing committee sanction finance to the effect in its budget. With fresh tenders issued, the work will be completed soon.” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-floats-fresh-tenders-for-rs-134-cr-singhad-road-flyover-project-101621353493623.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Kamala Nehru hospital diagnostic lab overcharge for scans, allege residents||Pune: Those visiting the private diagnostic lab set up at Kamala Nehru Hospital premises have complained to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) regarding overcharging for HRCT (high resolution CT) test. They claim that the lab charges ₹2,500 per scan for Covid patients and ₹3, 00 for other cases. PMC has fixed the rate between ₹1,500 – ₹1,600 for these scans. The civic administration, under the then municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar, has set up the centre to providing facilities like X-ray, blood tests and other scans at affordable costs to residents. According to the complaint, the lab has been overcharging for scans since the past 18 months. Corporator Ravindra Dhangekar said, “The space for setting up the diagnostic lab has been provided by the hospital and PMC pays for its cleanliness and power bills. So, the lab has to provide services as per the affordable cost suggested by PMC. The health department is indifferent to the cause of the citizens and has paid little attention towards the issue.” PMC assistant health superintendent Dr Sanjeev Wavare said, “We have received the complaint that the lab is overcharging from patients despite our directions. We are looking into the compliant and strict action will be taken if the inquiry finds any anomaly.” Meanwhile, the lab incharge, who did not wish to be named, said, “We are charging as per PMC rates. We even forego the scan charges on compassionate grounds if the patient is poor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kamala-nehru-hospital-diagnostic-lab-overcharge-for-scans-allege-residents-101621352653655.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Dam capacity to benefit from light rainfall for over two weeks||With the city receiving spells of moderate rains especially during evening time in the last 20 days, the catchment area has also observed light to moderate rainfall activity which will benefit the dam recharge. “Along with parts of the city, the rainfall activity continued in the catchment area as well. Although it was moderate to light rain it will benefit in dam recharge activity,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune The four water reservoirs of the city – Khadakwasla, Panshet, Warasgaon and Temghar has an average of 29.245 % water stock available on Wednesday which is greater than previous year (ie-26.0425%) “These unseasonal rains generally don’t make much difference to water storage as these rains are not for long duration and it comes along with the gusty winds so it does not make a larger impact on the water storage. It helps to a smaller extent,” said an official from the state water irrigation department. With monsoon expected to arrive on June 1 in Kerala and prediction of normal rainfall makes the situation better for water storage in dams. “Currently, we have enough water stock in dams, and the monsoon predicted arrival is on regular time so the city will not face any water shortage,” added the official. During the second week of May, water was released from Khadakwasla for the summer crops. It was the second time in a year when water was released for irrigation. “The activity of releasing the water will continue until the first week of June. However, we have reserved water stock required for water supply in the city,” said an official. The repair work at Temghar dam will be delayed due to non-availability of workers due to Covid regulation restriction imposed in the city. The 95 per cent repair work is completed. The remaining 5 per cent work is expected to be completed by October. Currently, the water stock in Temghar is 2.12 per cent, it was brought down to null at the end of March to finish the remaining work. The dam site which is 50 kilometres away from the city receives around 3,000mm rainfall during monsoon season. Box Header: Dam levels at a glance Info: The four water reservoirs of the city – Khadakwasla, Panshet, Warasgaon and Temghar has an average of 29.245 % water stock available on Wednesday which is greater than previous year (ie-26.0425%) Khadakwasla 2020: 9.88% 2021: 44.5% Panshet 2020: 46.93% 2021: 41.16% Warasgaon 2020: 37.31% 2021: 29.2% Temghar 2020:10.05% 2021: 2.12% Total stock in 2020: 104.17% Total stock in 2021: 116.98% Average Stock in 2020: 26.0425% Average Stock in 2021: 29.245%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dam-capacity-to-benefit-from-light-rainfall-for-over-two-weeks-101621349834873.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Man robbed under pretence of road rage||A 46-year-old man from Baramati was robbed of ₹13.5 lakh cash by people who distracted him with a false accusation of having damaged their vehicle in Wagholi area of Pune on April 30. The crime was committed around 7:30am on April 30 in Ubalenagar area of Wagholi in Pune. The two men came near the man’s moving car in front of a steel shop and overtook him before crossing his path and stopping the car in front of his, according to the complainant. The two then started accusing the complainant of causing damage to their vehicle. The complainant was arguing with two of them over who caused the damage when their accomplice came and nicked a yellow bag which contained ₹13, 50, 00 in cash, according to the complainant. Police sub inspector Suraj Gore of Lonikand police station is investigating the case. A case under Sections 379 (theft) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-robbed-under-pretence-of-road-rage-101621349713491.html
18-05-2021||Pune||21-year-old Warkari-training school owner booked for sexual assault of minor||A 21-year-old owner of a Warkari -training school in Alandi was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for sodomising an 11-year-old pupil. The arrested man was identified as Shivprasad Ramnath Bhoknal, a resident of Mauli Varkari Education Society and a native of Vadangli village in Sinnar, Nashik, according to the police. “The child was going to the training school but for the past two days refused to go there. So, the parents spoke with him in confidence and then he revealed to them that he did not wish to go because of Bhoknal,” said senior police inspector Dnyaneshwar Sable of Alandi police station. However, why the school was operational with Covid-19 regulations in place is yet to be known. When asked if there were other victims, PI Sable said that the enquiries were on to ascertain that. Srikant Maharaj, head of an association of such training schools in Alandi called Gurukul Sanghatna, did not have words of support for Bhoknal. “Only two months ago, I had seen him fighting with the locals at a chowk. He did not have adequate knowledge about Warkari lifestyle to be running a training school. However, we do not have restrictions about who can come to this place of worship and work. This boy is an unmarked orphan and was running the boarding school even though all other schools were shut due to Covid-19. When we went there to ask him about it during his arrest, he started speaking out of turn with us,” said Srikant Maharaj. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 35-year-old parent of the child. The child’s parents are labourers from Marathwada. A case under Sections 377 (unnatural offences) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4, 6, and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at Alandi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/21yearold-warkari-training-school-owner-booked-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-101621349593488.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Chhota Rajan’s niece arrested in extortion case||The Pune police arrested a woman who identifies herself as Chhota Rajan’s niece on Tuesday in a case of extortion. Chhota Rajan is bygone era’s underworld don from Mumbai and was known as Rajendra Nikalje before he became infamous by the pseudonym. The woman was identified as Priyadarshini Prakash Nikalje (36), a resident of Anita Apartment in Jabhulkar Chowk area of Wanowrie. Nikalje, who is part of a political party, was in Wanowrie area when she was arrested. “We have arrested her today and she was produced in court today itself. She is in police custody until May 20,” said Srinivas Ghadage, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. The extortion came to light when a man named Dhiraj Sable was caught accepting ₹25 lakh bribe from a local builder named Rajesh Javlekar near Aurora Towers in Camp area on March 14, 2020. A case under Sections 386, 387, 384, 385, and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered against Sable, a man named Mandar Waikar and Nikalje at Lashkar police station. In November 2020, the Bombay High Court had rejected the anticipatory bail for Nikalje in this case. The case was registered after Javlekar’s wife and sister-in-law had allegedly lodged a complaint against him through Nikalje. A complaint on the letterhead of Nikalje’s political party was submitted to the police, according to his complaint. After the complaint was lodged, the woman threatened Javlekar’s life if he failed to pay ₹50 lakh as extortion, according to the complaint in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chhota-rajan-s-niece-arrested-in-extortion-case-101621349533434.html
18-05-2021||Pune||ZP accountant booked for demanding bribe to process bills||An accountant at the Zilla Parishad health department was arrested by the Anti-corruption Bureau (ACB) Pune unit on Tuesday. The accused man was identified as Vijay Madhukar Chitode (45), an accountant at the health department of Pune Zilla Parishad. The man was caught while accepting ₹20,000 bribe of the ₹25,000 that he had demanded. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the owner of a printing company. The printing company had a contract for printing post- Covid19 forms and health certificate formats for sugarcane field workers, according to a statement issued by ACB. After the contract was over, the complainant filed for payment of bills. However, Chitode demanded ₹25,000 bribe in order to process and forward the bills for payment to the concerned ZP department. The ACB officials caught him red-handed while accepting the sum. A case under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at Bundgarden police station. The ACB officials have urged people to approach them in case of such demands by government officials. ACB Pune can be reached on 020-26122134 or 020-26132802 or 020-26050423 over phone calls and on 7875333333 on WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/zp-accountant-booked-for-demanding-bribe-to-process-bills-101621349353500.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: To live to 80, #love30... kmph, that is||Need for Speed. Fast cars. The Rat Race. The city that moves. We’ve glorified speed. Sometimes speed is essential – ambulances can save lives. Rapid response to crises is crucial. But, speed is known to kill:-The likelihood that a pedestrian will die if hit by a car travelling at 30 kilometres per hour (kmph), is less than 10%. -The certainty that a pedestrian will die when hit by a car moving at 50 kmph is more than 80%. Speeding on roads may be causing more than 67% of the deaths in cases of road accidents in India. The speed permitted by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in urban areas is 70 kmph. However, urban roads in our cities can’t be designed for 70 kmph, like highways. No wonder, globally, India has the worst record on road safety. The message of the UN Global Road Safety week, from May 17 to May 22, is “Love 30”, signifying that 30kmph, maximum, should be the default speed in residential areas. Road safety advocates Pranjali Deshpande, Ranjit Gadgil and Harshad Abhyankar, suggest a few key measures, to be taken up jointly by PMC, PCMC, traffic police and highways authorities. 1) Safe pedestrian paths and crossing facilities, speed control by traffic calming measures like raised pedestrian crossings, change of road texture, rumble strips and use of roundabouts, as recommended by the Transport Research and Injury Prevention Programme (TRIPP) at IIT Delhi.2) Special safety features and designs based on the road hierarchy for different kinds of roads, and zones which require a higher degree of care, such as schools and hospitals.3) Review road safety in every ward, with neighbourhood groups, and especially with children, women, people with disabilities, pedestrians and cyclists; and introduce signage and traffic calming measures. 4) In line with the recommendation by the UN and WHO, speed limits on roads in Pune should be 30 kmph or lower.5) The speed limit on arterial roads may be increased to 40 or 50 kmph, after a road safety audit and implementing safe road design and management systems to prevent fatalities.6) Widespread publicity of the speed limit.7) Widespread and effective enforcement by Traffic Police.It is appreciable that the municipal road department has already initiated construction of pedestrian crossings at certain locations. Such measures must be in place on priority as they help to save lives. TRIPP suggests that the 30 kmph limit in residential areas may be enforced by the judicious use of speed breakers and roundabouts. Arterial roads may have 40 to 50 kmph limits, enforced by road design and police monitoring. Service lanes along all four-lane highways and expressways should be constructed for use by low-speed and non-motorised traffic. In some time, when lock-downs are lifted, can the city that emerges be a slightly slower, friendlier, more humane city? Many of us have faced so much loss already. The lockdowns have also slowed the pace of life. We want to move forward, post-Covid. Yet, let us not lose the lessons from last year - when lockdowns were lifted, there was a surge in road accidents. Roads with lighter traffic and poor lighting, with speeding vehicles, may be the most dangerous post-lockdown.This time, if any safety measures can be constructed in advance of the re-opening, that would be best. Otherwise, when lockdowns are lifted, traffic calming measures with barricades can be used as an immediate measure on city roads and highways, to be followed by proper road safety measures. Our political leaders, the municipal administration and Traffic Police must show us the leadership we need to save lives through a city-level road safety strategy followed by concerted action. A “safe system” approach to road and traffic management with all relevant authorities acting together to enable mobility without deaths and serious injuries is what Pune urgently needs. Speedy adoption of this approach will save lives!Those interested in joining initiatives by local NGOs may get in touch with this writer for taking up and strengthening neighbourhood road safety plans and actions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-to-live-to-80-love30-kmph-that-is-101621339335622.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Army officer arrested for recruitment paper leak in Feb sent to police custody||PUNE: A Lieutenant Colonel-rank army officer arrested for his alleged involvement in the army recruitment question paper leak case has been remanded in police custody till May 25. The officer, identified in court documents as Lt Col Bhagat Preetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi, was remanded in police custody by Pune’s additional sessions judge SR Navander on Tuesday.Lt Col Bedi is the third serving army officer - the other two hold the rank of Major - to be arrested in two cases related to the question paper leak. In all, 12 people have been arrested.A senior Pune police officer said the army had handed over Lt Col Bedi, 44, to the police after its internal inquiry established his alleged role. “An internal inquiry was conducted by the Indian Army and then he was handed over to us,” said Pune’s assistant commissioner of police, crime, Laxman Borate.Borate said the police needed his custody to recover the mobile phone that the officer had used to allegedly leak the question paper. He said the army did hand over the mobile phone that the officer was currently using but this wasn’t the one that he used to leak the question paper. “We have to recover that phone”.The army’s recruitment exam, scheduled to be held on February 28, was cancelled at the last minute after the army’s military intelligence team and the crime branch of Pune police carried out a joint operation that revealed question papers of the common entrance exam for recruitment of general duty soldiers were being sold for ₹4-5 lakh.Borate said Lt Col Bedi was arrested after he was named as the source of the question paper by Vira Prasad Kotiswamy, 41, a storekeeper posted in Delhi. Kotiswamy was arrested on May 15 and is also in police custody.Public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal said Lt Col Bedi had breached protocol that required him to not use his phone.“He was the presiding officer on the committee that decides on the matters related to the question paper. A CD is provided to the presiding officer and the password is also provided to open the CD. The use of phones is not expected in this process. He used his phone and sent the question paper,” said PP Agarwal.Lt Col Bedi’s lawyer Sudhir Shah, however, insisted that Lt Col Bedi is innocent and his name hadn’t even appeared in the charge sheet filed by the police. “The case was registered on March 1. The charge sheet has been filed. But his name does not figure in the charge sheet,” said Sudhir Shah.The Pune police had filed two FIRs, one at Vishrantwadi police station and the second at Wanowrie police station, on March 1 for the leak that led to the cancellation of the recruitment exam. Nearly 30,000 aspirants were scheduled to appear for the exam across 40 centres.Two Major-rank officers, Major Murugan Thangavelu,47, and Major Vasant Vijay Kilari, 45, were arrested earlier in the Wanowrie case apart from Kishore Mahadev Giri , 40, of Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte, 38, of Sappers Vihar colony in Pune; Bharat Lakshman Adakmol, 37, from Pune’s Pachora; Gopal Yuvraj Koli, 31, of BEG Centre in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti, 23, a resident of BEG Khadki. The suspects arrested in Vishrantwadi were identified by the police as Ali Akhtar Khan, 47, Azad Lal Mohammed Khan, 37, and Mahendra Chandrabhan, 37.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-officer-arrested-for-recruitment-paper-leak-in-feb-sent-to-police-custody-101621328953334.html
18-05-2021||Pune||Mhalwadi, a ‘learning village’ in Pune district||Pune: The Covid-19 has resulted in schools being shut, children out of classrooms, and teaching being undertaken remotely and on digital platforms. However, there are some villages with no internet connectivity. Mhalwadi, a village 50 kms from Pune in Bhor taluka, has found a way to overcome the situation. It has turned its walls into colourful blackboards for students. More than 100 walls in the village are painted with lessons on various subjects. Drawings, formulas, diagrams and other details that are taught in schools are painted on the walls of buildings and homes across the village for the benefit of children. The initiative is taken by Rajesh Bodke from the village. “The students of our village used to study at the zilla parishad school that is closed since the Covid outbreak last year. Their parents are farmers with limited economic means. They do not have smartphones to study online and even the mobile connectivity at the village gets disrupted often. As I also did my primary education at this zilla parishad school, I decided to do something to help the students. I met the school teachers and we came up with the idea to turn the entire village into a school. Accordingly, since the last two months, we have painted over 100 walls across the village with information and lessons for school-going children,” said Rajesh. According to Rajesh, the project was inaugurated on Sunday. “Any student can learn from these information boards and school lessons from anywhere around the village. There are Mathematics formulas, tables, history and civics lessons, body parts information, science related diagrams and other details that student can learn while walking around the village. I have spend around ₹1.5 lakh on the project and am feeling satisfied to do something for my village,” Rajesh said. The village has one zilla parishad school with around 52 students. As schools are closed across the country since March last year, those studying outstation have returned to their hometown, and their count is 50. Appreciating the work of the learning walls, Ketan Patil, a 12-year-old student from the village, said, “Our studies are affected by the pandemic. These learning walls help us to sit and read the information and lessons as a fun activity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mhalawadi-a-learning-village-in-pune-district-101621261870243.html
