19-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 4,490 positive cases, 52 deaths in 24 hrs||PUNE: Pune district on Wednesday reported 4,490 fresh Covid-19 cases and 52 deaths in 24 hours, as reported by the state health department. The district has reported 984,876 progressive cases, of which 906,988 have recovered. The death toll stands at 10,593 and 67,295 is the active number of cases. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 2,551 new cases taking the total of 271,110. With 25 deaths on Wednesday, the death toll went up to 2,859. Pune city reported 1,223 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the final count to 476,129. And 24 deaths were reported on Wednesday which puts the death toll at 6,128. PCMC reported 716 new cases. With 3 deaths reported on Wednesday, the toll went up to 1,548. Pune district also saw higher vaccination beneficiaries on Wednesday with 10,681 receive the vaccine on Wednesday. Pune city saw only 935 beneficiaries, while Pune rural saw 3,877 beneficiaries, and PCMC saw the highest number of 5,869 beneficiaries get the jab. Of the 10,681 beneficiaries, 6,641 are Covishield and 4,040 are Covaxin doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-4-490-positive-cases-52-deaths-in-24-hrs-101621441834103.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune teenager's 'clearest image of moon' goes viral on social media||A teenager from Pune gained popularity on social media by capturing one of the clearest pictures of the moon.Prathamesh Jaju, a 16-year-old boy from Pune, shot around 50,000 pictures and stitched them together to get the clearest and sharpest image of the moon. It took him around 40 hours to process the images and videos.Speaking to ANI, Jaju said, "I captured the image on May 3 at 1 am. I captured for around four hours with videos and images. It took 38-40 hours for processing. The reason behind 50,000 pictures was to get the clearest picture of the moon. I stitched them together and sharpened the image to see crisp details of the moon. The raw data was 100 GB and after processing it, the data turned bigger so it was around 186 GB. When I stitched them together, the final file was around 600 MB."Asked about how he got the idea to do such a thing, the teenager said, "I read some articles and saw some YouTube videos to learn how to capture these images. I learned the processing."A post shared by Prathamesh Jaju (@prathameshjaju)Jaju is a student of Class 10 in Vidya Bhavan School, Pune. His father runs a computer sales and repairing business while his mother is a housewife. Besides photography, Jaju likes athletics. He even participated in one national competition in athletics. He is also very active on social media and has more than 26,500 followers on Instagram.Sharing about his future aspirations, the teenager said, "I want to become an astrophysicist and study astronomy professionally but astrophotography is just a hobby for me right now."Jaju shared his images of the moon on social media platforms like Instagram that have over 11,000 likes."This image is an HDR Composite of two different images made to give it a three-dimensional effect. This is my most detailed and clearest shot of the third quarter Mineral Moon," he said."Our eyes cannot resolute the colours of the minerals on the moon. The blue tones reveal areas rich in ilmenite which contains iron, titanium and oxygen. While the orange and purple colours show regions relatively poor in titanium and iron. The white/grey tomes refer to areas of greater exposure to sunlight," Jaju wrote on social media while describing his captured image of the moon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-teenager-s-clearest-image-of-moon-goes-viral-on-social-media-101621434409867.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune city sees fewer babies in 2020 than 2019||Pune: As per the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department, the city saw fewer baby births registered in 2020 as compared to 2019. While the civic body does not have any specific analysis of the same, the restricted movement of people due to the lockdown and also a large number of people moving out of the city could be the reasons, according to civic officials. As per the data, Pune city reported 50,544 births of which 25,967 male births and 24,577 female births were registered in 2020 while in 2019, 52,669 births were registered, of which 27,407 were male births and 25,262 were of female births. The number of births registered within a year fell by 2,125. The number saw a drastic fall compared to the 2018 fall during which over 55,000 birth registrations were seen due to the population rise as 11 new villages were added to the PMC limits. The highest number of births registered in the last five years was in 2018 when 55,516 births were registered of which 28,815 were of male child and 26,701 were of female children. Dr Kalpana Baliwwant, assistant health officer PMC, who looks after the birth/death registration department said, “I cannot say any specific reason for the same. A birth can be registered within one year of the child’s birth and so if a child born in November or December is registered in the coming months then the birth registration is recorded as per the next year.” In 2020, the city was under strict containment measures in view of the Covid pandemic. This restricted movement of the people which could have hampered the registration of births while a large number of people also moved out of the city which might have actually brought down births in the city. Another civic official said, “In the year 2017, 11 more villages were added and so in 2018 the number of births registered went up drastically. In addition, people have a year’s time to record the birth and so maybe people are avoiding stepping out to register. However, even in that case the hospital has to register within 21 days and send the PMC inputs regarding the birth and this report is based on those who have submitted the report. The 23 villages which are yet under consideration are yet to be added officially within the PMC limits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-sees-fewer-babies-in-2020-than-2019-101621437694121.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Refuge area turned into office at Ganga Satellite society, PMC, fire department issue notices||The society office bearers of Ganga Satellite, Wanowrie have turned a blind eye to repeated notices against illegally turning the refuge area in C2 building of the society into an office. Yezdi Motiwalla, a 60-year-old resident of Ganga Satellite, Wanowrie, approached the authorities on April 29 when he along with three members objected to the refuge area being used as an office, a party hall. The refuge area has a working toilet, and a kitchen has also been constructed. The space is is used as a storage space for furniture and it is under lock and key 24x7. It was during the annual general body meeting held on November 1, 2020, that Yezdi Motiwalla, Mariam Lakdawalla, Arun Mahajan and Marut Jain expressed their disapproval on the expenditure on the refurbishment of the refuge area. “We did not pass ₹5, 65,000 being spent on refuge area and I lodged a complaint with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) who duly sent an engineer from the building control department on April 8, 2021, on site. Even the fire department visited the site on April 10, 2021, and now in spite of issuing legal notices for demolition, the chairman is refusing to do anything,” said Motiwalla. “The refuge area in a building is to be kept open and vacant and is meant to be a meeting point for evacuation in an emergency situation when a fire breaks out. According to state guidelines and the fire department, no construction or conversion of the refuge area into anything else is permitted,” said chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise, who added that if the society does not demolish it, then the fire brigade will take legal action and cut the water and electricity supply to the society. “It is the society’s responsibility to remove the illegal structure in the refuge area and we have served them the notice,” he said. “It is illegal to turn the refuge area into any other space, especially when you have senior citizens also in the society, this refuge area is to help during any kind of disaster, but it is being kept under lock and key and turned into a party place. What good is it to people when it is needed?” said Motiwalla. The society chairman and secretary were issued the notices by the fire department on April 22 and by the PMC on April 26. The society chairman, Hiten Talati, refuted the notice and said, “We have replied to the notices from PMC and fire department, and I have nothing further to add.” PMC building department, executive engineer Harshada Shinde said, “We have given them 30 days to demolish the illegal construction in the refuge area, if they do not follow then we will take action along with police, but since it is Covid, and police are busy with bandobast, we are waiting to get the police personnel for the necessary action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/refuge-area-turned-into-office-at-ganga-satellite-society-pmc-fire-department-issue-notices-101621437573543.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Two arrested for killing black buck in Indapur||Two men were arrested for killing a black buck alias chinkara by the Pune unit of the state forest department on Tuesday at 10pm in the forest area in the border dividing Kalas and Kazad villages of Indapur taluka in Pune. Chinkara which is often known as the Indian Gazelle (Gazella Bannetti) within the forest space in Indapur is protected under the Wildlife Safety Act of 1972. The two arrested were identified as Mahesh Janglu Mane (40), a resident of Sansar area of Indapur and Dattaray Popat Pawar (42), a resident of Bori area of Indapur, according to forest department officials. The forest department found a blood-soaked dead black buck stuffed inside a gunny bag, nine-bore rifle, one used cartridge and six live cartridges from the two. The two were travelling on a Bajaj Unicorn registered in Baramati. “They are in forest custody until May 24. We will be investigating what their intention was but prime facie it appears that they meant to eat it. The license of the rifle is a matter of investigation,” said Rahul Patil, district forest officer, Pune. The team of forest officials on night patrol included Ashutosh Shendge, Rahul Kale, Ashok Narute, Pooja Kate. “This action will bring this peculiar kind of poaching in check, and it will send a strong message amongst the poacher community. The citizens are appealed to approach the forest department immediately in case they find poachers engaged in illegal hunting in the forest area,” Patil said. A case under Sections 26(1)(d)(1) of Indian Forest Act, 1926 and Sections 2(16), 9, 11 and 51 of Wildlife(Protection) Act, 1972 was registered by the forest department officials. The India forest Act 1926, Section 26, states that the forest officer may evict from a reserved forest or from any land in a reserved forest, any person who, in such forest, trespasses or pastures cattle, or permits cattle to trespass, or clears or breaks up such land for cultivation or for any other purpose and may demolish any building erected or construction. The act also empowers the forest officials to arrest the hunters engaged in poaching protected species of wild animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-killing-black-buck-in-indapur-101621437453488.html
19-05-2021||Pune||History-sheeter Tilaksingh Taak arrested by cops||The Pune police have arrested the working head of one of the three crime families of Shikalgari community in Pune on Tuesday - Tilaksingh Gabbarsingh Taak. All of 28 years of age, Taak has a history of scores of cases against him and is a resident of Ramtekdi area. Taak was arrested in a case registered at Wanowrie police station in which sections of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked. “One car of Anti-dacoity cell officials was shown to have broken down in the middle of the road and in according to the informer’s information, a Honda City car arrived there at 8:20pm and the police flagged it down,” read a statement from the Pune police crime branch. As the car stopped near the seemingly broken-down car around 8:20pm on Dalingaon road in Pandharsthal village on May 10, the police raided the vehicle and arrested four of its six travellers. The car was reported to have been stolen and a case of theft was registered for it at Kondhwa police station. The four were identified as Taak, Nishant alias Bluck anil Nanavare, Sunil Pakash Gaikwad, and Ganesh Rajjendra Shivadkar, all residents of Ramtekdi area. Two men from the car managed to flee the spot. Upon investigation, the police found five stolen cars, two from Kondhwa, Yerawada, Vimantal, and Nigdi, in their possession. Along with the five, two other cases were also brought to light due to these arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/historysheeter-tilaksingh-taak-arrested-by-cops-101621437393466.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Despite drop in demand, Remdesivir vials found on black market||The police forces in Pune district have found two cases of black marketing of Remdesivir even though the demand for Remdesivir has decreased in the last three weeks, according to the allocation list issued by the district collector’s office. A 25-year-old man was arrested by Pune city police crime branch for selling Remdesivir on the black market on Tuesday in the Lohegaon area. On the same day, the Pune rural police arrested another man for selling the drug Shikrapur. The man arrested by Pune city police was identified as Devendra Kaluram Chaudhury (25), a resident of Chirke Colony in Lohegaon, Pune while the one arrested by Pune rural police was identified as Amit Devidas Pawar. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 188, and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of Drug Price Control Order, 2013; Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940; was registered at Vimantal police station. A case under similar sections was registered at Shikrapur police station. Chaudhury, a pharmacist, had acquired the injection from a person known to him who had procured four vials of Remdesivir for a patient. However, as one vial was not used, the person sold it to Chaudhury who in-turn sold it for ₹45,000. Pawar, on the other hand, has no medical background and was found carrying four vials in the storage of his two-wheeler vehicle. A total of 168 hospitals in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 116 hospitals in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) received allocation of Remdesivir through the district collector’s office on Tuesday. The PMC and PCMC each have about 100 hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, according to the divisional commissioner’s Covid-19 dashboard. On Tuesday, 553 hospitals in Pune district received 6,534 Remdesivir injections. One week before that, on May 12, 626 hospitals received 6,530 injections and on May 5, the allocation was of 9,756 for 557 hospitals. Therefore, the demand has considerably gone down and even though the process is monitored by the district collector office, the injections are landing in the black market and what’s more, they are also finding buyers who are ready to pay over 12 times its market price. The readiness of relatives to pay the amount stands proof of the loophole in the Remdesivir distribution and supply system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/despite-drop-in-demand-remdesivir-vials-found-on-black-market-101621437333418.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Four from Gujarat-based stock broking firm booked for cheating||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police booked four people from a stock broking firm in Gujarat for duping a man from Chinchwad of ₹40.2 lakh within a month between February and March. The four booked in the case were identified only as Prakash bhai, Anil bhai, Anil Sutar and Priya Patel, all believed to be residents of Gujarat. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ajit Krushnaji Devale (57), a resident of Link road in Chinchwad. Devale who holds a job in a private company, was approached by Priya Patel between February 3 and March 8 and she convinced him to invest in the share market through the two men to whom she introduced him. Through multiple transactions, Devale sent ₹50,02,000 to the bank account of the two men identified only as Anil and Prakash bhai. Over the months, Devale received ₹9, 77,110 but the accused failed to return the remaining ₹40, 24,890 to the complainant. He then approached the police and lodged a complaint. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chinchwad police station. Police sub inspector GD Mane of Chinchwad police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-from-gujarat-based-stock-broking-firm-booked-for-cheating-101621437273447.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune reports first death due to mucormycosis||Pune: The city on Wednesdayreported its first death due to mucormycosis, commonly known as “black fungus”. The reported death was that of a 29-year-old man who was obese and diabetic. This is the first reported death due to the infection, said PMC health officials. The civic body is ramping up its facilities to admit patients fighting with mucormycosis at its hospitals. The city has reported 168 cases of “black fungus” among the Covid recovered patients.On Wednesday, PMC chief health officer Dr Ashish Bharti said the city has reported one death due to the fungal infection and of the 168 cases reported in the city among Covid recovered patients, only two are being treated in civic hospitals and remaining in private hospitals. Dr Bharti said, “Mucormycosis is a fungal infection caused mainly because the immunity is suppressed in Covid recovered patients due to the use of steroids during the treatment course. Of the 166 patients in private hospitals, one has been declared dead as of yesterday’s updates.”The patient declared dead due to mucormycosis was reported from Bharti hospital. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical Director at the hospital, said, “The patient was a morbid obese weighing 110 kgs and suffering from uncontrolled diabetic. He died due to spread of the fungus through the blood which is called as a condition named fugemia. The patient was shifted from another hospital for Covid treatment where he underwent steroid treatment and developed swelling in his eyes before he was brought to our hospital. He had swelling in his face required a ventilator and multiple surgeries.” Dr Bharati said, “We would reserve about 10-15 beds dedicated for the treatment of mucormycosis who would be referred from other civic hospitals and admitted at Dalvi hospital. For medical management we would get anti-fungal drugs like Amphotericin B in probably the next two days and for surgical management we also have an ENT and ophthalmologist surgeon at the hospital and the operation theatre which was shut due to Covid cases since Dalvi hospital is a maternity hospital, we would procure the equipment required for operation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-one-first-death-due-to-mucormycosis-101621437213395.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Shortage worsens for drug to treat mucormycosis; Remdesivir demand drops in Pune||Pune: The demand for Remdesivir, anti-viral drug used for Covid treatment, in the district has come down following report of less positive cases. According to the district officials, 73 hospitals across the district have not taken their allocated stock of Remdesivir as compared to last week. Meanwhile, requirement for Amphotericin B, drug used to treat fungal infection mucormycosis has gone up. “Until last week, Remdesivir was distributed in 626 hospitals in the district. The count has dropped to 553 by Tuesday this week. The number is expected to further go down in coming days,” said Vijay Deshmukh, Pune additional collector. Pune, according to Deshmukh, is currently getting an average of 4,000-5,000 vials per day. On Tuesday, Pune district recorded 3,741 new cases with active caseload at 67,373, down from 88,851 on May 12. Shyam Pratapwar, assistant commissioner, Food and Drug Administration Pune, said that the demand for Remdesivir has dropped in the district by almost 20 per cent as compared to the last week. A control room has been set up at district collectorate to regulate supply of Amphotericin B to hospitals. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state currently has over 800 active patients of mucormycosis for whom the government has ordered 1.90 lakh injections of amphotericin. “However, these firms cannot deliver the vials directly to us now as the supply has been regulated by the Centre from today. We have demanded to Centre to increase the allocation for Maharashtra,” said Tope in Mumbai on Wednesday. On the efficacy of Remdesivir, after Dr Devender Singh Rana, chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi and also a member of the national task force constituted by the Supreme Court said that the drug may be dropped from the recommended treatment protocol, experts in Pune emphasised the effectiveness of the drug widely depends on the timing of its usage. “Remdesivir has proven to be beneficial if administered in the first 5-6 days of Covid infection. The drug is ineffective if delayed,” said Dr Subhal Dixit, critical care expert and chief of the Sanjeevan hospital, Pune. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital, pointed at the results of World Health Organisation’s Solidarity trial. He said the drug is less effective in patients on invasive ventilators. “Ultimately to say that a drug has been effective we need to see how many Covid patients were saved using this drug,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shortage-deepens-for-drug-to-treat-mucormycosis-remdesivir-demand-drops-101621435593311.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Gurudwara at Camp launches “Free Oxygen Langar Sewa”||Pune: The Gurudwara Guru Nanak Darbar, Camp, has launched “Free Oxygen Langar Sewa” for Covid patients who are prescribed medical oxygen and are finding it difficult to get hospital beds.The initiative by Gurudwara Saheb, Rotary Club of Poona and Gurudwara Panvel provides oxygen concentrator and oxygen cylinders for home use for free on returnable basis. They have also initiated jumbo oxygen cylinder bank to support hospitals in case of emergency.An ardaas (prayer) was performed attended by joint charity commissioner SM Bokey, Pune Cantonment Board CEO Amit Kumar and members of Rotary Club of Poona and Gurudwara Saheb.“After we launched the service in the city, we received call from Hyderabad and Secunderabad. We immediately dispatched 15 Jumbo, 50 mega and 20 small to gurudwara at Hyderabad and Secunderabad for oxygen support,” said Rotarian Narendra Pal Singh.For locals, there are 25 oxygen cylinders and 20 were provided to needy patients within an hour of launching the service.Kiran Awate, who came to collect an oxygen cylinder, said, “My brother was admitted for one month in the hospital due to Covid. On discharge, the doctor advised him to breathe using oxygen facility. In the market, a new oxygen cylinder cost up to a one lakh and for rent, there are packages starting from ₹25,000 for 15 days. A colleague suggested contacting the gurudwara and I came here to collect the cylinder for free. They gave me the cylinder on trust, for which I am thankful.”Kumar said, “This gurudwara has been offering similar public service since the Covid outbreak last year by supporting migrants, providing medical kits and equipment to hospitals and medical centres, and holding langars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gurudwara-at-camp-launches-free-oxygen-langar-sewa-101621428752258.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune city receives 7,500 doses of Covishield; vax drive to resume on Wed||PUNE On Tuesday, Pune city received 7,500 doses of Covishield, which will allow the vaccination drive that was halted for two days, to resume. The PMC commissioner, Vikram Kumar, issued a fresh set of orders, whereby, on Wednesday, the city will have vaccinations at 73 centres, and all the doses will be of Covishield. Pune mayor Murldihar Mohol said, “A total of 73 centres will be available tomorrow for citizens aged 45 years and aboe, senior citizens, healthcare and frontline workers. All centres will be of Covishield. Beneficiaries who took the first dose 84 days ago, will be eligible for the second dose. This new stock will be available only for a second dose. Ten per cent of the stock would be reserved for those who have an online appointment, while the rest will be reserved for walk-ins. There will be no vaccination for those aged between 18-44 years on Wednesday.”In view of political party workers hijacking vaccination centres and giving out tokens, the commissioner stated that all vaccinations have to be registered on the CoWin portal, and that no vaccination would be given without registration. “There should be separate lines for those registered online and for those who want on-the-spot registration. For those who want to be registered on the spot, only pmc employees would be allowed to register the person,” Kumar said.His order also states that the order of priority will be as follows;: those with disabilities, those who want a second dose, senior citizens, those registered online for the first dose and then, those who want on-the-spot registration for the first dose. The order also states that a vaccination centre can approach a local police station for protection and for crowd management. Also, the ward’s assistant commissioner concerned or health officer must provide a police constable for crowd management at the vaccination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-receives-7-500-doses-of-covishield-vax-drive-to-resume-on-wed-101621350733558.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pleasant summer season will have no direct impact on monsoon: IMD||Since the temperature in Pune, and Maharashtra have not seen a major rise this season, the feel of a ‘hot’ summer has been missing. On some days, the maximum day temperature touched the 40 degrees Celsius mark in Pune city, however, did not stay at that point for long. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) claim that a pleasant summer may not have have a direct impact on the onset of monsoon.As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), the reasons for not increasing the maximum temperature are the continuous weather systems that have been active over the state. The Southwest monsoon is likely to advance into south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21, according to IMD. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that the day temperature in Pune city during the summer season has touched 40 degrees Celsius only on a few occasions. “When the mercury touched 40 degrees Celsius, we experienced local instability in the weather. This has caused light rainfall with cloudy weather towards the evening. There were also thunderstorms and lightning accompanied with the rainfall but due to this, the following days become cooler. Thus, the warming effect has been cooled off,” said Kashyapi. Until May 24, the IMD has forecasted cloudy skies and pleasant days for Pune city. “After May 24, the temperature is not likely to rise in Pune. However, for Maharashtra, a marginal rise in day temperature may be seen in Vidarbha and Marathwada in the next few days until May 27,” said Kashyapi. As per the seasonal outlook for April to June issued by the IMD, it has clearly been stated that subdivision in the state will experience normal day temperature. Along with this, March as well as April this year reported very fewer incidents of heat waves. As per a recent report by IMD, in Maharashtra and rest of Central India, no frequent heat wave conditions were observed. Also, the maximum temperature over Maharashtra and Central India was below normal by 1 to 3 degrees Celsius. OP Sreejith, scientist, climate monitoring and forecast, IMD Pune said that the cause of isolated heat waves events in Central India which includes Maharashtra is that La Nina conditions are active this year. “We have observed the presence of lower-level wind convergence on many days in April this year. This resulted in rainfall and thunderstorms activities over most subdivisions in Maharashtra during the summer season. This eventually restricted the heating intensity to a few days and resulted in a comparatively pleasant summer,” said Sreejith. In May, Extremely Severe Cyclone (ESC) Tauktae brought rainfall and thunderstorms with gusty winds to many parts of the state. In Pune as well, more than 3 mm rainfall was reported in the last two days. Since 2009, Pune has reported a maximum day temperature in the month of May at 41.9 degrees Celsius in May 2010. However, this month in May, the day temperature did not even touch 40 degrees Celsius. Effect on Monsoon OP Sreejith, Scientist from IMD also added that there is no direct correlation between the intensity of heat in summer season and the monsoon. “The monsoon depends on various factors. IMD has issued the first long range forecast in April. We will be issuing another by the end of this month,” said Sreejith. In its first long range forecast for Monsoon 2021, IMD has forecasted that Southwest monsoon seasonal that is from, June to September, rainfall over the country as a whole is most likely to be normal that is 96 to 104 per cent of Long Period Average (LPA). “Quantitatively, between the month of June to September rainfall is likely to be 98 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA) with a model error of ± 5%,” stated IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pleasant-summer-season-will-have-no-direct-impact-on-monsoon-imd-101621349773532.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Active Covid cases drop in Pune by almost 50% in 12 days||There has been a steady decline in the number of active Covid-19 cases in areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). On May 5, there were 39,732 active cases in PMC. On May 17, that number had dropped to 18,440. The number of patients on oxygen support also reduced from 6,634 on May 5 to 5,286 on May 17.As a result, the availability of oxygenated beds in the city has eased. “The demand for beds with oxygen has reduced. This can be attributed to the decline in active cases,” said Dr Sanjeev Vavre, assistant health officer, PMC. Though the demand for oxygen beds has reduced, according to officials, the requirement for beds with ventilator support is still strong. “The demand for ventilator beds is still there. Patients from rural parts of Pune have contacted me. Though the number of patients has reduced we have started planning and preparing for the third wave. A special ward for paediatric Covid patients will be created at the COEP Jumbo hospital, in anticipation of the third wave,” said Rajendra Muthe, deputy commissioner, PMC. Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital, said that the number of patients from outside Pune getting admitted to the hospital has increased. “There is still high demand for ventilator ICU beds. Mostly, these admissions are of patients from rural Pune, or out of Pune district, like Satara, Karad, Sangli, Daund, amnd Saswad. The oxygen burden has reduced,” said Dr HK Sale. As per data available on the Pune Division’s Covid dashboard for bed availability, on Tuesday afternoon, 2,662 oxygen beds of the 7,680 allocated Oxygen beds were vacant. Also, 106 ICU beds without ventilators were vacant, whereas only nine ventilator beds were vacant in the Pune city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/active-cases-drop-by-almost-50-in-12-days-101621347793422.html
19-05-2021||Pune||Pune becomes ‘Covid conscious’, a touch too late||I walk for an hour every day. The cops don’t stop me. The cops do not stop anyone out cycling or walking or running, as long as the mask is on and there are no groups. I walk from my home in Salisbury Park, up past the Central Defence Accounts office, take a right at the main road and then head to five road stretches which are de rigueur for exercisers, from either Salisbury Park, Pul gate, or from the Army area that surrounds it. Hutchings School, the road parallel to it, Middle Road, Napier road and the road that runs past the AFMC nurses quarters. All microcosms of a time when all of Pune was like these roads – bungalows with verdant foliage lining broad streets that for the most part, see little or no traffic. Not anymore. The lockdown effect (avoid the cops), or may be just a general overspill of Pune’s urban growth, now sees these laid-back, fully residential areas bustling with twice the amount of traffic as five years ago; certainly the case with Napier road. I walked the route in lockdown 1, and am walking it in the current lockdown. I walked the same route before the lockdowns and in between. Microcosmically, walking the same stretch for over a year allows you to take in the finer details of the roads. The houses, the dogs and Punekars, in general. Here is the shortlist of stuff I’ve noticed. What the spit is wrong with you? The average Punekar spits in public without a second thought to public cleanliness or a general rule of health. On the route I walk, I endeavour to go one day where I see no one spit. For over a year, it has not been possible. Someone will spit in public – man, woman and child. My mind travels back 20 years ago, when as a budding reporter, I covered an event in Sadashiv peth, attended by the likes of the late Dr Banoo Coyajee and Dr Rajiv Sarangpani, where the raison d’être of the meeting was public cleanliness and what ordinary citizens did, at the time, to ensure their public habits did not put public health at risk. Much like an AA meeting, one man stood up, said his name and then said, “I have not spit in public or on the road for the last seven years”. The tone and tenor of the sharing suggested spitting as an addiction for him, which he had conquered. Spitting, by and large, is a subconscious reality for the average Punekar. And it is sickening. Strays and pets pooping I tread carefully now. My family has a pet dog, a stray, picked off the street as a pup, now commands love and care that on most days, even I am jealous of. Must pets be allowed to poop on the street? Must pet owners who walk their dogs on the street carry the poop back with them? Are the animal saviours that scour Salisbury Park and Napier road ensuring that strays are fed, responsible for animal waste dotting the landscape? There is no easy answer, I get that. But, a smart city must evolve to tackle such community issues. A penchant for throwing out food The streets I walk, especially Hutchings school and Middle road, provide ideal getaways for autorickshaw drivers seeking to escape the afternoon heat (yes, I walk in the afternoon-early evening), and for all sorts of Punekars – youth looking for a perfect selfie in the middle of the road; young couples out for some quality time together and drug addicts and afternoon tipplers. I have encountered all on the route in some shape or form. The one common thread that binds all these different groups of people is their ability to throw food on the road. The drinkers will liberally leave their chaknya behind on the road; the couples, whatever snack they were nibbling on; and even the stop-for-lunch crowd… food is on the road. A true waste. Covid 19: Pune now gets it… a touch too late In lockdown one, Pune was under the impression that Covid-19 was “out there”, not so much able to infect you and me. Much like the helmet rule is for everyone else, and certainly not for me in “my area”, the mask rule was not strictly followed. Most people exercising on my route did not bother with the mask. Now, Pune gets it. Covid-19 is here. Everyone wears a mask. No one complains and the general lockdown is adhered to. Running, cycling, walking, all with masks on. The “what if” scenario beckons… but, “better late than never” is perhaps on point. The author is News Editor, HT Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-becomes-covid-conscious-a-touch-too-late-101621347673500.html
