20-05-2021||Pune||35 lawyers of Pune Bar Association die of Covid in three months||Pune: The Pune Bar Association said that 35 lawyers were victims of the deadly Covid-19 contagion during the past three months. The association claimed that the victims were practising lawyers in different courts across the city and demanded that the legal fraternity be vaccinated on top priority as they are frontline workers providing service to citizens during the pandemic. Advocate Satish Mulik, president, Pune Bar Association said that the demise of 45 lawyers is a huge loss to the family, judiciary and the fraternity. According to the guidelines issued by the Bombay High Court, courts in the state are working in one shift from April 19 onwards, only for urgent matters. The guidelines were issued against the backdrop of the exponential surge of Covid-19 cases in the state. The guidelines regarding the functioning are applicable for all the subordinate courts in the states of Maharashtra and Goa, including the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. The guidelines state that all courts shall continue to function in one shift and take up remand, bail and urgent criminal and civil matters w,e,f. April 19 with judicial working hours of 2 ½ hours. The Principal District and Sessions Judges and Heads of the Establishment may take the decision to entrust the aforesaid work to requisite strength of judicial officers with 50% strength of staff, by rotation. The Principal District and Sessions Judges and Heads of the Establishment may adjust the working hours of shift having regard to the local situation/condition and all the judicial officers shall remain stationed at their respective places of posting and shall not leave headquarter/station without permission of the Principal District and Sessions Judge and Head of the Establishment. The judicial officers may pronounce judgment/s or pass orders in the matters, wherein the arguments of both the parties are concluded, the directive added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/35-lawyers-of-pune-bar-association-die-of-covid-in-three-months-101621525724163.html
20-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 3,735 fresh Covid cases, 91 deaths||Pune: As per state health authorities, Pune district reported 3,735 fresh Covid positive cases and 91 Covid deaths in the past 24 hours.. Out of 91 deaths reported on Thursday, 66 were in Pune rural, 21 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and four in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 477,129 Covid cases and 6,200 deaths till Thursday, PCMC 238,298 cases so far and total 1,554 deaths. Pune rural has reported 273,184 total cases so far and 2,974 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 0.988,611 million Covid cases. Of this, 0.913,741 million patients have recovered. There have been a total of 10,786 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 64,084 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 47,371 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 5,026,308 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 91.43%. Across Maharashtra, 29,911 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 730 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.55%. The state health department stated of 32,154,275 laboratory samples, 5,497,448 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 17.09% patients till Thursday. Currently, 2,935,409 people are in home quarantine and 21,648 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-3-735-fresh-covid-cases-91-deaths-101621525184161.html
20-05-2021||Pune||19 flying squads to monitor supply of Mucormycosis medicine in Pune||Pune: Looking at the surge in mucormycosis cases in Covid patients and rise in demand of medicine, the district administration along with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has decided to form 19 flying squads which will keep a tap on the demand and supply of medicine.The squad will include officers and employees of the Food and Drug administration (FDA), revenue department and police force.“There will be 19 squads, which are allocated parts of Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural Pune. These are the same squads which were keeping a tap on black- marketing of the Remdesivir injection,” said Shyam Pratapwar, assistant commissioner, FDA.A control room has been set up by the district administration at the collectorate to monitor supply of Amphotericirin B injection and prevent black-marketing and storage of the medicine.The district administration has also instructed private distributors and suppliers to inform about the availability of medicines and daily demands.The city has reported 168 mucormycosis patients so far, while Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 64 cases till now.“The squadd have been told to keep daily updates, so we can prevent situations like shortage of Remdesivir injections,” said Pratapwar.Pune Municipal Corporation has also increased its health insurance cover for the urban poor from ₹one lakh to three lakh due to post effect of Covid.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has also started helpline numbers and online consultation for patients who have recovered from Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/16-flying-squads-to-monitor-supply-of-mucormycosis-medicine-in-pune-101621524644147.html
20-05-2021||Pune||Pvt hospitals in Pune likely to start vax drive for 18-44 age group from today||Pune: The private hospitals in the city are likely to start administering vaccine doses to 18-44 age group beneficiaries from Friday as the stock purchased directly from manufacturing companies has started arriving, various hospitals HT spoke to said. The doses, once arrived, will be used for 18-44 age group, who are awaiting the vaccination after the state government suspended the drive in view of shortage of vaccines last week. It will be after three weeks that private hospitals in the city resume vaccination as the state government had refused to allot them doses from May 1. Among those who received the stock till Thursday evening were Noble hospital and Ruby Hall Clinic. Dr HK Sale, executive director of Noble Hospital, said, “Our hospital has received 1,000 doses of Covishield vaccine of the first order of 6,000 doses. Now that we have received the supply, vaccination process will start from Friday at our hospital centre.” Noble hospital has priced each dose at ₹900 and has asked intended beneficiaries to come for vaccination only after registering names through CoWIN portal. As the central government allowed private players to buy the vaccine doses, prominent hospitals from Pune have already placed their orders to vaccine manufacturers. Ruby Hall Clinic also received an undisclosed number of doses of Covishield with authorities planning to begin vaccination within two days. “We had given the order of vaccine doses order to Serum Institute of India for Covishield vaccine, and we have received some doses today. We will be among the first private hospitals from the city to start the drive from vaccine purchased directly from manufacturers. Initially, we have given an order of around 10,000 doses, but as per the availability, it will be supplied to us,” said Dr Avdhut Bodamwad, medical superintendent at Ruby Hall Clinic. Another private facility hoping to start vaccination drive within two days is Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said, “We have given order of 36,000 vaccine doses to Serum and it is expected to get the stock within a day or two. The government has given its standard price of purchase of ₹630 and we will be giving it at ₹900 per dose. Those above age of 45 will be allowed walk-in vaccination and for above 18 people they should register on CoWIN and take appointment. Also, we have started special funds for vaccination in our hospital through which the poor will be given free vaccine doses.” Similarly, Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital has also given the vaccine order. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth medical college, hospital and research centre said, “We were already in contact with Serum Institute to get the vaccines for our hospitals and now we have given the first order of 20,000 doses of Covishield. We hope to get the maximum number of doses though it depends on the availability and supply from the company. From next week onwards we will resume our vaccination process at our hospital.” Bharati Vidyapeeth was among the city-based hospitals which conducted human trials for Serum manufactured Covishield. India is currently administering Bharat Biotech made Covaxin too besides Covishield. “Along with Serum, we are in talks with other vaccine manufacturers too, Bharat Biotech for Covaxin and also trying to get the Sputnik vaccine. Once we get all the three vaccine doses, the speed of vaccination will be increased,” Oswal said. In Pune, currently only public hospitals are administering doses to those above 45 years of age. However, the government has prioritised those lined up for second dose. Many private firms and industries based in Pune have also inquired and asked hospitals for arranging mass vaccination of their employees, said doctors. Sale from Noble hospital said once there is ample availability of doses, they will start vaccination to corporates at their campuses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pvt-hospitals-in-pune-likely-to-start-vax-drive-for-18-44-age-group-from-today-101621519963772.html
20-05-2021||Pune||India’s first ‘at home’ antigen test kit developed by Pune firm to be available from next week||Pune: After the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday approved India’s first home-based rapid antigen testing (RAT) kit for Covid, Pune-based molecular diagnostics company Mylab Discovery Solutions said it will be made available within a week. The kit, advised by ICMR and to be used only on symptomatic individuals and on immediate contacts of laboratory confirmed positive cases, will be priced at ₹250. The company said it has current production capacity of one million per day with plans to augment it up to 1.5 million within two weeks. The kit, named as CoviSelfTM, for self-use test can be used by symptomatic individuals and immediate contacts of confirmed cases as per ICMR guidelines. Users of this test will not need sample collection by a healthcare professional. This will ease pressure on already overburdened testing labs and reduce delays in testing, which is more than 72 hours in some parts of the country. The country’s apex health research body stated, “all individuals who test positive using CoviSelf may be considered as true positives and no repeat testing is required”. It also said “all RAT negative symptomatic individuals may be treated as suspect Covid-19 cases and are advised to follow the ICMR/MoH&FW home isolation protocol while awaiting the RT-PCR test result”. ICMR has advised the kit users to download a mobile app which is available for both Android and iOS operating systems, and use the same device where the app is installed to take a picture of the strip in the kit after the testing process is completed. Each kit will have all testing materials, instructions for use (IFU) leaflet and a biohazard bag to safely dispose after testing. “The test is designed to be done using nasal swab (not the deep nasopharyngeal swab) to reduce the discomfort,” said Dr Gautam Wankhede, director - medical affairs, Mylab Discovery Solutions. According to Wankhede, the kit will provide results within 15 minutes while users who test positive are advised to immediately isolate so that they do not infect others and quickly contact a healthcare provider. “Most western countries have allowed self-test for their citizens and consider it as a powerful tool to break the chain. This easy-to-use test combines with Myab’s AI-powered mobile app so that a user can know his/her positive status, submit the result to ICMR directly for traceability, and know what to do next in either case of result. We are sure this small step will be a big leap in mitigating the second and subsequent waves,” said Sujit Jain, director, Mylab Discovery Solutions. Speaking about the accuracy of the kit results, Wankhede said, the firm has made every possible step to ensure the outcome is accurate. “With ICMR also accepting it, we can say its accuracy is as much as the kit being used professionally by labs outside,” he said. The firm, which was working on the kit since last seven months, had submitted the proposal to ICMR around six weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/indias-first-at-home-antigen-test-kit-developed-by-pune-firm-to-be-available-from-next-week-101621513843265.html
20-05-2021||Pune||PMC guidelines keep political interference away from vax centres||Pune: A day after vaccines arrived in the city and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued guidelines on vaccination at the centres, the process went on smoothly. The city got its stock of vaccines four days later which meant that the drive had to be shut for two days. On Wednesday too, the drive was restricted to only the second dose for those aged above 45 years. In view of the shortage of vaccines, the civic body had issued fresh guidelines to restrict any outside interference at the vaccination centres and even avoided giving out tokens from Wednesday which lead to a smoother vaccination drive in the day. On Tuesday, PMC issued guidelines that all vaccinations have to be registered on the CoWIN portal under the eligible criteria. In view of political party workers hijacking the vaccination centres to provide tokens to their recommended people, PMC had stated that no person, except the health workers, is allowed to enter the centre without due permission and that only those who have an online slot booked and those who have come for walk-ins will enter the premises. With limited vaccines in the city and no slots available for those aged between 18-44 year age group, the vaccination centres saw no rush and the process went on smoothly. In the case of token system too, only civic officials present at the spot are allowed to distribute tokens and the process for the same would begin at 10 am. The civic chief Vikram kumar in his guidelines also stated that the local ward officer or the health officials concerned at the ward can also seek police protection to maintain law and order if need be. Meanwhile, the Pimpri Chnchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) administration issued a statement on Wednesday stating that the vaccination drive for any age group will not carried out within the civic limits on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-guidelines-keep-political-interference-away-from-vax-centres-101621440033861.html
20-05-2021||Pune||PMC standing committee approves ₹733 crore for Swargate-Katraj Metro route||Already battling paucity of funds due to Covid pandemic, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has approved a proposal to spend ₹733 crore for Swargate-Katraj Metro rail extension. The estimated share of the PMC in the fresh proposal approved on Tuesday by the standing committee of PMC is 15 per cent of the overall project cost, compared to 5.44 per cent decided earlier. PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar had earlier tabled a proposal in the standing committee to approve 15 per cent financial contribution for Swargate-Katraj Metro extension project which is expected to be a major relief for those living on Satara road. His proposal came after Centre reduced its own share, passing the additional burden on the civic body. On Tuesday, the standing committee approved the proposal and passed on the general body meeting for final approval. However, most opposition parties have taken objection on the approval of the proposal and pointed out the financial condition of PMC. Political parties including Congress, Shiv Sena and NCP alleged that the fresh proposal puts an additional pressure on taxpayers as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has failed to get money from Centre. Aba Bagul, Congress party leader in PMC said, “The Congress party has given a proposal to reconsider Swargate-Katraj extended Metro route proposal to give permission to take responsibility of 10 per cent of the project cost. Actually, the Central government should have to give us 20 per cent share as per other Metro extension project such as Mumbai and Nagpur.” He further said, “If PMC will have to bear the cost of the project, there is no need to continue the project. The Swargate-Katraj BRTS route is going well. If the Metro starts on this route, Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal limited (PMPML) will have to face a financial loss on this route. It is a contradictory decision. After all, taxpayers’ money will be wasted.” Prithviraj Sutar, Shiv Sena Party leader in PMC said, “We are not against the Metro, we have supported the Swargate-Katraj Metro route, but the Central government suddenly reduced its share and put a burden on the PMC. The PMC is already facing a financial crunch; we have given priority to Covid. It is not feasible to allocate more money to Swargate-Katraj Metro. It will adversely affect other development projects of PMC. The BJP should have to convince the Central government to give 20 per cent share to PMC as BJP is in power at centre. We will not allow putting an extra burden on taxpayers.” Deepali Dhumal, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader in PMC said, “The BJP should have to correspond with the Central government and restore 20 per cent share in Swargate-Katraj Metro route. Earlier, the Central government was ready to pay 20 per cent, how can they suddenly decide to reduce their share. In the pandemic situation, it is difficult to raise money as the revenue is declining.” Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairman said, “The state has also reduced its share in the project. We will not share right now. We gave node to the proposal as it should not be delayed. There are options to approach the Central and state governments and request them to increase their share in the project. The project has already been delayed. We don’t want to delay it further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-standing-committee-approves-rs-733-crore-for-swargate-katraj-metro-route-101621437513503.html
20-05-2021||Pune||Autos pack passengers, flout Covid norms in Pune||Pune: The continuous lockdowns in the state have left residents who use public transportation face a lot of inconvenience. As those in emergency services are allowed to use public transport buses, commuters are seen sharing autorickshaws across the city. It is observed that share autorickshaw drivers take 4 to 5 passengers at one time in violation of social distancing norms and risking the lives of passengers. “I have been daily using share auto for work from Swargate to Katraj since the past one month. Sometimes, I see the auto ply with 4 passengers. With Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) buses off roads, we have no option but to bank on these autos,” said Shailesh Pandey, a worker. Autos carrying passengers beyond permissible limits are seen on major routes, including Sinhgad road, Katraj to Warje on the bypass highway, Swargate to Hadapsar and Katraj and Ahmednagar road. These autos mainly ply between 7 and 11 am when essential shops are allowed to remain open as per the Covid lockdown restrictions. “People should not risk their lives as the second wave of Covid has claimed many lives. Using share auto poses risk of getting infected. The state government should now allow commuters to travel by public transport buses by following the Covid protocol,” said Atul Namekar, secretary, Sinhgad Road - Warje residents association. Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) said, “More than taking action, auto drivers and passengers should realise the risk of getting infected when they travel in groups. Only two passengers are allowed at one time in an auto. We will review busy roads and take action against violators.” As per the Covid lockdown restrictions, transport vehicles are allowed to travel to and from place of residence to virus testing centre, vaccination centre, airport/ railway station, emergency medical requirements, personnel of essential services, marriage, funeral/ last rites. Rickshaw drivers are allowed to not carry more than two passengers at a time and maintain social distancing. Autos are allowed with driver plus two passengers in the back seat for the permitted purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/autos-pack-passengers-flout-covid-norms-in-pune-101621431692857.html
