21-05-2021||Pune||Junior asked to avoid ‘Google Forms’ for Class 11 admissions||On Friday, the Directorate of Education, Secondary and Higher Secondary, issued a circular stating that junior colleges should not ask students to fill “Google forms” for admission to Class 11 for 2021-2022, as so far there has been no decision on to how the admission will be done. Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, the Mumbai Metropolitan region, Nagpur, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati have a centralised admission process for Class 11. “However, admissions for Class 11 are done on a local level in the rest of the state. A few Junior colleges are misleading students by making them fill forms on private platforms like Google. These colleges are advised to not mislead students and parents,” stated the circular. The circular also clearly mentioned that the admission process for 2021-2022 Class 11 will be declared by the government and until then no college should commence admissions. The State government cancelled the Class 10 SSC board examinations, scheduled in April, due to a surge Covid cases. However, so far there has been no clarity as to how these students will be evaluated. Class 11 admissions for 2021-2022 have, therefore, not yet started. The Class 12 examination for the HSC board has also been postponed. New dates for the examination have not yet been released by the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/junior-asked-to-avoid-google-forms-for-class-11-admissions-101621615311881.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Number of Covid deaths in Pune down in the second wave: admin||Pune: As per the district administration’s information, in comparison with the first wave, Pune district saw fewer Covid deaths in the second wave compared to a surge in the number of positives. The administration also claimed that the number of tests for Covid has also increased in the second wave in the district.As per the comparison, Pune saw 8,818 deaths during the first wave between March 20 and November 20, and 6,488 deaths during the second wave between February 21 and May 20. The overall case fatality rate (CFR) in the first wave went up 2.4, while during the second wave it dropped to 1.5.While the number of deaths stayed low during the second wave, the data also showed that the number of maximum active cases during the second wave was much higher, more than double, of that of the first wave. While the first wave saw its peak on September 20 when the number of cases touched 57,298, on April 18 the cases crossed over 0.1 million. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor to Maharashtra said, “We knew that the newer strain which could have possibly resulted in the second wave surge was not as deadly as the first wave strain. Although it does spread faster it leads to fewer complications. However, this does not mean that it is to be taken lightly, if the number of infections rises, in proportion the number of deaths among those most vulnerable might also go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/number-of-covid-deaths-in-pune-down-in-the-second-wave-admin-101621610809659.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Loss of biodiversity forces microbes to “hitchhike” on humans: researchers||A research paper published by the Indian Journal of Medical Research in April 2021 called Hitchhiking microbes: Declining biodiversity and emerging zoonoses sheds light on the role of declining biodiversity and emerging diseases on humans which has led to new diseases like Covid-19 being passed on to humans. This research was presented on the occasion of the international day for biological diversity on May 22 by Gurudas Nulkar, Madhura Bedarkar of Symbiosis International University (SIU) and Symbiosis Institute of Business Management (SIBM) along with Ketaki Ghate, Oikos for Ecological Services, Sakshi Nulkar, intern and wildlife researcher, ecological society, Pune. The research paper argues that microbes which were found in animals, have jumped on to other animals, because of habitat loss and food loss, this is why we now see microbes hitchhiking, for example, the way Covid has jumped from bats to human beings. “The connection between nature conservation and human wellbeing is well known, however, the role of declining biodiversity and emerging diseases is relatively less studied. The presence of a thriving biological diversity is known to have therapeutic effects on human health, but economic activities have contributed to a sharp decline in species, resulting in poor ecosystem health. Several studies have shown how microorganisms have switched from animals to humans, leading to novel diseases and we have presented studies on zoonotic diseases and biodiversity, with examples from India,” said Nulkar. According to Nulkar, the biodiversity in the city is undergoing a change which can be seen in bird species seen in the city. “We have more crows, mynas and squirrels seen in the city while in wilderness, you will come across flycatchers, thurshes and other birds which are now completely missing from the cityscape. This is because of urbanization, deforestation and infrastructure that have changed the biodiversity in the city,” he said. Earlier too, we witnessed diseases such as rabies, leptospirosis, plague, scrub typhus, Nipah virus, Kyasanur forest disease, Japanese encephalitis, and various types of influenza are causing small and consistent outbreaks in animal and human populations across India. “Rabies, another disease with a 100 per cent fatality rate, is not an emerging infectious disease, but has existed for a long time. As a rabies-endemic country, India is estimated to have 20,000 rabies deaths every year, among 20 million dog bite cases a year. Nearly 36 per cent of the world’s rabies deaths occur in India every year. This disease has the potential to spillback into healthy populations of wild canids, small mammals and bat species through dog bites, as free ranging dogs are increasingly found to have conflicts with wild animals,” said the research. It also highlights that increasing mining has led to a sharp decline in natural forests, which has forced out apex predators and increased human-animal conflicts. This has denuded millions of hectares of forests all over the world. “Three major infrastructure projects sanctioned in 2020 in Goa will go through the Mollem National Park, diverting over 250 hectares of forest land for commercial purposes. Of this, 170 hectares falls within protected areas. Mollem is host to a large biodiversity and several threatened species are found here. The proposed Hubballi-Ankola rail project in North Karnataka will divert 727 hectares of pristine forests and 2.2 lakh trees will be fallen. This is part of the ecologically fragile Western Ghats, home to rare and endangered flora and fauna,” said Nulkar. Viruses, bacteria and other types of microbes are capable of inflicting diseases in plants, animals and humans. In a healthy ecosystem, they are usually constrained geographically and seasonally by ecological relationships and the regulatory functions of ecosystem services. Researchers have established an association between biodiversity loss and human health. Biodiversity must be conserved even in urban environment, with patches of wilderness given importance, like for example leaving the Tekdis alone and not building any infrastructure that could imbalance the biodiversity. It is argued that conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems and changes in economic activities must be made to ward off new diseases, and this is why cooperation between ministries is critical to restrict the decline of biological diversity in a megadiverse country like India. The diversity of potential disease-causing organisms is also greater, only a fraction of which are currently known to science. The zoonotic disease outbreaks in India like Covid- 19, Nipah virus, Swine flu, KFD among others have pointed to a need for continuous surveillance for detecting zoonoses early and initiating timely and efficient management of these diseases. However, the field of studies concerning zoonotic diseases and their implications are largely isolated, institutionally, with studies undertaken by ecologists, public health experts, and agriculturists, all working in isolation and there is hardly any public awareness and engagement seen. In the recent national budget of 2021-2022, the government has made a provision for establishing the Institute of One Health, to manage endemic and emerging epidemic threats of zoonotic diseases, where it offers a holistic approach for combating the emerging global health concerns with transdisciplinary efforts, especially with respect to zoonotic diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/loss-of-biodiversity-forces-microbes-to-hitchhike-on-humans-researchers-101621610569654.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Pune reports 4,060 new Covid cases, 63 deaths||Pune: As per the state health department, Pune district reported 4,060 new Covid-19 cases in just 24 hours on Friday. The district also reported 63 more deaths due to the infection. This took the total count in the district to 0.992 million cases of which 0.922 million have recovered, 11,073 deaths were declared and 58,840 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune rural reported 2,291 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 275,475 and with 51 deaths the toll in the rural areas went up to 3,186. Pune city reported 1,078 new cases which took the progressive count to 478,207 and with 10 more deaths the toll went up to 6,250 while PCMC reported 691 new Covid cases the progressive count went up to 238,989 and with two more deaths, the toll stood at 1,579. The state reported that 44,493 patients were discharged on Friday which took the total to 5,070,801 Covid patients after they recovered fully. The recovery rate in the state is 91.74%. Also, 29,644 new cases were reported in the state on Friday and 555 Covid deaths. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.57%. Of 32,441,776 laboratory samples 5,527,092 have been tested positive (17.04%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 2,794,457 people are in home quarantine and 20,946 people are in institutional quarantine. Vaccination count Pune district also saw 24,78 Covid vaccinations on the day of which 237 were of Covaxin and 2,241 were of Covishield. Pune rural saw 957 vaccinations, Pune city saw 341 vaccinations and PCMC saw 1,180 beneficiaries get the jab. Vaccination for all between 18-44 year age group was shut in the district on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-reports-4-060-new-covid-cases-63-deaths-101621609969539.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Forest department to clear encroachments at Sinhagad fort||The forest department authorities have warned for a crackdown on illegal structures which have come up inside and along the historic Sinhagad fort. The structures erected by locals as stalls for food have been issued the third and final notice for removal failing which action will be taken. Forest officials said surprise action will be taken against violators. As many 300 establishments comprising of hotels, zunka bhakar kiosks, curd outlets and others are going to come under the hammer of the department which seems to be in no mood to relent. The kiosks are mostly owned by villagers from Avsarwadi, Sinhagad, Mardari, Kalyan peth, Koliwada, Atkarwadi, Golewadi (Donje), Kondanapur. The forest department claimed that Sinhagad forest was situated in reserve and protected forest area in survey no 321/323 and the notices to the encroachers have been given under reserve forest act 1927 and 1980. The first notice seeking removal of the encroachment was given on April 15, 2017, followed by second one on Oct 13, 2017, while the third and the last notice was slapped on May 5. Bhamburda range forest officer Deepak Pawar said, “We have given them notice thrice and they will have to remove all the encroachments failing which we will remove them by our staff. We have mentioned about the violations in the notice which has been served to all.” Meanwhile, on behalf of the vendors, Dattatreya Jorkar, former president of forest protection committee of Ghera Sinhgad-Sambrewadi village said, “The forest department will have to face the wrath of the villagers as the action amounts to snatching away their livelihood. The forest department threat is injustice to the sons of the soil and the matter must be resolved with discussion between elected representation and forest officials. We will take all the villagers into confidence and offer all necessary cooperation to the forest department. However, the drive must be cancelled taking into Covid-19 lockdown and the problems the villagers are facing due to it.” Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests (Pune) said, “The road that leads to Sinhagad is with forest and no construction work involving cement, bricks and sand will be allowed. The permission from Public Works Department (PWD) and Pune Metropolitan and Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) is essential. We will take strong action and remove the encroachments soon.” Box In October 2020, the forest department issued notices to four villagers staying on Sinhagad fort and had directed them to submit a written explanation failing which they will have to vacate their residing properties on immediate basis. The families which have been asked to vacate have been residing there for the past five to six generations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forest-department-to-clear-encroachments-at-sinhagad-fort-101621607449217.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Prolonged power cuts irk Keshavanagar residents in Mundhwa||Residents of Keshavnagar in Mundhwa had to face power cuts for nearly 50 hours on multiple days in the month of May which caused untold suffering for citizens, patients and work from home professionals. According to the residents, the main supply duct was tampered from the motive of power theft which led to the breakdown. According to residents, the alleged illegal tampering of the electricity supply line has been done near Bolhaimata Mandir locality. Sanjay Bhoir, who has recently recovered from Covid-19 said, “We had to face power cuts for many times during the month. The summer heat has been unbearable, and I had to stay without a fan for hours together. Also, a lack of electricity made other tasks difficult for women of our house like water. As there were power cuts, water could be filled in the overhead tank and women had to go down to fetch water from the common tap and climb back home. I hope that the MSEDCL corrects its mistake and provides electricity without any breakdown.” Citizens staying on the banks of the river in the area complained that they had to face mosquito bites in the absence of electricity. “Power failure caused total disruption of our sleeping habits and we found it difficult to complete the household chore work. We have small kids and aged people in our house and performing daily tasks had become a challenge this May. The sudden power failure early morning and evening affects cooking and leads to frustration,” said Sandhya Ghogare. Atul Lonare, another resident said “We are worried about the power failure impact on sensitive and expensive electronic equipment such as LCD televisions and air conditioners, stabilisers and inverters. It is very difficult for an ordinary resident to buy these gadgets and their maintenance is costly. We are worried that the outages should not destroy our gadgets. The MSEDCL must take active steps to mitigate our sufferings.” MSEDCL authorities maintained that due to private and public works underway the MSEDCL power supply lines ( high and low tension) were broken at 85 spots at least which was causing untold suffering to over 33,000 area residents and even resulting in financial losses in the entire Mundhwa area. The cable wires are broken late night either by private operators or persons and it becomes a cumbersome task to attend to the faults. The MSEDCL staffers ensure that the faults are repaired, and power restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/prolonged-power-cuts-irk-keshavanagar-residents-in-mundhwa-101621607389343.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Pune receives 8mm rain on Friday, more rain likely||Due to moderately strong western winds, Konkan and Central Maharashtra including Pune may receive rainfall in the next few days. Cyclone Yaas may affect monsoon progress over Bay of Bengal thus affecting the progress over Maharashtra as well, said meteorologists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, Maharashtra and Pune city will receive rainfall before the monsoon begins, according to the weather department. As of Friday, the onset of Southwest monsoon occurred Nicobar Island, according to IMD. Conditions are favourable for further advance of Southwest monsoon into some more parts of southwest Bay of Bengal, most parts of southeast Bay of Bengal, the entire Andaman Sea and Andaman Islands and some parts of east central Bay of Bengal until May 23. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that cloudy weather will continue in Pune city. “We have forecasted that cloudy weather will remain in Pune city and there are chances of light rainfall. Due to moderately strong westerlies winds, Konkan, Central Maharashtra will get isolated light rain and Pune will also receive light rain in the next few days,” said Kashyapi. On Friday, Pune recorded a total of 8mm rainfall. “Cloudy weather along with light rainfall towards afternoon is likely in Pune city until May 26. This rainfall may be accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning,” said IMD officials. On Friday, cyclonic circulation over Southwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood now lies over Southeast and adjoining Central Bay of Bengal. Under its influence IMD officials said that a low-pressure area is very likely to form over east central Bay of Bengal and adjoining north Andaman Sea around May 22. The IMD said that it is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24. It is very likely to move north-westwards and reach Odisha-West Bengal coast around morning of May 26. “This system may not directly affect Maharashtra. However, it may affect the progress of monsoon over Bay of Bengal,” said Kashyapi. Speaking about the delay in Monsoon advancement, OP Sreejith, scientist, climate monitoring and forecast, IMD Pune said that the picture will be clear after the cyclone conditions are over. “The clear picture about the advancement of monsoon can be seen only after the cyclone is clear. The cyclone may affect the cross-equatorial flow of winds but because of the cyclone many parts of the country will receive rainfall,” said Sreejith. He added that Maharashtra is also likely to continue receiving rainfall due to other active weather systems. “So even if there are chances of delay in Monsoon advancement, there will be rainfall in many parts,” said Sreejith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-receives-8mm-rain-on-friday-more-rain-likely-101621607269230.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Petrol price reach ₹99 mark in Pune, diesel price at ₹89.31||The price of petrol has reached the mark of ₹99 per litre in the city on Friday. The diesel price soared as well and recorded a price of ₹89.31 per litre. After a two-month hiatus, fuel prices began to soar from the first week of May. If the trend continues, petrol prices will touch ₹100 in Pune. On Friday, the petrol price hiked by ₹0.18 and diesel price hiked by ₹0.30. After February 27, the fuel prices in the city had started to record a hike from May 4. On May 4, the hiked prices of fuels were petrol at ₹96.62, premium petrol at ₹100.30 and diesel at ₹86.32. This was the first hike in the fuel prices after almost two months. In the months of March and April, fuel prices had marginally declined but from May 4, the prices soared again. As the fuel price has been soaring, transporters are getting more and more worried about the prospect of their business. “Now, because of lockdown, there is less transportation at present but increasing fuel prices is adding to the misery. If the restrictions are eased and transportation of goods increases, then everyone will feel the burn of these soaring prices as we won’t be able to continue our business with current rates. We are already going into the loss, and it is becoming difficult to survive for those who are in the transportation business. If the cost of transportation increases then the cost of everything in the market is bound to increase,” said Ram Kadam, president, Pune district motor goods transport association. Ali Daruwala, spokesperson All India petrol dealers’ association did not comment on when the fuel price hike will discontinue. Experts say that the only way to provide immediate relief to common people is to waive taxation imposed on the fuels. “There are heavy taxes imposed by the state and the Central government. Steps must be taken to ease the burden on the common people,” said Vivek Velankar, president, Sajag Nagrik Manch Pune. “After the lockdown, the government will have to reduce the fuel prices. People are already stressed out because of the pandemic and the exceeding cost of the treatments. Soaring fuel prices will just add to the misery,” said Ram Kadam, president, Pune district motor goods transport association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/petrol-price-reach-99-mark-in-pune-diesel-price-at-8931-101621607209323.html
21-05-2021||Pune||Pune rural accounts for 48% of Pune’s Covid cases in the dist, available beds only 17%||Pune: The rise in cases from Pune rural has now become evident as over 48% of the cases from the district are reported from its 1,405 villages. However, despite the spike in cases, only 17% of the beds in the district is reserved for Covid from rural Pune. The shortage of beds in rural areas will add the load on hospitals located on the periphery of city limits. The administration is convinced that the current number of beds is sufficient enough to handle the surge in Covid cases in the rural areas. As per the Covid-19 dashboard, the district has a total of 33,314 beds dedicated for Covid for the entire district of which 16,629 are vacant. While PMC has 14,156 dedicated beds for Covid, PCMC has 10,563 beds, Pune rural has only 5,920 beds of which, as of Friday morning as per the dashboard, only 2,110 are vacant. Of the vacant beds, 1,420 are isolation beds, 615 are isolation beds with oxygen and 67 are ICU beds without ventilators and 8 are vacant ICU with ventilator beds. On Thursday, as per the district health office report, Pune district reported 3,801 new Covid cases of which 1,854 were from rural areas. As per the progressive Covid count, rural has 210,046 total cases of which 179,015 have recovered, 2,755 declared dead and 28,276 are active cases (8,166 in hospital and 20,110 in home isolation). The overall positivity rate of rural Pune is 24.06% while on Thursday the positivity rate of rural Pune stood at 20.08%. However, zilla parishad officials who overlook the administration in the 1,405 villages claimed that the current number of beds in rural Pune is sufficient enough. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, zilla parishad said, “We just got 25 ventilators for rural Pune through CSR and other funds, of which we have distributed 14 and 11 are about to be distributed. Also, we are hoping to get more ventilators through CSR and PM Cares. Also, we are pushing more private hospitals to invest more money into their hospitals and ramp up their infrastructure as well. We have a smooth coordination system at taluka level to ensure that no bed skips our radar and that every patient gets it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-accounts-for-48-of-pune-s-covid-cases-in-the-dist-available-beds-only-17-101621606969348.html
21-05-2021||Pune||More than 300 patients of mucormycosis in district, need 1,800 injections per day: Ajit Pawar||Pune: Pune guardian Ajit Pawar highlighted the worsening situation regarding shortage of medicines to treat the post-Covid fungal disease Mucormycosis. He said by Friday the district had more than 300 cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) and there is demand for almost 1,800 injections per day. The minister said the medicine count is not available in this proportion and there is no more shortage of Remdesivir. “Currently in Pune there are more than 300 cases of black fungus. In Pune, patients from outstation are also hospitalised. There is a shortage of injections for this disease. Six injections have to be given to a patient on a daily basis. The issue of this shortage has been raised with the Prime Minister.“We have contacted the manufacturer of these medicines and they have said that we have to give it to the Centre first and then it will be allocated to states. At least 1,800 injections are required in Pune district in a day, but those many are unavailable. We are trying to do what we can,” said Pawar.A control room was established at Pune collectorate on May 18 to regulate the supply and distribution of the medicines required to treat mucormycosis patients. On Thursday, the first round of the medicine distribution to the private hospitals was done by the district administration. According to the details issued by the authorities, there were 247 patients being treated in 33 private hospitals in the district. In Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital in Erandwane there are currently 55 mucormycosis patients admitted. Hospital administration claimed that there is only 15-20 per cent supply of the medicines than the requirement. “Currently, it is not possible to administer the required daily dose of medications to the mucormycosis patients because of the shortage. The plight of the relatives for these medicines continues. There is only 15-20 per cent of the supply than the demand,” said Dr Dhannajay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/more-than-300-patients-of-mucormycosis-in-district-need-1-800-injections-per-day-ajit-pawar-101621605889165.html
21-05-2021||Pune||PMC will hire skilled firemen on contract for Covid centres||Pune: Manpower crunch forces the Pune fire department to appoint firemen on contract basis to be deputed at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run Covid-19 care centre (CCC). PMC issued a tender to call agencies to provide trained firemen. After fifteen people died in the Virar (Mumbai) fire incident at a Covid hospital last month, a minor fire incident was reported at the Kamala Nehru hospital parking lot in Pune. As many as 24 Covid patients had died after oxygen supply was disrupted due to a leak in the main oxygen storage tank at a Nashik hospital on April 21. Following these incidents, PMC issued an order to depute two firemen for 24x7 on 16 Covid-19 care centres (CCC) for surveillance as well as nodal officers to the medical oxygen supply system of PMC hospitals. However, it was not applied because of manpower shortage. Now, the corporation has floated tender and invited agencies to supply trained firemen to depute on Covid care centres. Prashant Ranpise, PMC head of fire department, said, “Due to lack of manpower, we have taken the decision to hire trained firemen from private agencies such as government recognised fire institutes. At present, Pune city has 14 fire stations and 296 staff. As per the state government sanctioned staff, we need 910 firemen. In 2014, the strength was 510. After that, there is no recruitment at the fire department and firemen retire every year. Around 15 firemen are going to retire next month.” In a week, the department receives 35-40 fire calls and the count touched 70 during summer. The main station is located at Bhavani peth which has 40 firemen. There are nine firemen at work daily in each shift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-will-hire-skilled-firemen-on-contract-for-covid-centres-101621605469077.html
21-05-2021||Pune||First dose for 45-plus resumes in Pune; no vax drive on Friday||Pune: The first dose vaccination for beneficiaries above the age of 45 years restarted within the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits from Thursday. However, beneficiaries trying to book a slot faced many issues.Meanwhile, no vaccination will be done at government hospitals on May 21 due to shortage of vaccine stock, said PMC officials.Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal Commissioner, PMC said that vaccination will not continue on May 21 in government hospitals.“Due to vaccine shortage we are unable to continue the drive on May 21. However, when the doses are available, the process will restart with priority to second dose and first dose beneficiaries,” said Agarwal.She said the vaccination drive will continue on the same lines as carried out on Thursday.“We will give priority to first dose beneficiaries who are HCW, FLW and are above the age of 45 years. Also, second doses for Covishield beneficiaries will be given to those who have completed 84 days since the first dose,” said Agarwal.In the PMC limits, 21 centres were administering Covishield vaccine. These centres were giving both, first and second dose. Around 60 per cent doses were administered by online booking, as per PMC officials. And 20 per cent doses were given to healthcare workers, frontline workers and 45 years and above beneficiaries by on-spot booking. Remaining 20 per cent doses were for beneficiaries with the second dose who have taken the first Covishield dose before February 24.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that in spite of vaccine crunch, about 20 per cent population in Pune circle is vaccinated. “Till May 20, we are able to vaccinate more than 3.7 million that is, approximately 20% population in Pune circle. In Pune district, over 2.5 million, that is 23% of population is inoculated,” said Deshmukh.On Thursday, there were 15 centres functional in PMC limits which were administering Covaxin. Each center had 150 doses and a second dose was given to beneficiaries who had taken the first dose before April 22. Smita Kakade, a 55-year-old beneficiary, said that her son booked her an appointment for Thursday.“I was lucky enough to get the slot. It is a good thing that vaccination for the first dose has started again for beneficiaries above 45 years of age,” said Kakade.Arun Shinde, a 48-year-old beneficiary who tried booking the slot on Thursday, said that as many beneficiaries were trying to book a slot, the slot got filled quickly.“It was very difficult to book an appointment at a centre as there was a lot of rush. I could not get a slot on Thursday. But will try again the next day,” said Shinde.However, even on Thursday, many second dose beneficiaries were turned away from the vaccination centres as they have yet to complete the 84 days from the first dose.Asmita Joshi, a 52-year-old beneficiary, said that she was asked to come again later after completing 84 days from the first dose.“I have completed 60 days from the first dose. It is extremely frustrating to go back from the vaccination centre after booking the appointment and standing in line. Earlier, there was no vaccination stock available. And now the central government has changed the guidelines. I had to apply for leave at work to come to the centre today,” said Joshi.Vax driveOn Thursday, 4,579 beneficiaries from PMC and 1,680 beneficiaries from Pune rural were inoculated. However, there was no vaccination drive in PCMC on Thursday. A total of 6,259 beneficiaries were inoculated on Thursday and only 101 centres were functional. Of 101, 30 were Covaxin centres and 71 Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/first-dose-for-45-plus-resumes-many-face-slot-booking-issues-101621516843524.html
21-05-2021||Pune||22,000 school drivers face loss of livelihood in Pune||Pune: The closure of schools for the past 14 months has left those ferrying students face loss of livelihood for the second consecutive year. Last year, the nationwide lockdown led to shutdown of schools and loss of business for around 22,000 school drivers from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The driver category comprise school vans, school buses and auto drivers. According to a driver association, most of the drivers have taken up odd jobs like selling vegetables, labour work to eke out a living. Some have doubled up as drivers for other private operators. The association stated that most of the drivers were unable to pay vehicle loan due to lack of earnings. The insurance cover on their vehicles has also expired and the reserve funds they had kept to run their families have been spent on daily expenses. Some opted for alternative businesses and sustained losses, the association stated. Sanjay Dahiwale, a school van driver from Baner, said, “I have been a school van driver for last ten years before the lockdown hit my income. I tried my hand at autorickshaw but failed. I am left on my miniscule savings to look after my parents, wife and three children. It is a tough time and I hope school reopen soon.” Amresh Nalge, an auto driver, said, “I am now working as a Swiggy executive to earn for my family. Parents must also think about us and provide financial help during this distressing times. Since the government has ordered closure of schools, they should compensate us with taxpayers’ money.” School bus driver Arun Shinde said, “I am in the profession for the last 30 years and never faced a crisis like this before. I am currently selling vegetables to feed six members in my family. The state must give us financial assistance.” Bapu Bhave, president, PMC and PCMC Vidyarthi Vahtuk Sangh said, “Some of our drivers are selling fruits and vegetables. They are facing the worst financial crisis. Government must provide funds to save drivers from poverty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/22000-school-drivers-face-loss-of-livelihood-in-pune-101621515463292.html
