22-05-2021||Pune||Revenue from liquor sales dips due to lockdown||The liquor sales revenue for the government for 2020- 2021 has dipped due to the closure of all liquor shops in the aftermath of lockdown announced by the state government in Pune Region. The district saw liquor revenue earnings amounting to ₹1,797 crore for the current year in comparison to ₹1,805 crores for 2019-2020. The state government has however permitted home delivery of liquor which has also caused lesser sale of liquor in the market, excise department officials said. During the last lockdown, all liquor shops were also shut and during the said period, the state noticed that the revenue earnings of the government had come down drastically which prompted it to take the decision to open all the shops under the law of essential services. For 2021, the liquor shops were functioning full steam in the months of January, February, and March but were shut down due to rising infections in the state. State excise superintendent Santosh Zagade said, “The lockdown announced by the state government to break the chain of the virus had an impact on sale of liquor. There has been a significant decline in liquor sales following the lockdown and home delivery has not got the expected response.” The excise department in its crackdown on illicit liquor has recovered booze worth ₹19 crore during the past two years during Covid-19 outbreak. It had lodged 3,526 cases in 2019-2020 and 3,040 cases in 2020-2021 With liquor shops shut since the lockdown in March and subsequent shutdown extensions due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state excise department for Pune region has pegged its losses for the industry between April and September 2020 at ₹190 crore. Also, September witnessed a decline of 50.88 per cent of the revenue earnings for the region as the department could fetch only ₹127.92 crore for the said month as compared to ₹178.80 crore during the same period last year. Percentagewise, the overall decline has been at least 21.74 per cent, excise department officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/revenue-from-liquor-sales-dips-due-to-lockdown-101621697338011.html
22-05-2021||Pune||32-year-old woman found dead in Dhankawadi||A 32-year-old woman was found in a pool of blood in her house in Dhankawadi area of Pune on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Kalpana Ghosh, a native of West Bengal, according to the police. “We have detained one person. However, the investigation is on. It’s a one-room house for which she was paying ₹3,000 for the past 7-8 months. She was alone here with no known relatives. She has not submitted any documents to the owner while renting so we cannot verify her identity immediately,” said senior police inspector Swati Desai of Sahakarnagar police station. The people living in the building where she lived and was found dead reported it to the police on Saturday. A case under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sahakarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/32yearold-woman-found-dead-in-dhankawadi-101621697278061.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Maharashtra prisons release 400 inmates from 60 prisons in decongestion drive||The prisons in Maharashtra have released 400 prisoners in three days as part of the decongestion effort in the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The releases were done on May 12, 20, and 21, according to the records maintained by the prison department. Taloja jail released 23 prisoners on emergency parole along with Pune’s Yerawada central that released six, Aurangabad central released seven and Amravati central released six more. Therefore, a total of 42 prisoners were released on emergency parole. Additionally, 358 prisoners were released on bail from 60 prisons. However, Osmanabad district prison which is housing the maximum number of active cases currently has not released a single prisoner. Thane Central jail released 58 prisoners on bail, whereas 41 were released from Yerawada central jail. Active cases in Maharashtra prisons The Osmanabad district prison has a whopping number of 130 active cases among prisoners and one among jail staff. With that number, Osmanabad district prison is housing the highest number of Covid-19 patients in the state. The second highest number is currently at Thane central prison with 67 cases. The Kalyan district prison is currently housing 32 active cases of Covid-19. Taloja central and Yerawada central have 13 and six active cases respectively. Among staff members, Kolhapur district has the highest positive cases with eight staff members Covid positive while Yerawada central has six, followed by five each at Nashik road central, Yavatmal district, and Washim district prisons. A total of 343 prisoners and 58 jail staff in 47 major prisons of Maharashtra are currently Covid-19 positive and assumed to be undergoing treatment. First wave vs Second wave During the first wave of the pandemic in 2020, the population in about 60 state prisons had crossed 36,000. However, based on the Supreme Court direction form state-wise High Powered Committees (HPC) and release prisons on various conditions, upwards of 10,000 prisoners were released until July 2020. This brought the population of the prisons to around 26,000 which are closer to their ideal capacity of 23,000. However, within months, the population jumped back to 34,000 by the time the second wave started wreaking havoc. The HPC met on May 7 and 11 this year and decided to restart the process of considering around 12,000 bail applications. It also gave leeway for about 3,000 other applicants, whose previous attempts of gaining bail had failed, to reapply. However, the release process has not gained speed yet. Temporary prisons The state machinery has come up with 40 temporary jails in various districts of the state. The total capacity of the temporary prisons is 2,425 and the jails are currently housing 1,084 inmates. Of the total maximum capacity, 1,995 places are for men while 430 are for women. Currently, the prisons have 1,060 male and 24 female inmates. Pune which started one of the first temporary prisons in the state is housing 265 inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-prisons-release-400-inmates-from-60-prisons-in-decongestion-drive-101621697037920.html
22-05-2021||Pune||PWD approves ₹96 cr for new building inside Pune court premises||Litigants visiting the district court premises will no longer face issues like lack of parking spaces, foul smelling toilets and other public amenity related challenges as the Public Works Department (PWD) has approved ₹96 crore for the construction of a five-storied state of the art building inside the Shivajinagar court campus starting July. The Pune bar association which has spearheaded the issue since a long time stated the building will be one of the best facility-oriented structures for all those visiting the campus for court work.According to the PWD, the new construction will entail demolition of the over 50-year-old building structures all along starting from Gate No 4 until the lawyers’ chambers building. The heritage structures belonging to the British era will remain intact, untouched and preserved for posterity. The new building will have world class court rooms with quality ante chambers and all other facilities for the litigants, judges and the court staff. The court hall will undergo a revamp as the Pune bar association demanded that the capacity be extended to 500 with an overhauled bar room and also a dedicated bar room for women lawyers. Also, the water closets and sanitation blocks will be upgraded to the highest standards according to the construction plan. The demand for new buildings with ultra-modern facilities for the convenience for one and all has been gaining currency for past several years with the lawyers’ association and litigants expressing their need for the said type of building. PBA president advocate Satish Mulik said, “The district judge has informed us that the work is likely to start from July during a meeting with the office bearers last week. Initially, the old structures will be demolished, and the bar association office will be shifted to a temporary location. A meeting with other lawyers who have chambers in other buildings have been planned for smoother execution of the construction work.” The court premises will have a two storied dedicated parking facility where around 1,500 two wheelers and around 600 cars can be accommodated. Prahlad Shinde, a lawyer who practices in the court said “This new building will lead to convenience for litigants, visitors, judges and staff. A good environment which includes all the ultra-modern facilities in court rooms will result in quality work and increase our efficiency collectively.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pwd-approves-rs-96-cr-for-new-building-inside-pune-court-premises-101621696977852.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Nazirkar, Khomane’s bail applications rejected in disproportionate assets case||A bail application made by Hanumant Jagannath Nazirkar (55), the suspended town planning joint director, Amaravati, and his nephew Rahul Shivaji Khomane (31), a resident of Shirval in Baramati, was rejected by a special court in Pune on Saturday. Nazirkar and Khomane were arrested in March in a case by the Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) registered at Alankar police station in June 2020. The eight people booked in the case have been accused of amassing assets worth ₹82, 38, 34,941, according to the police complaint in the case. The decision was taken by judge SR Navander while hearing the bail application made by the two. “For amassing disproportionate assets Hanumant Nazirkar and for encouraging and helping him do so, his nephew Rahul Khomane were denied bail by the court,” said public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal. These assets are apart from the 37 partnership firms and private limited companies in which the family members have invested. The police have also alleged that Nazirkar forged the death certificate of his later father-in-law in order to transfer the deceased man’s wealth to his wife Sangeeta Nazirkar. Since their arrest, Nazirkar has been in magisterial custody for medical reasons while Khomane is in magisterial custody as well. Apart from the case, Nazirkar has three other cases registered against him - two in Baramati police station of Pune rural police and one at APMC police station of Navi Mumbai police. The police are investigating the allegations against them since January 1986 and March 2020 when the man served in the public office. Along with Nazirkar, six other people including his wife, daughter, son, nephew, and their lawyer have also been booked. The case is under Sections 13(m)(b)(e), RW 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, and Sections 109, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 472, 474, 475, and 120(b) of Indian Penal Code is registered at Alankar police on June 23, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nazirkar-khomane-s-bail-applications-rejected-in-disproportionate-assets-case-101621696858894.html
22-05-2021||Pune||MPCB seeks explanation from PMC for dumping waste in riverbed area||Despite National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) warning, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has continued to operate the garbage processing plant at Sinhagad road and is dumping garbage at the Mutha riverbed. Following a complaint from local residents and environmental activists, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) visited the spot and sought an explanation from PMC officials. Abhishek Kumbharkar, a local resident of Wadgaon Budruk area found out the dumping of garbage near the Bhumi Green Energy Company premises. The processing plant near Prayeja city on Sinhagad road was set up by PMC in 2016 with contract given to Bhumi Green Energy to process 150 metric ton of garbage. The private firm recycles waste and produces a RDF (refuse derived fuel). Kumbharkar approached environmental activist Sarang Yadwadkar, who wrote a letter to the PMC solid waste department and MPCB officials. Kiran Hasabnis, MPCB sub-regional officer said, “After the complaint, we visited the spot on Friday and found the company is storing waste outside the project premises near the river. Most of the garbage is segregated plastic. Due to the slope, the garbage is rolling into the river. We have noted down versions of the company and other observations. We will send a letter to PMC to explain whether the land belongs to PMC, or it has taken on rent to dump the garbage. If we find any flaws in the explanation and our observation, we will serve notice to PMC and company.” Vijay Tilekar, Owner, Bhumi Energy Green Company said, “We set up the plant in 2016 and are processing 150 metric tonnes of waste and producing RDF (refuse derived fuel). We give plastic material to other companies for recycling purposes. It has taken the private land on rent adjacent to our plant to keep plastic material temporary before transporting to Malegaon based plastic recycling plant. There is no dumping of garbage in the riverbed.” In 2019, Yadwadkar had filed a petition in the NGT and mentioned the 12 dumping spots in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The NGT took cognisance of the issue and appointed a five-member committee and NGT had appointed MPCB as nodal agency, while warning municipal commissioners of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad that they should ensure that no further dumping of debris or any other waste, including construction waste is disposed of in the river. Yadwadkar said, “The firm stored garbage near the river side instead of the project premises. The land is outside the project, and it has been shown in the river protection belt in Pune city’s development plan (DP). The land reclamation has been done and the dumped garbage is is rolling into the river and polluting river water. On one side, the PMC has undertaken a river development project and on the other hand, it is polluting a river.” Ajit Deshmukh, head of the solid waste department of the PMC said, “Our officials visited the spot. The company has put aside recycling material near the company premises. We instructed the company to remove the rejects as early as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpcb-seeks-explanation-from-pmc-for-dumping-waste-in-riverbed-area-101621696798160.html
22-05-2021||Pune||27-year-old arrested for illegal sale of deer horns||A 27-year-old man was arrested by Pune city police crime branch for sale of smuggled sambar deer horns on Friday in Haveli. The arrested man was identified as Pravin Dilip Shinde, a resident of Pimplekhed area of Shirur, according to a statement issued by Unit 6 of crime branch. The police recovered three horns and one two-wheeler vehicle from the man. The total worth of the seizure was estimated to be ₹35,000, according to the police. “This man is working on someone else’s behalf. He is unemployed. The antelope horns are priceless. We had sent a decoy customer and the man was quoting crores of rupees for it. We are looking for the man who gave him the horns,” said police inspector Ganesh Mane of Unit 6. The officials of Unit 6 had received information about the man arriving in Fulgaon area of Haveli on Friday. Based on the information, a team of Unit 6 led by police inspector Ganesh Mane set a trap for the man and arrested him while riding on the two-wheeler. A case under Wildlife Preservation Act was registered against the man at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/27yearold-arrested-for-illegal-sale-of-deer-horns-101621696677887.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Pollution levels in Pune have risen dramatically in seven years: report||The air quality of Pune that is mainly regulated by particulate pollutants (PM2.5 and PM10) have both seen a considerable rise in the past seven years, according to a joint report by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) under the Ministry of Earth Sciences along with Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and the expert advice of Sarojkumar Sahu of Utkal University.According to the study, the particulate matter (PM) 2.5 has seen an increase of 70 per cent while PM10 has seen an increase of 61 per cent from 2012-13 to 2019-20 in Pune. One of the major contributing factors to this rise in pollution is the enormous growth of vehicles during the past seven years, revealed the report called ‘High Resolution Emission Inventory (400 Meters) for 2019-20’ released on Friday. The Geographical Information System (GIS)-based statistical emission model is developed by scientists of IITM and is used to develop fine resolution of 400m gridded products. The final product yielded mapping of pollution sources in each 400m x 400m grid of Pune for eight major pollutants namely, PM2.5, PM10, Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), Carbon Monoxide (CO), Sulphur Dioxide (SO2), BC, HC. The report was released by Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor of SPPU, in presence of director, IITM, Ravi Nanjundiah, lead author Gufran Beig, founder project director, Safar, and Dr BS Murthy of IITM and Prof Suresh Gosavi, head, Environment Science department, SPPU. The survey was conducted for six months for a long emission inventory campaign involving more than 200 students from IITM, SPPU and Utkal University from 2019-20 in Pune Metropolitan regions including Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad. The data was compared with that of 2012-2013 and the report was published. As per the report, the transportation sector was found to be the major contributor in PM2.5 emissions as compared to the rest of the sources. Gufran Beig, lead author and director of System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said that though industrial production has increased over the years, emissions show a minimal rise as compared to other sectors. “This might be due to the improved fuel quality used in units, efficient technological innovations and stringent enforcement of standards. Similarly, a significant increase is observed in the emissions of Organic Carbon (81.3%), NOx (72.8%), and Volatile organic compound (VOCs) (69.8%). Sulphur dioxide emissions show a 30.2% increase, lowest amongst the eight pollutants considered in this work,” said Beig. He added that the growth in emission was more in Pune than it was in Delhi. “The growth of pollution is too high for Pune city and if not checked on time, pollution in Pune city may increase at a high rate,” said Beig. Gosavi said that areas with more traffic congestion were seen to report higher levels of pollution. “Areas like Swargate, Nal Stop were reporting higher pollution than others. The major pollution is due to traffic,” said Gosavi. Box Header: Rise in pollution Info: Percentage change in PM10 and PM2.5 and the emissions during the past seven years from 2012-13 to 2019-20 =Sectors===PM10== PM2.5 =Transport=== ↑ 87.9%=== ↑ 91.0% =Industrial ===↑ 33.8%== ↑ 32.9% =Residential* ↑ 107====.7% ↑ 57.9% =WBR Dust== ↑ 49.5%=== ↑ 38.1% =Other# ==NA$== NA$ ==Total== ↑ 61.3%== ↑ 70.0% *Residential sector - cooking, slums, trash burning, cow dung, street vendors, household, wood burning #Other Sectors - MSW Plants, MSW Open Burning, Crematory, Aviation, Incense Stick, Brick Clams WBR Dust- Wind Blown Re-suspended dust Source: Report ‘High Resolution Emission Inventory (400 Meters) for 2019-20’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pollution-levels-in-pune-have-risen-dramatically-in-seven-years-report-101621696617914.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Business snippets from around Pune||HealthTech Community’s fireside chat with Dr Parag Sancheti The Pune HealthTech Community has invited Dr Parag Sancheti, chairman, Sancheti Hospital, for a “fireside chat”, along with serial healthcare entrepreneur Dr Ashwin Naik. The virtual session will be conducted on May 28 at 5pm. Dr Sancheti will share his views on “Technology needs and requirements of hospitals, post pandemic”. Stimveda Neurosciences is the startup presenting this session. Ruby Hall Clinic, Enable.Initiative, and DisruptHealth and Dasar are community partners. The Pune Health-Tech Community helps healthcare start-ups to connect, collaborate with other healthcare start-ups to have a bigger and better impact in healthcare. Reccy Adventures raises ₹3 crore from Rebel Foods Adventure sports startup Reccy Adventures has raised Rs3 crore in a seed round, from the founders of Rebel Foods – Jaydeep Barman and Kallol Banerjee. Reccy has indicated that the funds raised will be used on aggressive headcount expansion, as well as developing product range. Reccy shall offer a slew of products and services, ranging from e-commerce in the activewear, accessories and gear space, to discovery and booking of outdoor and adventure activities, to access to coaching, training, competitions, local sports, recovery and rehabilitation, as well as sport-specific communities. The brand has recently launched the beta version of a discovery and booking platform for adventure and outdoor activities. Next up, is the introductions of a new range of outdoor focused activewear.Funding and filing support for international patent applications The Tech-Transfer Hub at Venture Centre has invited applications from startups for support for international patent applications. The call is open till May 25, 2021. A funding support of ₹1.2 lakh towards statutory fees for the filing (with India Search Authority) and discounted drafting and filing services (as per eligible discount category), will be offered to the selected applicants. This is a competitive funding support and applicants have to be Indian-owned (more than 50 per cent) and a PLC/LLP and DIPP (Startup India Scheme) registered start-up. DIPP registration, a receipt of filing patent at Indian Patent office, certificate of incorporation of startup and presentation about startup is mandatory to be submitted while applying for the programme. Email amruta@venturecenter.co.in QuEST Global set to expand its operations in PuneQuEST Global announced that it plans to expand operations in Pune and hire more 2,000 engineers in the next three years. The company currently has an employee strength of 350 engineers working out of its Pune centre with capabilities in software and digital engineering capabilities and plays a crucial role in supporting customers in hi-tech verticals globally.By increasing its headcount in the city, the company aims at enhancing its focus on new age digital technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning, Internet of Things, and Data Analytics. As part of its expansion plan, the company will hire engineers with expertise in technologies like Cloud, JAVA, Android & iOS, Web Technologies, Angular, React, Restful API technologies, and .NET/C++. Last year, the company had also launched a dedicated Centre for Excellence (CoE) for Microsoft Azure in Pune.Credit Suisse to hire 1000+ IT employeesCredit Suisse plans to hire over 1,000 IT employees in India this year. The hires will comprise of developers and engineers who have capabilities in emerging technologies such as cybersecurity, data analytics, cloud, API development, machine learning and artificial intelligence that are anchored in agile and dev-ops delivery methods, to support the bank’s digital aspirations.India now accounts for nearly 25% of the bank’s global IT staff, the largest footprint of any Credit Suisse location globally. John Burns, Head India IT and senior franchise officer, Pune, said: “This year’s hiring plan highlights our continued commitment to India, particularly to Maharashtra, and supports Credit Suisse’s vision to establish our operations here as a global technological hub.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/business-snippets-from-around-pune-101621681860538.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: Putting your health in your own hands||Founded in 2015, Avegen is a health-tech startup based in Pune and London. Avegen builds digital care programmes that it claims are personalised, patient-centric and evidence-based. Its HealthMachine platform is a software-as-a-servce (SaaS) deploying these digital care programs that improve health of individuals with long-term conditions. These digital care programmes – built on a compliant and scalable platform - are designed around the patient enabling proactive care for patients with chronic conditions, and supports clinicians in improved patient management. Coming togetherSays Apte, “The team is split between Pune and London. Nayan is based in London and he heads our commercial and client services team. The product development team and program management is of India. Nayan and I have been in touch since 2006-07. While I sold my previous company, Nayan was also looking to start something. We essentially decided that it was a good time to get together and launched this venture in late 2015.”HealthMachine – Powering digital care programmesHealthMachine puts each patient in control of their own health, tracking progress and strengthening outcomes. Easy-to-use functions and gamification touches make HealthMachine-based care programmes intuitive and effective, removing traditional barriers. Avegen currently has three digital care programs on HealthMachine:•Cardiac rehabilitation•Maternal health •HIV‘Together for Her’ in IndiaExplaining the digital care program for women, Kalnad said, “Avegen has been working in the digital healthcare space since 2015 in both India and the UK. It is Avegen’s Vision to transform healthcare using technology, and we work in multiple disease and care areas, including cardio-pulmonary care, HIV, and maternal health. Together for Her (TFH), our maternal healthcare program was started in 2017 with a vision to improve the quality of maternal healthcare and reduce preventable maternal deaths.”Kalnad claims that TFH is a completely digital care program for pregnant women with over 30,000 users at present. The application provides gestational week-specific information on recommended healthcare behaviours, as well as data-driven feedback on their nutritional and antenatal behaviours. Additionally, TFH uses machine learning and predictive analytics to provide maternal health information that is personalised to a pregnant woman’s health status. “Firstly, we want to reduce deaths during pregnancy. In terms of impact on women’s health, we aim to reduce anaemia prevalence in mothers who use the app by at least 20 per cent, compared to treatment as usual. Also, we are aiming at having 25 lakh mothers on our TFH program in the next five years,” Kalnad adds.Gupte says explains, “We all consume lot of technology every day. However, most advanced and powerful tech is unfortunately directed at making us buying something, instead of improving our lives. What drives me is using same tech to have a positive impact on peoples’ lives. India is a powerhouse of delivering software and IT projects to the world but we don’t develop world-class software for Indian consumers. We wanted to change this and hence, we developed TFH which is available to Indian users in English and Hindi.”Providing relevant content Says Gupte, “The content on the platform changes on two dimensions. Fresh relevant content is being developed on a regular basis, while in terms of personalisation, when a mother signs up we build a profile for her based on the areas of interests. Pregnancy is definitive journey of nine months and hence, week by week, certain content becomes more relevant. So, respective content is shown to them correspondingly.”First adopters The biggest customers Avegen’s HealthMachine are pharmaceutical companies and hospitals in the UK. In India, doctors and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are the first adopters. “Avegen also helped one Mumbai-based NGO build a helpline for HIV positive patients during the first lockdown in the country in March 2020,” says Gupte.Funding Merck for Mothers (MFM) has been a funding partner with Avegen since 2017. MFM has supported the development of TFH, which was started as a quality-of-care review platform and has since evolved into the current maternal care program. MFM works with partners around the globe to support innovative solutions that aim to end maternal deaths.As for Avegen, Dr Kalnad says, “We are a bootstrapped company. The initial investment was mainly from friends and family. We had raised around $250K in 2016. This year we want to raise fresh round of funding of about Rs28 to Rs30 crore to expand in Europe. We want to be the first or major company having origins in India which will make big in the digital therapeutics and digital care program space.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-putting-your-health-in-your-own-hands-101621680718005.html
22-05-2021||Pune||28,000 cases lodged under Section 188 of IPC pending with Pune Police||A total of 28,000 cases lodged under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) are pending with the Pune police, as of May 21. Some of the cases date back to 2020.Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta confirmed, “These cases are still pending with us.” Section 188 of the IPC states that any person who disobeys an order given by a public servant, can be imprisoned for upto one month.The city police have gone easy in lodging new cases against citizens violating the current Covid restrictions, currently only booking repeat offenders. From April 3 till May 4, 2021, the city police lodged 611 cases under Section 188 of the IPC.In 2020, the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh had announced that the government would withdraw cases against people booked for violating Covid lockdown norms.Right to Information (RTI) activist Vivek Velankar said, “There is no clarity on the issue. Last year, the police had stopped gathering information from citizens after the issue was raised. The issue has to be resolved once and for all. The case data is with the police and they seem to be waiting for an order from the home department which has still not been issued.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/28000-cases-lodged-under-section-188-of-ipc-pending-with-pune-police-101621605589107.html
22-05-2021||Pune||Random rapid antigen test surprises crowd in Pimpri market||Pune: Random rapid antigen tests (RAT) conducted by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on residents found roaming on streets without showing any valid reason took the latter by surprise on Friday. The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have launched surprise RAT tests on people found on the streets from May 19. The drive has been conducted in Pimpri Camp, Shagun chowk and vegetable market, Pimpri. Other areas of Pimpri-Chinchwad will also be covered, according to the police. “The Pimpri-Chinchwad police will continue this drive till May 31 and could extend if residents do not follow the Covid protocol. We have picked areas that report crowds. We conducted RAT tests on residents in Pimpri vegetable market today,” said Milind Waghmare, senior police inspector, Pimpri. During April, the police conducted RAT test of shopkeepers who were allowed to open their shops from 7am to 11am. “Till now, we have conducted 320 tests and all have turned negative. The tests are conducted on those seen on streets with any valid reason and those without masks,” said Waghmare. Many residents have complained of Covid safety violations at Pimpri market, a major hub of shopping. “Our message is clear. Stay indoors or face RAT if you venture out unnecessarily. Pimpri-Chinchwad police are running other initiatives like counselling and public awareness programmes,” Waghmare said. A team of seven members, including nurses/doctor/staff boy from Jijamata hospital accompany the police squad. “Any resident found positive in RAT is provided help by a team of medical staff,” he said. Waghmare said the drive will cover Pimpri main square on Saturday. “People fear when we conduct RAT as they think that they will be admitted to a hospital,” said a doctor from Jijamata hospital on request of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/random-rapid-antigen-test-surprises-crowd-in-pimpri-market-101621604209042.html
22-05-2021||Pune||No decision on easing of restrictions in Pune: Ajit Pawar||Pune: Deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday that no decision has been taken regarding easing of Covid lockdown restrictions in Pune even as the daily caseload in the city has been decreasing. Pawar was speaking after the weekly Covid review meeting at divisional commissioner’s office in Pune. He said that though the number of patients in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad has been going down, the situation in rural parts still needs attention. The existing curbs are in place till 7 am on June 1. In the last few days, the daily caseload and active cases are going south in the city. On Thursday, there were 931 positive cases recorded within Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) limits and the number of active cases was 15,043. Also, there were 716 positive patients in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Thursday and the number of active cases was 13,361. Owing to these numbers, Pawar was asked if the administration will consider to lift some curbs in Pune like the complete lockdown on weekends. “There is no decision regarding easing of restrictions. Whatever rules are there now, will continue till May end,” Pawar said. He clarified that the decision of lifting curbs in the state after May 31 will depend on the number of the positive cases in the 10 days. “There are still 10 days before we reach May 31. Let’s see what happens in this duration. The decision will depend on virus case count,” he said. “The number of Covid positive patients in the district has reduced and the number of discharges has increased. Oxygen, ventilator, ICU beds are available in hospitals now. There is no more oxygen shortage in the district. Even 25-30 sugar factories in the state are trying to produce liquid oxygen. But it is an expensive process,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-decision-on-easing-of-restrictions-in-pune-ajit-pawar-101621602288678.html
