23-05-2021||Pune||Illegal gutkha worth ₹5.5 lakh recovered, two arrested||The Hinjewadi police have arrested two persons and recovered illegal Gutkha worth ₹5.55 lakh from their possession. The duo was picked up during the raids conducted by the Hinjewadi police along with the Social Security Branch (SSB). The raiding team cracked down on the godown owned by Paras Khimaram Devasi (27), a resident of Susgaon and seized banned Gutkha products worth ₹5.55 lakh from the tempo in which the material was being ferried to different spots for sale and distribution. The action was taken under the guidance of police inspector Vitthal Kubade after directions from Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash to take strict action against sale of banned gutkha products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/illegal-gutkha-worth-rs-5-5-lakh-recovered-two-arrested-101621787523289.html
23-05-2021||Pune||Pune rainfall at 131% above normal since March: IMD||Until May 23, the city has received 131 per cent more rain in comparison to the normal rainfall received between March and May, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). As a result, there was more rainfall and comparatively a pleasant summer season in the city. According to the IMD, Central India which includes Maharashtra has reported 129 per cent more rainfall than normal from March 1 to May 20. As per IMD, Shivajinagar on Sunday reported 0.1mm rainfall whereas Lohegaon reported 1mm rainfall. Pune city reported 35.3 degrees Celsius during the day and 23.4 degrees Celsius during the night. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD, Pune said that the city has witnessed rainfall due to various systems active over Maharashtra. “Wind discontinuity and incursion of moisture from Arabian Sea has caused rainfall on many occasions. Also, at some instances the day temperature was high due to which there was local instability, and this has resulted in rainfall in Pune along with thunderstorm and lightning,” said Kashyapi. He further added that the pre-monsoon rainfall is likely to continue until May 25. Pune, Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli are expected to witness very light to light rain along with thunderstorms and lightning during this time. As on Sunday, there was no advancement of Southwest Monsoon over Bay of Bengal. The northern limit of Southwest Monsoon continues to pass through the Bay of Bengal and near Andaman and Nicobar islands. The low-pressure area which became well marked over east central Bay of Bengal in the same evening has concentrated into a depression over east-central Bay of Bengal on Friday. As per weather department, it is very likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 morning and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach northwest Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and north Odisha coasts by May 26 morning, according to meteorologists. Box Rainfall in Pune since March 1 Month: March 2021 Actual rainfall: 4.8mm Normal rainfall: 3.2mm Departure: 1.6mm Month: April 2021 Actual rainfall: 28.3mm Normal rainfall: 13.6mm Departure: 14.7mm Month: May 2021 Actual rainfall: 63.3mm Normal rainfall: 24.9mm Departure: 38.4mm Total rainfall since March: 96.4mm Normal rainfall: 41.7mm Departure: 54.7mm Source: IMD, Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rainfall-at-131-above-normal-since-march-imd-101621782303117.html
23-05-2021||Pune||Water resources department directs MahaMetro to remove debris from riverbed||The Maharashtra water resources department’s Pune irrigation circle has issued an order to the Maharashtra Metro railway Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) to remove the dumpings made in the Mutha riverbed immediately. The department has also warned the metro that it shall be entirely responsible for flood situation in rainy season due to the debris. Pune irrigation circle superintendent engineer Sanijiv Chopade has sent a letter to MahaMetro to remove the debris immediately before monsoon begins. Chopde stated in a letter that we were assured from time to time through letters against dumping in the river. In spite of this, the dumping made near Deccan to construct the pillars and the huge filling at Mula Mutha confluence behind CID office has not been removed. The letter pointed out that a visit and inspection of the Mutha river was conducted in the first week of January and it was noted that the aforementioned dumplings were not removed. “On the contrary, in the Deccan area an additional debris filling of more than two meters height on the riverbed was noticed. We had informed MahaMetro and requested to direct the concerned to immediately remove the new as well as the old dumping,” the letter said. “In spite of all this, till date, the dumping/platforms made on the riverbed have not been removed and this office is receiving complaints from NGOs. If the debris isn’t removed from the riverbed, it can create impediment in the flood carrying section of the river leading to floods. Therefore, you are requested again that the debris/platform should be removed immediately before the rainy season. If any case is filed before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), in case of flood situation in the rainy season due to the debris, the Metro Corporation shall be held entirely responsible,” Chopade warned MahaMetro. Hemant Sonwane, general manager of MahaMetro said, “We build cofferdam, it is a temporary structure designed to keep water or soil out of the excavation in which a bridge pier or other structure is built. We built it at Sangam bridge, Bundgarden area. We have started removing it and around 80 per cent work has been done. The remaining will be removed soon. In the Deccan area, we also put soil for movement of trucks in the riverbed. It will be removed before monsoon. Every year, we remove cofferdam and debris from the riverbed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/water-resources-department-directs-mahametro-to-remove-debris-from-riverbed-101621782123051.html
23-05-2021||Pune||Your Space: Make vacation fun for kids during Covid||The Covid lockdowns confining school kids to home and online study may have had an impact on their educational levels and learning abilities. Now, spending summer school holidays cooped up at home with their parents, who maybe working professionals, will add to the already unprecedented situation. What steps should schools and authorities take to keep kids busy in a productive way? Spend more time with kidsEveryone was at home throughout the academic year 2020-21 busy with online lectures. Teachers tried well to keep every student attentive in class and conducted exams. Now, kids are not interested in online studies. They want something new. Parents are busy with jobs, online meetings and task completion radar. So, some school students are getting bored or getting angry as they pass their time during the day. My son is also getting irritated sitting at home. I tried to find what may be the solution on this? For that I have to at least think like a kid and what the child finds interesting. So, I tried including a new habit for a few minutes every day. Enjoyed every childish emotion like sprinkling water on his face and allowing him to do so, enjoying his favourite indoor games, and allowing him to enjoy his time his way. I found it refreshing to become a child myself with my kid. The stress just vanishes. One more luck was waiting there to enjoy summer vacations at home. Online summer camp offered by his school is also an activity which is fun. Nice summer camp was planned by his teachers and the principal under the guidance of management. They offered four modules of 30 minutes each. These were different types of music play, different forms of dances, different enjoyable sports activities, ball bottle games, small projects which should be completed in just 30 minutes like making biscuit sandwiches, story creations on pictures, interesting movie show, and drawing but in a new way. There were also basic scientific concepts through small practical things like static energy with comb, composting wet waste material at home, planting seeds and growing. Many more interesting activities were taken and planned by the team of teachers to make time memorable and keep students busy with different emotions like tasks to complete to gain certificates. There were also winners in these activities. Kids spoke enthusiastically on different tasks. Initially they refused to follow the schedule for online activities, but later enjoyed them. Children have gone through a plethora of emotions during the pandemic. Kids are observing their parents in all roles like friend, teacher, brother, sister, aunt, uncle. We, as parents, should try every role to make our kids happy. It’s difficult, but if we decide we can do anything. Everything is possible for us. So, let us start new roles every day or just for a few hours in a day, as we in our childhood enjoyed every relation, everything like happiness, sorrow, fighting, arguing and loving. We used to meet everyone, neighbours and relatives. Now it’s not possible, not for our children for the last one year. So, organise video calls with neighbours, relatives to keep the spirit up and stay in touch.Vidya PatilSchools should hold fun activitiesAs we all know that due to Covid students are confined to online studies which end up resulting in a lot of screen time for them. This may have a good as well as bad impact on them. Instead of conducting classes online, full-time schools can conduct fun activities like watering plants, origami, dance, making best out of waste, vermi compost, fireless cooking and much more with the help of parents. All of such activities will help boost their physical activity which was restricted due to online classes. Schools can also conduct yoga and meditation which will help in boosting their mental health.Deepali SatputeDraw a daily schedule for childThis lockdown and pandemic has been a great challenge to everyone, from students to teachers to parents. In these times, one should not forget that the children need some new activity every now and then. So, keeping them occupied is one of the most important things. Earlier every summer holiday, there was a trip mandatory for the family. If not a trip, then at least we would visit grandparents and extended families. Now even that cannot be done. During this pandemic time, it is important to form a proper schedule for the child. And keep him occupied. For example, we have made it compulsory that the morning tea and coffee will be made by my 10-year-old son. He is also assigned the responsibility of cleaning his own room. Such activities give children a sense of responsibility and also a target to achieve in a day. With this, there is also a physical activity that the child does in the evening like skipping. This keeps him occupied throughout the day.Sandeep ThiteEngage child in activities There are various activities that schools can arrange through online classes. I encourage my child to get involved in gardening and try new recipes at home as she likes it. I think staying indoors during summer vacation does impact the child a lot as this is the only time when they are not bombarded with studies like the whole year. I suggest every parent should decide what their child likes and engage them in it. We have to introduce variety in the activities. But in case a parent is not able to give their whole time to the child because of work, they must plan ahead as it can definitely work. My wife and I are both working professionals, so I totally understand how difficult it is to keep a child busy. Both my kids have their share of work. We also give them group activities so that they learn to share and work together. I love to see my children do, “Do it yourself” projects. They have made so many amasing things under DIY. This has given them a sense of accomplishment and pride. Shashank KimbhauneGrandparents play vital role in upbringing kidsI don’t think all the role of keeping children busy in productive ways can be taken up by schools and authorities. It all eventually falls on the parents to keep the child busy. In engaging the child, grandparents can play a very active role. Since the senior citizens at our homes are a treasure who know so many easy and simple activities, they can certainly help. My younger daughter has learned so many skills from her grandmother about gardening. She now spends most of her time with plants. She has grown coriander, spinach and even a rose plant in our limited space. When the rose first bloomed the smile on the face of my daughter was priceless. Such activities that can help children be closer to nature can help them handle the stress of being at home 24/7. My mother-in-law has also taught my young daughter other crafts that she finds very occupying. Parents should focus on such small activities that the child may like and learn from.Asmita Kulkarni||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-make-vacation-fun-for-kids-during-covid-101621767365088.html
23-05-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: How songs saved “blackouts” of a play||Last week, I wrote about my experience and approach towards adapting the short story “Cycle”, written by eminent Marathi writer Vyankatesh Madgulkar. The takeaway from that experience was that it was important to create the world in which the characters from the story would be set it. And while the original story definitely sets up a world for the reader, it does need more visual elements while making it into a play. I guess that is why this process is termed as “adapting”. This experience helped when I adapted another story into a play. The next story that a friend and I adapted into a play was titled “Dalan” (The Grind) written by another well-known writer DM Mirasdar. Mirasdar is famous for creating characters with funny traits and throwing them in hilarious situations. “Dalan” is no exception! The protagonist in the story – a schoolteacher – has this unique ability to guess correctly whether the mother of a student will be a looker or not. Based on this, he makes up some excuse regarding the academics of a particularly sweet-looking kid so that his mother will come and meet him. When she does and he realises that he is right (yet again!) he tries his best to get invited to her house when her husband is out of town. After many days of playing the waiting game, he gets an invitation, and his happiness knows no bounds! At night, when the village has gone to sleep, he visits her. After a few awkward moments when he is about to make a move, someone knocks on the door! Not knowing what to do and where to hide, the woman urges the schoolteacher to quickly drape a saree and to start grinding wheat in the hand mill stone. The visitor is an old woman staying next door and has come to have a chat to pass her time. The chat goes on till dawn and the teacher is successful in only one thing – grinding one whole gunny bag of wheat into fine flour! Like “Cycle”, the structure of the play fell in place very quickly (or so I thought). We concentrated on dialogues more. There were some really funny lines in the original story and they helped set the tone to come up with more dialogues. The challenge was to make it seamless. Improvising with actors helped a lot too in this exercise. We were cruising along smoothly and were ready with it nearly a week before our actual performance. It was the day of our first grand rehearsal and everybody was very excited. We had also invited a few of our friends over to receive some quality feedback. One thing that I noticed was that they were laughing during the scene and once the next scene started, it took some time for them to start laughing again. We had four scenes in the play of nearly eight to nine minutes each. Once the run-through was over, the friends gave the exact feedback that I had noticed. They were enjoying the individual scenes, but the overall play lacked pace. After a “big” team meeting, in which we discussed various solutions to address this issue, I decided to go back to the drawing board – the script and the original story. I read the story and I enjoyed it yet again. Then I read the script and I found that I was enjoying reading that too. So, where was the problem? The next day at rehearsal, I watched the play again and then it dawned on me. There was a blackout between every two scenes, of nearly half a minute each. And I felt that after those thirty seconds of inactivity, getting back into the groove was taking time. We were playing some interesting recorded tracks during the blackout, but somehow those four blackouts were dragging the pace. It was my good fortune that one of the team-members was a good poet and another a good musician. I asked them if they could come up with original songs for the situations. They were more than happy to take up the challenge. Our actors weren’t trained singers, but they were excited to sing too! The new songs were fun and very easy to sing! It just changed the fabric of the play. Because of these songs we were able to do away with the blackouts! All our set changes took place in full stage light, in front of the audience. What’s more, our actors changed the set while singing so it didn’t even feel like a set change. It just fit in organically! There was just one costume change for the lead actor, when he finally visits the woman. But even that became a fun visual with him singing and changing on stage. It successfully showed his happiness and excitement without explicitly saying so! The play opened and received a lot of love. It has been nearly 14 years to the first show, but we still perform it whenever we get a chance to get the dates of the 27 team members! Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/how-songs-saved-blackouts-of-a-play-101621701058224.html
