24-05-2021||Pune||Private bus tickets up 40% as passengers flock given that no e-pass needed||For Laxman Vanpat, it was a great relief to reach to Nagpur by a private bus on Sunday.“I had applied twice for the e-pass, but it got rejected. When I got to know that tourist buses do not require e-passes I immediately booked a ticket., said Vanpat, who had to go to Nagpur for a family emergency.As the lockdown continues in the state, people wanting to travel inter-district now prefer the private buses route, as no e-pass is required.In Pune, at the four main exit roads from the city, there has been rush of passengers to board these private buses. This includes Ahmednagar road towards Aurangabad and Nagpur; at the Katraj chowk towards Kolhapur and Karnataka; at Hadpsar, going towards Solapur; and at the Nashik phata going towards Nashik.Another passenger Kalyani Gunde said, “Though there is a strict lockdown in the state I wanted to go for a wedding of my cousin to Kolhapur. As our pass got rejected, we booked a tourist bus ticket at a higher rate and travelled to Kolhapur.”The ticket fares of private buses have increased in the last one month by at least 40 per cent. Earlier, a ticket for Pune to Nagpur which was around ₹1,500 to ₹1,800, is now ₹2,500.Similarly, on the Kolhapur route, earlier a ticket fare was ₹800. It has now increased to ₹1,200 to ₹1,500.Santosh Deshmukh, owner of Samarth travel agency, said, “Our buses mostly run Pune to Nashik and Pune to Aurangabad. We are getting a good response in last couple of months. Passengers prefer to travel by private bus as there is no e-pass required. Also, we are taking all necessary safety precautions inside the bus. After every trip the entire bus is sanitised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pvt-bus-tickets-up-40-as-passengers-flock-given-that-no-e-pass-needed-101621782963183.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Only 70 per cent pre-monsoon work complete, PMC sets June 10 deadline||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is claiming to complete the pre-monsoon work before June 10, however, till date only 70 per cent work has been completed. The biggest concern for residents in the Ambil odha vicinity is that the retaining wall construction work is still underway along with cleaning and deepening nullahs of different parts of the city especially the 11 merged villages. Normally, the PMC begins pre-monsoon work in the month of April and finishes it off by the end of May. In some years, the deadline is extended up to June 7 for the completion of the pre-monsoon works which includes cleaning, removing sludge, widening and deepening of nullahs, cleaning storm water drain, chambers, culverts cleaning of drainage lines among other things. However, this year, the administration is claiming to complete the work before June 10. The PMC had floated 22 tenders of cleaning nullahs in the last week of April. The amount of each tender was around ₹65 lakh. Besides this, the PMC floated 15 ward wise tenders each of ₹15 lakh. In Ambil odha which has emerged as the most affected part of the city since the last three years in the monsoon season, the PMC identified 19 spots to construct a retaining wall to restrict the flood water to flow into the slums or residential areas. However, the work of the retaining wall construction is still underway. The cleaning work at the Bhirobha Nullah has also not completed yet. Due to Tauktae, the PMC will have to clean the storm water drain in the Sinhagad road areas once again. On Saturday, additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar along with the drainage department and ward officers visited Kalas dhanori, Yerawada and Wadgaonsheri areas. The city has 236 major and small nullahs in the total 526 kilometre nullahs network in the city including the 11 merged villages (166 kilometres). Of that, 170 kilometres of nullahs are passing through high flooded areas which include Katraj, Wadgaonsheri, and all peth areas, Hadapsar, Pashan, Dhanori-Vishrantwadi, Hingne, Dattwadi, Aundh and Kothrud. Sunil Jadhav, a resident of Kharadi area said, “The nullah of Spring glory society is yet to be cleaned. The small stretch of nullah passing through Thite areas is also not clean. Last year, we had faced a problem of water logging in this area.” In Kothrud, Shastrinagar areas, Bavdhan area, PMC depot areas, Ramnadi area has also not completed the pre-monsoon work. The Hill side society and NDA Pashan road near Bank of India are some of the critical spots. Ramesh Patil, a resident of Kothrud area said, “I reside near NDA Pashan road area. The PMC hasn’t started the work of cleaning nullahs yet. We face water logging problems in the monsoon season.” Sameer Pathan, a resident of Kondhwa said, “There are nullahs passing through the Kondhwa police station. The PMC has not begun the work of cleaning the nullahs in Bhagodhaya Nagar and Survey number 42, 43 Prithviraj Sutar, a Shiv Sena corporator from Kothrud said, “In the Kothrud area, there 20 hotspots where we face water logging problems. The administration started the work late. It is not completed yet. Every year, the PMC is spending a lot of money on the same spots to clear water logging. We need a permanent solution on the water logging and monsoon-related problems.” Sushmita Shirke, superintending engineer, sewerage, maintenance and repair department said, “We will complete the work before June 10. The work is ongoing; we will carry out the work in monsoon which comes from outskirt of city in the nullahs. We have completed 70 per cent chamber cleaning work. We are facing some problems of manpower due to Covid-19 in chamber cleaning as it is completely manual. We use machinery to clean the nullahs. So, there is no problem, we will complete it before monsoon. At present, there are around ₹15 crore worth of pre-monsoon work going on in the city.” According to Shirke, the cleaning of nullahs in the 11 merged villages will begin from Monday. “We have almost 15 days to complete pre-monsoon work,” she said. ============================ Header: Job half done Info: Only 70 per cent of the pre-monsoon work in the city has been completed. The PMC has set a deadline of June 10 to complete all remaining work. Length of nullahs in the city: 526 kilometres approximately Length of cleaning work undertaken: 300 kilometres approximately Number of drainage chambers- 40,000 Cleaned drainage chambers: 3,000 Length of storm water drainage: 145 kilometres Length of cleaning work undertaken: 100 kilometres Number of Culverts: 300 Number of cleaned Culverts: 200 Length of critical nullahs: 28 kilometres Length of completed work: 18 kilometres High flooding-prone areas in the city: Katraj, Wadgaonsheri, all peth areas, Hadapsar, Pashan, Dhanori-Vishrantwadi, Hingne, Dattawadi, Aundh and Kothrud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/only-70-per-cent-pre-monsoon-work-complete-pmc-sets-june-10-deadline-101621782064656.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Pune city’s positivity rate below 10 per cent for four successive days||As the number of Covid cases continues to drop in city, the daily positivity rate has followed, dropping below 10 per cent for four successive days.The positivity rate in the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) limits for Thursday, Friday and Saturday, was 7.61%, 8.33% and 7.38%, respectively, while on Sunday, it stood at 7.82% with 709 cases against 9,066 tests, according to the district health office. With latest tally, the average weekly positivity rate between May 16 and May 22, has been under 10%, at 9.26%. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “The number of positive cases have been going down. The positivity rate has come down to 8%. Now, beds are available and necessary medicines are available. We hope this trend continues. People need to keep following the norms and should continue Covid-appropriate behaviour.” Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said the situation is in control in the city now, but people should not stop observing appropriate behaviour. “On April 18, the number of active patients in the city was 56,636. It was reduced to 12,330 on May 22. In the last one month the number of active patients has come down by 44,000 and is a silver lining for the city.” The week also saw Pune record less than 1,000 fresh cases for four days in a row. On April 8, Pune city had recorded its highest daily positive caseload of 7,010, with the positivity rate crossing 35%. With caseload dropping below the 1,000 mark, traders and hoteliers have started pushing for reopening of the markets and easing of existing restrictions. Responding to this demand, Mohol said that the administration will have to be cautious while easing curbs. “We cannot reopen everything in a hurry. It will have to be in the phases. Otherwise, there can be a resurgence of the infection. The discussion will take place in this week’s Covid review meeting. We need to tackle the soaring cases of mucormycosis and there is the possibility of the third wave,” Mohol said. The downward trend of Covid positive cases has also been observed in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The number of active patients recorded on Saturday in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits was at 7,800. According to Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner, in the last 10 days, the average positivity rate in Pimpri-Chinchwad has been 11%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-positivity-rate-below-10-per-cent-for-four-successive-days-101621781103041.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Pvt hospitals in Pune to start on-campus vaccination drives for corporates from Monday||PUNE After starting inoculation for the 18-44-year age group, private hospitals in Pune will now to start on-campus vaccination drives for employees of corporate firms, from Monday. Ruby Hall clinic, Noble hospital and Sahyadri hospital, have confirmed the on-campus drives.The hospitals have priced each dose of Covishield for corporates at Rs1,200, following a decision taken on the price by the Pune Hospitals Association. Private hospitals are charging regular citizens ₹900 per dose of Covishield, to get their jabs.“We have received the vaccine doses and have already started vaccinations from our hospital. We have signed MoUs with several corporates like TCS and Tech Mahindra to vaccinate their employees. These firms have already taken all the necessary permissions and approvals. From Monday onwards, we will start the vaccination drive on their campuses,” said Dr Avdhut Bodamwad, medical superintendent, Ruby Hall Clinic. Ruby Hall, along with Noble hospital, began vaccinating the 18-44 age group from Friday. “We would like to highlight that the government should should allow those within the age group of 18-44 years to walk-in. Currently, this facility is only allowed for the age group of 45+ people. The number of youngsters coming in for vaccination is huge. We have already sent a request letter in this regards to the Pune district administration,” he added. Noble hospital in Hadapsar is also starting vaccination inside Magarpatta city from Monday. “We are checking our logistics and other preparations to start the vaccination at Magarpatta city. It will be for everyone including employees of corporate firms and local residents, along with staff of the township. First a dry run will be done on Monday and once everything goes out smoothly, the process will accelerate as per the supply of doses.” said Dr H K Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital. Currently, at least 12 hospitals in the city have started inoculation for the 18-44 age group. All those getting jabs are required to register on Cowin given that walk-ins are not allowed. Dr Dhananjay Kelkar medical director at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said, “We have started the vaccination from our hospital for citizens. However, we have not yet received any demand from any of the corporates. We can offer them service as per the requirement.” All these hospitals from the city have procured doses directly from the Covishield manufacturer, Serum Institute of India (SII), based in Pune. Questions sent on email to SII, on whether it has started supplying Covishield doses directly to corporates and number of doses being provided to private hospitals to inoculate the 18 to 44-year age group went unanswered until the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pvt-hospitals-to-start-on-campus-vaccination-drives-for-corporate-firms-from-monday-101621780503118.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Maha BJP ready to agitate for Marathas under any leader: Chandrakant Patil||BJP workers are ready to take part in any agitation for Maratha quota without holding the party banner or flag in the larger interest of the community, Maharashtra unit BJP president Chandrakant Patil said on Monday. Speaking to reporters, Patil said though the Centre has filed a review petition against the Supreme Court’s verdict striking down the Maratha reservation law, “it is the responsibility of the state government to prove that the community is backward and there is an exceptional situation where the ceiling of 50 per cent reservation needs to be breached”.“The BJP’s stand on the Maratha reservation issue is clear. In the interest of the Maratha community, we will take part in any agitation for Maratha quota like common citizens irrespective of which party or leader is leading it, be it Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, Vinayak Mete, Rajendra Kondhare, or Vinod Patil,” he said. Queried about Sambhajiraje not getting the appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue, Patil said, “PM feels the issue (Maratha reservation ) is more of state than the Centre. What is the use of meeting the PM when the issue falls under the purview of the state government?” He said the Centre had told the apex court that even after the 102nd Constitutional amendment, states have the right to extend quota to any backward community. The Supreme Court on May 5 struck down the Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs, terming it as “unconstitutional”, and held there were no exceptional circumstances to breach the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Mandal verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-bjp-ready-to-agitate-for-marathas-under-any-leader-chandrakant-patil-101621876329182.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Custody extension of man selling damaged cement to contractors||The police custody of a 41-year-old man was extended in a copyright infringement of a major cement producer brand on Monday by a court in Pune. The man arrested on May 22 was identified as Ghanshyam Vitthal Deshmukh (41) a resident of Kolwadi in Haveli area of Pune. He was remanded to police custody till Wednesday, according to public prosecutor Dnyaneshwar More. “We had first registered a case only for cheating. However, the officials of the company that owns the brand under which he was selling the cement came to us and based on their statement we added the copyright and trademark laws,” said senior police inspector Pratap Mankar of Lonikand police station. After his arrest, he was remanded to two days in custody for cheating. However, after increase in laws, his remand was extended. “He bought the cement from a tender floated by a cement company for selling damaged cement. Then he filled the cement in bags with branding of another brand. He then sold 250 bags of this to government contractors for building internal roads,” said police sub inspector Srikant Temgire of Lonikand police station who is investigating the case. The man made ₹2, 78,750 from the sale of misbranded cement, according to the police. The man had procured the sacks of damaged cement from Miraj, Sangli and had begun the operation 15-20 days ago, according to the police. The police have seized 1,150 more bags of cement procured from Miraj. The police also seized 350 bags of misbranded cement bags in a godown in Kolewadi area of Malwadi Vasti in Haveli. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 51 and 63 of Copyright Act 1977 and Sections 103 and 104 of Trademarks Act, 1999 was registered at Lonikand police station in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/custody-extension-of-man-selling-damaged-cement-to-contractors-101621873027299.html
24-05-2021||Pune||13 minors fined for playing cricket during lockdown||The Hinjewadi police have fined 13 minor boys, ₹500 each, for playing cricket at the Navale Cricket Academy, Hinjewadi Phase 1, despite lockdown restrictions being in place. On Sunday morning the police raided the academy ground. The youngsters tried to run away but were apprehended by the police. “We explained to them and fined them ₹500 each, so they learn from their mistake. We also fined the owner of the academy ₹5,000 for allowing the youngsters to play cricket,” said Balkrishna Sawant, senior police inspector, Hinjewadi police station. The district administration has banned outdoor sports amid the ongoing lockdown since April 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/13-minors-fined-for-playing-cricket-during-lockdown-101621869367918.html
24-05-2021||Pune||23-year-old in police custody for sexual assault of minor||A 23-year-old man was remanded to police custody on Monday for sexually assaulting a minor girl in Alandi area. The arrested man was identified as Mannu Dhirendra Mali, a native of Jaganshipur region of Odisha, according to the police. He is in police custody till May 28 while the girl is undergoing tests at a government hospital, according to the police. The 15-year-old survivor was also threatened by the arrested man with dire consequences for her family if she told anyone about what he had done, according to her complaint. “The man is a painter and the child’s father is a labour contractor who got painting jobs for him. The girl was scared but after waiting for a couple of days, she revealed to her mother what had happened. The parents came to the police on the same day,” said police sub inspector Surekha Sagar of Alandi police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the minor survivor on Sunday. A case under Sections 376 (sexual assault) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4, 8, 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at Alandi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/23yearold-in-police-custody-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-101621869307173.html
24-05-2021||Pune||PMC removes unauthorised optical fibre cables in Wanowrie||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has removed unauthorised optical fibres in the Wanowrie area while filing a police complaint against unknown persons for laying the cables underground. The PMC road department had in the past given permission to lay underground optical fibres to telecom companies including government and private. In Wanowrie, the PMC road department found that one of the private telecom companies laid down 700 metres of optical fibre near Shivarkar garden area. The local residents registered a complaint to PMC officials. Sunil Kadam, executive engineer of road department said, “We had given permission for 300 metres of cables to the VPPN firm. The company paid for 200 metres; however, we came to know from local residents that the company placed a total of 700 metres underground cables.” “When we contacted the company officials, they denied it. So, we filed a complaint against an unknown person and have removed the unauthorised cables with the help of machinery on Monday,” Kadam said. As per the demand of telecom companies, the civic body’s road department officials scrutinise applications from private firms and charge ₹10,155 per metre for laying the cable. “As per normal procedure, PMC officials check maps and drawings submitted by agencies and visit the site to crosscheck the permitted cables and actual laid cables. There is no third-party checking,” he said. According to PMC road officials, for the last two years no permission was given to any company. Right now, the PMC road department has given around 150 kilometres of permission to telecom companies to lay underground cables. Agency to identify unauthorised cables The PMC has sanctioned a trenching policy in the city to streamline the process of laying underground pipelines or cables and avoid occurrence of faults, requiring excavation for carrying out repairs and bringing the excavated surface back to its original status. Besides this, PMC wanted to stop unauthorised or illegal installation of cables or digging in the city. The officials found that private telecom companies are not following the norms mentioned in the trenching policy. Citizens are complaining about illegal digging and laying optical fibres in the areas, said a civic official. Taking cognisance of citizen complaints and in an attempt to boost the revenue of the corporation, the PMC has taken a decision to appoint an agency to find out illegal cables in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-removes-unauthorised-optical-fibre-cables-in-wanowrie-101621869247179.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Students missing experience of offline learning, college life due to Covid restrictions||With the second year of online education underway, students who were promoted from Class 11 to Class 12 share that due to online classes they have lost the opportunity to experience college campus life. Students from the city share that they miss making new friends and college activities like fests and compensations. Siddhi Disale, a student of Class 12 at Sushilatai Bahudhani junior college said that she misses learning in offline mode. “I started my Class 11 with Science stream last year when the college started online. Since then, I have interacted with a lot of classmates but could not make friends. We could not meet and bond at all. We spoke only for sharing notes. I miss a lot of things about offline classes. Especially the interaction we used to have with teachers. Except for asking doubts we don’t interact with them on other topics,” said Disale. She also said that she has no idea about what offline practicals are because she has not attended any so far. “I have opted for Science, but I haven’t attended any practical and the experience of learning is not there. This is what I miss the most about college,” said Disale. Another student of Class 12 with Shree Haribhau Balwantrao Girme junior college, Prerana Kadam said until class 10, she was very excited about college. “But due to the lockdown, all this excitement was gone. More than that due to online education, there were no college fests, no competition and we couldn’t meet any students as well. This was a little disheartening. When we say college we imagine a lot of fun things, but these two years have been just opening a laptop and studying power point presentations,” said Kadam. Sarthak Kulkarni, a class 12 student from Garware College who is also a theatre enthusiast said that he was excited about junior college. “I wanted to participate in theatre groups and be on the stage, but all the activities have stopped. I follow college contests like Purshottam drama competition. I was hoping to participate in them but due to the lockdown and Covid I have missed this opportunity as well,” said Kulkarni. “Earlier college was an experience but now it is just endless online lectures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-missing-experience-of-offline-learning-college-life-due-to-covid-restrictions-101621869187144.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Land measurement of Eastern part of ring road set to begin next week||After the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) received a formal nod for the land acquisition process of the Eastern side of the ring road on May 19th, a meeting was conducted by district collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Monday regarding the planning of joint measurement survey in the eastern part of the project. According to the MSRDC officials, the actual land measurement and survey process will begin next week. The joint measurement survey has been undergoing in the Western side and the survey process in 12 villages of 160 hectares has been completed so far.“The first step now is to present the proposal to the collector’s office after that collector’s office will issue a notice formalising the process. So, the actual process is expected to begin next week,” said Sandeep Patil sub-divisional engineer Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).The Eastern ring road will pass through 46 villages in five tehsils namely Maval, Khed, Purandar, Bhor, Haveli in Pune district. Officials are expecting more resistance from the villagers and farmers in the Eastern part because of the higher rates of the land. Meetings have been planned with locals to resolve the doubts.“We are going to conduct more meetings with the farmers. Their apprehensions will be resolved through dialogue. From next week we have planned meetings with the locals. We are planning to complete the land acquisition before Diwali,” said Patil.“I have instructed the officials to resolve the doubts of landowners and complete the land acquisition process,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector.The Eastern Route Urse (Mumbai-Pune Expressway)Talegaon MIDCIndoriBhandara hillKhalumbreChimbaliAlandiSoluLonikandWadebolaiSortapwadi (Pune Solapur road) TaradeDiveChambhaliSomurdiKelwade (NH 48 Pune Satara road)Total affected villages: 46(Maval: 11 villagesKhed:12 villagesHaveli: 15 villagesPurandar: 5 villagesBhor: 3 villages)Land required- 859.88 hectares||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/land-measurement-of-eastern-part-of-ring-road-set-to-begin-next-week-101621869127360.html
24-05-2021||Pune||Pune woman kills mother-in-law, tries to dispose of body with husband’s help||A 22-year woman allegedly killed her mother-in-law by strangling her with a blouse and later tried to dispose of her body in a gunny sack with the help of her husband, police officials said on Monday. The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested both Pooja Milind Shinde and her husband Milind Gautum Shinde (30), who were remanded to four days in police custody by a local court on Monday. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station. The deceased woman was identified as Baby Gautam Shinde (50) a resident of Talegaon Dabhade area of Pune. The incident happened in Daulat society in Telco Colony of Talegaon Dabhade area around 10 am on May 21, officials said, adding that the incident came to light three days later after some neighbours saw the accused couple trying to get rid of the sack. While the arrested woman is a housewife, the husband works as a driver. The victim and the arrested lived in the same house with the arrested man’s younger brother Amit Shinde (22). Amit Shinde was at work when the incident happened. Police officials said the woman used a blouse to strangle her mother-in-law to death following a domestic fight between them. The husband then helped the woman dump the body on the terrace of the building they lived in. The body was wrapped in a gunny bag and dragged by Pooja with husband’s help, the police said based on the CCTV of the act recovered. However, when the other family members started enquiring about the woman’s whereabouts, the couple panicked and shifted the body close to a nearby bungalow’s garden. “We found the CCTV of them dragging the gunny bag from the terrace to the nearby garden. The husband was not involved in the murder, but he was clearly involved in the destruction of evidence. We are investigating what led to the murder, but it seems like a domestic fight turned violent,” said assistant police inspector Narayan Patil of Talegaon Dabhade police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the younger son of the deceased woman who also lived with the assailants and the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-woman-kills-mother-in-law-tries-to-dispose-of-body-with-husband-s-help-101621869067173.html
