25-05-2021||Pune||12-year-old drowns at construction site||In a tragic incident, a 12-year-old boy was found dead in a waterhole at an under construction building site of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in Kharadi on Monday afternoon. The deceased boy has been identified as Anand Dattatray Shelke (12), a resident of Thite Vasti slums located in the immediate neighbourhood. According to the Kharadi police, a limited portion of the area has been dug up while no other construction activity was in progress at the entire site. The dug-up area had accumulated rainwater and three boys from a neighbouring slum had come to the site evading the security guard and entered the water. Two of them managed to come out while another got trapped inside the silt in the waterhole. Sensing trouble, the duo alerted the security guard who immediately dialled the police. A search was carried, and he was found dead due to drowning. His body has been sent for postmortem at Sassoon General Hospital. Chandan Nagar Police Station in charge Sunil Jadhav said, “We have lodged an accidental death related case and investigation is on to find out what is being constructed by PMC. The incident took place at around 1.30 pm when the trio entered the waterhole without the knowledge of the watchman.” Assistant inspector Bhalchandra Dhavale said, “His parents are poor and are freelance labourers, Anand and his two friends came to the site at around 1 pm who were spotted by the security guard who immediately asked them to leave. The boys left the spot but returned again and quietly went into the waters. The guard was having lunch when the incident took place, and he was informed about it by two surviving boys.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/12yearold-drowns-at-construction-site-101621960210626.html
25-05-2021||Pune||GST deputy commissioner among two killed in e-way mishap||A deputy commissioner-level officer of the Goods and service tax (GST) department from Mumbai was among two people who died in a collision between an SUV and a truck along the Pune-Mumbai Expressway stretch in Kamshet area of Pune on Tuesday morning. The deceased were identified as GST deputy commissioner Abhijeet Ramling Gawle (45), his friend Shankar Gaura Yetnal (45), his wife Shilpa Gawle (40) and their driver Pandit Khandu Pawar (37), all residents of Mumbai, according to the police. The accident occurred at the 76km mark along the expressway around 8 am when the Gawle family and their friend were travelling through Pune to their native place in a white Toyota Innova Crysta registered in Ratnagiri. “From what we have gathered so far, it looks like their driver tried to get past two vehicles from the middle lane and while overtaking, he rammed into the back of a truck. The passenger side traveller (GST deputy commissioner) and the one sitting behind him were killed while the driver of the car and the one sitting behind him were injured,” said constable Viraj Kamthe of Kamshet police station. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Kamshet police station. Police Naik Mithun Dhende is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gst-deputy-commissioner-among-two-killed-in-e-way-mishap-101621959910630.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Two bodies found floating in canal in Phursungi||Fire brigade officials from Kondhwa fished two bodies –a male and a female from the canal near the Sonarpul spot in Phursungi gaon at 7.30 am on Tuesday morning. A missing complaint in connection with the incident has been registered with the Hadapsar police. The fire brigade officials found the floating body in the irrigation canal behind after they were informed about it by a police constable, said Prashant Ranpise, PMC chief fire officer. “The bodies have been handed over to the police after it was recovered by our staff. The bodies were floating on the canal and people passing through the area saw the bodies which led to a huge crowd gathering around the spot,” he said. The Hadapsar police maintained that it could be a case of suicide but had no leads in connection with the corpses. Both the corpses are reported to be in the age group of 40-45, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-bodies-found-floating-in-canal-in-phursungi-101621959070543.html
25-05-2021||Pune||SPPU students panic after results declared without practical grade||Some students of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) panicked after they saw a ‘F’ grade next to their practicals in the results declared by the university’s examination department on Tuesday. Several students reported that they are not able to see the internal marks given by the college and practical marks whereas some received a ‘fail’ or an NA’ remark in their mark sheet. This technical snag is affecting their online application for the second semester exams starting next month. “After I completed my exams through the student login id, I tried to check my result, but my college internal marks were not shown on it. Also, at one of the practical subjects it was showing NA, if the practicals are not conducted due to Covid pandemic then why the NA remark is given. It is all confusing for us and I am worried whether I will be able to appear for the next semester exams,” said Pratik Karade, a second year Bachelor of Science student. Currently, the first semester exams are underway where more than 10.5 lakh students are appearing for 3,700 subjects in the online mode. The exam which began on April 10 is being conducted of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method in online mode. The university’s SPPU Edutech Foundation is conducting the exam. It was instructed to all affiliated colleges of SPPU that they should conduct practicals and internal tests before June 15 and start submitting their marks to SPPU. The results which are declared by SPPU are only showing marks of the written online exams, and before the subjects having practical marks are either showing NA or a fail remark. As the colleges were closed due to the Covid pandemic, no practical sessions were held for students and majority of the colleges have not yet sent their internal marks to the university. “Students are in a state of confusion and also worried about their exams subsequently their future career. Most of the students are now applying for higher studies courses once they finish the second semester the admission process would start. But if they are declared fail or not given internal marks, it will impact on their results and further to get the admissions. This issue is due to the lack of coordination between SPPU and college administrations which needs to be improved,” said Kuldeep Ambedkar, a student and president of Students Helping Hand organisation. SPPU’s examination and evaluation department has given a clarification about the issue saying that these results are temporary and are given only for the reference of the students. “The results which are declared now are temporary results just for the students to know their marks in the online written exams. Once we get the internal marks and practical marks from all the colleges, we will declare the final results of both first and second semester combine. Students need not worry about their results, or any other issue related to the exam,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-students-panic-after-results-declared-without-practical-grade-101621958950649.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Ex-ACP Jaisingrao More passes away||Pune: Former assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Jaisingrao Bajirao More passed away on Monday, his family members said. He was 88. More joined the police force in 1957 and was first posted at Sawantwadi. He worked in Solapur, Kolhapur, Pune, Thane, Kalyan, Satara, Lonavla, and Karad. He also worked as a coach in wrestling. More took steps to promote bodybuilding in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/exacp-jaisingrao-more-passes-away-101621957930599.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Pune dist reports 131 Covid deaths, rural counts for more than hundred||Pune: The rising number of Covid-19 positive cases in Pune rural is now resulting in more deaths in the region due to the infection. On Tuesday, as per the state health department, Pune district reported 131 Covid deaths of which 106 were reported from Pune rural alone. This took the death toll in rural area to 3,622. Pune district reported 2,696 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 1,003,844 of which 946,389 have recovered, 11,807 declared dead and 45,648 are active cases undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. On Tuesday, Pune rural reported 1,401 new Covid cases which took the progressive counts to 281,523. Pune city reported 739 new cases which took the progressive count to 481,181 and with 25 more deaths the toll went up to 6,469 while PCMC reported 556 new cases and the progressive count went up to 241,140 and with zero deaths the toll stood at 1,656. The state reported that 36,176 patients discharged on Tuesday and 5,218,768 Covid patients discharged after full recovery until Tuesday. The recovery rate in the state is 92.76%. Also, 24,136 new cases in the state on Tuesday and 601 Covid deaths. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.61%. Of 33, 541,565 laboratory samples 5,626,155 have been tested positive (16.77%) for Covid-19 until Tuesday. Currently, 2,616,428 people are in home quarantine and 20,829 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-131-covid-deaths-rural-counts-for-more-than-hundred-101621956011106.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Man arrested for robbery and trespassing into actress Sonalee Kulkarni’s house||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested a 24-year-old man for trespassing into and attacking Marathi actress Sonalee Kulkarni’s house in Nigdi. The arrested man was identified as Ajay Vishnu Sekte (24), Kulkarni (33) has a house in the Pradhikaran area of Nigdi. The man injured in the early morning attack was identified as Manohar Kulkarni, the actress’s father who tried to confront the man. “We are not sure if it is a fan or a robber who entered the actress’ house. The people who caught him have beaten him up, so he is undergoing treatment at YCM Hospital. Upon further interrogation we will know if he was a fan or not,” said senior police inspector Ganesh Javadwad of Nigdi police station. A case under Sections for attempted robbery and causing hurt during a robbery of Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-robbery-and-trespassing-into-actress-sonalee-kulkarni-s-house-101621955890493.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Four arrested for stealing agricultural vehicles||The Pune rural police arrested four people for stealing agricultural vehicles during lockdown period from unsuspecting farmers in Pune, Junnar, and Ale Phata regions, according to Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of police, Pune rural police. SP Deshmukh was speaking at a press meeting held on Tuesday. The police have recovered 10 tractors, five cows, two pick-up trucks, a Mahindra Bolero, a Mahindra Scorpio, six motorcycles, an oxygen cylinder, a cooking gas cylinder, a gas cutter, and a set of spanners. The total estimated worth of the seized goods was ₹76,88,000, according to the police. The four men arrested by the local crime branch of Pune rural police were identified as Satish Ashok Rakshe, a resident of Shirur and native of Shringonda area of Ahmednagar; Dnyandev alias Mauli Vinayak Nachbone, a resident of Shirur and a native of Ausa area of Latur; Pravin Kailas Korde, a resident of Shirur and a naitve of Junnar area of Pune; Sunil alias Bhau Bibhishan Devkate,a resident of Barshi area of Solapur, according to the police. “The modus operandi of stealing tractors had developed in the lockdown period. They conducted recee of the villages to find out where the new tractors were. They stole them during night hours and sold it to nearby farmers and made-up reasons to delay paperwork and eventually ignore it. They also stole pick-up trucks, cattle, SUVs, motorcycles. They had also attempted to loot ATMs,” said SP Deshmukh. The police have brought to light 21 cases by arresting these four. Of these 21 cases 12 are from Pune district, eight are from Ahmednagar, and one is from Solapur, according to the police. All arrested men are drivers and had started committing these crimes after the first lockdown was announced. Rakshe and Nachbone are relatives and Korede was known to them. The fourth person helped them increase their reach into other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-arrested-for-stealing-agricultural-vehicles-101621955590519.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Students, parents face challenges due to uncertainty on board exams||As the uncertainty over Class 10 and 12 exams continues in the state as well as in the country, students and parents are worried and under tremendous pressure from the last few days. The situation is so critical that there has been an increase in the number of children and parents contacting psychologists and counsellors. Parents are tense worrying about how to handle their child in this tense situation of lockdown, the uncertainty of exams and for students who are unaware about their future careers.“The current situation of Covid and along with that the tension of board exams has really disturbed the houses of Class 10 and 12 students. I daily get at least two to three calls from parents of these students, either for the child’s mental health issues or for their own parenting issues. Earlier, students were preparing for the board exams, then suddenly Class 10 exams were cancelled, and students relaxed. While those students who had seriously prepared well for the exams went into depression as they cannot score good marks. Now, again this issue of conducting the exams is going on, due to which students are worried and frustrated,” said Dr Anjali Chaudhary of Sangopan- The Art of Parenting, a child counsellor and parenting coach. “On the other hand, parents are worried about the child’s safety whether to send the child to appear for the exam or not and even their future career with college admissions. More than urban area parents, rural parents are more confused and do not have proper guidance from anyone. This is leading to clashes between parents and children, already from the last 1.5 years the daily routine of children is disturbed, they are not able to spend time with their friends and go outside. Now again the tension of exams to be conducted and in such adverse situation is making them psychologically disturbed,” she added. Last month, the state government cancelled the Class 10 exams due to an increase in the number of Covid cases. While the Class 12 exams were postponed, a petition was filed at the Bombay High Court by professor Dhananjay Kulkarni challenging the Maharashtra government’s decision cancelling the Class 10 board exams this year due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. Even the central education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank along with other senior ministers held a meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday regarding conducting of Class 12 board exams in the country. Asawari Chavan a class 10 student said, “I was preparing very hard for my board exams despite the Covid pandemic through my online lectures and taking help from our teachers. I was so excited to appear for the exam, but it got cancelled and disturbed all my plans. Since then, I stopped studying and now suddenly there are news about exams would be conducted again, and now I am worried again. The link of study is gone and due to the tension of Covid infection I cannot concentrate back fully on my study syllabus.” Mahesh Rathi a parent of Class 12 student said, “There is confusion about the exams, safety of students and further admissions in the college. No clear guidelines or instructions are there and we as parents are more worried for our child. It is affecting our entire family, as my son is not able to plan his further career goals and we cannot plan financially for his admission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-parents-face-challenges-due-to-uncertainty-on-board-exams-101621955531712.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Police dog Jack tracks down man wanted for rape and murder of 71-year-old||A man wanted for rape and murder was arrested within four to five hours after the victim’s body was discovered with the help of the Pune police dog squad member Jack and the officials of the fingerprint department. A 52-year-old man was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for sexual assault and murder of a 71-year-old woman in Chakan area of the district on Monday. The arrested man was identified as Anil Sudam Waghmare (52), a resident of Kurkundi village of Khed taluka of Pune. The 71-year-old woman who lived by herself in the same village was found lying in a pool of blood on Monday. “He forcefully entered her house and tried to rape her. When she resisted, he hit her in the head with a metal pipe used to fan the flame of an earthen stove to grievously hurt her and kill her. After her death he sexually assaulted her according to the investigation in the matter,” read a statement from Manchak Ipper, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the woman’s 50-year-old daughter-in-law. The officials of Chakan police station are investigating the case further. A case under Sections 376 (sexual assault), 302 (murder), and 450 (house-trespass to commit offence punishable with imprisonment for life) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-dog-jack-tracks-down-man-wanted-for-rape-and-murder-of-71yearold-101621955351432.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Paper leak case: Lt. Col. Bedi’s police custody extended until May 28||The police custody of lieutenant colonel-rank officer arrested by Pune police from Secunderabad in Army recruitment question paper leak case was extended by a court in Pune on Tuesday.The remand of Lt Col Bhagat Preetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi (44) was extended until May 28 by additional sessions Judge AY Thatte on Tuesday. “He was presiding over the committee that was overlooking the exam procedure. The question paper was of 50 questions. He saw the paper, wrote the 50 questions by hand on a paper, and sent a photo of those hand-written questions to the earlier arrested person,” said public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal. A source close to the investigation revealed that the two may have destroyed both their phones used for the transactions after the police raids. “They have consented to extended custody so there was no argument from our side. They are co-operating with the investigation,” said defence advocate Sudhir Shah. Lt Col Bedi had allegedly sent the questions to a storekeeper from Delhi Cantonment, Vira Prasad Kotiswamy Narnepati (41), who was arrested on May 15. Narnepati’s police custody remand was also extended until May 28 by the same court on Monday. Narnepati revealed that the officer had sent him the paper, according to Laxman Borate, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, Pune police. The police have recovered a blue coloured phone from Narnepati. However, the recovered phone is not the one he used to send the paper to one among the two other people wanted in the case. The person who received it from Narnepati had sent it to the second person wanted in the case. Narnepati had allegedly recived ₹7,00,000 and had paid ₹3,00,000 from it to Lt Col Bedi for the paper and returned ₹4,00,000 to the two others wanted in the case, according to ACP Borate. When the case came to light, the nation-wide recruitment exam was cancelled hours before it was held. “He paid ₹3,00,000 to the Lt Col for receiving the paper but once the police raids were done and exam was cancelled, he sent the remaining money back. All these transactions were in cash,” said ACP Borate. Two separate offences were registered in the matter and a total of 12 arrests have been made so far in the case and after February 28 when the exam was supposed to be held at 40 centres with 30,000 aspirants. One case in the matter is registered under Sections 406, 420, 120(b), and 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Sections 7, 12, and 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Section 66(c) of Information Technology Act at Vishrantwadi police staiton. Another case in the matter is registered under Sections 420, 409, 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Sections 7, 12, and 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Section 66(c) of Information Technology Act at Wanowrie police station. So far, the arrest of one person in both the cases has confirmed any link between the two cases. Two major rank officers, Thiru Murugan Thangavelu (47) and Vasant Vijay Kilari (45), were arrested earlier in the Wanowrie case. The others arrested in the case include Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) a resident of Sappers vihar colony in Pune; another accused called Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37) from Pachora, Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) a resident of BEG Center in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) a resident of BEG Khadki. The ones arrested in Vishrantwadi were identified as Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lalmohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/paper-leak-case-lt-col-bedi-s-police-custody-extended-until-may-28-101621955230472.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Drive for 18-plus picks up pace at private hospitals in Pune||PUNE Four days after private hospitals in Pune begun vaccination for the 18-45 years age group, scores were vaccinated amid slots booked till Friday in most hospitals.At many hospitals, long queues were witnessed amid youngsters patiently waiting for their turn since morning. So far, at least 18 health facilities in the city have started vaccination with the latest being Deenanath hospital, which is inoculating the 18-45 years age group at Balshikshan school, Mayur colony.Interestingly, some local youths said few hospitals were visited by youngsters from nearby villages or other cities to get jabs. While HT could not independently confirm this, authorities clarified that there are no directions that prohibit people from one part of the district or another to get vaccine dose in other parts.On being asked if those not from Pune are also coming to the city for jabs, Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble hospital, said, “We do not get to know the address of the beneficiaries who come to us. Anyone sitting in Loni or even from a nearby district can book a slot for those getting the vaccine under 18-45 years of age criteria. Mentioning the address is not a mandatory criterion.”Many said they have not been able to book a slot through online registration at private hospitals.“I am trying to get an online slot from last one week in a private hospital but it gets full within seconds when it opens up. There should be an offline registration facility available at the hospital even for the age group between 18 to 45,” said Karan Makwana, an IT professional.The scene was in contrast to one being witnessed earlier this month when many from rural areas complained their jabs are being taken by those living in the city.According to Dr Avdhut Bodamwad, medical superintendent at Ruby Hall Clinic, around 10,000 people have been vaccinated till now at the private hospitals in Pune.“As few hospitals have got the vaccine doses directly from the manufacturers, each hospital has vaccinated 1,000 to 1,200 people till now,” said Bodamwad, who is also a member of Hospital Association of Pune.While youths from the IT sector are unhappy with the limited slots given for online registration at private hospitals. “I am trying to get an online slot from last one week in a laid private hospital but it gets full within seconds when it opens up,” said Karan Makwana an IT professional.He said the number of beneficiaries getting jabs at private hospitals would have been double if the 18-45 age group would have been allowed on-site registration.On Monday, the Central health ministry enabled on-site registration for the 18-45 years age group on the Co-WIN platform for all government vaccination centres. This was in addition to the facility of online appointments provided for this population group. However private centres will have to publish their vaccination schedules exclusively with slots for online appointments.Meanwhile, hospitals including Ruby Hall Clinic, Noble hospital and Sahyadri Hospitals were to start on-campus vaccination from Monday. However, on-campus vaccination for employees of corporates could not start on Friday due to a technical glitch in the portal, hospital authorities said.“Vaccination dry run was carried out today at destination centre inside the Magarpatta City but as we had login issues it didn’t take off. We will be doing vaccination for corporate companies and residential area people possibly from tomorrow.” said Sale from Noble Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/drive-for-18-plus-picks-up-pace-at-private-hospitals-in-pune-101621944611783.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Pune scientists discover new species of multidrug-resistant bacteria from snake||PUNE The city-based scientists along with other experts in the country have discovered a new species of bacteria which are known to resist the approved antibiotics used in the treatment of snake bites. The bacteria was found in the scats or faecal of “vine snake” a green coloured snake commonly found in the northern western ghats. The two species of bacteria have been discovered for the first time, claim scientists.According to these researchers, it is necessary to find out the microorganisms of animal origin which can lead to various human diseases or the next pandemic in future given the current Covid-19 pandemic situation.A team of scientists working from Junnar, Pune and Chandigarh made this discovery which was accepted in February 2021 by “The study” and recently published in the Springer – Nature journal Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek.According to the team, while most of the study for isolation and identification of microorganisms from snakes and other wild animals mainly focus on the oral cavity. But in the present study, the novel microorganisms are isolated from the scat of snakes.RD Chaudhari from the department of zoology and research centre, Shri Shiv Chhatrapati College, Junnar, Pune (SSCC) who first collected the faeces of the snake four years ago, said, “It is a huge discovery and further study is needed. We do not know how harmful this new bacteria or how safe it is. It is resistant to the existing antibiotics we use for the treatment. The most important point is that this bacteria can enter other species not just through snake bites, but also through the faeces of the snake and can be carried through the water flow in the rainy seasons or air.”The faecal microbiome is studied to understand the gut microbes and in this case, also the microbes from the scat may represent the microbes present in the gut of the snake. The role of this microbe in the snake gut needs to be established by further studies. The bacteria reported here comes under the family Planococcaceae. Some species of this family are pathogenic.It is important to identify the bacteria in snakes because they can cause disease. As society develops, the chance that humans have contact with animals decreases; however, the desire of people to interact with animals increases. As a result, several people will come in contact with these bacteria which are opportunistic invaders and may lead to various diseases. Most of the bacterial species isolated from the snakes have public health importance and have been incriminated in human infections worldwide. Some snakes may already harbour these bacterial pathogens from the wild, said the statement issued by National Centre for Cell Sciences (NCCS), which is located in Pune and which also worked in the project and Shri Shiv Chhatrapati College.“Given the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, multiple researchers after a more detailed bioinformatics analysis of the sequence of 2019-nCoV found that coronavirus might come from snakes. So we need to realise that these microscopic organisms have the potential to cause more such pandemics in future. Hence, nowadays it becomes important to focus on such a study to avoid diseases originating from wild animals,” said Chaudhari.In the present study strain, SN6T and SN6b as novel species of the genus Savagea and the family Planococcaceae are discovered for which the name Savagea serpentis sp. Nov of is given. As these bacteria are isolated from snakes hence the species name serpentine is given. In addition to NCCs and SSCC both of which are located in the Pune district, microbial type culture collection and CSIR Institute of Microbial Technology, Chandigarh also worked on this research.According to the team, the newly isolated bacteria from scats of vine snake are resistant to multiple antibiotics of four different classes that are aminoglycosides including gentamicin, amikacin, tobramycin, neomycin, and streptomycin, b-lactams including penicillin G, amoxicillin, cephalosporin C, cefoxitin, thienamycin, aztreonam, clavulanic acid; fluoroquinolones including levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, moxifloxacin, ofloxacin, gemifloxacin.. and sulphonamides including sulfadiazine, sulfamethizole, sulfamethoxazole, sulfasalazine, sulfisoxazole and others. The most interesting fact mentioned by the team is that other bacteria from the family Planococcaceae are sensitive to several antibiotics including tetracycline, streptomycin, ampicillin, erythromycin, gentamicin, penicillin-G, rifampin, streptomycin and others.Further, the team added that there are many bacteria including multi-drug resistant which are present in the snakes leading to wound infections after snake bites. In some serious cases, patients may suffer from cellulitis, tissues necrosis, finger or toe gangrene, and/or extensive necrotizing fasciitis. To avoid such types of infections antibiotic therapy is the only way. It is also mentioned that ciprofloxacin, amikacin, cefotaxime, cefepime, ciprofloxacin, ampicillin, gentamicin, penicillin and vancomycin are the most frequently prescribed antibiotic after snake bite to control wound infection due to bacterial flora present in snakes. But these newly isolated bacteria are resistant to these drugs which is of serious concern.They further added that a few species and strains of Planococcus have been demonstrated to be pathogenic to other animals. Some species lead to an outbreak of necrotic hepatitis in chickens. Some of the species and strains of Planococcus are found in bronchial biopsy in a child with cystic fibrosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-scientists-discover-new-species-of-multidrug-resistant-bacteria-from-snake-101621944130770.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Games of change to redefine your perspective on garbage||The Zilla Parishad office has asked for suggestions on waste management. I think we need to play some games and conduct some workshops.The first game is Needs and Wants. Imagine that the city is to be evacuated and you have only a few hours to pack essentials. What will you take? Imagine, if you could only take 10 things or five items – what would they be? Do we really need all the things we acquire?The second game is Tales Tails Tell. Take an item, say a pair of jeans and put it on a flat surface like a bed or a table. Then add one or more “tails” behind it, with name cards, to show all the stages of production – from cotton (and water, seeds, fertiliser, pesticides) to cloth production. The metal rivets (mining, ore transport and refining, metal production, rivet production, transport) will be another tail. Add another for the zipper. Combine the tails to the fabrication of the jeans, the transport to the shop and your home. The idea is to realise that each stage produces waste and pollution. What is to be done with the jeans when one longer needs them?The third is the Segregation Game.Make a list of the items of waste produced in your house in a week. Classify each item as dry or wet. Do you already segregate these? Do we need more categories of bins?Red Dot Learn to place diapers and sanitary napkins into paper bags and mark these with a red dot so that waste collectors can safely deposit these for further processing.Experiment When will they degrade? Dig up a patch of soil about four to five inches deep and bury a banana peel, a piece of paper, a bit of plastic. Check on them after a couple of weeks and a couple of months. Wash before you bin Many people order food and dump the containers with leftover food right into the trash. It’s an invitation to flies, cockroaches, rats and ants. A little care to rinse out the food containers will help to keep your home more hygienic and improve the work conditions of those who have to handle the waste.Then we should have projects for the entire family and online workshops for each ward or neighbourhood. One, on how to set up a compost unit and another on how to set up a rooftop garden, where you can use the compost and also, keep your roof cool, and get some fresh veggies and herbs. How about a craft workshop to convert coconut fibre into kitchen scrubs, and coconut leaf fronds into brooms? Arrange a V-Collect Mela every few months to give away clothes, toys, electronics and household items you don’t need. Play SimCity in real life with a neighbourhood walk and a map to plan area-level waste management. The aim will be to place material recovery units, biochar units, and storage space for construction and demolition debris to be used when needed.Now is a good time to slow down and think these things and the materials in our lives. How would they continue their journey in the earth’s natural cycles once their productive life in our homes is done? When life was simple, we would classify waste as wet and dry, and be done with it. Dry waste included paper, plastic, metal, glass and wet waste, was just veggie peels and leftovers. For many years now, we use complex materials. Some packages lay aluminium and plastic to hold chips, while others pack paper and aluminium to hold liquids like milk or juice. Napkins and diapers are not made of cotton but layers of plastic with super absorbent polymer. Suitable solutions to manage complex wastes need some whole-of-system innovations, from producers to consumers to recyclers. We need to be smart with the materials we use and the systems we set up. Neighbourhood-scale, decentralised and humane methods of waste management that can function even during lockdowns. Collection of household waste should be done with non-polluting handcarts and wheelbarrows, avoiding trucks on diesel.We can start by working with the city and the Zilla Parishad to shift to Zero Waste. Each house or society should set up an individual or collective compost unit, keep dry waste clean and give to waste collectors for recycling; keep sanitary waste separate and mark it with a red dot; promote re-use of household items with V-Collects; and support safe working conditions and fair wages for waste collectors who help everyone lead a healthier life. Note: The ZP needs to strengthen the Covid Waste collection and management system too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-games-of-change-to-redefine-your-perspective-on-garbage-101621942693992.html
25-05-2021||Pune||Army recruitment paper leak: Pune court extends officer’s custody till May 28||A Pune court on Tuesday extended the police custody of the army officer arrested from Secunderabad, Telangana, in the army recruitment paper leak case. A total of 12 arrests have been made so far in the case since February 28 when the nationwide exam was supposed to be held at 40 centres with 30,000 aspirants.Lt Col Bhagat Preetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi’s remand has been extended till May 28. “He was presiding over the committee that was overseeing the exam procedure. He saw the paper, wrote the 50 questions by hand on a paper, and sent a photo of that to the earlier arrested person,” alleged public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal.Lt Col Bedi allegedly sent the questions to a storekeeper from Delhi Cantonment, Vira Prasad Kotiswamy Narnepati (41), who was arrested on May 15. Narnepati’s police custody remand was also extended till May 28 by the same court on Monday.A source close to the investigation said the two may have destroyed both their phones used for the transactions after the police raids. Also Read | 13 minors fined for playing cricket during lockdown in Pune“They have consented to an extended custody so there was no argument from our side. They are cooperating with the investigation,” said defence advocate Sudhir Shah.According to Laxman Borate, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, Narnepati allegedly received ₹700,000 for the questions, of which, he paid ₹300,000 to Bedi. “He paid ₹300,000 to the Lt Col for receiving the paper. But once police raids began and the exam was cancelled, he sent the remaining money back. All these transactions were in cash,” he said.The nationwide recruitment exam had to be cancelled hours before it was held.Two separate offences were registered, in Vishrantwadi police station, and Wanowrie police station respectively, under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code; Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Information Technology Act.So far, the arrest of one person in both the cases has confirmed a link between the two cases.The army and the police are jointly probing the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-recruitment-paper-leak-pune-court-extends-officer-s-custody-till-may-28-101621941550503.html
