26-05-2021||Pune||Lt Gen JS Nain asks station commanders to assist police in paper leak joint investigation||: Lieutenant General JS Nain, Army commander, Southern Command, has expressed support to a joint investigation between the police and the army in the paper leak case that has recently led to a Lieutenant Colonel-rank officer’s arrest. “Lt Gen JS Nain, Army commander, Southern Command has issued strict instructions to all the station commanders in the area of responsibility to assist in the ongoing investigations. He has instituted proactive measures to enable early completion of the investigations,” read a statement from the defence spokesperson. The statement also pointed out that the investigation began due to an initial tip-off by the sources inside the Indian Army about the leak of question paper for soldier recruitment entrance test that was to be held at 40 centres across the country for 30,000 aspirants on February 28. “Timely actions and wholehearted support by Army to the police is reflective of Army’s resolve to weed out mal practices and make the existing recruitment system fool proof and robust. The interest in the youth to join Armed forces needs no reiteration. The Army therefore continues to implement strict checks and balances to ensure a transparent recruitment process,” reads a part of the statement. In a statement in the early days of the investigation, the Army officials had stated a joint investigation in the paper leak. As it turned out later on in the investigation, the leak and sharing of paper before the exam was done by a wide-spread network. So far, the police have arrested 12 people in 2 cases - one each at Vishrantwadi and Wanowrie police station. Of the 12, nine are arrested in the Wanowrie case while three are arrested in the Vishrantwadi case. Among the arrested men are three serving Indian Army officers - one Lieutenant Colonel and two Majors. The ones arrested so far include Lt Col Bhagatpreetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi (44) from Secunderabad, Telanagana; Major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu (47); Major Vasant Vijay Kilari (45), Vira Prasad Kotiswamy Narnepati (41) from Delhi cantonemnt, Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) a resident of Sappers vihar colony in Pune; another accused called Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37) from Pachora, Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) a resident of BEG Center in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) a resident of BEG Khadki - all in Wanowrie case. The ones arrested in Vishrantwadi were identified as Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lalmohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lt-gen-js-nain-asks-station-commanders-to-assist-police-in-paper-leak-joint-investigation-101622049493961.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Two deers found dead near Chandani chowk||Two spotted deers were found dead at Chandani chowk on two separate days after both of them wandered their ways from the forest near the National Defence Academy (NDA) road. The first one was found on the evening of May24th, and the second deer was found dead on the morning of May 25th. “Both of them came together from the side of the NDA where the wall construction work is going on,” said Deepak Pawar, range forest officer from Pune Division. With many forests near Chandani Chowk, spotting a deer in this area is a common sight. “One died after a dog attack which was spotted on the sides of Warje flyover while another died due to being hit by a truck near NDA road,” said Pawar. The incident came to be known to forest officials after nearby residents spotted two deer carcasses at different spots. “In the recent past, such incidents have not been reported in this area. Generally, deers are spotted far in the forest from the highway,” added Pawar. Founder-president, RESQ charitable trust, and managing committee member of Pune district society for the prevention of cruelty to. animals Neha Panchamiya said, “Such cases happen because deers come out in the search of water during this season and they are attacked by stray dogs. This generally happens to deers which are in the city limit and not to all the ones who are residing in jungles. Most of the deers which come to our RESQ are suffering from injuries happened due to dog attacks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-deers-found-dead-near-chandani-chowk-101622047333806.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Pune railway police seize 279 African tortoises, 1,207 reptiles, 230 fish from two||The officials of the Pune unit of Government railway police (GRP) found hundreds of tortoises, iguanas, and fish of African origin from two men travelling on an express train on Tuesday. In three different duffle bags, the men were carrying 279 African spurred tortoise, 1,207 iguanas, and 230 beta fish, according to a statement issued by GRP. The duo was caught by the GRP team led by police inspector Maula Sayyed during a routine patrol of Chennai express on Tuesday. The two arrested men were identified as Tarunkumar Mohan (26), a resident of Lenin Nagar in Ambattur area of Chennai, Tamil Nadu, and Srinivas Kamal (20), a resident of Ikrai road in Kolathur area of Chennai, Tamil Nadu, according to the police. Both the arrested men delivered packaged fish for a living. The two have been handed over to the customs department officials for further investigation as they had no proof of having paid the custom fee for transport of the animals. “When they seized these animals, we were informed, and a team of forest officials went there. We realised immediately that these are not Indian origin animals. So, we did not think it was appropriate to book them under the Wildlife Protection Act,” said Rahul Patil, district forest officer, Pune. The tortoise species as well as iguana figure on the list of endangered species. They are used for ornamental and pet trade purpose in most circumstances, according to the forest official. The animals have been moved to the RESQ charitable trust facility in Chandani chowk area of Bavdhan. The police handed over the animals to the facility where they were counted. “The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list, which covers endangered animals, has at least two of these three animals which were found with them. The beta fish is not in the list. The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) Convention also mentions them,” said DFO Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-police-seize-279-african-tortoises-1-207-reptiles-230-fish-from-two-101622047093808.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Retired RTO official dies in road accident||A retired official of the Regional Transport Office (RTO) was killed in a road accident on Tuesday at noon after the bike she was riding pillion on slipped in Bopodi. The deceased woman was identified as Mangal Shankar Madne (59), a resident of Trimurti colony in Pimple Gurav area of Pune. She was riding pillion on a motorbike with her husband’s friend when the accident took place near the railway track passing through Bopodi around 11:55am on Tuesday. “They were going to the bank to submit some documents for her pension. He lost control after applying break due to some reason and it made the victim fall off the bike and directly on her head. She died of head injuries,” said police sub-inspector Sambhaji Tambe of Khadki police station. The accused was identified as Balu Ramchandra Karande (56) who has also sustained injuries. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Police Naik Pradeep Nyayneet of Khadki police station. A case under Sections 304(a), 279 of Indian Penal Code and Sections 184, 132(1)(c), and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/retired-rto-official-dies-in-road-accident-101622047033828.html
26-05-2021||Pune||38-year-old Hadapsar resident arrested from Goa hotel for cheating||The cyber sleuths of Pune police have arrested a Hadapsar-based person identified as Rajkumar Wani (38), originally a resident of Ahmednagar from a plush Goa hotel on charges of cheating a Vishrantwadi-based resident to the tune of ₹7.25 lakh. According to the police, the accused promised the victim that he would pay handsome commission on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds which he would transfer in his company account on the condition that he would share 50 per cent of that amount. The victim identified as Anil Mhaske (47) agreed to the deal and asked his friend who had a company account to deposit the money with Wani. The accused then prepared a bogus Demand Draft (DD) of ₹7 crore and showed it to him and said that he will deposit the same in the account for credit but did not do as promised. In the meantime, Mhaske had credited the amount in his account and thereafter Wani became evasive and avoided the victim, police said. Mhaske sensed something fishy and lodged a complaint with the cyber cell. Police inspector Dagadu Hake said that Wani showed as if he was a very big person and promised him the money through giving CSR funds. “The victim fell prey to his machinations and informed his friend about the account in which the money will come. Accordingly, they transferred ₹7.25 lakh to the accused. In the meantime, they got alerted due to his behaviour and a complaint was lodged. We are in search of two persons who were in the know of the entire thing and we are closing on the accused who had prepared a bogus DD to assist the accused in the crime. It seems that there are many other angles in the crime, and they will be unraveled soon. The accused has been remanded to seven days police custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/38yearold-hadapsar-resident-arrested-from-goa-hotel-for-cheating-101622046973735.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Husband booked after wife dies by suicide||A 24-year-old woman died by suicide within eight months of her wedding in Pune due to domestic abuse by her husband who taunted her for not knowing how to cook, according to the police. The man has, however, not yet been arrested. The two married on September 18, 2020, and the woman died by suicide in their house in Premnagar Vasahat of Market Yard on May 24 around 4:30pm, according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by her elder sister who also lives in Pune. The complainant told the police that her sister’s husband had started beating her up for reasons like not being able to cook meals and not taking care of his parents and their needs. Later on, the man also allegedly started beating her up and verbally abusing her for speaking to people from her own family on the phone for long hours, according to the police. In her final days, the man had allegedly started provoking her to kill herself to rid himself of her, according to the complaint. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 498(a) (domestic violence), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking beach of peace) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Market Yard police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/husband-booked-after-wife-dies-by-suicide-101622046613714.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: A tale of Pune’s other village deities; steeped in tradition alive today||Have you ever noticed the boards welcoming you, or bidding you farewell, as you travel in and out of a city, district or state? These boards often mark the political boundary of the city, district, state, or even nation. Our ancestors, however, were way more creative. They used cultural and religious markers to mark the spaces through certain etymologically derived names, cultural associations, and symbolisms unique and tailor-made for each kind of cultural landscape. What’s more, these were organically evolved, accepted and used by the community. These markers had multiple layered meanings and served a primary function of being cultural spots and also proved to be utilitarian by defining these spaces. Do you know the other two village tutelary deities of Pune, besides the Kasba Ganpati we talked about in the last column? If you visit the bustling streets of Appa Balwant chowk (aka Pune’s bookshop hub), tucked in a narrow lane at the corner is dainty little temple of Tambadi Jogeshwari Devi, the “gram-devi” of Pune.Jogeshwari Devi is considered a Shakti of Shiva, consort of Bhairava and a yogini, in the folk form. The particular name Tambdi (carmine coloured) Jogeshwari is derived from the slaying of the Tamrasur demon, a commander of the Mahishasura by goddess Jogeshwari, as per the Puranas. Pune, known for its whimsical names, also has shrines of “Kali (dark) Jogeshwari” and “Piwali (yellow) Jogeshwari”, established in later times.The Ambil odha (stream) was once the physical limit to Pune’s extent. This Jogeshwari, believed to be self-emanated and protective in nature, marked the boundary of the then Pune, established by Trimbak Bendre in 1545. Even today, the main gurav priesthood of the goddess belongs to Bendre family.The temple is a medieval temple built in 1750 in brick mortar and followed the standard plan of square garbhagriha (sanctum) and sabha mandapa. The entire complex was much larger once, but it was divided into half due to a road widening and one of the Deepamalas was removed. Thus, the other votive Deepmala of the temple survives on the other side of road. It is believed that the Deepamalas were erected when Jijabai and Shivaji started a new beginning for Pune through a symbolic ploughing of land with a golden plough. The main idol of Tambdi Jogeshwari was heavily covered in vermilion until recently, then it came off to reveal the original sculpture. The four-armed standing sculpture of Jogeshwari, with trishula (trident), skull (panpatra), and damru as attributes, symbolises a fierce form.During the freedom movement, Prabhat pheri - the morning marches - would commence from the temple of Jogeshwari. Marriage invitations are extended to Tambdi Jogeshwari regularly and devotees particularly flock o the temple during the Navratri Dasserah festival and Ganeshotsav. The third Gram devata of Pune, the most obscure and as old as other two, is Nava (new, ironically!) Kalbhairava in Kasba peth. There existed an older - Juna Kalbhairava temple near Kumbharwada, which was later demolished during the building of the Dhakta Sheikh Salla Dargah. Today, the management of the old Kalbhairav temple is with the Devarkar family.A very common explanatory myth employed to explain shifting or creation of new religious cult site applies here and relates to the Ladkat family, original settlers of Pune from the Mali area. A particular member from the Ladkat family used to visit the old Bhairoba at Kumbharwada from his residence at Janaicha Thal in Bhavani peth. As he grew older it proved difficult to continue this ritual. Hence, Bhairoba came to him in a dream and suggested that God will follow behind him and relocate somewhere near the Ladkat residence to make it easy for him. The only condition was that Ladkat should not look behind. Ladkat could not control his excitement and turned his back to check. The Bhairoba disappeared on the spot, near the Kasba peth boundary area. Ladkat then dug the area to find the idol of Kal Bhairav which was subsequently established and consecrated at the new spot - God and temple - Nava Kalbhiarav.. The management of the temple has continued to be with Ladkat family. The location of Navin Kalbhairav temple is quite strategic. It is placed near what once was the city wall. It is strategically placed at the crossroads of small lanes, full of old wadas and meandering lanes. The temple itself is renovated, but still bears the mark of old architecture in the domical garbhagriha with facets in corners. The chain hung in the garbhagriha is known to relieve people of chromic body aches and back pains. Though monuments undergo changes, traditions die hard. Pune exhibits its rural origins in the practice of Bagad, prevalent in eastern Maharashtra even today. Just outside the Kalbhairav temple is a tall wooden pole which is used to erect the “Bagad” and is under worship. “Bagad” is a traditional ritual in which devotees fulfil their vows to the local deity by whirling themselves on a wooden pole. Sometimes the devotees pierce and hang from hooks. This takes place sometime around the Rangpanchami festival or Chaitra poornima. A similar Bagad ritual takes place in the older village of Hinjewadi, the IT township on outskirts of Pune. Annually, on Chaitra poornima, the procession takes the palkhi of Bhairavnath to the Bolhai temple near the Zilla Parishad. Bolhai devi is the sister of Kalbhairavnath whom he pays annual visits to and offers gifts. Road widening has pushed the Jogeshwar temple aside and the Metro threatens the Nava Kalbhairav, but the village deities still continue to guard the interests of Pune’s inhabitants as they firmly stand on their humble grounds. Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-a-tale-of-pune-s-other-village-deities-steeped-in-tradition-alive-today-101622025913990.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Women volunteers ease burden at Pune crematorium ensuring last rites for Covid-19 victims||Preparing the pyre at a crematorium is not most people ever imagine having to do.With the number of deaths due to Covid-19 putting tremendous pressure on crematoriums in the city, a group of women ve volunteered to help all-men’s team with crematorium service.At the Vaikunth crematorium in Navi peth, 25 women from various professions, are on the job, so to speak, working in five-hour shifts basis, with five members in one batch.The job of these volunteer is to collect wood and dung cakes to prepare the pyre before the body arrives. After the body is cremated, the next day, the women are tasked with preparing the urns for the ashes and keeping it ready for the relatives. The women also keep the crematorium clean.“From mid-April to May 15 – there was heavy rush at the crematorium. Earlier, only men were doing this job and later, we also got a chance to provide this service,” said Vaishnavi Rathi, a 23-year old interior designer.Swaroop Vardhni and Seva Sahayog are the two NGOs through which women enrolled for this service.“It was overall a very different feeling when I started, as generally women don’t go to crematorium for the last rites. The worst part is, no one from the family, due to Covid, was allowed to attend the last rites, so we made sure we gave a respectful goodbye to departed souls,” added Rathi.Women also recite prayers for departed souls and perform all the rituals that a family member would normally do.“With constantly standing near the pyre, it was hard to work with PPE kits. We made sure we sanitised ourselves from head to toe before returning to our homes,” added Rathi.Anuprita Lele, another volunteer, said “Many married women also took part in this initiative and worked really hard to serve the society. With the body completely wrapped we could not understand to whom we are paying our last tributes. We just focused on doing things in an organised way.”With Covid death numbers now lower, the women’s service at the crematorium is currently on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/women-volunteers-ease-burden-at-crematorium-ensuring-last-rites-for-covid-19-victims-101621956190573.html
26-05-2021||Pune||Pune green enthusiast asks for used bicycle donations||Cyclist Anand Vanjape is on a mission to find an eco-friendly means of commuting, once the lockdown is lifted. In order to achieve his goal, Vanjape has been busy reaching out to cycling enthusiasts to donate used bicycles for the needy and the poor. “In four days, even since we announced this drive on social media, we have managed to get 35 bicycles, but the target is to get 200 bicycles by the time lockdown is lifted,” said Nilesh Shinde, cyclist and a friend who is helping Anand in getting these bicycles. These bicycles are not just going to help the students in Mulshi area where they have to travel 10 kms to their school, but these cycles will be means of commuting for many of the needy people in slums, first time job holders, maids and everyone who have to travel the distance to their work areas. “With the current Covid situation, these bicycles could be the best bet of a healthy way of travel instead of travelling on buses which is comparatively expensive,” said Vanjape, “Besides, it is also an eco-friendly and will help save the environment.” The group of volunteers, young people are helping them to reach out to those avid cyclists to donate their cycles. The mission has so far even got geared cycles which Vanjape and Shinde help repair in a workshop they have set up in Kothrud. “Many people cannot afford to buy bicycles and these cycles can serve dual purpose, one as a mode of transport and also a healthy way to keep fit,” said Vanjape. While collecting cycles for needy, Vanjape is also getting a lot of calls for children’s bicycles, which are also expensive, hence now they are also collecting children’s cycles which can be distributed free of cost and after the child is grown up can be recycled. “The idea is to create a culture of recycling bicycles, for every child goes through five bicycles in his life and if they can bring a joy on someone’s else’s face, why not come forward and donate one,” said Vanjape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cyclist-enthusiast-wants-to-build-cycle-culture-in-city-asks-for-bicycle-donations-101621955471187.html
26-05-2021||Pune||New species of bamboo found in north-western ghats, named after ecologist Madhav Gadgil||PUNE A new species of bamboo, named after Prof Madhav Gadgil, an eminent Indian ecologist with a particular affection for bamboos, has been made by researchers and biologists from Pune.This recent discovery of the new species, Pseudoxytenanthera madhavii, was made by Dr P Tetali, Dr Sujata Tetali, Sarang Bokil, EM Muralidharan, Dr Ritesh Kumar Choudhary and D. Mandar Datar.“The specimens were collected from the natural habitat in Shirkoli village in Pune district’s north-western ghats. Pseudoxytenanthera madhavii is a new species of bamboo, locally known as “Mes”, and traditionally utilised in the north-western ghats,” said Tetali, a senior researcher, who lead the team.“The new species Psudoxytenanthera madhavii has been known to locals for ages and was traditionally used for construction. However, this species was not yet known botanically, as both bamboos Mes and another common bamboo in the ghats known as Manga, were treated under one botanical identity Pseudoxytenanthera stocksii. Our proposal for giving this new name was published in the recent issue of New Zealand-based journal “Phytotaxa”,” added Tetali. This bamboo grows up to 30 to 55 feet and can can be grown in Velha, Bhor and Mulshi talukas. “Pseudoxytenanthera madhavii is wild in moist and dry deciduous forests and has been widely cultivated in Pune and Satara. Much of this bamboo is used in construction and for shelter. However, its demand for furniture and in the housing industry is increasing due to its smooth surface, mechanical strength, better slivering and stripe-making qualities. In addition, it takes good polish,” said Tetali. At present, there are 128 species of bamboo in India, most of which are restricted to Northeast India, with only four species found in Maharashtra. Who is Madhav Gadgil?A recipient of multiple awards Madhav Gadgil studied Zoology at the universities of Pune and Bombay, before becoming the first biology student at Harvard University to receive a PhD for a thesis based on mathematical modelling. Gadgil has been largely responsible for introducing careful quantitative investigations in ecology and animal behaviour as well as viewing humans as an integral component of ecosystems to India. He is the founder of the Centre for Ecological Sciences. He was a member of the Science Advisory Council to the Prime Minister of India from 1986 – 1990. He chaired NCERT’s panel on Environmental Education and is currently a member of the National Tiger Conservation Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-species-of-bamboo-found-in-north-western-ghats-named-ecologist-madhav-gadgil-101621955050600.html
