28-05-2021||Pune||Shridhar Dixit appointed chairman of Marathi encyclopedia committee||Shridhar (Raja) Dixit took charge as the seventh chairman of the Maharashtra Rajya Marathi Vishwakhosh (Encyclopedia) committee which many believe is a positive step to gain momentum and move forward.Dixit brings in a dearth of experience and is currently serving as an emeritus professor of the department of History, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). “I have been associated with the Vishwakosh for some years now and 20 volumes are completed so far as per the plan when it was launched by the former chief minister Yashwantrao Chavan. The work began under stalwart Tarktirth Lakshmanshastri Joshi followed by MP Rege and RG Jadhav for whom I have great respect, now it presents me with a great responsibility to develop and nurture the Vishwakosh,” said Dixit. “This work on the Vishwakosh might have reached its volumes but there is no full stop, it is a continuous process, for we are presently living in a world of knowledge explosion, globalisation and communication explosion,” added Dixit. According to Dixit, in the present-day context, there are many socially deprived groups and hence it is necessary to have democratization of knowledge, and encyclopedia or Vishwakosh is one of the means. “This acceleration of the process is socially relevant and strong academic work which needs to be highlighted,” he added. He also stressed upon the importance of language and the unity in diversity of the many languages spoken in the country, which leads to enhancement of any language, by strengthening the power of language and adding to the vocabulary and terminology using English language and coining new terms in Marathi. Dixit believes in using technology for making the encyclopedia easily accessible and that is a major challenge that he has accepted as the chairman. Hemant Rajopadhye, member of the Marathi Vishwakosh committee said, “His academic background when he revived editor, Navbharat (intellectual journal), PrajnaPathashala, and his skills, experience and networking will certainly help the project and take it further.” Besides Dixit as the chairman for the Vishwakosh, he has 31 members to help him in his project. Sadanand More, was also appointed as the chairman of the state board of literature and culture which will help in the proposal to restructure the Maharashtra state board of literature and culture and also help in clearing the backlog of new works which was stuck due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shridhar-dixit-appointed-chairman-of-marathi-encyclopedia-committee-101622218883212.html
28-05-2021||Pune||State water resource department agrees to lease canal land to PMC||The Maharashtra water resource department has given a green signal to lease the land of the Khadakwasla left canal to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to ease the traffic problem of the proposed village of Kondhawe-Dhawade, Shivane, Uttamnagar. At present, the PMC is using 20 kilometres of canal land and paying rent to the Khadakwasla irrigation division. Now, the PMC will get another 7 kilometres of canal land for developing roads to connect nearby villages. On Wednesday, Maharashtra state water resource Minister Jayant Patil gave instructions to the Khadakwasla irrigation division to hand over land to the PMC on rent. After that, the PMC land and estate management department has written a letter to the Khadakwasla division to make an agreement of rent and start a procedure to hand over the land to PMC. Rajendra Muthe, deputy commissioner of land and estate management said, “We have written a letter to the Khadakwasla irrigation division as per the demand of Member of Parliament (MP) Supriya Sule to hand over the land for roads. After getting the official order of decision, we will start the procedure of agreement.” The left-bank canal passes through Kondwe-Dhavade, Shivane NDA gate road, Paud, Karve road, Kothrud, Shivajinagar and goes up to Agricultural College. It is a 27 kilometre long canal. However, this canal is not functioning at all and there is no water in this canal. Area under this canal has been developed as a road and it is found that this road provided access in the adjoining lands. Of the total 27 kilometres of road, the PMC is paying rent of 20 kilometres of road (canal) to the irrigation division. The canal road under the existing PMC limit has been developed and used to connect main roads such as Paud road, Karve road. Road will help proposed merger Now, the state government has proposed to merge 23 new villages in the PMC limit and Kondwe-Dhavade, Shivane are one of the villages. The left canal is passing through these villages. Therefore, Sule was pursuing the issue of the canal land to be handed over to the PMC to develop roads which will help develop alternate roads to connect these villages as population has increased and existing roads are not enough to cater traffic flow in this area. Sachin Dodke, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator said, “At present, there is only one road to connect PMC old limits to Kondwe-dhawade, Shivane area. It is part of the old PMC limit and PMC is giving rent to Khadakwasla irrigation division for using the canal road for movement. The population has increased in Kondwe-Dhawade, Shivane and Uttamnagar area. Therefore, there is a lot of pressure on existing roads which are under the jurisdiction of the old PMC limit. Now, the PMC limit will extend after the merger of villages, so we demanded to give the canal road which is not part of the PMC limit. The PMC has allocated ₹3 crore to develop the road. I explained the importance of the roads to MP Supriya Sule. After that, she pursued the issue and we got permission from water resource minister Jayant Patil.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-water-resource-department-agrees-to-lease-canal-land-to-pmc-101622218583168.html
28-05-2021||Pune||PMPML to start courier services in Pune||In a bid to overcome the financial losses which the organisation is facing, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has now decided to start its goods transportation and courier services. Earlier, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) had started this service within the state to generate revenue during the last year’s lockdown and it is continuing. Currently, due to the state-wide lockdown, very few PMPML buses are running and that too only for the emergency services people. The daily income which had reached up to almost ₹1 crore has now come down to hardly ₹1 lakh. “We are having a huge loss of revenue from last 1.5 years and it has impacted our daily operations. So last year in the month of August we started to work out on a plan to convert some of our buses into courier service buses which we are starting soon now. We are going to collaborate with a private courier company for the same and the entire necessary infrastructure is going to be provided by the company and we will be handling driver’s salary, maintenance of buses and fuel expenses. At 13 of our depots the storage of goods will be done and at some of the bus stations too. From here the company workers will pick up the parcels and deliver it to the final destination,” said PMPML chairman and managing director (CMD) Rajendra Jagtap. Prior to the lockdown the daily average income of PMPML was around ₹1.5 crore which has drastically come down to ₹1 to 1.5 to lakh per day. The earlier ridership was around 11 lakh passengers daily with a fleet of more than 2,000 buses on road. Currently, only around 100 buses are running for essential services people in both the cities. “We have already converted some of our buses into this courier service bus for trials, in which the seats are being removed and at the back side shutter are installed. And we are also looking at the legal technicalities before starting this cargo service. These buses are being passed by the RTO as passenger service buses and now we will be doing courier service out of it. So, what legal things need to be fulfilled for it and what all changes are required which our officials are working on. We are never into luggage carrying or courier service till now and it will be the first time PMPML will be starting such service in the city. If all things go well, we will start the service for the city soon.” added Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-start-courier-services-in-pune-101622218523232.html
28-05-2021||Pune||Swargate police arrest duo for assaulting couple||The Swargate police have arrested Javed Rahman Khan (34) and Arbaz Afzal Pathan (23), both residents of Kasewadi in Bhavani peth on charges of physically assaulting a husband and passing lewd comments at his wife who were scheduled to take a bus to Mumbai at 6am on Thursday near Swargate bus stand. The duo was arrested based on CCTV footage and are currently in police custody. assistant police inspector Shabnam Shaikh investigating officer in the case said that duo accosted the couple near hotel Natraj where they were taking a bus to Naigaon Mumbai for a marriage related function. The duo came there and passed comments against the woman and when objected assaulted the husband and smashed his head with a stone due to which he sustained injuries. Later, they fled from the spot after molesting the woman. API Shaikh said, “Based on the CCTV footage, we tracked the culprits and arrested them. They are criminals on record and are known to have committed similar type of offences during earlier too. The couple was travelling to Mumbai and an argument broke out between them when the accused passed comments against his wife. They forcibly robbed him of his mobile phone estimated to be worth ₹15,000.” Pankaj Kasbe (26), a resident of Mhasoba Chowk in Dattawadi, a photographer by profession lodged a complaint in this regard. The duo has been booked under IPC 394 (voluntary causing hurt while committing in robbery) 504 (intentional insult or provocation) and 34 (Common intention).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/swargate-police-arrest-duo-for-assaulting-couple-101622218403166.html
28-05-2021||Pune||IPL player Rahul Tripathi fined in Pune for not wearing a mask||As a part of punitive action being taken against those travelling on city roads without a mask, the city police fined cricketer and IPL player for the Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) franchise Rahul Tripathi for not wearing a mask. He was travelling in a car in Pune on Friday afternoon and was stopped at the police check-post near Khadi machine chowk on Friday. Police sub-inspector Santosh Sonawane attached to Kondhwa police station said, “At the said checkpoint we saw a man in a four-wheeler without a mask. When we stopped him, he told us that he was a well-known personality. We told him that he had violated the rules and had to pay a fine to which he agreed and paid ₹500 and went away.” The city police recently took action against the son of a former home minister and an offence was lodged against him for operating a hotel business in violation of Covid -19 restrictions. 31-year-old Tripathi is the son of an army colonel who took up cricket as his passion when his father who is a former state junior cricketer for Uttar Pradesh was posted in Pune. Tripathi enrolled at the Deccan Gymkhana and completed his studies simultaneously. He was first selected for the Maharashtra senior team in 2010, when he made his one-day debut in the world of cricket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ipl-player-rahul-tripathi-fined-in-pune-for-not-wearing-a-mask-101622217983193.html
28-05-2021||Pune||BJP corporator arrested for forgery||The PCMC police have arrested BJP corporator Rajendra Landge (42) for illegally selling a 940-square feet plot owned by Pimpri-Chinchwad new township development authority to two persons for of ₹15.80 lakh. A complaint was lodged by PCNTDA engineer S M Bhujbal (37). According to the FIR, Landge sold the property to Manoj Mahendra Sharma (38), and Ravikant Surendra Thakur (40), despite knowing that it was government land. According to the investigative officers, the accused prepared bogus papers and bogus property receipts, along with ownership documents and got the copies notarised. The Bhosari police have invoked IPC sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any [document or electronic record), 465 ( forgery ), 447 (criminal for criminal trespass ) , 448 ( punishment for house trespass ) and 34 (common intention). Police inspector (crime) Jitendra Kadam said that Landge prepared a bogus power of attorney, consent letter and other incriminating documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-corporator-arrested-for-forgery-101622217803077.html
28-05-2021||Pune||Two held for physical assault of neighbours in Pune||Pune: The Wanowrie police have arrested two persons and booked three others for attacking their neighbours with bricks and injuring them in Tarawade vasti on Wednesday. According to the police, the accused family picked up a fight with Khandu Bhandare, who is a habitual drunkard. When Khandu’s father, Laxman Bhandare, intervened, they verbally abused the duo. Later, they attacked Khandu and his youngest son Sachin with sharp weapons. While the victims who had sustained head injuries reached Mohammadwadi police chowki to lodge an FIR, the accused attacked their house by throwing bricks. The arrested accused have been identified as Nilesh Edke (25) and Milind Edke (38), while three of their family members are at large. The police have booked them under IPC 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon) ,149 (unlawful assembly with common intention),324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional provocation), 336 (act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others), Arms Act well as sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and National Disaster Management Act. Sub-inspector and investigative officer Sandeep Varpade said that the absconding accused will be nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-held-for-physical-assault-of-neighbours-in-pune-101622213782803.html
28-05-2021||Pune||Covid-19 impact: Survival pandemic infects working class||The pandemic and Covid-related restrictions have been hard on everyone. Many have lost their jobs, while others have to face challenges every day to make ends meet. The daily wage workers, small roadside vendors, workers at non-essential shops among others have been hit hard as the non-essential shops have been closed for more than one month. On Thursday, HT spoke to a few people about their struggle for survival.“We have to skip meals...give me a job”Laxman Dahibhate, a 48-year-old contract worker, who resides near Dandekar bridge used to work at a clothing shop, but is jobless for the last two months. His daily routine includes a visit to the ‘Kamgar adda chowk’ or labour pick-up point near Dandekar bridge in a hope that he will get some work and he can earn bread and butter for his family.“Every day, I come here in search of some work, but at the end of the day, I am disappointed. Back at home, my wife and son wait for me to return home, and hope I get groceries and vegetables so that food is cooked. Sometimes we can have our two-time meals, but most of the days we have to skip our dinner as there is nothing to eat in the house,” said Laxman.He stays along with his family in the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) scheme buildings near the Dandekar bridge.“Just like me, there are hundreds of other labourers and some of my friends who come daily in search of work and go away without anything. This pandemic has made our lives hell and I hope that the lockdown ends soon and I get some work so that I can earn for my family,” he said.“Business has suffered, every day we have to look for an alternate source of income”Sindhu Tukaram Belsare (65), involved in the business of making clay pots and Ganpati idols in Navi peth, said, “There is hardly any business left to do, we are a family of five people. My son, his wife and two children. He (her son) lost his job due to the lockdown and in search of a new job for the last three months”“Amid the restrictions, the business has suffered and we have to face challenges daily,” said Belsare, whose husband passed away a few years back.Recalling her last 1.5 years of experience, Belsare said, “Last year we bought a large number of Ganpati idols in big size, but suddenly government ordered to have small idols and to immerse them at home. So our idol stock is lying unused and we had to face a major loss. There is no income source left and day after day we have to look for alternate sources to earn money.”“I am not able to pay school fees of my children”Prakash Karangle (45), who sells and repairs footwear near Shanipar Chowk, is a father of three daughters and his wife is a patient with brain disease. “It has become extremely difficult for me and my family to survive because of the lockdown. There were days when we don’t have anything to cook and eat in the house.”“Our savings have been used up in this period of lockdown. I was not able to pay the school fees of my two daughters and the school administration has told me to pay it immediately or else her name will be removed from the school,” he said.“Last week, I borrowed ₹2,000 from a friend and then bought groceries, vegetables and other necessary things for my family. Today (on Thursday) since morning I earned only ₹30. How should we survive?” he said.“I am struggling to pay house rent, bills”Aslam Shaikh (41), who originally hails from Uttar Pradesh, works at a saloon in Shukrwar peth for the last ten years. “Our shop is closed since the lockdown started but our regular customers call us for service. If possible we go to their home and provide service. We are waiting for the lockdown the end and the business to resume.”“As I was not able to pay the fees of my son, we decided to remove his name from the school. Also, we shifted from our earlier home which rent was high and now into a one-room kitchen. We have not paid the house rent for two months, even the shop rent and electricity bill payment is pending,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-impact-survival-pandemic-infects-working-class-101622199322585.html
28-05-2021||Pune||Passengers arriving on private buses in Pune to undergo thermal screening||PUNE Passengers arriving on private buses in the city will undergo a thermal screening, as per a decision taken by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday. Currently, there are no clear guidelines on these passengers and since no e-pass is required to travel on these buses, the rush for tickets has increased in the last one month. Given that Covid numbers are plateauing in the city now, the PMC does not want to take a risk, hence the thermal screening.“Passengers coming from outside the state need to submit an RT-PCR negative report, but for passengers within the state there is no such compulsion. A large number of passengers travel by these private tourist buses within the state, and there is no checking done. When these passengers come to Pune they directly get involved in their day-to-day work, and if there is anyone Covid positive with no symptoms, it will lead to a spread of the infection. It has been decided that thermal screening of all such passengers on private tourist buses will be dne,” said Kumar. In Pune, at the four main exit roads of the city, viz Ahmednagar road, Hadapsar, Solapur road and Katraj, there has been rush of passengers to board these private buses. Welcoming this decision of the PMC, Shantaram Kenjale, a regular inter-district traveller, said, “It is risky to travel by private buses and during lockdown an as e-pass is not required. When thermal checking is done, at least there will be some monitoring of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. It will certainly reduce the spread of the infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/passengers-arriving-on-private-buses-to-undergo-thermal-screening-101622127659211.html
28-05-2021||Pune||As price of petrol nears Rs100/litre, middle-class Punekars bear burden of budgets going awry||PUNE Hiked by 0.27 paise on Thursday, the price of a litre of petrol inched closer to the ₹100-mark, hitting ₹99.62 in Pune, according to the price notifications of state-owned fuel retailers. Diesel crossed the ₹90 mark and was at ₹90.15 per litre in the city on Thursday. This is the 14th time fuel prices have risen this month. Fuel prices started to rise from May 4, when petrol was at ₹96.62 per litre and diesel was at ₹86.32 per litre. The petrol price crossed ₹100/litre in Mumbai on Thursday. Currently, due to Covid curbs, daily traffic is comparatively much less, but those who do not have the option to work from home and need to step out for their livelihoods are facing soaring fuel prices. Chetan Kharote, who used to drive for Ola and Uber in the city, has stopped running his car. Kharote said that with soaring fuel prices and reducing profit margins, it is more affordable for him to not drive in the current situation. “I have been in this business since 2014 and bought my own diesel car in 2018. At that time, the diesel price was in the range of ₹60 per litre. Now I have stopped business. Because of curbs there are fewer passengers and the diesel price has been soaring, so the profit margin has reduced. It is better to keep the car standing rather than put in my own money to operate. It’s a tricky situation,” said Kharote. “I bought my car for ₹6.5 lakh on a loan. I still need to pay that money back. I am working part-time driving other people’s vehicles if they need to go somewhere, charging only for driving. Currently it is not viable for me to take my own car. We cannot even increase the fares,” he added. Vivek Kondhalkar, a civil engineer with a private construction firm in the city, has to visit construction sites. “I have to travel 30-40 km per day to visit the sites. Even if we are not working we have to use the vehicle for personal work. A substantial amount of my salary is going to fill fuel. From ₹60 per litre, petrol now has reached ₹100. If fuel prices increase, it impacts everything, from the price of vegetables and milk to groceries. It is an increasing burden,” said Kondhalkar, who lives in Ambegaon Budruk. Husaina Sheikh, who works as a helper in a private hospital in Hadapsar, is finding it difficult to manage her monthly expenses. “I am the sole earning member in my family. Because of the lockdown my husband and sons are unemployed right now. The hospital I work in is five 5 kilometers away from my home. My son drops me on his bike. I earn Rs7,000 per month. How should we manage expenses when the cost of petrol is increasing. If I fill ₹100 worth of petrol, it lasts hardly for two days,” said Sheikh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-price-of-petrol-nears-rs100-litre-middle-class-folk-bear-burden-of-budgets-going-awry-101622125258969.html
28-05-2021||Pune||21-year-old sarpanch keeps his Solapur village Covid free||It was a difficult task for Ruturaj Deshmukh and his team to overcome the recent increasing number of Covid cases in their village, but through their tireless efforts, Ghatane village is now Covid free. 21-year-old Deshmukh is sarpanch of Ghatane village in Mohol taluka, Solapur.“Since the Covid pandemic started last year, there was not a single case in our village. This year, in March, the first case of Covid was found in our village and suddenly the entire picture changed,” Deshmukh said.The village of 5,000 residents had 100 confirmed Covid cases in April. “People started fearing going out and most of them shifted to other villages. We decided to run a drive called, “Be positive and keep our village Covid negative”, to which we got a good response from villagers,” said Deshmukh .Deshmukh completed his Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry from the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) last year. “The five major things which we did to reduce Covid cases in the village were rapid antigen tests of all coming to the village from cities engaged in various types of trade. We encouraged people above the age of 45 to get vaccinated. Our Grampanchayat workers and volunteers went to each house to check oxygen levels and body temperature. Each family was given a Covid safety kit with a sanitiser, face masks, vitamin capsules and soaps. Also people coming from outside were strictly told to be in quarantine for at least three day. Our village became Covid free within a month,” says Deshmukh .Appreciating the work of Deshmukh as a young sarpanch, villager Devika Parvati Mali said, “As the cases were increasing in the village, Ruturaj and other members of the Grampanchayat really took efforts to stop the spread of infection. This pattern is appreciated and other villages can also learn from it.”Villager Mangal Deshmukh said, “There was a mental support for our family, when volunteers and the sarpanch would come to our house and do checking. Earlier, we used to feel unsafe as Covid cases were increasing, but now as our village is Covid free, it is a safer place to live.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/21yearold-sarpanch-former-sppu-student-keeps-his-village-covid-free-101622040913482.html
