29-05-2021||Pune||19 arrested for gambling in Market Yard area||The Pune city police arrested 19 people during a raid on a gambling den in the Market Yard area of Saturday morning. The police sensed the presence of 15-20 people who later said that they were there on invitation of a man named Harshal Parekh. However, under the guise of bringing food for the men gathered for gambling, Parekh locked them inside the house, according to a statement issued by Market yard police station. The police staff was on hold until Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-5 granted permission to break open the padlock on the door and free the men before arresting them. The arrested people were identified as Bhushan Satish Runwal (39) a resident of Gokulnagar, Katraj-Kondhwa Road; Chetan Satish Rajput (32) a resident of Shukravar Peth; Vasant Parab (58) a resident of Vidyasagar colony of Market Yard; Dawood Shabuddin Dlavi (36) a resident of Mahadevnagar in Pune; Balaji Bhagwat Dongre (39) a resident of Gokulnagar in Katraj--Kondhwa Road; Surah Jagannath Paasi (41) a resident of Shantinagar in YErawada; Ravindra Babu Jadhav (39) a resident of Gultekdi area of Hadapsar, Pune; Vaibhav Ashok Mantri (48) a resident of of Budhwar Peth; Abinash Krushna Jadhav (59) a resident of Ghorpadi Peth; PRasad Shankar Shetty (48) a resident of of Pradhikaran, Nigdi; Rakesh Arun Kondhare (40) a resident of Sainagar in Kondhwa; Javed Mohammad Shaikh (45) a resident of Katraj gaon; Vishal Jalinder NArsale (26) a resident of Bibwewadi; Bhanudas Pandhurang Survase (44) a resident of of Boravkar nagar in Hadapsar; Sachin Shivaji Jadhav (24) a resident of Bhosari; Rajendra Swaminath Hanchate (40) a resident of Dhankawadi; Akash Sunil Kandare (29) a resident of Tadiwala road area; Nitin Ranjeet Shinde (29) a resident of Fursungi area, according to the police. The police have recovered ₹53,900 and four motorbikes from the spot, according to the police statement. A case under Sections 4 and 5 of Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act’ Section 342, 188, and 269 of Indian Penal Code; Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act and Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Regulation, 2020 was registered at the Market Yard police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/19-arrested-for-gambling-in-market-yard-area-101622307452169.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Shivajinagar reports 24mm rain, Lohegaon records 36.6mm : IMD||Shivajinagar on Saturday reported 24 millimetre rainfall and Lohegaon reported 36.6 mm rainfall. It was the second highest rainfall in 24 hours since 2010, the highest was in 2015 at 102.8 mm rainfall as per IMD.on Saturday.The maximum day temperature of 35.3 degrees Celsius and 24.2 degrees Celsius at night. Meteorologists now believe that Maharashtra may witness the onset of monsoon by mid-June. Pune until May 31 will experience light rainfall and cloudy skies towards the afternoon, said IMD officials. They added that since this is a pre-monsoon shower, rainfall will be accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning. As the monsoon onset is likely in Kerala on May 31, the wait for monsoon over Maharashtra is likely to continue till mid-June, said a meteorologist from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). As per the IMD, first stage Long Range Forecast (LRF), the onset of Southwest Monsoon is likely on May 31. Conditions for further advancement of Monsoon are favourable. OP Sreejith, scientist and head, Climate Monitoring and Prediction Group (CMPG) at IMD Pune said as of now the monsoon progress is as per predictions made by the IMD. “In the first week of June, there are chances of cyclogenesis which will help the southwest monsoon advance. Previous cyclones did not affect the monsoon flow. Now the circulation will be stronger. In the next few days, there will be a cyclonic circulation over the southern hemisphere. So the monsoon may not be active these days. After this monsoon will regain strength,” said Sreejith. He said that the side over Bay of Bengal will strengthen in the first week of June, helping the monsoon advance. “Models are showing another cyclone circulation is likely over Bay of Bengal which will help the monsoon advance. At present, the IMD has forecasted the onset of monsoon until May 31 over Kerala. For Maharashtra, the onset is likely till Mid-June. The second LRF will be issued soon by IMD giving details about the rainfall scenario in June,” said Sreejith. He added that at present the depth of westerly has increased. So conditions are favourable for the monsoon advancement. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that Arabian Sea side of the monsoon is likely to get active. “The Arabian Sea in the next few days will be favourable for the onset of monsoon over Kerala,” said Kashyapi. Rainfall for the next few days Kashyapi said that there is no strong active system seen over the state. “But due to moderately strong westerly winds all four subdivisions of Maharashtra will experience isolated rainfall. Many parts of the state will be partly cloudy and chances of light to very light rain are likely,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shivajinagar-reports-24mm-rain-lohegaon-records-36-6mm-imd-101622307272263.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Mandai metro station work to begin after PMC clears encroachments||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) removed 63 commercial establishments from the Mandai area and cleared the roadblock of the Pune metro project. For the last two years, the Maharashtra Metrorailway Corporation Company Limited (MahaMetro) was pursuing the issue with the authorities to clear the encroached area reserved for the Mandai metro station. Madhav Jagtap, head of anti-encroachment department of the PMC said, “It was a pending issue due to relocation of commercial establishments. The civic body completed the relocation process, and the PMC gave an alternative land to people to rehabilitate them. We started action in the morning at 7.00 and completed in the evening at 6.00. We cleared the structure spread over almost 5,000 square feet of area. The underground stretch between Agriculture College and Swargate is part of the 16-kilometre Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate corridor. There are five underground stations and Mandai is one of them. Mandai underground station was pending for want of land which was occupied by commercial establishments such as shops of different food items. The MahaMetro plans to sink vertical shafts to extract the tunnel boring machines that are excavating the underground tunnels for the Metro rail. Atul Gadgil, MahaMetro said, “We were waiting to want this piece of land for Mandai underground station. Finally, we got the land. Now, we will clear the debris and start work as early as possible. We have already been together for two years. The Mandai is the only underground station site where work has not started yet due to relocation issues of the commercial establishment.” He further said, “The land is important as it is the entry point of the station. We will construct two shifts which will be used for entry and exit points of the station. The PMC has done good work.” Till date, the Mahametro has completed pre-tunnelling work such as shifting utilities and drainage lines in this area. The MahaMetro has already begun the work at the Shivajinagar, Civil court, Kasba peth and Swargate underground stations and it has achieved 30 per cent completion so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mandai-metro-station-work-to-begin-after-pmc-clears-encroachments-101622307092234.html
29-05-2021||Pune||90.65 students in Class nine have passed in 2019-2020: SCERT||A total of 90.65 percent Class nine students have passed in Pune district in the 2019-2020 academic year, according to the data submitted at the Systematic Administrative Reforms for Achieving Learning by Student (SARAL) portal. Overall, 94.69 percent students have passed in this academic year in Maharashtra. On Friday, the state government announced the evaluation criteria for the state board students of Class 10, the examinations of which have been cancelled this year due to the pandemic. Marks will be given on the basis of the internal assessment of the performance of students this year and that of Class nine. Speaking about the evaluation, Vikas Garad, deputy director, Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) said that the results of students of Class nine are available. “There are 94.69 percent students from 9th standard who were promoted to Class 10 in the state. The total number of students who have passed class nine were 18,31,344 and those who failed were 24,107. The students who failed were 1.25 per cent. This part of evaluation is ready with the schools,” said Garad. Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association said that the decision by the state is welcome. “Class nine results are ready with the schools. Now, the schools have to focus on class 10 assessment of the students. Of the 50 marks for Class 10, 30 will be based on tests that the schools have conducted and 20 will be for internal assessment for Class 10. Schools have already started the preparation for the same,” said Gaikwad. Varsha Gaikwad, state school education minister, on Friday said that all students who were to appear for Class 10 exams will be promoted and marks will be given on the basis of the internal assessment of their performance this year and that of Class nine. Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Apte Prashala said that there are few students in each class who may not be a part of the assessment.“Some students who went to their village or could not participate in projects due to network issues are who may not have been evaluated. Teachers would have to follow up thoroughly with these students. Otherwise, the result can be prepared easily. Some schools like ours have already conducted an examination so preparing the results will be easier,” said Sinnarkar.Box District wise Class nine result for 2019-2020 Pune district Pass percent - 90.65 Failed percent-- 2.48 Not entered-- 6.87 Maharashtra Pass percent--94.69 Failed percent-- 1.25 Not entered--4.07 Source: SCERT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/9065-students-in-class-nine-have-passed-in-2019-2020-scert-101622306792112.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Man booked for driving fiancée to suicide||A man and five others were booked for driving his betrothed to suicide by delaying the wedding, according to the Pune city police. The deceased was identified as a 23-year-old girl who lived in a paying guest facility in Kharadi area of Pune. The family members of the girl are natives of Madhya Pradesh. The girl had studied until Class 12 and worked as a receptionist in Pune. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the 48-year-old father of the girl. “The complainant has said that it had been more than a year since their engagement. However, he says, when he asked the boy’s family why they were not agreeing to a wedding date, they told him that the girl’s horoscope had issues in it,” said police sub-inspector SM Kale of Chandan nagar police station who is investigating the case. The father has claimed in his complaint that the matter that the two were together for the past five years and had recently been engaged in a high-end restaurant in Wagholi. However, on insistence of the others booked in the case, the accused man was refusing to go ahead with the wedding, according to the complaint. “We are looking for the six people. We do not have much information by the way of their social background yet,” said PSI Kale. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chandan nagar police station against the six.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-booked-for-driving-fianc-e-to-suicide-101622306672123.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Naval chief asks NDA cadets to carry forward jointmanship||The chief of naval staff admiral Karambir Singh on Saturday emphasised the importance of professional knowledge, honesty, integrity and intellectual curiosity among cadets while in service. Speaking after reviewing the Passing out Parade (POP) at National Defence Academy at Khadakwasla, admiral Singh urged the passing out cadets to carry forward the spirit of jointmanship which is the need of the hour as the nature of warfare continues to evolve in the land, air, sea, space and cyber domains. “The nature of war is changing and it is important to engage the adversary in all domains - land, sea and air, space and cyber and this is for this reason, the jointness among three services is far more important now than in the past. The armed forces are seeing landmark defence reforms with the establishment of department of military affairs, institution of chief of defence staff and soon to-be-formed theatre command,” said admiral Singh The ceremonial Passing out Parade (POP) of 140th Course of NDA was conducted at Khetarpal parade ground on Saturday. The conduct of the parade was modified to ensure adherence of Covid-19 protocols. The reviewing officer conveyed his appreciation to all cadets on parade for their impeccable turnout and smart drill. He also congratulated all the cadets of passing out course, medal winners and the champion squadron. He expressed that NDA is a unique military academy and attracts the best youth from across the nation and friendly foreign countries. A total of 696 cadets participated in the parade of which 311 cadets were from the 140th course. The passing out course comprised 215 Army cadets, 44 naval cadets and 52 Air force cadets including 18 cadets from friendly foreign countries (Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Vietnam, Maldives, Bhutan, Tanzania, Turkmenistan, Fiji, Tajikistan and Myanmar). Unfortunately, the parents of the passing out cadets could not be invited due to the unprecedented situations posed by Covid-19 and travel restrictions imposed across the nation. While the passing out cadets will be moved from NDA to their respective pre-commissioning training academies, the junior courses will resume their training of ensuing terms on June 7, 2021. The awardees during the parade include battalion cadet adjutant Mausam Vats winning the president’s gold medal for standing first in the overall order of merit, divisional cadet captain Jaywant Tamrakar winning the president’s silver medal for standing second in the overall order of merit and battalion cadet captain Niraj Singh Papola winning the president’s bronze medal for standing third in the overall order of merit. Golf squadron bagged the prestigious ‘chiefs of staff banner’, for being the champion squadron of the spring term 2021. Earlier on Friday during the convocation ceremony at NDA, admiral Singh decided to push the envelope a little further when he did push-ups with cadets. The pictures of the navy chief doing push-ups with cadets soon went viral on social media, wowing netizens. “It was the CNS who initiated the push-ups with cadets and we all joined in,” said NDA commandant Lt Gen Asit Mistry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/naval-chief-asks-nda-cadets-to-carry-forward-jointmanship-101622306552180.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Hospital staffer among two booked for robbing dead Covid-19 patients||Two people - a woman working at a hospital in Baner, and her friend - were arrested by the Pune police for stealing valuable belongings from as many as eight dead Covid-19 patients and their relatives. The two arrested were identified as Anil Tukaram Sangme (35) a resident of Ganganagar in Rahatnigaon and Sharada Ashok Ambildhage (36) a resident of Rahatni. The woman worked as an aya in the hospital and Sangme is her friend and a bouncer by profession who helped her with the crime, according to the police. “They are in police custody until June 1. The admin started receiving complaints and so, they checked the CCTV footage and found her picking valuables from the bodies. We have been able to recover only 3-gram gold so far. Rest we are working on,” said assistant police inspector Rajesh Malegave of Chaturshringi police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the administration worker at the hospital identified as Ajayshree Maskar (25), a resident of Baner. After their arrest, the police have recovered gold jewellery and mobile phones worth ₹1, 34,000 from the duo, according to the police. A case under Sections 381 and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chaturshringi police station. The world is suffering from the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the ripple effects of the pandemic are felt in smaller parts of the world through acts of crime that only add to the feeling of loss felt by those who lose loved ones to the virus. In May, the Pimpri-Chinchwad police have received at least five complaints of theft at the jumbo Covid centre in Pimpri. In one case, Pravind Ambadas Sutar (48), a resident of Bhosari, lost his gold ornaments worth ₹21,400 while he was undergoing treatment in the Covid hospital in April. In another case, Mahendra Phanse (51), a resident of Dhanori area of Pune, ldoged a complaint after his father-in-law succumbed to the virus at the facility on April 9. However, his belongings, including ID cards and ₹10,000 cash, were never returned to him. The mother of Ranvir Thakur (31), a resident of Bibwewadi, Pune, died under treatment at the jumbo facility in Pimpri in the first week of May. However, the gold and silver ornaments on her person were never returned to him. The series of thefts started getting reported after two complaints were lodged within a day. Among the two complaints, one was of Vaishnavi Jyotiba Khule (20), a resident of Pimple Nilakh, lost her uncle to the virus on May 1. His phone was never returned to the family. The second complaint was of Sagar Diwakar Gujar (35), a resident of Bopkhle, who lost his mother on April 19. However, her gold and silver ornaments worth more than ₹40,000 were never returned to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospital-staffer-among-two-booked-for-robbing-dead-covid-19-patients-101622306372124.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Army paper leak case: Lt. Col. sent to judicial custody in Yerawada jail||The lieutenant colonel-rank officer, who was arrested in the case of paper leak, was sent to Yerawada central jail on magisterial custody after his police custody ended on Friday. The police are now on a lookout for two other people in the case who paid a major chunk of the money that exchanged hands before and after the raid. The arrested officer lieutenant colonel Bhagatpreetsingh Sartajsingh Bedi (44) has, therefore, joined major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu (47); major Vasant Vijay Kilari (45), Vira Prasad Kotiswamy Narnepati (41) from Delhi cantonment, Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) a resident of Sappers vihar colony in Pune; another accused called Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37) from Pachora, Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) a resident of BEG Centre in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) a resident of BEG Khadki - all in Wanowrie case - and Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lalmohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37) - in Vishrantwadi case - in the central jail of Pune. “The two phones which were used for transmitting the questions were destroyed and disposed of by the two. However, we have the call detail record (CDR) of the two numbers and enough evidence in all to see the investigation through. Now, they’re all in magisterial custody. Our crime branch officers and complete co-ordination of the army authorities had led to this investigation. The crime DCP (Srinivas Ghadage) maintained personal contact and follow-up with the army authorities to ensure access,” said Laxman Borate, assistant commissioner of police, crime, Pune police. The public prosecutor in the case was Premkumar Agarwal while the defence lawyer was Sudhir Shah. Advocate Shah had said that the accused had agreed to extended custody. He was arrested in the cheating and paper leak case registered at Wanowrie police station which is one of the two cases that were registered after the initial raids. The other case is registered at Vishrantwadi police station. A case under Sections 420, 409, 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University Board and Other Specified Examination Act, 1982; Sections 7, 12, and 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (2018 Amendment) and Section 66(c) of Information Technology Act at Wanowrie police station. Narnepati had allegedly received ₹7, 00,000 and had paid ₹3, 00,000 from it to Lt Col Bedi for the paper and returned ₹4, 00,000 to the two others wanted in the case, according to ACP Borate. The investigation had led to a statement of support from the commander of Indian Army’s Southern Command, Lt Gen JS Nain on May 26. “Lt Gen JS Nain, army commander, Southern Command has issued strict instructions to all the station commanders in the area of responsibility to assist in the ongoing investigations. He has instituted proactive measures to enable early completion of the investigations,” read a statement from the defence spokesperson. The statement also pointed out that the investigation began due to an initial tip-off by the sources inside Indian Army about leak of question paper for soldier recruitment entrance test that was to be held at 40 centres across the country for 30,000 aspirants on February 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-paper-leak-case-lt-col-sent-to-judicial-custody-in-yerawada-jail-101622306312183.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Mother attempts suicide, two minors lose life||Two minors aged four and two lost their lives at Pimpli in Baramati during the wee hours on Saturday when they’d gone to find their mother who was attempted suicide near a well. The deceased identified as Divya Suryavanshi (4) and Shaurya Suryavanshi (2) were looking inside the well where their mother Anjali had attempted suicide. They were followed by their father Atul who also came to their rescue but by that time the minors had died, Baramati police said. According to the police, there was a fight between Anjali and her husband after which she rushed out of the house and went towards the well and jumped into it. She was followed by the two kids and later by her husband but it was too late as the two lives had been lost at that time, police said. Atul however managed to pull her out of the well but the two children could not be saved. Police station in charge Nagdev Shinde said that an accidental death related case has been lodged. The kids were taken out of water and brought to Silver Jubilee hospital where the post mortem was conducted and their bodies were handed over to the family for last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mother-attempts-suicide-two-minors-lose-life-101622306192073.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Pune walk-in vaccination drive for students flying abroad||The Pune Municipal Corporation will start a special Covid-19 vaccination drive for students who have to travel abroad for educational purposes, Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said on Saturday.In a tweet, he said such students can walk into vaccination centres with supporting documents and get inoculated on two days of the week, though this can be extended to all days if the need arises.Incidentally, on Friday, the Mumbai civic body had announced that students in the 18 to 44 years age group in the metropolis heading to foreign universities can walk in at three dedicated centres on May 31, June 1 and 2 to get vaccinated.Earlier, Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray had tweeted that he had requested civic chiefs of Pune, Nagpur and Thane to "make vaccination arrangements for students due to fly abroad for studies".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-walk-in-vaccination-drive-for-students-flying-abroad-101622297202921.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 2,502 new Covid cases, 41 deaths||On Friday, as per the state health department, Pune district reported 2,502 new Covid-19 cases and 41 deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count in the district to 1,011,632 of which 956,772 have recovered, 12,310 deaths and 42,550 active cases. On Friday, Pune rural reported 1,406 new Covid cases which took the progressive counts to 285,823, and with 26 deaths the death toll went to 3,912. Pune city reported 604 new cases which took the progressive count to 483,198 and with 15 more deaths the toll went up to 6,650, while PCMC reported 492 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 242,611 and, with zero deaths, the toll went stood at 1,687. The state reported that 31,671 patients discharged on Friday and 5,307,874 Covid patients have been discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 93.24%. Also, 20,740 new cases were reported in the state on Friday and 424 Covid deaths were reported in the state. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.64%. Of 34,350,186 laboratory samples 5,692,920 have been tested positive (16.57%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 2,154,976 people are in home quarantine and 16,078 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-2-502-new-covid-cases-41-deaths-101622286692894.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Decision on Wari processions to be taken by CM next week: Ajit Pawar||Deputy Chief Minister of Maharashtra and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday that the decision on the annual “Ashadhi Wari” processions will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackery next week.Pawar held a meeting on Friday along with various representatives of the Warkari community and temple trustees of Sant Dnyaneshwar Alandi Devsthan and Sant Tukaram Deu Devsthan. The meeting was held at the Vidhan Bhavan, Pune and state home minister Dilip Walse Patil along with other ministers and senior government officials were present.“There is a significant importance to the Wari tradition in our state, but due to Covid-19 pandemic, it couldn’t happen last year. The current situation of Covid is also not good and in such extreme conditions we need to be extra cautious about the safety of people,” said Pawar.“I am taking forward all the suggestions and expectations given by the Warkari community to the state ministry and the final decision will be taken by the chief minister,” he said.Advocate Vikas Dhage Patil, the trustee of the Alandi temple committee, said, “Warkari community is ready to follow all the rules and regulations. State government can decide how many people can attend the procession.”This year’s Ashadhi Wari first prasthan from Dehu of Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi is scheduled on June 14 and a day later the Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi will move towards Pandharpur. Whereas the Ashadhi Ekadashi the day when both the Palkhis reaches Pandharpur is on July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/decision-on-wari-processions-to-be-taken-by-cm-next-week-ajit-pawar-101622286451533.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Four wards have no micro-containment zones in Pune city||Out of the 15 wards in the city, four have zero micron-containment zones, as per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department. As of Thursday, the four wards that have zero micro-containment zones include Warje-Karvenagar, Kothrud-Bawdhan, Dhole Patil road and Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori.The city has a total of 56 micro-containment zones, out of which 12 are buildings, 28 are societies and 16 others. The highest zones are present in Dhankawadi- Sahakarnagar with 15 zones and at the second spot, Bibwewadi has 11 zones.Also, Bhawani peth and Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri wards have only one micro containment zone, a society and a building while Aundh-Baner and Kondhwa-Yewlewadi both have two zones each.Micron-containment zones are essential to curb the spread of the virus as restricts the movement of the people living in the same building, society or chawl where more than five active Covid-19 cases are present.The city has seen a drastic fall in the number of cases resulting in the fall of positivity rate as well which was 20.99% between April 29 and May 5 and has now fallen to 7.86% between May 20 May and May 26.Sachin Tamkhade, Kothrud-Bawdhan ward officer, said, “The number of cases has been falling drastically in the ward. Due to early detection, early treatment and early isolation we could break the chain of infection. We also ramped up vaccination and we have vaccinated about 70,000 people in our ward at the five vaccination centres.”“In the second wave we saw that most of the societies were reporting a maximum number of cases and so to control it whenever we found more than five active cases in any society, we declared it a micro containment zone and spoke to the chairperson to ensure that there is no unnecessary movement in the society. We also screened the neighbouring homes and anyone symptomatic was tested at the PMC centre,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-wards-have-no-micro-containment-zones-in-pune-city-101622286270883.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Weekend restrictions on essential services eased in Pune||State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday announced that the restrictions have been extended by 15 days in the state, but the rules may differ for the districts where the Covid-19 situation has improved.He also declared that the weekend curbs on essential services in Pune, such as vegetable shops, grocery shops have been lifted from Saturday (May 29). Essential shops will remain open from 7am-11am on all days in the week.“All representatives and also the administration seemed to be in favour of easing the weekend curbs in Pune and keeping essential services open on weekends. So it has been decided that weekend restrictions on essential services will be eased,” Tope said.While talking about easing the curbs in the state Tope clarified that the districts which have the situation under control may get some relief in the curbs.“Lockdown has been extended by 15 days, but the detailed rules for this phase will be issued on June 1,” he said.“In the districts where the number of patients is more, the positivity rate is higher and the availability of the bed is still a challenge, in such places curbs will not be eased. Detailed guidelines will be issued for the places which have situations under control,” Tope said.After Tope’s announcement Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued an order to allow the essential shops such as groceries, vegetables, fruits, bakery, meat products, agricultural-related goods, and pet shops to remain open from 7 am- 11 am on all days. This order will be effect from Saturday (May 29).Pune Mayor Muralidhar Mohol expressed relief after the decision. “In the Covid review meeting, we had demanded to ease the restrictions on the weekends. Now essential shops will remain open from 7 am-11 am for all seven days,” he said.“The situation in Pune is satisfactory. There is a declining curve in Pune and cases are decreasing. Compared to last week the cases have reduced this week. But the positivity of Pune is still above the state average,” Tope said.“The situation is not the same in all the state. At least 18 districts have higher average positivity than the state. Considering all the factors a decision will be taken by the chief minister and the guidelines will be issued. As the cases are dropping it is understandable for traders to make demands, but the situation is not the same throughout the state,” said Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/weekend-restrictions-on-essential-services-eased-in-pune-101622286091329.html
29-05-2021||Pune||SSC exams: Mixed reactions to evaluation criteria by state||The state government’s decision to declare Secondary School Certificate (SSC) results based on evaluation criteria saw mixed reactions from various stakeholders.On Friday, the state government announced the evaluation criteria for the state board students of Class 10, the examinations of which have been cancelled this year due to the pandemic.Varsha Gaikwad, state school education minister, said, all students who were to appear for Class 10 exams will be promoted, and marks will be given on the basis of the internal assessment of their performance this year and that of Class 9.Shruti Mehta, a Class 10 student, said, “The decision to cancel the exams is not right, as we had put in a lot of hard work and prepared for the examination and were hoping to get good marks.”“I had got fewer marks in Class 9 exams and if I get assessed on those numbers then obviously I would get fewer marks in Class 10. This will impact on my further Class 11 admissions, so exams should be conducted,” she said.Another student Devaj Padhye said, “More than conducting the exams safety of students is more important during such health crisis. It is good that the state government has cancelled the exams, the only concern is that our assessment of marks should be done properly.”Last month the state government declared to cancel the Class 10 exams due to the increase in the number of Covid cases. After which a petition was filed at the Bombay High Court by professor Dhananjay Kulkarni challenging the Maharashtra government’s decision to cancel the board exams.“The decision declared today by the state education minister to cancel the Class 10 exams and through internal assessment method results will be declared doesn’t have exact clarification. It has again created confusion among the students. There are several unanswered questions and it will impact the career of students,” said Kulkarni.“On one hand state government is planning to carry out result process through internal marks assessment, then will conduct Common Entrance Test (CET) for Class 11 admissions and if any student is not satisfied with his/her results then a separate examination will be conducted for those students once Covid cases are in control. This entire process is all uncertain and this case is in HC now,” said Kulkarni.Bandopant Bhuyar, state president of Coaching Classes Teachers Federation and Social Forum of Maharashtra State, said, “The state government has backed off from their responsibility and simply cancelled the Class 10 exams. The evaluation criteria are baseless, and we strongly oppose this decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ssc-exams-mixed-reactions-to-evaluation-criteria-by-state-101622285910904.html
29-05-2021||Pune||All private hospital Covid bills will be audited, says Rajesh Tope||The bills of Covid-19 treatment at all private hospitals will be audited said state health minister Rajesh Tope. He was speaking at Council Hall after conducting the weekly Covid-19 review meeting for the Pune district.He said that instructions have been given to the concerned officials to appoint auditors for every hospital and bills will be audited irrespective of the amount.“Until now, an audit was done of the bills which were above Rs1.5 lakh. Now, every bill of Covid-19 treatment will be audited. Many hospitals break up the bills into multiple parts with small amounts. This should not be done. For every hospital a separate auditor should be assigned by the administration,” he said.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been conducting pre-audits and the post-audits of bills worth ₹1.5 lakh or more at private hospitals. The civic body has also appointed official persons in the private hospitals to check the bills in this range. Whereas, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had appointed a team of auditors to check the excessive bill amounts.Tope added that efforts are being taken by the charity commissioner and district administration to add more private hospitals such as Ruby Hall, Jehangir Hospital under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana for the treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus.“We have instructed the administration to bring more private hospitals under the scheme which are treating mucormycosis patients. There is a cover of 1.5 lakh, but there should not be any upper limit for the treatment. Medicines will be given free and the rest of the treatment cost will be paid by the government,” he said.Tope announced that the corporates will be asked to vaccinate their staff by tying up with private hospitals. “Industries should vaccinate their staff and the workers at their expense by tying up with a private hospital. They should take this responsibility of vaccinating the staff,” he said.On the complaints of different rates charged by private hospitals for vaccination Tope clarified that the state government does not have direct control over it.“Many MLAs said that the vaccine prices should be capped. The Government of India has allotted 25 per cent to private hospitals. They are procuring on their own and vaccinating people. But I would like to ask these private hospitals to keep affordable rates for vaccines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/all-private-hospital-covid-bills-will-be-audited-says-rajesh-tope-101622285490807.html
29-05-2021||Pune||Industries, private hospitals in Pimpri-Chinchwad await vaccine supply||The Covid-19 vaccination drive is yet to pick up the pace at corporate offices and private hospitals in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) due to the non-availability of doses. Industries are waiting to get doses from the civic administration, while private hospitals have placed their demands but are awaiting a response from the Serum Institute of India (SII).On April 11, the government allowed to hold vaccination camps at corporate campuses, and all private stakeholders in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad and rural Pune had shown keen interest in conducting the drive. However, with the shortage of doses, many people between the 18-45 age group are waiting to get the jabs.Prashant Girbane, director-general, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), said, “Most companies are ready to conduct the vaccination camps, but things did not pick up as we were expecting. The civic bodies have provided us full-fledged support, but due to the unavailability of doses, the drive has slowed down. All the companies are ready to invest in vaccination drives as they want their employees to be safe.”In Pimpri Chinchwad, so far, 7,0597, people in the 18-45 age group have got the jabs. With the shortage of doses, the civic body is only providing doses of Covaxin and Covishield to those in the 45+ age group.As Covishield doses were available on Friday, PCMC conducted vaccination drive at 65 centres.Abhay Bhor, president of Forum of Small Scale Industries Association, said, “Our association will be conducting ‘vaccination on wheels’ at 8,000 companies. Our team of doctors and management staff are on standby and we have put our demands of doses before PCMC. Due to shortage, they are not able to provide doses.”“As 70 per cent of the population working in the industries fall in the 18 -45 age group all the industries have registered their employees’ names with us. Once the supply of doses starts, we will start the drive in the industrial area,” added Bhor.A few PMC residents who travel to the industrial town have already taken jabs after the vaccination drive started at the private hospitals.Sumant Jha, a resident of Kothrud who works in MIDC Bhosari, said, “I got myself vaccinated at a private hospital on Dhole Patil road. We were told that a drive will be conducted in the industry campus, but it is on halt due to non-availability of doses.”Meanwhile, private hospitals in PMC limits are getting a good response to vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group, and so many private hospitals from PCMC have also approached SII to supply doses.“We have placed the order of 3,000 doses with SII, we are yet to receive them. We also had a plan to conduct vaccination camps in the various housing societies, but we have put it on halt after the direction from the civic administration,” said Dr Sapana Sagare, Lifepoint Multispeciality Hospital, Wakad.“Our hospital has asked for 10,000 doses from SII, once we receive some number of doses then drive will start on priority,” said Dr Parag Hatnaikar, Orion Hospital, Wakad.Tejaswini Sawai, chairperson, Pimpri-Chinchwad Cooperative Housing Societies Federation, said, “Vaccination at private hospitals will help increase the outreach.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/industries-private-hospitals-in-pimpri-chinchwad-await-vaccine-supply-101622285071157.html
