30-05-2021||Pune||Private hospital doctors booked for overcharging deceased Covid-19 patient’s kin||Four doctors working at a hospital in Chakan were booked for overcharging the kin of a deceased Covid-19 patient despite warnings and a cap on the bill amount by the state government. The four were identified as Dr Smita Ghatkar, Dr Rahul Sonawane, Dr Seema Gawli, and Dr Ramesh Ghatkar. The accused doctors work at Chakan Criticare hospital. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Nanda Ganpat Dhawale (58), medical superintendent at Maharashtra state government rural hospital, Chakan, Khed. The doctors and their hospital charged the relatives of a man named Vijay Lakshman Pokharkar form Ozar, Pune, ₹2, 53,300 for Covid-19 treatment between September 2, 2020, and September 16, 2020. Pokharkar was on ventilator and succumbed to the infection at the end of his term at the hospital. The deceased person’s wife Pushpa Pokharkar had cleared the hospital bill after her husband’s death. However, in accordance with the state government rules, she had approached the district collector office machinery with the bill for an audit. “The woman had complained to the collector’s office. The collector’s office informed it to Aundh district hospital. The Aundh hospital authorities asked the Chakan rural government hospital to look into the matter and get an audit done. Whatever excess amount was found, that was to be returned. Two notices have been sent to the hospital in that regard by Chakan government hospital. Copies of both the notices have ‘received’ stamp from the accused persons’ hospital,” said assistant police inspector (API) Prakash Rathod of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. When asked about the amount of excess money levied through the bill upon the Pokharkar family, the complainant was not forthcoming. “We have no information about the patient. We had received orders of audit from our seniors. A court case was done in the matter and as per further orders, a police complaint was lodged. Since the matter is subjudice, I cannot comment on the specifics of the case,” said Dr Dhawale. In May 2020, the state government had announced a cap on the private hospital bill for Covid-19 treatment. Every bill over ₹1.5 lakh was audited by local authorities. However, on Saturday, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced that all Covid-19 treatment bills by private hospitals will be audited to avoid trickery by private hospitals. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 34 (common intention) and 188 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station against the four doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-hospital-doctors-booked-for-overcharging-deceased-covid-19-patient-s-kin-101622391221449.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Two in police custody for selling Remdesivir on black market||Two men were remanded to police custody by a local court on Sunday for selling vials of Remdesivir on the black market in Pune for ₹15,000 each. Two vials of Remdesivir injection, used for treatment of Covid-19 infection, were recovered from a man in Vadgaon Budrukh area of Pune on Saturday. The arrested man was identified as Vishal Anant More (28), a resident of Jadhavnagar in Vadgaon-Budrukh area of Pune. He led the police to the arrested of another person. The second arrested person was identified as Shambhuraj Lal, Kothrud.“He is a worker at a pharmacy for the past 4-5 years. He was well versed with the medicines. He charged ₹15,000 per vial. Investigation for a possible past sale is on. He has named another medical store worker who supplied him with the vials. We have arrested him as well. They are both in police custody,” said senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of anti-narcotic cell-1 of Pune police crime branch. Assistant police inspector Lakshman Dhengale is investigating the case. A case under Sections 420 and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 26 of Drug Price Control Order, 2013; Essential Commodities Act, 1955; and Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 was registered at Sinhagad road police station against More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-in-police-custody-for-selling-remdesivir-on-black-market-101622391041452.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Mula-Mutha river anti-encroachment action only on paper: activists||Despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order and letters send by the Pune irrigation division since the past decade, the Mula-Mutha river anti-encroachment action is still on paper. On one side, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has claimed that there is regular action against encroachments, however, environment activists and the Pune irrigation division is not satisfied and demands a proper action plan rather than limited pre-monsoon activity. In 2019, Yadwadkar had filed a petition in the NGT and mentioned the 12 dumping spots in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The NGT had taken serious note of the issue and appointed a five-member committee with the MPCB as the nodal agency. NGT had also warned the municipal commissioners of PMC and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) that they should ensure that no further dumping of debris or any other waste, including the construction of waste, is disposed of in the river. However, the Pune irrigation division wrote letters to all agencies (PMC, PCMC and PMRDA) before monsoon and instructed to remove all encroachment which creates obstacles to the river flow and avoid flooding and agencies carried out minor actions. This exercise has been carried out since the last one decade. Anti-encroachment drive is only on paper Yadwadkar, said, “All agencies are carrying out cosmetic work on the issue of removal of encroachments along the river side and bed. There should be proper planning and a time bound program. In 2019, we had handed over 12 spot lists of encroachment in the riverside and bed. Most of the encroachments still exist like the Sangamwadi area, Shivane, Deccan Gymkhana area.” He further stated, “The state government had issued an order to carry out high resolution satellite images on a regular basis of corporation areas with the help of Maharashtra Remote Sensing Application Centre (MRSAC), Nagpur and identify encroachments, remove it and stop it. But nothing substantial happened from any of the agencies.” Avinash Surve, former secretary of state water resource department and who was also former chief engineer of Pune irrigation division said, “Pune city had faced a flood situation in 2005. After that, we had started sending letters to PMC to remove encroachment from Mula-Mutha river. Every year, we send letters to agencies and remind them about encroachment. But, noting substantial has happened till date. It has become only a formality.” H V Gunale, chief engineer of water resource department, Pune division said, “Agencies are not responding to our letter. We provide the location of encroachments or dumping of debris. They removed encroachments partially. Lack of drainage system is also responsible for inundation. We have decided to conduct a meeting of the PMC, PMRDA, Metro and PCMC and instructed them to clear the carriageway and submit a report. At present, they don’t give any report to us. The cleaning exercise should be carried out regularly and throughout the year. It should not be limited or considered as only pre-monsoon work.” Suhas Divase, chief executive officer of PMRDA said, “Since last year, encroachment action was stopped due to a court order. Now, we will start removing encroachments from the river side. However, since the PMRDA is a planning authority and agencies such as civic bodies, gram panchyat should have to conduct a drive on a regular basis. Irrigation also has a duty to remove and track encroachment in the riverside and bed.” PMC starts work to remove encroachments Kunal Khemnar, PMC additional municipal commissioner said, “We have started removing debris from the riverside as well as garbage dumping. We have 10 JCBs to remove encroachments. The building permission department is also carrying out encroachment drives. We have also sent a letter to the Metro to remove debris from the river. We have started visiting encroachment spots along with the concerned ward officers along the riverside. We are also serving notices to private landowners along the riverside for dumping waste or debris in their premises.” “In most of the river sites, owners have dumped debris and level the areas and it has settled down now. Right now, we have decided to stop fresh dumping and after that, we will also remove old riverside dumping with the help of our machinery,” he added. ================================= BOX Total length of Mula, Mutha in PMC jurisdiction- 44 km. Mula River: Mumbai-Pune Bypass to Sangam Bridge (22.2 km). Mutha River: Mumbai-Pune Bypass to Mula-Mutha Sangam (10 km). Mula-Mutha River: Mula-Mutha Sangam to Kharadi (11.8 km). ======================================== Encroachments causes flood like Sangli and Kolhapur Sangli and Kolhapur districts in particular were the worst affected due to the floods and waterlogging in the first week of August 2019. State government set an expert committee which observed that encroachments and construction in the river basin were the key factors responsible for these floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mulamutha-river-anti-encroachment-action-only-on-paper-activists-101622390921568.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Pune rural police arrest 13 for partying, granted bail||The Pune rural police arrested 13 people dancing in a party at a farmhouse in Kelwade village of Bhor in Pune on Sunday. The arrested men were identified as Sagar Ramesh Jadhav (32), Sunil Nivrutti Pathak (33), Vicky Vasant Shelar (22), Ganesh Vijay Kadam (33), Avinash SAnjay Sakharkar (24), Vishal Ganesh Pasalkar (38), and Sachin Lakshman Shinde (37), according to the police. The names of the women, however, were not revealed by the police. “It is a farmhouse and the owner had called for a party and people were dancing with really loud music. We are desisting from revealing the women’s names. The sections are bailable, so they were all granted bail,” said API Manojkumar Navsare of Rajgad police station. The police raided the place based on calls made by citizens living in the area. The case was registered after the people were found flouting multiple Covid-19 regulations implemented by the state government as well as the Pune district collector. A case in the matter is being registered at Rajgad police station under Sections 188, 269, 270, 144 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-police-arrest-13-for-partying-granted-bail-101622390861463.html
30-05-2021||Pune||PMC to remove at least 50 dangerous gantries||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has identified and decided to remove around 50 old and dangerous gantries across the city to avoid any calamity. Last year, the PMC sky and sign department conducted a survey of gantries across the city as an overhead gantry near Sancheti hospital collapsed due to the gusty wind and rain. However, there was no causality since there was no vehicular movement on that road when the incident took place due to lockdown. According to the PMC sky and sign department statistics, there are more than 2,000 traffic sign gantries, billboards and advertising hoardings in the city area. Of that, the civic body has found around 50 gantries which are as old as 10 to 15 years. Vijay Landge, deputy commissioner of PMC sky and sign department said, “During a survey, we found that there are 50 gantries old and weak in the structure. There are chances of collapse. Therefore, we have floated a tender to demolish such old gantries and remove them, collect material and store them in the PMC godown.” He further said, “We have already removed around 26 gantries and now we want to remove another 23 gantries.” One of the officials of the sky and sign department said, “Most of the dangerous and old gantries belong to the PMC and were raised during the Commonwealth Games in 2008 which are located on the main city roads such as Nagar road, Satara road, Paud road, Baner-Balewadi, Fergusson college road, Jangali Maharaj road, Shivaji road, old Mumbai-Pune road, Airport road.” In 2018, four people were killed and seven suffered injuries after a large hoarding frame collapsed in Managalwar peth area near the Pune railway station. The incident led to action against the contractor. According to the rules and regulations of the PMC before October 2018, the hoarding owners had to submit these audit reports once every two years. However, post the incident of the hoarding collapse near the Regional Transport Office (RTO) chowk last year, the decision to submit such reports every six months was made mandatory by the civic body. ------------------------------------------------------------- Name of ward office Number of hoardings and billboards Aundh 285 Bhavani peth- 24 Bibvewadi- 54 Dhankwadi- 35 Dhole patil- 304 Hadapsar- 87 Kondwa- 92 Kothrud- 111 Nagar road- 276 Sahakarnagar- 91 Shivajinagar- 356 Tilak road- 135 Visharambaugwada- 156 Warje- 74 Yerawada- 64||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-remove-at-least-50-dangerous-gantries-101622390741468.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Retired professor who filed petition for Class 10 exam gets death threats||In an attempt to stop him from raising his voice against the demand to conduct Class 10 exams, retired professor Dhananjay Kulkarni has received life threats through social media platforms. After the threats, Kulkarni lodged a police complaint at Kothrud police station, and police has lodged a non-cognisable complaint against two persons in this case. 61-year-old Kulkarni is a retired professor from SNDT College in Pune, he was also a senate member of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) for 10 years and is currently working as an education activist about various education related issues. Last month, the state government declared to cancel the Class 10 exams due to the increase in the number of Covid cases. After which a petition was filed at the Bombay High Court by professor Kulkarni challenging the Maharashtra government’s decision cancelling the Class 10 board exams this year due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. “I got a threat message from two persons through my Facebook account against the demand which we have raised to conduct Class 10 exams in the high court. They have said that if the exams are held and anything happens to children then I would be held responsible and have threatened me. Also, I am getting personal messages and calls through some students and parents threatening me to take back the petition,” said Kulkarni. On Friday, May 28 Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad held a press conference and announced that SSC results for this year will be declared on the basis of marks obtained by the students in their Class nine and 10 internal exams in the absence of physical board exams. “The decision taken by the state government about assessment of Class 10 students is confusing and on June 1 the state government is going to submit their affidavit in the court. Also, they are going to demand two weeks extension and we are going to oppose it as well as the new GR about the Class 10 exams assessment. Then as per the further orders given by the HC, we will follow up the case, but I think it will go in the Supreme Court and then some firm order will come over this issue,” added Kulkarni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/retired-professor-who-filed-petition-for-class-10-exam-gets-death-threats-101622390681300.html
30-05-2021||Pune||Curtain call: A story enacted in pauses||So, while we are on the subject of adapting plays, I thought of sharing one more experience before moving on to something different. Though it didn’t run for as long as the other two did, it is very important for me personally. We used to have reading sessions of our old theatre group when we were not rehearsing for plays. I remember that a team member had read this story from a magazine. It was a letter written by a man to his father, who he hasn’t met in the last sixteen years. The father left one day after charges of corruption were filed against him. He had always been a family man, providing well for his wife, and doting on his son and young daughter. After he leaves without informing them, the family goes through a turbulent phase. Not financially as they are well cared for by their relatives, but it leaves a huge vacuum emotionally. Especially in the life of this boy who considered his father as his role-model. It has been sixteen years to this incident and they haven’t heard from his father still. The son is now successful in his career, has a family of his own but this incident still keeps him awake during some nights. The only respite he has is writing about this in his journal. This particular entry is in the form of a letter addressed to his father. After I heard the story, I kept thinking what will happen if the father finally met his son? The story was told from the point of view of only the son. I would have loved to hear what the father had to say about himself. He must have experienced a huge gap in his personal life as well. The letter mentioned that he had an affair with another woman. But there must have been times when he missed his wife and kids. It could not have been all rosy for him. Was there any guilt for his actions? If yes, how did he deal with it? This was one major character that I had to add. And it was interesting to imagine his world and the life that he must have lived for the past sixteen years. There were also many details about the son’s life that we had to imagine as well. But the thing I loved doing the most was their actual confrontation. There were two options – the audience sees the father enter and introduce himself or the father and son have already met. I chose the latter. While choosing the first option was a far easier route in terms of exposition, I thought the second option opened up a possibility of awkwardness. Such extreme awkwardness will cause discomfort to the audience too. And so after the curtain rose and the play started, we showed these two characters sitting in a similar position. A pose that is simple – sitting on a chair with their right leg on their left and hands folded, with their heads slightly tilted to the left – but most certainly imprinted in their genes. It just made the audience believe that these two are related to each other. The actors and I believed that once the father meets his son, there will be more than a few moments of silence, where both of them won’t know what to say to each other! We decided to start our play there. So, right at the beginning, there was absolute silence for about a minute. Where both of them are waiting for the other to speak. And I think we were successful in adapting their relationship from the story to the stage in that one minute. The dialogues were minimal. The script was hardly twenty pages long. But the play was full of awkward pauses and even the information flowed in bits and pieces. I always treat the audience as intelligent and do not believe in spoon-feeding them at every moment. If all their questions are answered by the end of the play, then that should be fine. By the end of the play we have understood both sides. While the father is able to explain why he disappeared, there isn’t and cannot be any excuse for leaving his family and not connecting with them for so many years. While the man helps his father financially and is grateful that he has finally got closure and that he might be able to sleep well at night, he refuses to be available for him emotionally. His decision might change in the future but not right now. The father understands this and leaves. After the man leaves, his son, who has maintained a strong stance in front of him, hugs his own child and breaks down uncontrollably. I had not named the play till the last moment as I could not come up with a suitable name. It was hardly a surprise that my mother suggested the most appropriate name. Later, I borrowed that name for a film of mine, which had a completely different storyline, but dealt with the same relationship. Baapjanma – the birth of a father. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or inperson||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-a-story-enacted-in-pauses-101622371480357.html
