31-05-2021||Pune||39.69 km road laid in 24 hours by Pune firm, PWD min says it’s a record||Pune: With the help of Maharashtra state government’s public works department (PWD). Pune-based private firm constructed a 39.69-km road between Pusegaon and Mhasurne in Satara in 24 hours.Public works department minister Ashok Chavan said, despite difficulties, staff in his department along with others completed single-lane 39.69 km road within a day.“One lane of road was completed using bituminous concrete( BC). I congratulate everyone for this task. The work has been recorded in Limca Book of Records. It will be a bigger pride to break our own record and create new in future,” said Chavan.PWD has given contract to Rajpath Infracon, which had set to construct a 30 km of road in a day. However, the team constructed 39.69 km of roads in a day between 7 am on Sunday (May 30) and 7 am on Monday (May 31) in 24 hours.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, “This shows that despite adversities, we can complete project with speed.”The road was three and a half metres wide and 39.69 kilometres long covering Pusegaon, Jaigaon, Aundh, Gopuj and Mhasurne. The work was completed with the help of about 474 workers and 250 vehicles and machinery. The initiative was carried out in compliance with the rules laid down by the central and state governments regarding Covid-19. Also, Rajpath Infracon took care of all precautionary measures.Public works department secretary Ulhas Debadwar, chief engineer Sada Salunke, MSRDC executive engineer S Mungliwar, former engineer SP. Darade and others inspected the road work and appreciated Rajpath Infracon.Rajpath Infracon president and executive director Jagdish Kadam said. “Pune-based Rajpath Infracon had got work of the 47 km road from Pusegaon to Mhasurne in Satara district from the public works department under HAM (Hybrid Annuity Model). We decided to pay homage to the state on the occasion of celebrating 61th year of formation and show positivity in this negative environment. We achieved our aim in collaboration with the PWD and completed its resolution to set a world record by constructing 39.69 km of asphalt road in one day. This world record is dedicated to the people of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3969-km-road-laid-in-24-hours-by-pune-firm-pwd-min-says-its-a-record-101622483029989.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Man found dead inside society’s water tank||A 30-year-old man was found dead in the water tank of a society in Narhe area of Pune on Monday. The man was identified as Vitthal Ankush Vaykule, a resident of Parthavi Society in Narhe. He was found in the water tank of the same building by his flat mate. He lived in a bachelor accommodation with one other man who also works in the same pharma company. “He was a field worker and worked as a therapy manager at the pharma company. He has left no note. At night he had gone out and since he did not come back, his friends started looking for him. In the night they could not find him but in the morning, they found him in the water tank. Drowning was found to be the reason for his death. Further investigations are on,” said assistant police inspector S Kanse of Sinhagad road police station. The tank is located underground near the building. However, how Vaykule ended up in it is yet to be known. When the police were informed, they called for fire brigade officials to pull the body up. His family was informed, and his body was taken to a government hospital for post-mortem. The incident was recorded in an accidental death report at Sinhagad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-found-dead-inside-society-s-water-tank-101622477209048.html
31-05-2021||Pune||PMC will have private agencies on standby for dead-animal disposal this monsoon season||In preparation for the monsoon, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to have agencies on standby for animal burial, as a large number of animal deaths occur during the monsoon season. The decision has been taken on the backdrop of Ambil Odha flood incident in 2019 when 66 cattle died in the flashflood triggered by heavy rains in Katraj and other parts of South Pune. It was for the first time such a large number of cattle deaths were reported in a single day. At the time, PMC faced a major problem to dispose of the remains. PMC has taken the decision to have a standby arrangement for dead animal disposal this monsoon . PMC has privatised the incineration facility located near Naidu hospital for disposal of dead animals along with all biological. At present, the PMC disposes of two large cattle animals and seven to eight small animals per day. One large cattle animal takes almost six hours to incinerate along with one small animal. The PMC faces a problem during monsoon to incinerate big animals. Dr Narendra Wagh, head of veterinary section of PMC health department said, “Right now, we have an agency to dispose of the animals. During the Ambil odha flood incident, we had to face the problem of transportation and disposal of large cattle animals in monsoon season. So, we have decided to set up a standby arrangement for disposal of large cattle animals in the monsoon season.” The contractor will identify a place for the burial of large animals along with pick up and transport and also deliver to the incineration facility. According to statistics, there are around 5,000 large cattle animals (buffalos and cows) in almost 500 cattle sheds which are located around city areas. The PMC has allotted 57 hectares of land to displace all cattle sheds in Mundhwa area. Of that, 90 cattle sheds were relocated in Mundhwa area. The PMC has planned to relocate more than 100 sheds at the end of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-will-have-private-agencies-on-standby-for-dead-animal-disposal-this-monsoon-season-101622477149008.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Courses linked to specific industries now on offer at SPPU||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will soon begin professional courses with job opportunities to students. The university has decided to tie up with industries in Nashik and Ahmednagar. The initiative will benefit students after graduating in further career growth. There are a large of grape producers and vineyards producing wine in Nashik, while cooperative and sugar factories are there in Ahmednagar district. Taking advantage of these industrial sectors, SPPU is now preparing job-centric courses for students. The process of starting these courses has already begun at the SPPU’s sub-centres in both these districts. “Nashik is one of the major producers of grapes in the country due to which several wineries have come up here. Even the Paithani sarees at Yewala are famous, accordingly skilled based courses to make such sarees will be started. Also, there are some tribal areas in Nashik where honey and medicinal trees are found, this will also be included in the new courses,” said SPPU vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar. “There is a legacy of cooperative and sugar factories from decades in the Ahmednagar district. Along with those, paper factories, water management companies and bio diesel are some of the important sectors. Accordingly, small courses will be made in these sectors, and they will be submitted to sub centres. After which they will be produced before the management council and after its approvals by January these courses will actually start,” added Karmalkar. There are around 330 colleges and educational institutions in Nashik and Ahmednagar district which are affiliated to SPPU. It includes Arts, Commerce and Science colleges, Engineering, Pharmacy, Management and other colleges. The SPPU has decided to start diploma courses related to industrial sectors in these districts so that job opportunities for students will increase. These courses will be from four months to one year duration. Students are happy with the decision taken by SPPU, Bhushan Vyawahare a second-year commerce student from Nashik said, “Doing plain graduation in commerce won’t be enough for me to get a good job, if I pursue these new industrial based courses, it is certainly beneficial for my career.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/courses-linked-to-specific-industries-now-on-offer-at-sppu-101622477089043.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Nepal national arrested for trying to break open ATM||A Nepal national was arrested for trying to break open an ATM in Wakad area of Pimpri-Chinchwad in the small hours of Sunday. The man was identified as Nandu Karam Thapa (35), a man believed to be homeless in Pune and a native of Nepal who settled in Vinayakgaon in Assam, according to the police. “He is a drunkard who is living on the streets. He tried to open the machine by trying to break it with his hands. He managed to make a few dents and then left. The bank official from Mumbai got an alert and called the control room and the call was assigned to us,” said hawaldar Shankar Sakharam Uttekar of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case. Thapa tried to open the ATM in Bhumkar chowk and left the kiosk before he started walking around in the same area and was caught by the police. A case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc.), 511 (attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment), and 461 (dishonestly breaking open receptacle containing property) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nepal-national-arrested-for-trying-to-break-open-atm-101622477029107.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Curbs extended in rural parts of Pune till June 15||Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh issued an order extending the restrictions in the rest of the district, except for the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. The curbs in rural parts and cantonment areas have been extended till 7 am on June 15. The essential shops will be permitted to remain open from 7am-11am on all days. “The average positivity rate in rural areas is around 11%-12%. So, as per the guidelines issued by the state government restrictions have been extended. A review will be taken after 10 days. The timings of essential shops will be the same. Restrictions mentioned in the earlier orders will continue. Considering the pre monsoon agriculture work, shops related to this sector will be permitted to remain open from 7 am-2 pm. Rest of the essential shops will remain open till 11am,” said Deshmukh.As the positivity rate in PMC and PCMC limits slipped below 10%, the civic bodies issued orders on Monday to ease some curbs. But the rural parts are still recording a higher caseload than the civic limits of PMC and PCMC. The positivity rate in PMC and PCMC limits for the duration of May 23-May 29 was 7.55% and 8.61% respectively. Whereas the collective positivity rate for the same duration in rural areas, municipal councils and cantonment areas stood at 15.31%. The collective positivity rate for this duration was 10.89%. As per the already imposed restrictions only essential shops will be allowed to remain open for specific timings and nonessential shops will remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curbs-extended-in-rural-parts-of-pune-till-june-15-101622476969571.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Talegaon Dabhade municipal council chief booked for corruption||Two senior officers, including the head of Talegaon Dabhade municipal council were found by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) Pune demanding a bribe of ₹9 lakh from a government contractor for clearing his bills on Monday. The two were identified as Sham Lakshmanrao Poshetty (44), chief officer of Talegaon Dabhade municipal council and Vishal Ankush Mind (33), garden supervisor of Talegaon Dabhade municipal council. The claims made by the complainant contractor were checked for dates - May 6, May 7, May 17, and May 21. After confirmation, the ACB decided to register a case. The complainant contractor’s company had won a work contract from the municipal council and after completion he had submitted bills for payment. However, the garden supervisor, whose approval was required for clearing of the said bills, asked for a bribe. Mind told the complainant that the bribe was for Poshetty. The ACB officials also found that Poshetty was aware of the demand and encouraged it, according to a statement issued by ACB. Accordingly, a case under Sections7 and 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/talegaon-dabhade-municipal-council-chief-booked-for-corruption-101622476910209.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Pace of development slows down due to economic hardships||Four members of parliament from Pune , Shirur, Maval and Baramati who have completed two years in office are finding a big challenge in mitigating economic depression due to the Covid-19 crisis prevalent in the state. Baramati MP has made it clear in public that economic crisis was a major challenge before her and stated that all professions have been hit hard by the global crisis with very large ramifications on the economy. Besides making Baramati a Covid-19 free constituency, she is also working towards reduction of malnutrition and illnesses like TB, malaria and dengue. When contacted, Sule’s secretary said that she was unavailable for a comment due to family commitments. At the same time, MP Dr Amol Kolhe who represents Shirur constituency has been making rounds of his entire constituency and helping citizens in trouble. The MP’s office claimed that he had helped more than 100 patients who required oxygen cylinders, Remdesivir injection and other medical assistance during the current crisis. Kolhe is currently in discussion with the state government to construct a multi-speciality hospital for the district and has held a number of meetings in the Mantralaya and also with the district collectorate. The office heads of all the members of parliament said that although work was on, but Covid-19 outbreak had affected the pace of work of the elected representatives due to the restrictions. Dr Amol Kolhe did not respond to calls and messages while MP Girish Bapat’s office informed that he was attending official meetings. City Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “Lockdown began in March and the MP did not step out for many days for Covid work. The BJP was involved only in tender scheme rather than serving people during these critical times as health was nowhere given priority. It was his duty to ensure that citizens were provided relief. Not one ventilator from the PM care fund is in working condition and lying unattended at the hospital.” Shrirang Barne, who is serving his second term as the member of parliament from Maval constituency has been vocal regarding private hospitals charging extra money to Covid patients. Barne who is out of the city at present helped Sujit Loke, son of a vegetable vendor to get his father’s body from a private hospital that was not releasing it due to an unpaid bill. Barne visited the Thergaon area along with the police officials. Currently, Barne is also pushing the centre in allowing Hindustan Antibiotics to produce Covid-19 vaccines and the Remdesivir injection. Barne was not available for comment as he was out of the city while Parth Pawar also refused to comment. Barne received 7,20,663 votes over his Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) candidate Parth Pawar who managed to get 5,04,750 votes. The Maval Lok Sabha constituency comprises of Karjat Uran, Maval, Chinchwad and Pimpri. “I like to keep myself away from making any comment” said Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil who had won thrice before losing to Kolhe in 2019 with the margin of 58,000 votes. Kolhe secured 6,35,830 votes while Adhalrao-Patil managed 5,77,347 votes. The Shirur Lok Sabha constituency comprises of six assembly segments – Junnar, Ambegaon, Khed, Alandi, Shirur, Bhosari and Hadapsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pace-of-development-slows-down-due-to-economic-hardships-101622475949021.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,045 fresh Covid cases, nine deaths||Pune: On Monday, the state health department reported a little over 1,000 new Covid cases in the district in the last 24 hours. With 1,045 new infections, Pune district’s progressive count reached 1.017 million, of which 0.968 million have recovered, 12,568 declared dead and 36,563 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or home isolation. On Monday, Pune rural reported 621 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 288,979 and with four deaths the death toll went to 4,023. Pune city reported 194 new cases which took the progressive count to 484,507 and with five more deaths the toll went up to 6,764 while PCMC reported 230 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 243,668. With no more deaths the toll stood at 1,720 The state reported that 33,000 patients were discharged on Monday and totally 5,395,370 Covid patients were discharged after recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 93.88%. Also 15,077 new cases and 184 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Monday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.66%. Of 35,055,054 laboratory samples 5,746,892 have been tested positive (16.39%) for Covid until Monday. Currently, 1,870,304 people are in home quarantine and 10,743 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-045-fresh-covid-cases-nine-deaths-101622475049040.html
31-05-2021||Pune||BJP MLA Mahesh Landge booked for flouting Covid rules at daughter’s pre-wedding function||PUNE: Mahesh Landge, legislator from Pimpri-Chinchwad and member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and over 50 others were booked for violating Covid regulations after a video of them dancing at his daughter’s pre-wedding function surfaced online. Among the others booked in the case are his brother Sachin Landge, Ajit Saste, Kundan Gaikwad, Rahul Landge, Datta Gavhane, Gopi Krushna Dhavade, Sunil Lande, Nitin Godse, and Prajyot Fuge, along with 40-50 others, said senior inspector Shankar Awtade of Bhosari police station. A complaint was lodged by Suresh Nana Waghmore (32) working at the Bhosari police station. The video was shot between 6:30pm and 9:30pm on Sunday in the vicinity of Landge’s house in Landgeali area of Bhosari. The Covid regulations set by the state government and the district collector do not allow for more than 50 people in attendance at a wedding. Social distancing among guests is also required as per the rules. However, the video shows both the rules flouted at the event. A case under Section 51 of National Disaster Management Act, 2005; Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulation, 2020; Sections 188, 269, and 34 of Indian PEnal Code and Sections 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-mla-mahesh-landge-booked-for-flouting-covid-rules-at-daughter-s-pre-wedding-function-101622474688861.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Pune traders happy to restart shops, claim decision was delayed||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) decision to reopen non-essential shops from Tuesday has brought some relief to traders and shop owners. At a meeting held between PMC officials and Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) on Monday, it was decided to restart shops between 7 am and 2 pm from Monday to Friday. “After almost a two-month gap, we will restart our shops and are hopeful that these restrictions will not happen again. We have suffered huge losses but agreed to keep our shops closed for public safety,” said Fatechand Ranka, president of FTAP. “We had a positive discussion today with PMC officials about restarting shops in the city. All traders and shop owners will follow Covid protocols strictly,” he said. There are more than 25,000 shop owners and traders in Pune who faced economic losses due to lockdown. One of them is Kushal Das, owner of a garment shop. “I had to borrow money from a family member to pay the rent of shop and also monthly EMI for housing loan. The second lockdown has drastically impacted our lives and the state government should not impose it again. We are glad that now we are allowed to reopen shops,” Das said. Nitesh Chopada, secretary, Laxmi road Ganpati chowk traders association said, “The decision taken today by PMC and state government was a bit late. We have to again start business from scratch and recovery of our two-month loss will take another year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-traders-happy-to-restart-shops-claim-decision-was-delayed-101622474328937.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Non-essential shops to reopen, e-commerce facility resumes||Pune: Following the state government’s order to ease lockdown restrictions, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Monday issued “Break the chain” orders for the city offering relaxations to non-essential shops in Pune. The latest order will come into force from Tuesday morning and will be in effect till June 10. As the number of Covid cases has fallen in the city and the positivity rate has gone below 10% which made the city eligible for ease in restrictions, PMC allowed standalone non-essential shops to operate between 7am and 2pm between Monday and Friday. The earlier order allowed only essential services shops to stay open from 7 am to 11am. The order has also allowed liquor shops to reopen till 2 pm on weekdays while delivery of products through e-commerce which was stopped for a brief time in the earlier order has also been permitted. The new order by PMC has also extended timings for essential shops, including vegetables, grocery, dairy products and non-veg products from 7am to 2pm for seven days of the week. Besides, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations have also issued separate order offering relaxation for standalone non-essential shops between 7am and 2pm from Monday to Tuesday while extending timings for essential stores till 2pm from earlier 11am. The fresh order giving relaxations to non-essential shops has been a major respite for traders, who were insisting for easing of curbs. However, shops in malls and shopping centres will remain closed as per earlier orders while restaurants and bars will be allowed to provide only home delivery and parcel services without dine-in facility. The new order has also allowed private traffic movement till 3 pm post that traffic in only emergency cases and for airport and railway station with valid reasons will be allowed. “A complete curfew would be imposed after 3 pm and the earlier orders would be in place for those providing home services. The PMC order would be in place for the next ten days starting from June 1 7am and, following the review of the positivity rate at the time, a revised order would be put in place,” stated the order signed by civic chief Vikram Kumar. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol while addressing the media said, “In view of the drop in Covid cases in the city, the state empowered the local civic bodies and administrators to issue orders to ease restrictions where the positivity rate is below 10%. Accordingly, PMC has issued the order.” As per the order, banks will continue to function on all days while government offices, except those providing essential services and those working for Covid management, will function with 25% staff. Home delivery of essential and non-essential products would be allowed through e-commerce platforms. Shops selling agriculture related products and agriculture product market committee would function all days of the week from 7 am to 2 pm. Federation of Trade Association Pune (FTAP) has welcomed the decision of PMC to allow reopening of non-essential shops. “We assure Pune Municipal Corporation that all shop owners will follow Covid regulation norms while keeping shop open from 7am to 2pm,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, FTAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nonessential-shops-to-reopen-e-commerce-facility-resumes-101622473608842.html
31-05-2021||Pune||PMC to write to Centre on Covishield second dose time gap||Pune: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will write to the Centre to minimise the interval between two doses of Covishield for students going abroad for studies. The civic body plans to start the drive on Tuesday at Kamala Nehru Hospital, according to an order issued on Monday. Rubal Agarwal, PMC additional municipal commissioner, said, “The World Health Organisation (WHO) has recommended Covishield internationally. So, we will give Covishield to students planning to go abroad for studies. Regarding the 12-week vaccine for second dose, we will write to the central government to minimise the period for second dose.” Earlier, many had raised queries about the second dose as the existing order says that interval between two doses of Covishield should be minimum 84 days. Earlier on Saturday, Agarwal had said that many would want to report in late August-end or in September and so the gap between the two doses would not be a matter of concern. As per the latest order, the drive will be conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday between 10am and 5pm. Students have been asked to send documents related to visa and admission to PMC on email. “If needed we will increase the number of days for the special drive to accommodate all students,” Agarwal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-write-to-centre-on-covishield-second-dose-time-gap-101622471868751.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Petrol price breaches ₹100/litre-mark in Pune following 16th rate hike in May||Pune: From Monday, petrol will cost ₹100.15/ litre in Pune, in the first instance of the auto fuel crossing ₹100-mark in the city. Petrol price has shot past Rs-100/litre mark in many cities of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, in the past week. Petrol’s price in Pune was hiked by ₹0.28/litre and diesel by ₹0.27/litre to reach ₹90.71/ litre. It was the 16th hike in fuel prices in May. The price of per litre of power petrol has reached ₹103.83 in the city, said Ali Daruwala, spokesperson, All India Petrol Dealers’ Association. The current rally in fuel prices began after a two-month break from May 4 following the announcement of results for assembly elections in four states and one Union territory on May 3. Petrol in Pune was then priced at ₹96.62 per litre and diesel at ₹86.32 per litre. The price of petrol and diesel has since risen by ₹3.83/litre and ₹4.42/litre respectively across the country. Petrol is now selling for more than ₹100/litre in several cities of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Daruwala said, “Basic price is ₹36.11. Excise duty levied by the central government is ₹32.90. Tax collected by state governments on fuel is VAT and cess which is ₹17.25 and ₹10.12 respectively. Dealer margin is approximately ₹3.07 and transportation and other expenses constitute almost ₹0.70. There could be variation by a few paises.” Activists have been demanding that fuels be brought under GST so that the prices can be stabilised. “Common people are already under financial setback because of Covid pandemic and the lockdown. Increasing fuel prices have added to their misery. State and central governments should provide them relief in terms of taxes collected on fuels,” said Vivek Velankar, president, Sajag Nagrik Manch Pune. Transport associations have been demanding an intervention by the government to bring the diesel prices in control. “We have raised our demand with the union finance minister. Because of Covid curbs there are only 30% transportation activities which are being conducted. Passenger transport is very less. Most of the business operators in this sector have sustained major losses. The fuel prices have broken all the records. There should be immediate regulation of these prices,” said Baba Shinde, director (Maharashtra), All India Motor Transport Congress. Vivek Kondhalkar, a resident of the Ambegaon Budruk in Pune, said that the soaring fuel prices have made the lives of people difficult. “Those who need to step out of the houses for work even in these curbs are finding it difficult to afford the fuel rates. A substantial part of the salary is going into filling the fuel tank. I am surprised why no one is raising a voice against this,” said Kondhalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/petrol-price-breaches-rs-100-litre-mark-in-pune-following-16th-rate-hike-in-may-101622468268597.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Reservoir slab collapses at Parvati; no casualties||PUNE More than 60-year-old low-level reservoir slab collapsed at Janata Vasahat near Parvati water purification centre, on Sunday. There was no human casualty registered so far, said officials.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to repair and rebuild a reservoir and increased security to stop intruders in that area. The reservoir is surrounded by a dense population of Janata Vasahat. It has a capacity of 35 million litres and the corporation supplies water to entire old peth areas and some part of Sinhgad road.According to the local corporator of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Priya Gadade, she had registered complaints of the dilapidated condition of the reservoir.Aniruddha Pawaskar, superintendent engineer of the water supply department of PMC, said, “Due to the incident, there will be no effect on water supply in peth areas. The low-level reservoir is in good condition, only the slab has collapsed. We will repair the slab and reconstruct the reservoir step by step.”“As there were no alternative water reservoirs to divert water from these reservoirs to other tanks, we haven’t taken repair and reconstruction work till date,‘’ he explained.He further said, “Now, we have almost completed water tanks at Sinhagad road area near Rohan Kruitika. We have undertaken work to lay down a pipeline to connect to the Parvati water supply and purification centre. After completing work, we will store water and supply it to Sinhagad road and peth area. Then, we will repair and reconstruct the work of low-level reservoir at Janata Vasahat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/reservoir-slab-collapses-at-parvati-no-casualties-101622467010256.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: MVA on learning curve: Govt gets proactive to prevent another crisis||Last week, when the Nashik Police ordered an inquiry into allegations of corruption against Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab, many were surprised. The probe was ordered by Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pandey, even as he maintained that these are allegations and that the complainant has not attached any evidence at this point. The move exhibited both, the pro-activeness of the government to pre-empt the situation, and to prevent another crisis as it has barely recovered from the one that led to the resignation of Anil Deshmukh as home minister. Allegations against Parab, a senior Shiv Sena leader, came barely two months after Deshmukh had to resign in view of a CBI probe into accusations against him of running an extortion racket in Mumbai. Deshmukh’s resignation was a second jolt to the state government, as it came after the resignation of another minister, Sanjay Rathod. Unlike the last time, the response from the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Parab’s case was different and a deviation from its earlier policy of either defending ministers facing allegations, or not responding till the case reached court. A few days after a suspended motor vehicle inspector of the Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO) Gajendra Patil accused Parab and six officers of corruption in transfers and postings in the RTO department to the tune of crores of rupees, a probe was ordered. Parab, 56, is a three-term Shiv Sena legislator in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, the upper house of the state legislature. An advocate by profession, Parab is also minister for parliamentary affairs in the MVA government, enjoying much clout due to his proximity to Uddhav Thackeray. Parab has refuted the charges saying the complaint filed against him, the state transport commissioner and five other officers, is baseless, politically motivated, and aimed at defaming the MVA government. For the Shiv Sena, Parab meeting same fate as that of Deshmukh is unaffordable. The speed with which the Nashik police chief asked the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) to conduct a probe directing the DCP to submit the investigation report in the next five days, shows that the MVA government did not want to let the opposition overpower the situation. The complaint was filed by Gajendra Patil via an email, sent to Panchvati police station in Nashik on May 16. At the same time, the MVA has taken enough care to ensure the necessary precautions, so that the investigation does not reach the judiciary’s doorstep at this point. The government’s pro-activeness is a departure from the laxity exercised during Anil Deshmukh’s case. Within 14 months of the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government being in power, Deshmukh had to resign following allegations made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. He was left with no choice but to step down as the Bombay High Court ordered a preliminary CBI inquiry into the complaints, acting on a petition filed by advocate Jayashree Patil. Patil approached the high court after the Malabar Hill police station did not take action on a letter she had written on March 21 seeking to register a complaint against Deshmukh. Hearing the case that time, a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish S Kulkarni had said, “We agree with Jayashree Patil that directions are required to order an unbiased probe to unearth the truth”. By immediately ordering a probe, the Nashik Police have pre-empted others from taking a route similar to that of Patil, seeking the court’s intervention. Nashik police chief Pandey has asked two DCPs in Nashik to assist in the probe against Parab, also asking the complainant to be present on May 31. The opposition, going by their usual playbook, has sought Parab’s resignation to ensure a free and fair investigation. However, the probe ordered by the Nashik police, has taken the air out of their demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-mva-on-learning-curve-govt-gets-proactive-to-prevent-another-crisis-101622458189152.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Petrol prices breach ₹100/litre-mark in Pune following 16th rate hike in May||From Monday, Petrol will cost ₹100.15/ litre in Pune, in the first instance of the auto fuel crossing ₹100-mark in the city. The price of petrol has shot past Rs-100/litre mark in many cities of Maharashtra including Mumbai in the past week.On Sunday, petrol’s price in Pune was hiked by ₹0.28/litre and diesel prices were raised by ₹0.27/litre to reach ₹90.71/ litre. This was the 16th hike in fuel prices in the month of May. The price of per litre of power petrol has reached ₹103.83 in the city, said Ali Daruwala, spokesperson of All India Petrol Dealers’ Association.The current rally in fuel prices began after a two month break from May 4th following the announcement of results for assembly elections in 4 states and one union territory on May 3. Petrol in Pune was then priced at ₹96.62 per litre and diesel at ₹86.32 per litre. The price of petrol and diesel has since risen by ₹3.83/litre and ₹4.42/litre respectively across the country.Petrol is now selling for more than ₹100/litre in several cities of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps.Benchmark Brent crude rose marginally by 0.55% to $69.10 a barrel on Monday morning. Indian fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their international benchmark rates of the previous day. Even as international oil prices saw volatility in May, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction.According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/petrol-prices-breach-rs-100-litre-mark-in-pune-following-16th-rate-hike-in-may-101622437967591.html
31-05-2021||Pune||PMC’s Mandai demolition drive leaves vendors broken; threaten indefinite hunger strike||PUNE It was a a shock for Mahesh Jadhav and his family, when they came to know that their stall at Mandai, had been broken down in the anti-encroachment action taken by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday. “I got a call from one of my friends early in the morning that JCB machines and huge police bandobast is there. All the stalls are being removed. We immediately rushed to the spot, but nothing was left. They even didn’t gave us time to remove our goods and material from the shop. Now my wife, son and other family members are taking away what is left in the broken stall,” said Jadhav, a fruit vendor at Mahatma Phule Mandai. On Saturday morning, the PMC, along with the police razed at least 100 stalls/shops to make way for a Metro underground station. Somnath Kanchi, president of the Mahatma Phule Mandai fruit vendors’ association, said, “The action taken by PMC on Saturday was very ruthless and will have an impact on thousands of people who were owners of grocery and fruit shops, and their workers. We had a meeting with the PMC officials on May 27 in which we suggested some changes to be done while shifting us to a new place. At that time they agreed and suddenly on Saturday, JCB machines with police came early in the morning and started breaking down our shops. We do not oppose the Metro project, but this is not right. We are now going to take up this issue in the court and within couple of days we are going to start an indefinite hunger strike for our demands.”There are 105 small and big shops in this area and some have been open for 100 years. Grocery shop owner Jignesh Shah, whose shop was also taken down, said, “Our entire shop is down and within one day we are out of business. This was started 100 years ago by my grandfather. They should have given us prior notice, so we could have removed our goods safely. Families of hundreds of workers who are working in this market are also going to suffer now. The alternative space for our shops is very small and congested. There is hardly any space to walk, park vehicles, so it is inconvenient for the public as well.” Rajendra Bhagwan Dimbar, a senior citizen and one of the oldest fruit vendors in this market said, “As the mango season is going on, we had a lot of stock and pulp bottles. Yesterday, when the PMC JCB machines were breaking down the shops, they did it so mercilessly that we were not able to take our fruits and goods out. There is loss of around ₹3 lakh. None of the politicians and political parties came to help us.” In Saturday’s PMC anti-encroachment drive, structures spread over 5,000 square feet were cleared. Mandai market is one of the main metro stations between the underground stretch from Agriculture college to Swargate, part of the 16-kilometre Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate corridor. The Mandai metro underground station has been pending due to land acquisition. Madhav Jagtap, head of PMC’s anti-encroachment department said, “We had subsequent meetings with the grocery shop and fruit vendors from this area and it was a long pending issue to relocate them. As the Metro work was getting delayed the action was taken on Saturday and it still will continue till the debris is removed from the spot. They have been given an alternative space to do their business in a nearby area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmcs-mandai-demolition-drive-leaves-vendors-broken-threaten-indefinite-hunger-strike-101622386720839.html
31-05-2021||Pune||Vax for 18-45 age group to resume in June, says state, with pvt hospitals vaccinating thousands||At a time when private hospitals in Pune and Mumbai are offering Covid vaccinations on a daily basis, residents in Pune and the rest of Maharashtra are asking why the state government has not resumed vaccination for the 18-45 year age group. The state health department has clarified that Maharashtra is likely to resume inoculation of the younger population in June, when vaccine supply increases. Between May 24 and May 29, Pune district has seen over 0.1 million people get the jab, of which 40,649 people received it at private hospitals and 63,000 got it at government centres, under various eligible criterion. While the state government had earlier started vaccinating those between the ages of 18-45, it later stopped. Private hospitals have continued vaccinating this age group. Despite repeated attempts, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope did not respond to phone calls and text messages. Dr Archana Patil, director of health services in Maharashtra said, “We will start the vaccination for those aged 18-45 in June, but the date is yet to be set.” While addressing state, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said, “Availability of doses is challenge before us. We will resume the vaccination drive for age group 18-44 years soon.”Patil also clarified that the state is purchasing vaccines from manufacturers and diverting the stock to provide second doses to those aged above 45 years. “The process to get the vaccine is that first the central government informs us how much stock is allocated for state procurement, then we send orders to manufacturers and they supply the vaccines. Even though we place orders directly, allocation is done by the central government,” Patil said. In Pune, as many as 28 private hospitals have managed to procure Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India and have started vaccinations. In the past two days, (Friday and Saturday), as many as 20,500 persons in the 18-45 year age group have got their jabs at these hospitals. In addition to this, private hospitals have also been vaccinating a fraction of the population aged above 45 years, and its own staff under the healthcare workers’ quota. Dr H K Sale, executive director at Noble Hospital, said, “We do get some people aged above 45 years who want the vaccine despite its availability at government centres. However, that is a nominal fraction. Most of the beneficiaries that come to us are those in the 18-45 age category.” As of Saturday, Pune saw a total of 2.7 million doses administered, as per the state health department. Activists have raised questions on the availability of vaccines in private hospitals while shutting down government centres. This has forced people to loosen their wallets and pay more for the vaccine. Aam Admi Party member and public health expert Dr Abhit More said, “The differential pricing system of the same vaccine for centre, state and private companies, and now even some hotels in the country have started announcing vaccine packages, is the primary reason for this artificial shortage. The distribution of the vaccine is uneven while the public healthcare system should be prioritised instead of the private healthcare system. The vaccine policy should be clear and equal for all. A week before vaccinations started in private hospitals there was an acute shortage of vaccines. The availability of vaccines in private hospitals should be an added option for those who can afford it, and not a forced choice for those living in the city.” Dr More also questioned why the government is worried about profit of the manufacturers over the overall benefit of people. He said, “Earlier Mr Poonawalla has stated that even at ₹150 per dose he was making a profit, then why is the government worried about the distributor’s or manufacturer’s profit? The central government must regulate the distribution of vaccines and make it uniform.” State officials, however, said there is a shortage of vaccines and that the government has prioritised stock for those aged above 45. State immunisation officer, Dr Dilip N Patil said, “The government has temporarily stopped vaccination of those aged between 18-45 because the stock is now being diverted to those awaiting their second dose, in the age group of 45 and above. This population is more vulnerable and so it is important to fully vaccinate them. We have about 0.4 million people who are awaiting their second shot of Covaxin and many more who are awaiting their second shot of Covishield. Since the gap has increased to 84 days, that number is less now. We have vaccinated over 20 million in the state totally, and we have to vaccinate about 60 million in the age group of 18-45, so we need more than 120 million doses. Also we have demanded vaccines from the manufacturers but the demand is much higher than supply, so you can say that there is a shortage.” He further added, “To compare private vaccination and public vaccination drive would be wrong because private hospitals do not have any target as such. We have to vaccinate each and every eligible individual. We will soon start the vaccination drive for those aged between 18-45 in June, although the date is not yet decided. Even though the state places orders with the manufacturers, it is the centre that regulates the distribution.” On Sunday, According to Press Information Bureau, the Centre announced that 120 million vaccine doses will be available in the country of which 0.586 million will be directly procured by states and private hospitals from manufacturers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vax-for-18-45-age-group-to-resume-in-june-says-state-with-pvt-hospitals-vaccinating-thousands-101622385940852.html
