01-10-2021||In Perspective||Why ‘Tobin Tax’ makes sense in today’s world||Investors, Wall Street executives and market makers in the US have been debating the imminent introduction of currency transaction tax, or ‘Tobin Tax’, in recent months, following statements on it from Biden administration officials. The debate on whether to levy Tobin Tax or not has been raging for decades and has been an issue of dispute between some liberal economists and policymakers on one side and Wall Street participants on the other side. James Tobin, the American economist and winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics in 1981 proposed the tax on currency transactions in 1978. It was meant to discourage short-term speculation in currency markets that caused erratic fluctuations in exchange rates, causing significant damage to economies. When Richard Nixon suspended the convertibility of the US Dollar into gold in 1971, he effectively ended the fixed exchange rate system established under the Bretton Woods system and signaled the move to a flexible exchange rate system. As a result, there was a massive movement of funds between different currencies that threatened to destabilise the economies of many countries. Having got used to the floating exchange rate system and the volatility associated with it, Wall Street scoffed at the idea of a Tobin Tax which aimed at curbing speculation. As someone put it succinctly, “the bulk of the participants have a vested interest in the instability of forex markets as high turnover tends to occur only when markets are volatile.” The analysts at Salomon Brothers hit the nail on the head when they contended that “logically, the most destabilising environment for an institutional house is a relatively stagnant rate environment.” Tobin had suggested a rate of 0.5 per cent on short-term currency transactions and had argued that the tax would be effective only if all countries adopted it and the revenues were donated to developing economies since they were affected the most by volatile exchange rates and capital outflows. Although the rate proposed by Tobin was low, substantial revenues could be garnered as forex transactions between countries have grown multifold, thanks to globalisation. Supporters claim that the tax would help stabilise currency and interest rates and would provide relief to the central banks of economies that do not have the reserves to arrest a currency sell-off. The appeal of Tobin Tax consists in being a disincentive to short-term transactions while not hampering normal international trade. Tobin contended that the instability in markets was caused by asymmetric information and herd behaviour among speculators. Though the original objective of the tax was to curb speculation in short-term currency transactions, different countries implementing it have used it to their advantage to justify the levy. Many countries in Europe have imposed a levy on transactions of financial assets like shares and bonds. India, too, has a kind of Tobin Tax called the Securities Transaction Tax (STT), which is levied on the purchase and sale of securities like equity shares, debentures and units of mutual funds. The government has been collecting substantial amounts through STT because of the higher retail participation on the back of the stock markets scaling new heights. The government collected an STT of Rs 5,178 crore for the first quarter of FY 2021-22 against the full-year target of Rs 12,000 crore. Incidentally, the amount collected was Rs 2,408 crore during the corresponding period last year. These taxes have helped governments the world over to use the revenues to tackle problems like environmental pollution and poverty, which is why it is sometimes also called Robinhood Tax. Some countries, such as Chile, insist on a deposit of 30 per cent on the inflow of capital held for one year, and the policy has been used as a deterrent and has provided stability to short-term exchange rates. Opponents of Tobin Tax argue that the motivations of different traders in financial markets are not well understood and taxing all short-term transactions is harsh as they provide liquidity to currency markets. They say that the tax would eliminate the profits of traders and reduce the volume of transactions. They also argue that there is little evidence to suggest that Tobin Tax can reduce market volatility and prevent speculative attacks on currencies. There is also the problem of getting countries to agree on a uniform rate of tax. The sharing of revenues between countries and the United Nations will be another contentious issue. To quote a paper written for Oxfam, “Any proposal on the distribution of tax revenue can be expected to encounter stiff opposition from one quarter or another. Countries that are currency trade centres will want to keep the money for themselves, developing countries will want resources for development, and the major industrialised countries will not wish to relinquish the purse strings of multilateral organisations.” This pretty much sums up why there is no global Tobin Tax today. Let’s see if Biden gets it going. (The writer is a CFA and a former banker. He currently teaches at Manipal Academy of BFSI, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/why-tobin-tax-makes-sense-in-today-s-world-1036376.html
01-10-2021||Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi receives heavy rains; electricity disrupted||Kalaburagi received heavy showers on Friday night as eight trees were uprooted and water gushed into houses in several low-lying areas of the city. Power has been disrupted as tree branches fell on electricity lines following heavy rains. The city has been receiving heavy downpours for the past four days due to low pressure in the Bay of Bengal. Locals faced hardship as water gushed into the houses in Shakti Nagar, Gaziyabad, Dargah layout, Mominpur, Chowdapur area, Super market, Sonia Gandhi layout, High Court road and Om nagar. Motorists too found it difficult to move on as rainwater blocked the roads in Venkateshwar nagar, Shaktinagar, Shastrinagar, Mahaveernagar, Gullabad and other areas of the city. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/kalaburagi-receives-heavy-rains-electricity-disrupted-1036379.html
01-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kasaragod commuters seek Covid test exemption to enter Dakshina Kannada||Commuters from Kasaragod district, which neighbours Kerala, has submitted a memorandum to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V seeking exemption from the mandatory RT-PCR negative report, to enter Dakshina Kannada. A delegation of Sahayathri, a forum of daily commuters from Dakshina Kannada, who depend on the district for education, employment and other purposes, met the Deputy Commissioner in Mangaluru. Sahayathri members Lokesh Jodukallu, Kishor Yenankudlu, Shivakrishna Niduvaje and Ganesh Bhat Varanasi said that thousands of people including students, doctors, paramedical staff, businessmen and others from Kasargod district are dependent on Dakshina Kannada and travel regularly. With the Karnataka government making RT-PCR test mandatory for the inter-state commuters, the daily commuters are travelling with the Covid-19 negative report for the past 45 days. “We have undergone the tests four times in the last one-and-a-half months. With the resumption of schools and colleges, the students from Kasargod studying in educational institutions too have to undergo the test once in a week, which is causing a lot of inconvenience,” they explained. The DC said a decision will be taken based on the test positivity rate in Kasaragod district. According to the available statistics, the test positivity rate (TPR) in 12 gram panchayats and one municipality area in Kasargod taluk is 2.09 per cent. The Kasargod taluk has 390 active Covid-19 cases. The test positivity rate in eight gram panchayats in Manjeshwara taluk is 0.45 per cent and the active cases in Manjeshwara taluk is 94. People from Kasargod and Manjeshwara taluks are dependent on Dakshina Kannada. Both taluks have seen reduction in test positivity rate and active Covid-19 cases, said the delegation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kasaragod-commuters-seek-covid-test-exemption-to-enter-dakshina-kannada-1036109.html
01-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Website launched for Dasara||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar launched Dasara 2021 website, at Mysuru Palace Board Office, here, on Friday. Owing to Covid-19, this time too, the government is celebrating simple but traditional Dasara. All the events will be live telecasted through the website. In addition, the authorities also make use of social media like Facebook, YouTube, to telecast the events, the Minister said. Vijayadashami procession, Jamboo savari, inauguration of Dasara, cultural events will be live telecasted. The minister said that all the information about Dasara will be made available in the website. Apart from Dasara, the history of Mysuru Zoo and Mysuru Palace is also available in Kannada and English on the portal. One can also find the history of Mysuru Dasara, introduction of inaugurator, information about tourist centres available on the site. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/website-launched-for-dasara-1036166.html
01-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||S T Somashekar launches website for Dasara in Mysuru||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar launched Dasara 2021 website at Mysuru Palace Board Office here on Friday. Owing to Covid-19, this time too, the government is celebrating a simple but traditional Dasara. All the events will be live telecasted through the website. In addition, the authorities also make use of social media like Facebook, YouTube, to telecast the events, the minister said. Vijayadashami procession, Jamboo savari, inauguration of Dasara, cultural events will be live telecasted. The minister said that all the information about Dasara will be made available on the website. Apart from Dasara, the history of Mysuru Zoo and Mysuru Palace will also be available in Kannada and English on the portal. One can also find the history of Mysuru Dasara, the introduction of the inaugurator, information about tourist centres available on the site. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/s-t-somashekar-launches-website-for-dasara-in-mysuru-1036167.html
01-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephant Abhimanyu carries 280-kg wooden howdah at Mysuru Dasara rehearsal||With the Jamboo Savari for the Mysuru Dasara scheduled for October 15, the majestic elephant Abhimanyu was being prepped for the festival. Abhimanyu successfully carried the wooden howdah on his back at the rehearsal on Friday.  The wooden howdah, weighing 280 kg, was mounted on the elephant's back using a crane on the Mysuru Palace premises, where the golden howdah weighing 750 kg will be mounted. As many as six sand bags were also mounted on the back of the elephant.  Earlier in the day, Minister S T Somashekar offered prayers to the wooden howdah. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-abhimanyu-carries-280-kg-wooden-howdah-at-mysuru-dasara-rehearsal-1036168.html
01-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||2 power units in SGS suspended for annual maintenance||The operation of two units in Sharavathy Generating Station (SGS) in Sagar taluk, which contributes to around 23% of the power generated in Karnataka, has been suspended for annual maintenance. Karnataka Power Corporation Limited Chief Engineer Narayana Gajakosh said, for the annual maintenance, the operation of two units of SGS has been suspended. Though the Linganamakki dam, constructed across the river Sharavathi in Sagar taluk, has almost reached the maximum level, water would not be released from the dam as the water level is declining day by day. The water level in the dam stood at 1816.45 feet on October 1 against 1816.15 feet on the same day last year. The maximum level of the dam is 1819 feet. He said, "SGS was generating around 18 million units of power per day during the rainy season. But now, demand for hydropower has come down drastically following the rise in the generation of power through solar and wind energy. So, two units out of 10 units of SGS have been considered for annual maintenance. SGS has an installed capacity of 1,035 MW (through its 10 units)." He added that of the 10 units of SGS, five units have already been repaired. "So, now, the units are functioning properly. SGS Superintending Engineer Girish said, in order to reduce the economical burden on Karnataka Power Corporation Limited, the existing staff are repairing the units on the basis of suggestions and guidance from retired engineers and experts." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-power-units-in-sgs-suspended-for-annual-maintenance-1036326.html
01-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||National Emblem outside school set on fire in Karnataka's Sagar||Some miscreants have reportedly disfigured the National Emblem of India (Four Asiatic lions standing back to back on a circular abacus) by setting fire on it installed on the flag hoisting platform in front of St Joseph school at Nehru Maidan on Thursday night. According to people, the incident came to light on Friday when they came to the ground. The school uses the platform during the celebration of national festivals, after which the emblem is covered with a sack. Some people may have torched the top portion of the emblem in an inebriated state as liquor bottles were found around the platform. The school authorities have lodged a complaint at the police station.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/national-emblem-outside-school-set-on-fire-in-karnatakas-sagar-1036328.html
01-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard sighted in Hubballi, caught at Kavalageri same||Residents of Hubballi, especially those in areas surrounding Nrupatunga Betta, breathed a sigh of relief, as it is now confirmed that the leopard found at the Betta area and the one caught at Kavalgeri near Dharwad later was the same. DNA analysis of the leopard's faecal samples collected near Kendriya Vidyalaya No 1 at Rajnagar in Hubballi and in the farmland at Kavalageri has revealed that DNA obtained from both the samples are from the same male leopard. Hyderabad-based CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) forwarded the DNA analysis report to the deputy conservator of forests (Dharwad division) on Friday. In the report, CCMB examining scientist P Anuradha Reddy stated that results of "species-specific, individual identification and sex identification of PCRs and genotype analysis" revealed that the DNA obtained from two samples is from the same male leopard.  The leopard sighted at Nrupatunga Betta visited the sugarcane field at Kavalgeri, where it was trapped later. "The leopard initially stayed at the old and abandoned building at the KV No 1 premises. Later, it was suspected that the leopard might have moved from Hubballi to Kavalageri via Amargol and Govanakoppa. "To get the confirmation on whether the leopard found in Hubballi and Kavalageri is same or not, samples of leopard's excreta collected in those two places were sent for DNA analysis. Now, the report has confirmed that it was the same leopard," said Deputy Conservator of Forests Yashpal Kshirsagar. The leopard at the Betta area was first sighted on September 15 night, and efforts to trap it in cages also failed. The big cat was nowhere to be found after September 20. Search operations also could not trace the leopard, and the Forest Department staff could not find signs of the leopard staying in Hubballi. The leopard was caught at Kavalageri and released into the forest on September 26. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-sighted-in-hubballi-caught-at-kavalageri-same-1036355.html
01-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Medical interns in Davangere launch indefinite protest demanding release of stipend||Condemning the government's apathy towards resolving the stipend issue, medical interns serving in District Chigateri General Hospital launched an indefinite protest at Jayadeva circle in the city on Friday, urging the state government to provide stipend of five months to them at the earliest. The agitating students said 104 medical interns (house surgeons) selected under government quota did their MBBS in the JJM Medical College in the City run by the Bapuji Educational Association. As per the norms, medical interns have to be paid a stipend of Rs 20,000 per month as they are serving in District Chigateri General Hospital. But the tug-of-war between the JJM Medical College management and the state government over the payment of stipend for the medical interns has emerged again. Except for 15 house surgeons who are on Covid-19 and emergency duty, the remaining students boycotted the work. "We are fed up with this kind of negligence towards doctors. The government must take steps towards resolving the issue at the earliest and safeguard the interests of doctors." They said they had already submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai during his visit to the city recently, and also to Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, urging them to resolve the issue at the earliest. They also met chief secretary of government of Karnataka in Bengaluru. But there was no positive response. "So, we decided to launch indefinite agitation and it would be intensified in the coming days." They said, the JJM Medical College management is asking the government to pay the stipend, and the government is directing the management to pay it. "We are in a fix now. So, the government must find a permanent solution for this, and ensure that the interns are not put to further problems," they added. It may be noted that the JJM Medical College management paid stipend to postgraduate students and medical interns last year after the government intervened in the issue following a series of protests by the students. This year, the management has denied paying and has asked the government to pay it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/medical-interns-in-davangere-launch-indefinite-protest-demanding-release-of-stipend-1036371.html
01-10-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru Dasara: Golden throne assembled on Friday||The diamond-studded golden throne, Simhasana, was assembled during the auspicious time, at Mysuru Palace, on Friday. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the member of the erstwhile royal family, will conduct a private durbar (Khasagi durbar), seated on the throne, starting October 7, as part of Navaratri celebrations. The golden throne was assembled during the auspicious Tula lagna at 9:15 am. While the member of erstwhile royal family Pramoda Devi Wadiyar supervised the assembling of the throne, the family members and the palace staff were present. Various parts of the golden throne like the main seat, the umbrella, the flight of steps and others, which were kept in the Palace strong room, were brought out under tight security.  Special homas were performed as part of the ritual, on Friday morning. Due to the private durbar in Mysuru Palace and other rituals, the entry of visitors to the palace has been restricted for a few days, during Navaratri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-dasara-golden-throne-assembled-on-friday-1036218.html
01-10-2021||National||India received normal rainfall during June-Sept: IMD||The country received "normal" rainfall during the four-month Southwest Monsoon season from June to September, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday, even as there is an extended period of rainfall. The IMD said the Northeast Monsoon which brings rainfall to southern states from October to December is likely to be normal. IMD Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said conditions are very likely to be favourable for the commencement of withdrawal of the Southwest Monsoon from some parts of northwest India from around October 6. This is the second most delayed withdrawal of the Southwest Monsoon since 1960. Monsoon withdrawal from northwest India in 2019 started on October 9, R K Jenamani, senior forecaster with the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the IMD, said. The withdrawal of the Southwest Monsoon from northwest India usually begins from September 17. "Quantitatively, 2021 all India monsoon seasonal rainfall during June 1 to September 30 has been 87 cm against the Long Period Average of 88 cm of 1961-2010 (99 per cent of its LPA)," Mohapatra said. "Southwest Monsoon seasonal rainfall for the country as a whole during June-September has been normal (96-106 per cent of the LPA)," he added. This is for the third consecutive year that the country has recorded rainfall in the normal or above normal category. Rainfall was above normal in 2019 and 2020. The Southwest Monsoon is critical for the Indian economy whose GDP is still heavily dependent on agriculture and its allied activities. It is crucial for filling the reservoirs which are used to supply drinking water and irrigate vast swathes of land. The rainfall over the country as a whole was 110 per cent in June, 93 and 76 per cent in July and August respectively -- the months that bring the maximum rains. However, the shortfall of July and August was compensated in September which recorded rainfall 135 per cent of the LPA. In its four divisions, the IMD said, the Southwest Monsoon rainfall was normal over northwest India (96 per cent) and central India (104 per cent), below normal over east and northeast India (88 per cent), and above normal over South Peninsula India (111 per cent). Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Assam, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh in the Northeast, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, west Uttar Pradesh and Lakshadweep received deficient rainfall.  West Rajasthan, Haryana, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, north interior Karnataka, Gangetic West Bengal, Konkan and Goa, Marathwada and Andaman and Nicobar recorded excess rainfall during the monsoon season. The Southwest Monsoon made its onset over Kerala on June 3, after a delay of two days. It rapidly covered central, west, east, northeast and south India by June 15. It also covered many parts of north India, even Barmer and Jaisalmer -- its last outposts -- but the monsoon winds failed to reach Delhi, parts of Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh. It then witnessed a lull. It finally covered Delhi, parts of Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh, on July 13, five days after its normal onset date, belying IMD's forecasts.  Mohapatra said it again witnessed a lull from August 3 and entered the active phase of August 18. The month recorded a large deficiency. It again entered an active phase.  The season also saw formation of 13 cyclonic circulations -- low pressure, well marked low pressure area, depression, deep depression and cyclone -- which are critical during the rainfall period. "It is normal to have 13 systems, but they were not uniformly distributed,  Mohapatra added. June saw two low pressure areas, July recorded two low pressure areas (LPA) and two well-marked low pressure areas (WML). August recorded four LPAs. However, September recorded one cyclone (Gulab), one deep depression and four WML, he added. In its forecast for the Northeast Monsoon, the IMD said,  Northeast Monsoon 2021 is likely to be normal (89-113 per cent of the LPA)." Northeast Monsoon brings rains over Tamil Nadu, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalseema, Kerala, south interior Karnataka and Lakshadweep. The monthly rainfall for October 2021 over the south peninsula is most likely to be normal.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-received-normal-rainfall-during-june-sept-imd-1036000.html
01-10-2021||National||Yoga guru Sadashiv Nimbalkar dies||Yoga guru and Padmashri recipient Sadashiv Nimbalkar died of old age at Navi Mumbai in the early hours of Thursday, family sources said. He was 95. Nimbalkar had taught and propagated Yoga for the last more than 50 years and also written several books on it. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-guru-sadashiv-nimbalkar-dies-1036031.html
01-10-2021||National||Man fakes his own kidnapping to extort money from his parents||The Delhi Police said on Thursday that a man faked his own kidnapping in order to extort money from his parents. He will be produced before a court for recording his statement under Section 164 of the CrPC, the police said. The matter came to light when Tej Pal Singh, a resident of Bijnor in UP, informed police that his son Sushant Chawdhary was missing. On September 24, the complainant with his younger son had gone to Sushant’s office and he came to know that his son had not come to office since September 8, they said. Singh received a text message from Sushant’s phone saying that he had taken a loan of Rs 1,50,000 and had returned Rs 75,000. The message said if the remaining amount was not returned, then Sushant would be in big trouble, the police said. The police raided Gandhi Maidan, Chandni Chowk and other areas and traced Sushant. During interrogation, Sushant revealed that he had staged his own kidnapping as he needed some funds to repay his loans. Sushant told the police that he had been regularly investing money in an online trading site. He had taken loans to invest in this site but suffered huge losses, the police said. He hatched a plan to demand money from his parents and staged his own kidnapping, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-fakes-his-own-kidnapping-to-extort-money-from-his-parents-1036040.html
01-10-2021||National||India says China continues to deploy large number of troops, armaments along LAC||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) “continues to deploy a large number of troops and armaments” in the border areas and the Indian Army had to make “appropriate counter deployments”, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in New Delhi on Thursday. New Delhi dismissed Beijing’s allegation that the Indian Army was pursuing a “forward policy” along the disputed boundary and its troops had crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to encroach on the territory of China. “China continues to deploy large number of troops and armaments in the border areas. It was in response to Chinese actions, that our armed forces had to make appropriate counter deployments in these areas to ensure that India’s security interests are fully protected,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, said in New Delhi. Beijing on Wednesday alleged that India had long been pursuing the “forward policy” and illegally crossed the LAC to encroach on the territory of China and it was the “root cause” of the one-and-a-half-year long military stand-off along the LAC. “China opposes any arms race in the disputed border areas (with India) for the purpose of competition over control. We have always been firm in safeguarding national territorial sovereignty and security, and committed to peace and stability in the China-India border areas,” Hua Chunying, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing. She was reacting to reports about the Indian Army deploying M777 Howitzers along the LAC with China. New Delhi reacted on Thursday. “It was the amassing of large number of troops by the Chinese side, their provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity along the LAC in eastern Ladakh,” Bagchi said, dismissing his counterpart Hua’s statement in Beijing. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-china-continues-to-deploy-large-number-of-troops-armaments-along-lac-1036047.html
01-10-2021||National||India, US to raise military interoperability, align defence industrial policy||Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and his counterpart in the United States, Gen Mark A Milley, discussed ways to increase interoperability between the militaries of the two nations. Rawat met Milley in Washington as senior officials of the two governments had a meeting in New Delhi and agreed to set up a working group to expeditiously align policies and procedures allowing defence industries of the two nations to collaborate on cutting edge military technologies. The meeting between Rawat and Milley and the decision to align defence industrial policies and procedures of the two governments came close on the heels of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Washington for a meeting with the US President Joe Biden. Rawat and Milley discussed a range of issues, including ways to ensure regional security and their respective roles as principal military advisors to civilian leadership. They also agreed to continue cooperation in training exercises and creating more opportunities to increase interoperability between the two militaries, Col. Dave Butler, a spokesperson of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, said. They also noted that India and the US shared a strong military-to-military relationship under the US-India ‘Major Defence Partnership’, which supported a free and open Indo-Pacific. The meeting of the senior officials of the Ministry of Defence and the US Department of Defence in New Delhi was held to chalk out a roadmap for implementing the Industrial Security Annex (ISA), which was signed during the second 2+2 dialogue in December 2019 to be added to the already existing General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA). The ISA provided a framework for exchange and protection of classified military information between the US and Indian industries in order to elevate the defence relations from the seller-buyer level to the level of joint research and development and joint production. The four-day meeting ended with both sides agreeing in principle to establish the Indo-US Industrial Security Joint Working Group, which would meet periodically to align the policies and procedures expeditiously that will allow the defence industries to collaborate on cutting edge defence technologies, according to a government press release issued in New Delhi. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-to-raise-military-interoperability-align-defence-industrial-policy-1036056.html
01-10-2021||National||Divestment Bound: AI staff to vacate accommodations in 6 months||National carrier Air India has been asked by the Centre to ensure that its employees vacate the company-provided accommodations within six months from the divestment of the airline or the monetisation of properties. Accordingly, employees staying in company accommodations in different housing establishments will have to vacate or face strict penal action or heavy monitory penalty with disciplinary action. The decision, according to the employees, comes as a rude shock, especially in metro cities like Delhi or Mumbai, where housing rentals are "sky-high". At present, Air India has colonies in both Delhi and Mumbai. Flats in these colonies were allotted to the employees on subsidised rates. The development assumes significance as the divestment process has picked-up pace and is said to be in its final stages. In a letter to the Air India CMD, the Ministry of Civil Aviation said on September 29: "AI employees may continue to stay at the residential colonies of the company post disinvestment for a period of six months or till the property is monetised, whichever is earlier. "Appropriate binding legal and other arrangements, including financial disincentives, should be formulated to enable prompt vacation of the properties by the employees." The decision as per the letter was taken by the AISAM (Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism) at its meeting held on August 9, 2021. Besides, the letter detailed that employees retiring as of September 30, 2021, may be allowed to retain the accommodation for a maximum period of four months or within six months post disinvestment or "till the property is monetised whichever is earlier". "No extension in retention beyond four months shall be provided under any circumstances," it said. The serving employees residing in AI colonies shall vacate the allotted accommodation within a period of six months post disinvestment or till the property is monetised. "These new rules have not mandated the airline to provide alternative residential arrangements. There is anxiety among employees that many might become homeless with families in metros like Delhi and Mumbai, especially during the ongoing pandemic," a senior airline staffer said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/divestment-bound-ai-staff-to-vacate-accommodations-in-6-months-1036068.html
01-10-2021||National||Divestment Bound: Air India staff asked to vacate accommodations in 6 months||National carrier Air India has been asked by the Centre to ensure that its employees vacate the company-provided accommodations within six months from the divestment of the airline or the monetisation of properties. Accordingly, employees staying in company accommodations in different housing establishments will have to vacate or face strict penal action or heavy monitory penalty with disciplinary action. The decision, according to the employees, comes as a rude shock, especially in metro cities like Delhi or Mumbai, where housing rentals are "sky-high". At present, Air India has colonies in both Delhi and Mumbai. Flats in these colonies were allotted to the employees on subsidised rates. The development assumes significance as the divestment process has picked-up pace and is said to be in its final stages. In a letter to the Air India CMD, the Ministry of Civil Aviation said on September 29: "AI employees may continue to stay at the residential colonies of the company post disinvestment for a period of six months or till the property is monetised, whichever is earlier. "Appropriate binding legal and other arrangements, including financial disincentives, should be formulated to enable prompt vacation of the properties by the employees." The decision as per the letter was taken by the AISAM (Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism) at its meeting held on August 9, 2021. Besides, the letter detailed that employees retiring as of September 30, 2021, may be allowed to retain the accommodation for a maximum period of four months or within six months post disinvestment or "till the property is monetised whichever is earlier". "No extension in retention beyond four months shall be provided under any circumstances," it said. The serving employees residing in AI colonies shall vacate the allotted accommodation within a period of six months post disinvestment or till the property is monetised. "These new rules have not mandated the airline to provide alternative residential arrangements. There is anxiety among employees that many might become homeless with families in metros like Delhi and Mumbai, especially during the ongoing pandemic," a senior airline staffer said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/divestment-bound-air-india-staff-asked-to-vacate-accommodations-in-6-months-1036069.html
01-10-2021||National||India reports 26,727 new Covid-19 cases, 277 deaths||India logged 26,727 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,37,66,707, while the active cases declined to 2,75,224, the lowest in 196 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,48,339 with 277 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.82 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.86 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,796 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,20,899 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to        57,04,77,338. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.76  per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 32 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.70 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 98 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,30,43,144, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 89 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 277 new fatalities include 122 from Kerala and 56 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,48,339 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,39,067 from Maharashtra,37,794 from Karnataka, 35,578 from Tamil Nadu, 25,087 each from Delhi and Kerala, 22,892 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,793 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-26727-new-covid-19-cases-277-deaths-1036079.html
01-10-2021||National||India-Australia to reach trade deal by end 2022||Australia and India hope to reach a landmark trade deal by the end of 2022, according to a joint statement released on Friday. Following trade ministers' talks, the two Asia-Pacific economies backed the "expeditious negotiation" of a "Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement". Ministers Dan Tehan and Piyush Goyal said the two countries would try to reach an interim accord "to liberalise and deepen bilateral trade in goods and services" by the end of this year. They vowed to "conclude the negotiations on a full CECA by the end of 2022". India-Australia trade was valued around Aus$24 billion (US$17 billion) last year. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-to-reach-trade-deal-by-end-2022-1036081.html
01-10-2021||National||Since Myanmar coup, over 15,000 people estimated to have escaped to India: UN chief||More than 15,000 people from Myanmar are estimated to have crossed the border into India since the February 1 military coup there, UN chief Antonio Guterres has said, telling the General Assembly in a report that armed clashes have erupted mostly in regions and states along the borders with Thailand, China and India and are raising concern about regional implications of the crisis. Guterres, in his report Situation of human rights of Rohingya Muslims and other minorities in Myanmar, said that prior to February 1, there were around 336,000 internally displaced persons in conflict-affected areas across Myanmar. “Since that date, more than 220,000 people have been internally displaced by the escalation of conflict and violence. In addition, more than 15,000 people are estimated to have crossed the border into India. A further 7,000 people crossed into Thailand, all of whom have returned and remain internally displaced in Myanmar,” the Secretary-General said in the report, which covers the period from August 15, 2020 to August 14, 2021. Myanmar shares an over 1,600 km long unfenced and porous land border with India as well as a maritime boundary in the Bay of Bengal. Four North-Eastern states - Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram share the international boundary with Myanmar. Guterres said in the report that since February, tensions have increased throughout the country, including in areas covered by the 2015 Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement and where there was relative peace before February 1, when the Myanmar military seized power and detained top political figures, including Aung San Suu Kyi and President U Win Myint. “Mostly in states and regions along the borders with Thailand, China and India, armed clashes have erupted between the Tatmadaw, ethnic armed organisations and newly formed civilian people’s defence forces, raising concern about regional implications of the crisis and the potential for a large-scale armed conflict,” the report said. The UN chief notes in the report that Rohingya continue to undertake risky journeys across the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. “In June, a boat carrying dozens of Rohingya refugees reached Aceh, Indonesia, after leaving Bangladesh or Myanmar – engine failure caused it to remain adrift in the Andaman Sea for several months, leading to the deaths of some refugees. Another boat was rescued by the Indian Coast Guard in February,” he said. The report added that brutality by the security forces against people opposing the military takeover and the self-declared State Administrative Council, including those participating in the civil disobedience movement, has been wide-ranging. “Those expressing opposition to the military and joining democratic movements, as well as their relatives and associates, have been subject to arbitrary killings and detentions, disappearances, night raids, intimidation, and torture,” it said. There have also been numerous reports of sexual and gender-based violence perpetrated by the security forces as well as numerous reports of acts of violence targeted at the security forces, such as the killing of individuals suspected of collaborating with the military. “The Secretary-General has called for maximum restraint by all sides,” the report said. Guterres said he has repeatedly called on the military to respect the will of the people, to refrain from violence and repression, and to act in the greater interest of peace and stability in the country. The UN Security Council has expressed deep concern at the arbitrary detention of members of the Government, including President Win Myint, State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and others, and called for the immediate release of all those detained arbitrarily, while condemning the ongoing violence. “Neighbouring countries could leverage their influence over the military and call on it to respect the will of the people and to act in the greater interest of peace and stability in the country and region,” he said. Guterres voiced concern that Myanmar is facing a prolonged period of insecurity and instability and it is important that concerted efforts are made among domestic, regional and international actors to enable fully civilian rule in line with the will of the people. “The risk of a large-scale armed conflict requires a collective approach to prevent a multi-dimensional catastrophe in the heart of South-East Asia and beyond," he said. "Grave humanitarian implications, including rapidly deteriorating food security, an increase in mass displacements and a weakened public health system compounded by a new wave of Covid-19 infections require a coordinated approach in complementarity with regional actors,” Guterres said. He said that the United Nations will focus its efforts on further strengthening a system-wide coherent approach to providing humanitarian and life-saving assistance to support the people of Myanmar and help to prevent further regional ramifications. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet had said last week that more than 1,120 people have been killed since the coup and military authorities have also arrested over 8,000 people, including elected officials, protesters and journalists during arrests and raids. At least 120 people have reportedly died in custody, and some have been denied access to medical treatment, she said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/since-myanmar-coup-over-15000-people-estimated-to-have-escaped-to-india-un-chief-1036098.html
01-10-2021||National||Since Myanmar coup, over 15,000 people estimated to have escaped to India: UN chief||More than 15,000 people from Myanmar are estimated to have crossed the border into India since the February 1 military coup there, UN chief Antonio Guterres has said, telling the General Assembly in a report that armed clashes have erupted mostly in regions and states along the borders with Thailand, China and India and are raising concern about regional implications of the crisis. Guterres, in his report Situation of human rights of Rohingya Muslims and other minorities in Myanmar, said that prior to February 1, there were around 336,000 internally displaced persons in conflict-affected areas across Myanmar. “Since that date, more than 220,000 people have been internally displaced by the escalation of conflict and violence. In addition, more than 15,000 people are estimated to have crossed the border into India. A further 7,000 people crossed into Thailand, all of whom have returned and remain internally displaced in Myanmar,” the Secretary-General said in the report, which covers the period from August 15, 2020 to August 14, 2021. Myanmar shares an over 1,600 km long unfenced and porous land border with India as well as a maritime boundary in the Bay of Bengal. Four North-Eastern states - Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram share the international boundary with Myanmar. Guterres said in the report that since February, tensions have increased throughout the country, including in areas covered by the 2015 Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement and where there was relative peace before February 1, when the Myanmar military seized power and detained top political figures, including Aung San Suu Kyi and President U Win Myint. “Mostly in states and regions along the borders with Thailand, China and India, armed clashes have erupted between the Tatmadaw, ethnic armed organisations and newly formed civilian people’s defence forces, raising concern about regional implications of the crisis and the potential for a large-scale armed conflict,” the report said. The UN chief notes in the report that Rohingya continue to undertake risky journeys across the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. “In June, a boat carrying dozens of Rohingya refugees reached Aceh, Indonesia, after leaving Bangladesh or Myanmar – engine failure caused it to remain adrift in the Andaman Sea for several months, leading to the deaths of some refugees. Another boat was rescued by the Indian Coast Guard in February,” he said. The report added that brutality by the security forces against people opposing the military takeover and the self-declared State Administrative Council, including those participating in the civil disobedience movement, has been wide-ranging. “Those expressing opposition to the military and joining democratic movements, as well as their relatives and associates, have been subject to arbitrary killings and detentions, disappearances, night raids, intimidation, and torture,” it said. There have also been numerous reports of sexual and gender-based violence perpetrated by the security forces as well as numerous reports of acts of violence targeted at the security forces, such as the killing of individuals suspected of collaborating with the military. “The Secretary-General has called for maximum restraint by all sides,” the report said. Guterres said he has repeatedly called on the military to respect the will of the people, to refrain from violence and repression, and to act in the greater interest of peace and stability in the country. The UN Security Council has expressed deep concern at the arbitrary detention of members of the Government, including President Win Myint, State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and others, and called for the immediate release of all those detained arbitrarily, while condemning the ongoing violence. “Neighbouring countries could leverage their influence over the military and call on it to respect the will of the people and to act in the greater interest of peace and stability in the country and region,” he said. Guterres voiced concern that Myanmar is facing a prolonged period of insecurity and instability and it is important that concerted efforts are made among domestic, regional and international actors to enable fully civilian rule in line with the will of the people. “The risk of a large-scale armed conflict requires a collective approach to prevent a multi-dimensional catastrophe in the heart of South-East Asia and beyond," he said. "Grave humanitarian implications, including rapidly deteriorating food security, an increase in mass displacements and a weakened public health system compounded by a new wave of Covid-19 infections require a coordinated approach in complementarity with regional actors,” Guterres said. He said that the United Nations will focus its efforts on further strengthening a system-wide coherent approach to providing humanitarian and life-saving assistance to support the people of Myanmar and help to prevent further regional ramifications. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet had said last week that more than 1,120 people have been killed since the coup and military authorities have also arrested over 8,000 people, including elected officials, protesters and journalists during arrests and raids. At least 120 people have reportedly died in custody, and some have been denied access to medical treatment, she said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/since-myanmar-coup-over-15000-people-estimated-to-have-escaped-to-india-un-chief-1036101.html
01-10-2021||National||President Ram Nath Kovind turns 76; Vice Prez, PM greet him||President Ram Nath Kovind turned 76 on Friday. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished him good health and many more years in the service of the nation on his birthday. Kovind was born on October 1, 1945, at Paraunkh village in Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. He was sworn in as the 14th President of India on July 25, 2017. "My Heartiest greetings to Hon'ble President of India, Ram Nath Kovind Ji on his birthday today. He is known for his simplicity, high ethics and remarkable vision. May he be blessed with good health, happiness and many more years in the service of the nation," Naidu tweeted. Prime Minister Modi also wished the president on his birthday saying his focus on empowering the poor and marginalised sections of society is exemplary. "Birthday greetings to Rashtrapati Ji. Due to his humble personality, he has endeared himself to the entire nation. His focus on empowering the poor and marginalised sections of society is exemplary. May he lead a long and healthy life,” Modi tweeted. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-turns-76-vice-prez-pm-greet-him-1036113.html
01-10-2021||National||Paras Defence makes stellar market debut; lists with over 171% premium||Shares of Paras Defence and Space Technologies on Friday made a dream debut and jumped over 171 per cent against its issue price of Rs 175. The stock listed at Rs 475, reflecting a huge jump of 171.42 per cent from the issue price on BSE. It further zoomed 185 per cent to Rs 498.75. On NSE, it listed at Rs 469, rallying 168 per cent from the issue price. The company commanded a market valuation of Rs 1,945.13 crore on the BSE. The initial public offer of Paras Defence and Space Technologies received a whopping 304.26 times subscription last month. Price range for the offer was at Rs 165-175 per share. The initial public offer (IPO) was fully subscribed within hours of opening on the first day of subscription. The company is engaged in designing, developing, manufacturing, and testing a wide range of defence and space engineering products and solutions. Paras Defence and Space Technologies' business is highly dependent on projects and programmes are undertaken by the central government and associated entities, such as defence public sector undertakings and government organisations involved in space research.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/paras-defence-makes-stellar-market-debut-lists-with-over-171-premium-1036143.html
01-10-2021||National||IUCN bats for protection of great Indian bustard||In a significant development towards protection and conservation of the great Indian bustard, the World Conservation Congress (WCC) hosted by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), voted in favour of a motion for the species on the verge of extinction. At the WCC held in Marseille, France, from 3-11 September 2021, the Members Assembly voted in favour of the motion titled Preventing the extinction of the Great Indian Bustard (Ardeotis nigriceps) in India. The Corbett Foundation, a Member of the IUCN and one of the leading conservation organisations in India, took the lead in proposing this motion in May 2019 and received support from the following national organisations: Aaranyak, Bombay Natural History Society, Gujarat Ecology Society, Wildlife Conservation Trust, Wildlife Protection Society of India and Wildlife Trust of India, and international organisations such as BirdLife International (UK) and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (UK). This motion went for online voting in 2020, and thus it became a Resolution in September 2021 at the WCC, which was initially scheduled to be held in June 2020 but was postponed thrice due to the pandemic. “The Resolution preventing the extinction of the Great Indian Bustard in India would help to further intensify and strengthen the efforts to conserve and protect the last surviving population of these majestic birds,” said Kedar Gore, Director, The Corbett Foundation, who is also a Member, IUCN SSC Bustard Specialist Group. The motions are the mechanism by which Members of IUCN influence and guide the policy of conservation programmes. Listed as “critically endangered”, less than 150 great Indian bustards remain in the wild today, mainly in India - Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh - while a few are sporadically reported in the Cholistan parts of Pakistan adjoining the states of Rajasthan and Gujarat. In the last couple of decades, the steep decline in the population of great Indian bustard in the last few decades is primarily due to their collision with the overhead power lines. It is important to note that in addition to the existing power lines, renewable energy projects have also come up at large-scale around the Thar Desert (Rajasthan), Kutch (Gujarat) and in other range states of the species such as Maharashtra. This situation results in a rapid increase of overhead power line networks in and around the bustard habitat. Documented deaths of tagged great Indian bustard in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra have proven beyond doubt the potential threat these overhead power lines pose to these bustards and many other species of birds. In addition to the collision with power lines, habitat loss, hunting, uncontrolled livestock grazing, predation by feral dogs, changing crop pattern, indiscriminate use of pesticides, and conversion of grasslands and semi-arid regions – that are unfortunately categorised as ‘wastelands’ – for developmental projects or agriculture encroachment, have been other reasons for the decline in bustard numbers. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iucn-bats-for-protection-of-great-indian-bustard-1036160.html
01-10-2021||National||Former Kerala Chief Secretary and writer C P Nair passes away||Former bureaucrat and writer-columnist, Chellappan Parameswaran Nair, popularly known as C P Nair, died at his residence here following a cardiac arrest on Friday, family sources said. He was 81. A 1962 batch IAS officer, Nair had retired as the Chief Secretary of the southern state in 1998. Known for his remarkable administrative capabilities, sharp wit and humorous writing style, he was very much active in the socio-cultural and literary arenas of the state even after retirement. He held significant posts like district collector, home secretary, labour secretary and Commissioner of Travancore Devaswom Board during his decades-long stint as civil servant. Nair also served as the member of Administrative Reforms Commission and headed a government panel, formed to rewrite the Kerala Education Act and Rules (KEAR) post-retirement. An award-winning writer and columnist, C P Nair wrote a handful of books including "Thakil", "Uganda Malayalam", "Lankayil Oru Maruthi" and so on and the work "Irukalimoottakal" had won him the Kerala Sahithya Akademi award. He is survived by wife Saraswathy and two children. People from various walks of life including ministers and political leaders condoled the death of the former bureaucrat. Condoling Nair's death, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan remembered him as an eminent bureaucrat and writer. "His services as Chief Secretary and Administrative Reforms Commission member were noteworthy," he said, adding that Nair made valuable contributions to the filed of literature as well. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-kerala-chief-secretary-and-writer-c-p-nair-passes-away-1036161.html
01-10-2021||National||Deep depression intensifies into Cyclone Shaheen; to move away from Indian coast: IMD||The deep depression in the Arabian Sea intensified into Cyclone Shaheen on Friday morning and it is further likely to intensify into a 'severe cyclonic storm' by evening, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The system is moving away from the Indian coast, the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. "The cyclonic storm Shaheen over northeast Arabian Sea and neighbourhood moved west-northwestwards with a speed of about 20 kmph today over central parts of north Arabian Sea," it said. "It is very likely to further intensify into a severe cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours and move west-northwestwards skirting Makran coast (Pakistan) during next 36 hours. Thereafter it is likely to re-curve west-southwestwards, move towards Oman coast across the Gulf of Oman and weaken gradually," it added. Cyclone Shaheen was formed from the remnants of Cyclone Gulab, which had hit the east coast on September 26. Cyclone Gulab's intensity had reduced further as it traversed central India, pounding parts of Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. As its remnants entered the Arabian Sea, they intensified further into a cyclonic storm on Friday morning. It is a rare instance that one cyclone that formed over the Bay of Bengal has traversed the breadth of the country to reach the west coast and again intensify into a cyclone. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deep-depression-intensifies-into-cyclone-shaheen-to-move-away-from-indian-coast-imd-1036162.html
01-10-2021||National||Australian medicine regulator approves Covishield vaccine for incoming passengers||Australia's top medical regulator on Friday approved the Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India for incoming international travellers, a step that is expected to facilitate the return of thousands of Indian students to that country. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison's office said the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) has advised that Coronavac (Sinovac) and Covishield should be considered as "recognised vaccines" for the purpose of determining incoming international travellers as being appropriately vaccinated. It said Australia is ready to take its next steps to safely reopen to the world, with changes coming to the international border. "Our government is setting out the framework for how international travel will look in coming months," it said. It is not immediately clear whether the TGA's approval for Covishield will facilitate immediate travel to Australia by Indian students waiting to return to that country or whether certain changes will have to be made to the existing protocols for the entry of foreign nationals into the country. The TGA is Australia's medicines and medical devices regulator. "Today, the TGA has published its initial assessment of the data on the protection offered by the Coronavac (Sinovac) and Covishield (AstraZeneca/Serum Institute of India) vaccines and has advised that these vaccines should be considered as 'recognised vaccines' for the purpose of determining incoming international travellers as being appropriately vaccinated," the Australian Prime Minister's Office (PMO)said in a statement. It said declaring certain Covid-19 vaccines as 'recognised vaccines' is separate to a regulatory decision on whether they are approved for use for vaccination in Australia, which has not been made by the TGA. "The recognition of these two additional vaccines is a major milestone towards more Australians vaccinated overseas getting home sooner," the statement said. "In coming weeks, the Minister for Health will consider updates to the Biosecurity Act Emergency determinations to facilitate some of these changes for fully vaccinated Australian travellers as we move forward on the National Plan to get Australia back to normal and reopen our country safely," it said. The Australian PMO said that the government will finalise in the coming weeks the processes for people to be able to show their vaccination status if they have had a TGA recognised vaccine. "People who have received vaccines not recognised by the TGA, or who are unvaccinated, will be required to undertake 14 days of managed quarantine on arrival," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/australian-medicine-regulator-approves-covishield-vaccine-for-incoming-passengers-1036177.html
01-10-2021||National||Kangana's plea for defamation case transfer devoid of merit: Javed Akhtar||Veteran lyricist Javed Akhtar submitted in a court here on Friday that actor Kangana Ranaut's petition seeking transfer of the criminal defamation case filed by him against her was "devoid of any merits" and aimed at delaying the proceedings. In his written reply, filed through lawyer Jay Bharadwaj, Akhtar said "The present transfer petition is devoid of all merits and is liable to be dismissed at the very threshold. The same is only filed to delay the proceedings before the Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court (which is currently presiding over the case), he said. "The grounds mentioned in the present application were raised for the first time after more than seven months of summoning of the applicant (Ranaut) with the sole intent to delay the matter," it said. Multiple petitions filed by the actor against the magistrate court's proceeding have been rejected by both - the sessions court and the Bombay High Court. She had also filed a transfer petition before the Supreme Court. However, the petition had some defects and was declared "infructuous" for not following the required procedures, Akhtar said. This clearly goes on to show that the present petition is an orchestrated tactic to delay the proceedings pending, it added. The matter has been posted for hearing on October 18. Akhtar (76) had filed the complaint in the court in November last year, claiming that Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the alleged suicide committed by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. Ranaut has also moved a counter complaint in the court against Akhtar for alleged "extortion and criminal intimidation" before the metropolitan magistrate court. The actor in her complaint against Akhtar said following her public dispute with her co-star, the lyricist had called her and her sister Rangoli Chandel to his house with "malafide intentions and ulterior motives and then criminally intimidated and threatened" her. As per the complaint, Akhtar had forced Ranaut to tender a written apology to her co-star. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanganas-plea-for-defamation-case-transfer-devoid-of-merit-javed-akhtar-1036181.html
01-10-2021||National||Why is India facing a coal shortage?||Indian utilities are scrambling to secure coal supplies as inventories hit critically low levels. Here is a brief summary of the factors that have led to the country's coal shortage. What are the current stock levels? As at September 29, 16 of India's 135 coal-fired power plants had zero coal stocks, according to the Central Electricity Authority (CEA). Over half of the plants had stocks that would last fewer than three days, while over 80% had less than a week's stock left. Coal accounts for over 70% of India's electricity output, and utilities account for about 75% of India's coal consumption. What caused the coal shortage? India's industrial power demand has surged after the second coronavirus pandemic wave. On top of that, a widening price gap between lower domestic prices and record global coal prices has led buyers to shun imports. State-run Coal India, which produces over 80% of India's coal, on Wednesday said an increase in global coal prices and freight costs had led to a curtailment in power production by plants using imported coal, adding to the pressure on utilities using domestically mined coal to ramp up output. Why are the prices between global and domestic coal widening? Domestic coal prices in India are largely decided by Coal India. An increase in coal prices generally has a knock on effect on power prices and inflation, making a hike a politically sensitive decision. Coal India has kept prices steady over the last year despite global coal prices rising steeply in the same period. While the company's chairman has said the miner will increase prices, it is not immediately clear when it will happen. Meanwhile, Asia's coal price benchmarks have hit record highs in the recent times, buoyed by global demand for power generation fuels as economies open up. A major power crisis in China is the latest event driving global demand for the fuel. Why are utilities unable to pass on higher costs? India's power tariffs, set by the respective states, are among the lowest in the world, according to the website globalpetrolprices.com, as state-run distribution companies have absorbed higher input costs to keep tariffs steady. This has left many of these companies deeply indebted, with cumulative liabilities running into billions of dollars. The companies' strained balance sheets have consistently triggered delayed payments to power producers, often affecting cash flows and disincentivising further investment in the electricity generation sector. Indian power producers locked in long-term agreements with distribution utilities often cannot pass on higher input costs unless clauses are included in their contracts. What does India's crisis mean for global coal markets? India is the second largest importer, consumer and producer of coal, and has the world's fourth largest reserves. It mainly imports from Indonesia, Australia and South Africa. CRISIL, a unit of ratings agency S&P, said it expects Australian and Indonesian thermal coal prices to increase over the remainder of this fiscal year, due to supply constraints and high demand from China and elsewhere. Who are the winners and losers? Shares of Indian power producers NTPC Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power, and Coal India have been rising strongly in recent weeks, spurred by rising power demand. An official at a large utility operator said many traders who bought coal at the domestic spot auctions sold the fuel at steep premiums. Many non-power consumers of coal, and import-based power plants have curtailed production due to high foreign prices. While large scale outages like those in China seem unlikely in the immediate future, some pockets of the country might face power outages, officials say. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-is-india-facing-a-coal-shortage-1036183.html
01-10-2021||National||Air Marshal Sandeep Singh takes charge as Vice Chief of IAF||Air Marshal Sandeep Singh on Friday took charge as the new Vice Chief of the Indian Air Force. He succeeded Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari, who became the 27th Chief of the Air Staff on Thursday. An alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Air Marshal Singh was commissioned in the flying branch of the IAF in December 1983, as a fighter pilot.   The officer is an experimental test pilot and a qualified flying instructor. He has rich and diverse experience in operational and experimental test flying on various types of fighter aircraft. He has a flying experience of 4,400 hours. In his nearly 38 years of service in the IAF, the Air Marshal has held numerous important command and staff appointments.   Air Marshal Singh has commanded the Aircraft and Systems Testing Establishment, a frontline airbase and an operational fighter squadron.   He has held the appointments of Assistant Chief of the Air Staff (Plans), Senior Air Staff Officer at headquarters of the Eastern Air Command and Deputy Chief of the Air Staff at Air headquarters.   Prior to assuming the current appointment, he was serving as Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief (AOC-in-C) of South Western Air Command. Air Marshal Singh is a recipient of the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal and Vishisht Seva Medal. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-marshal-sandeep-singh-takes-charge-as-vice-chief-of-iaf-1036194.html
01-10-2021||National||Niti Aayog, DPIIT raise concerns over draft ecommerce rules||Centre's new draft ecommerce rules have invited criticism from various sections within the government with Niti Aayog warning that the new norms "will severely harm Ease of Doing Business and impact small businesses," according to records obtained by The Indian Express under RTI Act. The new draft rules, issued by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs in June, have faced backlash from various sections. Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) under Ministry of Commerce and Industry has flagged anomalies, questioned some provisions and recommended changes. Besides DPIIT, Corporate Affairs Ministry has also raised voiced issues with new rules. Incidentally, Union Minister Piyush Goyal is in charge of both Ministry of Consumer Affairs, under which the rules were issued, and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, under which DPIIT functions. What are the issues raised? One of the key objections is fallback liability. Under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, the seller is held accountable for selling a defective product or causing harm to the consumer through it. However, under the draft ecommerce rules, the platforms, not sellers, such as Amazon or Flipkart will be liable in case of issues related to the product. Industrial players have pointed out that FDI norms prevent these platforms from having control over the inventory sold on their sites but they could be pulled up in case if a consumer is troubled. The new terms introduced in the draft, such as “cross-selling” and “mis-selling”, were also questioned by the DPIIT, saying the need for such terms need to be reevaluated. Another concern is fear of the new rules overlapping with already existing norms, particularly with the Competition Act under Corporate Affairs. The ministry warned of "divergent rulings" when cases are interpreted under different regulations. MSMEs and small business  Niti Aayog has warned that the small businesses will be impacted by the new ecommerce rules and that can hamper the economic recovery. However, MSME Ministry has backed the draft rules, while the DPIIT has said that start-ups and MSMEs must be exempted from the norms. Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has called for aligning the ecommerce draft rules with the new IT rules. It was reported earlier that Consumer Affairs Ministry is tweaking rules after suggestions from various groups. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-dpiit-raise-concerns-over-draft-ecommerce-rules-1036195.html
01-10-2021||National||K Rajaraman takes charge as telecom secretary||Tamil Nadu cadre IAS officer K Rajaraman on Friday took charge as the new telecom secretary. His joining comes following the superannuation of Anshu Prakash on September 30. "Shri K Rajaraman, IAS (TN:89) takes charge as Secretary, @DoT_India in presence of senior officials of the department," a PIB tweet said. He was serving as the additional secretary for investments at the Department of Economic Affairs before being promoted to the position of secretary, DoT. Rajaraman joins as new secretary when the government is making efforts to help debt-ridden telecom operators sail through troubled waters with telecom reforms, while ensuring that there is no impact on the national exchequer from the relief given to them. He will also have to deal with a 5-year old Rs 3,050-crore penalty case which has been slapped on Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea a day before his joining based on a complaint from Reliance Jio. The issue again brings the infighting in telecom industry to the forefront and at a time when telcos reeling under debt burden are looking to increase telecom services rates to improve margins. Digital Infrastructure Providers Association (DIPA) said that with Rajaraman's administrative experience and dedication, the Indian telecom infrastructure sector will be immensely benefited. "We extend our wholehearted support and look forward to work closely with him with regard to various initiatives and growth of the Telecom infrastructure sector extending digital connectivity across nook & corner of the country realizing the vision of Hon'ble Prime Minister of India for Digital India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat," DIPA director general Tilak Raj Dua said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/k-rajaraman-takes-charge-as-telecom-secretary-1036202.html
01-10-2021||National||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh demands judicial inquiry into drug haul from Gujarat port||Veteran Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday demanded a judicial inquiry into the 3,000 kg heroin valued at Rs 21,000 crore seized recently at a port in Gujarat, which was shipped from Iran. Showing a video at a press conference here having names of people allegedly having connection with the BJP and involvement in drug smuggling, Singh also wanted the Centre to reveal what action was taken against them under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The former Madhya Pradesh chief minister also said a probe into the case related to the drug seizure has been handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) but trusting the organisation is difficult as it has worked to get acquitted every individual who had connections with the BJP. "We do not trust the NIA. The agency under Modi-Shah rule has worked to get acquitted every individual who had connection with the BJP and were involved in terrorist activities," Singh told reporters at the press conference. He further said, "Such advocates are posted at NIA who instead of prosecution argue for their acquittal. We demanded that the matter of seized drugs should be probed by a sitting or retired Supreme Court judge." The former Congress national general secretary was here on the directions of AICC to raise the issue, Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra said. Singh said drug smuggling is a more serious issue than terrorism as it destroys the youth of the country. He said a similar consignment of 25,000 kg heroin was seized in June this year in Gujarat. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) recently seized almost 3,000 kg of heroin. After the seizure, the probe was widened to Andhra Pradesh, as one Vijaywada-based couple had imported the consignment; Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and other places. One Aashi Trading Company was identified as the importing firm and is alleged to be run by M Sudhakar and his wife, G Durga Purna Vaishali. Both were arrested from Chennai and taken into custody for interrogation. The former MP CM said demonetisation of high value currency notes was done to stop terrorism, corruption and fake currencies but surprisingly cash liquidity in the country has increased. He said there was Rs 17.8 lakh crore currency in September 2016, which is presently Rs 26.7 lakh crore as per RBI figures. The report of an SIT constituted to bring back black money is yet to be tabled, he added.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-digvijaya-singh-demands-judicial-inquiry-into-drug-haul-from-gujarat-port-1036207.html
01-10-2021||National||Nagaland to celebrate Hornbill festival in December||With decline in Covid-19 cases, the Nagaland government is gearing up to organise the Hornbill festival this year from December one, a senior official said on Friday. Advisor for Tourism and Art & Culture, Khehovi Yeputhomi said this during a coordination meeting of line departments with tribal hohos (organisations) here on Friday. The state would be celebrating the Hornbill festival after a gap of a year... since its inception in 2000, the great hornbill festival could not be celebrated last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic but with the decrease in the positivity rate, the state will hold the festival this year, he said. In the past it was celebrated from December 1 to 10, nonetheless, the Advisor said that the number of days for the festival this time would soon be finalised by the state government. The Hornbill festival is an annual tourism promotional event of the Nagaland government organised by the departments of Tourism and Art & Culture showcasing the rich Naga tradition and culture at the Naga Heritage Village, Kisama, about 12 km from the state capital. In the 2019 festival, a total of 3 lakh visitors, including tourists from abroad and other parts of the country witnessed the festival giving an estimated income of Rs 75 crore to the entrepreneurs. This is an internationally recognised festival and Nagas are very fortunate to have a very rich and colourful culture and tradition to attract tourists from around the world, he said. Ahead of the Hornbill festival, the state would also be hosting International Tourism Mart (ITM) for the first time at the same venue from November 28 to 30. It is organised by the Union Ministry of Tourism for promotion of tourism in the North East region by showcasing the culture and tradition of eight northeastern states, including Sikkim, he said. The advisor urged the tribal hohos in the state to renovate and modify their respective morungs (traditional huts) in Kisama by November 15. All laid down Covid-19 protocols and Standard Operating Procedures would be strictly adhered during the ITM and also the Hornbill Festival, he said. The advisor also said that the selected participants, cultural troupes and volunteers to be engaged during the festivity should be Covid-19 vaccinated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nagaland-to-celebrate-hornbill-festival-in-december-1036208.html
01-10-2021||National||Amit Shah approves release of Rs 7,274 cr to 23 states as central share of SDRF||The Centre has approved release of the second installment of its share of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) amounting to Rs 7,274.40 crore, in advance, to 23 states. The decision has been taken by Union Home Minister Amit Shah as part of the Modi government's initiative to facilitate state governments to have enough funds in their SDRF to deal with any emergency arising out of any disaster. According to a Union home ministry statement, five states have already been released in advance the second installment amounting to Rs 1,599.20 crore. The central government had issued an order on September 25, revising the items and norms of assistance under the SDRF, making therein a provision for grant of ex-gratia payment to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid-19. This enabling provision in the SDRF norms has been made so as to implement the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on September 11 in compliance with the order passed by the Supreme Court on June 30. Shah has approved release of the second installment of the central share of the SDRF amounting to Rs 7,274.40 crore, in advance, to 23 states, the statement said. The state governments will now have an amount of Rs 23,186.40 crore in their SDRF, including state's share, during the financial year 2021-22, in addition to the amount of opening balance available in their SDRF, to meet the expenses for granting ex-gratia to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid and for providing relief on other notified calamities, it said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-approves-release-of-rs-7274-cr-to-23-states-as-central-share-of-sdrf-1036212.html
01-10-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: India yet to fully vaccinate its healthcare workers||Even after nine months, India is yet to fully vaccinate its healthcare workers, the first group prioritised by the government when it rolled out the Covid-19 vaccination drive in January. The Covid-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update, released this week, said over 3.3 million new cases and over 55,000 new deaths were reported around the world during the week of September 20–26, 2021, a decrease of 10 per cent as compared to the previous week for both cases and deaths. It also said that increased population density raises chances of Covid-19 spread and it will be prudent to avoid non-essential travel and observe festivity at low key. The government said that 64.1 per cent doses of Covid-19 vaccine has been administered in vaccination centres in rural areas and 35 per cent in urban areas. "Our exports to COVAX will recommence again in October, initially these supplies will be small but by January 2022, once we have satisfied domestic demands – people forget that India is still a lower-middle income country – we will see large volumes go to COVAX," Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla said. Some industry officials said low demand and the extremely cold storage temperatures required have spurred at least three big hospitals to cancel orders for Sputnik V, sold only on the private market in the world's biggest producer of vaccines. The company said it provided health regulators with data from a recent study of its vaccine in children 5 to 11 years old. Officials had said previously they would file an application with the FDA to authorise use in the coming weeks. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-india-yet-to-fully-vaccinate-its-healthcare-workers-1036221.html
01-10-2021||National||Goa witnessing political carnival, says Sanjay Raut after TMC, AAP enter poll fray||With the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) throwing their hats in Goa's Assembly poll ring, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said the state was currently witnessing a "political carnival". Addressing a press conference, Raut also announced that his party would contest 22 to 25 seats in Goa without forging any pre-poll alliance, and added that if voted to power, his party would shut down the casinos in the state. Election to the 40-member Goa Assembly is due in February next year. The state is currently being ruled by the BJP, while the Congress sits in the opposition. "I have heard that TMC is also fighting the polls in Goa. The political parties from Delhi and West Bengal are contesting in Goa. So many leaders are switching sides. What we are currently witnessing in Goa is a political carnival," the Rajya Sabha member said. He claimed that the Shiv Sena, which is from neighbouring Maharashtra, has a strong base in Goa where it has been present for over two decades. "We are emotionally and culturally connected to Goa," Raut said. When asked about the possibility of his party's alliance with the NCP and the Congress in Goa, as happened in his home state, the Sena leader said, "The politics of Maharashtra is different from that of Goa." He asserted that the Sena's move of contesting on its own will not cause any division of opposition votes. "We have our own base and we are sure to win on majority seats with it," he said. Raut said his party has taken up several issues in Goa, including the demand to reduce the duty hours of women police staff in the state. Goa's former Congress MLA Luizinho Faleiro, who has joined the TMC, on Thursday announced that the Mamata Banerjee-led party plans to contest all 40 seats in Goa on its own. The AAP has already thrown its hat in the ring ahead of the polls, with the party's national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing free power up to 300 units per month and 80 per cent jobs for locals if his party is voted to power. In the last Assembly polls, the Congress had won the highest number of 17 seats, restricting the BJP to 13 seats. However, surprising the Congress, the saffron party allied with regional parties and formed government under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-witnessing-political-carnival-says-sanjay-raut-after-tmc-aap-enter-poll-fray-1036224.html
01-10-2021||National||Scrolls & Leaves | The lost port of Muziris||When Sukumaran K S was a boy, he and his friends played in a large, empty field across from his house in Pattanam, Kerala. One of their favourite games was to search around the coconut trees after it rained.  “The base of the coconut trees would fill with rainwater and there would be 500 to 600 tiny beads coming out of the soil,” recalled the 66-year-old carpenter and artist. “I would scoop them up and both my hands would be full. My friends and I would thread them on a string to play with.”   It was residents like Sukumaran who found the first clues to what may be one of India’s most important historic sites. For more than a decade, archaeologists have been excavating at this sleepy village, 25 kilometres north of Kochi, in search of Muziris, the 2,000-year-old port on the Malabar Coast. The soil of Pattanam may yield the remains of an important port in the ancient spice trade network with civilisations as far as the Roman Empire. Though he and his friends tossed aside the beads from childhood, Sukumaran has found other artifacts as an adult, including a miniature gold horse head and a brass weight. And just last year, two of the most significant finds were dug up near his house, objects of intricate, ancient Roman design.  Listen to Episode 1, The Lost Port of Muziris, of the Scrolls & Leaves podcast to know more about these artifacts unearthed from Sukumaran’s yard, and other exciting finds in the search for the ancient port. Scrolls & Leaves is a world history show featuring stories from the margins of history, science, and cultures. The episodes are crafted in 3D sound, which convinces the listener that they are in the space they’re hearing about. In Season 1, Trade Winds, hosts Mary-Rose Abraham and Gayathri Vaidyanathan tell seven stories about how trade and migration across the Indian Ocean transformed us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scrolls-leaves-the-lost-port-of-muziris-1036228.html
01-10-2021||National||NHAI developing EV charging infrastructure along highways: Nitin Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is developing charging infrastructure for electric vehicles along the highways. Addressing an event virtually, the road transport minister further said the automotive industry is going through a challenging phase due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and he is happy that it is now in recovery mode. "NHAI is also developing electric vehicle charging infrastructure along the highways to promote the use of electric vehicles," he said. Gadkari pointed out that India's auto sector contributes 7.1 per cent of the overall national GDP and 49 per cent of the manufacturing GDP, with an annual turnover of Rs 7.5 lakh crore and export of Rs 3.5 lakh crore. "I am happy to note that several global brands are entering India, as well as several local entrepreneurs are setting up large facilities to mass-produce electric vehicles," the minister said. As per a report, Gadkari said electric two-wheeler sales in the country recently stood at 13,345 units for July 2021, witnessing a massive 229 per cent month-over-month jump and a year-over year leap in registrations of 836 per cent. "This is extremely encouraging," he noted. According to Gadkari, there is a massive response seen in the domestic market for electric scooters from new start-ups. The minister emphasised that simultaneously research on developing long-life, low-cost, high-efficiency batteries and EV components is also the need of the hour. "One of the solutions to reduce pollution from existing diesel buses is the use of retrofit technologies," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-developing-ev-charging-infrastructure-along-highways-nitin-gadkari-1036238.html
01-10-2021||National||Aviation fuel price hiked by 5.8%||ATF or jet fuel price on Friday was hiked by a steep 5.8 per cent in line with rise in international oil prices. Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) price in Delhi was increased by Rs 3,972.94 per kilolitre, or 5.79 per cent, to Rs 72,582.16 per kl, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Jet fuel prices are revised every fortnight in line with international benchmarks. In Mumbai, ATF now costs Rs 70,880.33 per kl. Rates differ from state to state depending on local taxes. The hike follows international oil prices rising to a near three-year high on return of demand. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-fuel-price-hiked-by-58-1036245.html
01-10-2021||National||'Proximity' with Amit Shah puts question mark on Amarinder Singh's secular credentials: Harish Rawat||Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat on Friday said Amarinder Singh's "proximity" with BJP leaders like Amit Shah puts a question mark on his secular credentials and warned the Centre not to attempt toppling a majority government in the state. Alleging that the former Punjab chief minister was playing into the hands of people with whom he had no ideological ties, Rawat said Singh should have stood with the Congress leadership to save democracy. "His proximity with (Union home minister) Amit Shah and some other BJP leaders puts his secular credentials in doubt," he said at a press conference here. Rebutting allegations that the party had humiliated Singh, Rawat said it always gave him respect. "Amarinder Singh was Punjab Congress president thrice and chief minister twice. Is it humiliation? He should compare himself with senior party leaders who had got much less than him in terms of opportunities," the former Uttarakhand chief minister said. "At a time when the country faces the challenge of saving democracy, Amarinder Singh should have stood with (Congress chief) Sonia Gandhi and strengthened her fight to save democratic values instead of playing into the hands of people who are using his so-called humiliation for political reasons," Rawat said. Rawat also warned the BJP-led Centre not to attempt to topple a majority government in Punjab. His warning comes after Singh met Shah in New Delhi on Wednesday. The Punjab Congress in-charge also said there is positive progress in the negotiations between Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu. Channi is from the Dalit community and every political party should support him, Rawat said. "But I warn the BJP government at the Centre not to try to topple a majority government in Punjab," he said and advised Singh not to walk into the BJP's trap. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proximity-with-amit-shah-puts-question-mark-on-amarinder-singhs-secular-credentials-harish-rawat-1036252.html
01-10-2021||National||Delhi retaliates against UK's refusal to recognise Covishield vaccination certificates||India has retaliated against the British government’s “discriminatory” travel rules and made it mandatory for the citizens of the United Kingdom arriving in the country from Monday onward to quarantine themselves for 10 days even if they have already been inoculated with Covid-19 jabs. New Delhi decided to retaliate as the British government has not yet revised its new travel rules, which refused to recognise the Covid-19 vaccination programme in India. The retaliatory measures imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government will require all UK citizens, including the ones already vaccinated, to undergo pre-departure Covid-19 RT-PCR tests within 72 hours before travelling to India. They will also have to undergo Covid-19 RT-PCR tests immediately after arriving at any airport, as well as on the eighth day after arrival in India, according to sources in New Delhi. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of Civil Aviation will make arrangements for implementation of the new measures for the UK citizens arriving in India from Monday. The British government’s new travel rules, which do not recognise the certificates issued by the Modi government to people inoculated with Covishield in India, will also come into force on Monday. The diplomats and health officials of the two governments have been in touch over the past couple of weeks to address the British government’s concerns over some aspects of the certificates issued through the CoWIN app to people vaccinated with the Covishield Covid-19 vaccines. The Government of India made arrangements for the certificates to show full dates of birth of the vaccinated beneficiaries and thus addressed one of the concerns of London. The British government, however, has not yet changed its new travel rules in order to recognise the certificates issued to the beneficiaries of the inoculation programme in India and to exempt them from mandatory quarantine requirement on arrival in the UK. “The UK is continuing to work on expanding the policy to countries and territories across the globe in a phased approach,” said a spokesperson of the British High Commission in New Delhi. “We are continuing to engage with the Government of India on technical cooperation to expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India.” The two governments are continuing discussion “on technical cooperation to expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India”, a spokesperson of the British High Commission in New Delhi said on Friday. London’s envoy to New Delhi, Alex Ellis, had earlier pointed out that the visitors from the UK had to remain in home quarantine for seven days upon arrival in India even after testing negative for the SARS-CoV-2 infection. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had raised the issue with his counterpart in the British government, Liz Truss, during a meeting in New York on September 21. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla had also told journalists in New Delhi on Tuesday that India could take reciprocal measures if the UK continued with its discriminatory policy. The British government’s new travel rules had initially stipulated that only the people, who had been inoculated with the vaccines, such as the double dose ones developed by the AstraZeneca PLC, Pfizer Inc and the Moderna Inc or the single dose one developed by the Johnson and Johnson’s would be considered fully vaccinated and hence would be exempted from mandatory quarantine requirement on arrival in the UK. The Serum Institute of India (SII) manufactures the AstraZeneca PLC’s vaccine in India as the company has authorised it to do so and market it as Covishield. But the British government’s new travel rules had initially not included it in the list of the approved vaccines for treating travellers as inoculated and hence entitled for exemption from quarantine requirement upon arrival in the UK. After New Delhi had warned of “reciprocal measures”, the British government had on September 22 revised its travel rules to recognise the Covishield as one of the “approved” Covid-19 vaccines, but still refused to recognise the certificates issued to people, who had been inoculated with the jab in India. This meant that the people administered with the Covishield in India would still have to undergo mandatory quarantine on arrival in the UK from Monday, unlike the ones administered with the same jab or any other “approved” SARS-CoV-2 jab in the US or anywhere in Europe or in 17 other countries. New Delhi had called the British government’s policy “discriminatory” and asked it to make changes in it. A citizen of India at present does not need to be vaccinated to travel to the UK. But a traveller from India, regardless of her or his vaccination status, must take a pre-departure test and must take a Covid 19 test on or before the second day and on or after the eighth day after arrival in the UK, apart from self-isolating for 10 days. The travellers from India to UK can also choose to shorten their home quarantine to around five days under the ‘Test to Release’ service. “The UK is open to travel and we’re already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students,” said the spokesperson of the British High Commission. “Over 62,500 student visas have been issued in the year ending June 2021, which is an increase of almost 30% as compared to the previous year. We want to make the process of travelling as easy as possible.” London’s envoy to New Delhi, Alex Ellis, had earlier pointed out that the visitors from the UK had to remain in home quarantine for seven days upon arrival in India even after testing negative for the SARS-CoV-2 infection. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-retaliates-against-uks-refusal-to-recognise-covishield-vaccination-certificates-1036266.html
01-10-2021||National||Rajnath Singh to unveil statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Lakshadweep on October 2||Barring Ashoka pillars erected in a few uninhabited islands, Lakshadweep, India's Muslim majority archipelago, has been free of statues till now. For the first time, the country's smallest Union Territory in the Arabian sea is going to get its first statue tomorrow--that too the statue of the Father of the Nation on Gandhi Jayanti day. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will unveil a statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Kavaratti on Saturday on the occasion of his 152nd birth anniversary, official sources said. An area near Western Jetty at Kavaratti is being spruced up where the statue in standing posture facing the sea will be installed, an official told PTI. The Defence Minister, who will arrive here from Kochi tomorrow, will unveil the statue at a function to be presided over by the Island's administrator Praful K Patel in the evening, he said. "The uniqueness of this year's celebration is the unveiling of the statue of Mahatma Gandhi by Rajnath Singh in the presence of Praful Patel. This will be the first ever statue to be unveiled in Lakshadweep islands to commemorate the contribution of our great freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for the cause of India's independence," a statement issued by the administration said. The administration said it is a "historic milestone" for Lakshadweep to unveil the statue of Father of the Nation on the day of Gandhi Jayanti and dedicate it to the nation on the auspicious occasion by the Defence Minister. The name of Lakshadweep MP Mohammed Faizal P P, who is at loggerheads with Patel, is missing from the programme list prepared by the administration. Faizal and activists of the Save Lakshadweep Forum (SLF), a forum of various organisations fighting against the alleged "anti-people policies" of the administrator, said they would attend the statue unveiling programme organised at the Mahatma Gandhi square. "Since Rajnath Singh invited me personally, I am attending the unveiling function only," Faizal told PTI when asked whether he was not invited for the function. Sources said the efforts to install the Gandhi statue in the islands had started over a decade ago but could not be fulfilled due to a variety of reasons. They said the statue to be unveiled tomorrow is newly sculpted. In 2010, during the UPA rule, a Rs 2 lakh statue of Gandhi was brought to the island but it could not be installed. Officials then had reportedly blamed the "bad weather" condition prevailing in the sea for failing to offload the bust of Gandhi bought from Kochi in a vessel. Sangh Parivar groups then had alleged that local sentiments had prompted the authorities to send back the vessel without offloading the cargo. Talking to PTI, activists of Save Lakshadweep Forum (SLF), which is fighting against the "anti-people policies" of administrator Patel, rejected the allegations, saying the people of the islands had never objected to the installation of the statue of Gandhi in the islands. SLF leader Komalam Koya said Gandhiji has got a special place in the hearts of the people of Lakshadweep. "You can see photos of Gandhiji on the walls of the houses of the people of Lakshadweep, who are Muslims.. despite their faith not allowing them to do so. This is because the Mahatma has got a special place in the hearts of the people of the islands. But we are saddened by the propaganda unleashed by some vested interests to brand us as a section of people who think against the national interests," Koya, who is also a CPI(M) leader, said. "However, we will continue our fight against the anti-people policies of the administrator," Koya added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-to-unveil-statue-of-mahatma-gandhi-in-lakshadweep-on-october-2-1036295.html
01-10-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea against mandatory production of Aadhaar for Covid-19 vaccination||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to respond to a plea against mandatory production of Aadhaar card for Covid-19 vaccination. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna issued notice to the Union government on the petition filed by advocate Siddharthshankar Sharma. Advocate Mayank Kshirsagar, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that one can register with any of the seven IDs on Co-WIN application, but the authorities insisted on Aadhaar on a visit of a centre for vaccination. At the outset, the bench told the counsel, "Don't go by newspaper articles. Have you seen the Co-WIN app yourself recently?” The bench pointed out that the app has been updated and there are now a variety of ID proofs to register for vaccination. The court said Aadhaar card is not the only ID which is accepted by concerned authorities. “You can also register with a drivers' license, PAN card, voter ID, passport, ration card etc…you go and verify for yourself," the bench told the counsel. The petitioner, for his part, said everything was there on paper only, the people still faced this problem. The court then decided to seek a response from the government. In his plea, the petitioner sought protection of right to vaccination granted to the citizens, which, he claimed was dangerously endangered due to non-submission of Aadhaar details to the concerned authority despite possessing one of the seven prescribed photo-identification mentioned on the app. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-mandatory-production-of-aadhaar-for-covid-19-vaccination-1036297.html
01-10-2021||National||'India recorded over 350 crimes against children each day in 2020'||A total of 1,28,531 crimes against children were recorded in India last year, implying that an average of 350 such cases were reported each day during the pandemic, according to an NGO's analysis of the NCRB data. However, when compared with figures from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) in 2019, there has been a drop of 13.3 per cent in the total number of such cases, Child Rights and You (CRY) said in its analysis. There were 1,48,185 cases of crime against children recorded in 2019 which meant that each day over 400 such crimes are committed in the country.  “Though there is a drop in total number of crimes against children, child marriage has increased 50 per cent and online abuse has increased 400 per cent in one year,” the child rights organisation said. Further analysis of the decadal trend suggests that crimes against children in India has increased steeply by 381 per cent in the last one decade (2010-2020) and over the same time, the number of overall crimes decreased by 2.2 per cent in the country. “A state-wise analysis shows that Madhya Pradesh (13.2 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (11.8 per cent), Maharashtra (11.1 per cent), West Bengal (7.9 per cent) and Bihar (5.1 per cent) account for nearly half of total crimes against children (49.3 per cent) in India,” the organisation said.  Compared to NCRB data 2019, in the list of top five states, West Bengal has replaced Delhi while seeing a sharp increase in cases by more than 63 per cent.  Priti Mahara, Director, Policy Research and Advocacy, CRY, said: “Experiences during humanitarian crises have revealed that issues of child protection tend to get exacerbated. School closures during Covid, mobility restrictions to contain the spread of the pandemic coupled with the economic slowdown disproportionately impacted livelihoods and household economic and food security of marginalised families. "Therefore, it was highly likely that it contributed to increasing children's vulnerabilities to child labour, child marriage, child trafficking as well as cases of gender-based violence," she said. According to CRY's analysis of NCRB data, cases under Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 saw an increase of nearly 50 per cent from 525 in 2019 to 785 in 2020. However, the number of cases recorded under the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986 saw a decline of around 38 per cent from 770 cases in 2019 to 476 cases in 2020. This is in contrast to the recently released ILO global estimates on child labour 2020 report, which states that there were 16.8 million more children within the age-group of five to 11 years in child labour in 2020 than in 2016, CRY said. The Covid-19 crisis threatens to further erode global progress against child labour unless urgent mitigation measures are taken and new analysis suggests a further 8.9 million children will be in child labour by the end of 2022 as a result of rising poverty driven by the pandemic, it said. “Therefore, this decline needs to be seen in the light of reporting and recording of cases before drawing conclusions regarding progress related to addressing child labour in India,” it said. Another important aspect related to child protection during Covid-19 has been the lack of avenues for recreation and socialisation, according to the organisation. Since there were restrictions on socialising in-person, and teaching shifted online, there was a corresponding rise in time spent by children online, making them vulnerable to online abuse and exploitation, it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-recorded-over-350-crimes-against-children-each-day-in-2020-1036300.html
01-10-2021||National||Centre got over 65.25 crore Covishield doses, 9.1 crore Covaxin jabs till September 19||The Centre has received over 65.25 crore Covishield doses from Serum Institute of India and 9.1 crore doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech till September 19, according to official documents. Serum Institute of India (SII) has supplied 20.29 lakh doses of Covishield to the Union Ministry of Health in September as committed in August by Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at the Pune-based firm. The SII has informed the government that it will be able to supply around 22 crore doses of Covishield in October. The Centre has announced resuming the export of surplus vaccines in the fourth quarter of this fiscal under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool, official sources said. The Pune-based pharmaceutical company has enhanced its Covishield manufacturing capacity to more than 20 crore doses per month. Singh has also assured the government that by December 31, the Pune-based firm will complete the supply of 66 crore doses of Covishield against the recent order and will touch supplies of more than 130 crore doses in the year 2021. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 89 crore. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on September 20 announced that India will resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool, but vaccinating its own citizens remains the topmost priority of the government. About the expected production and supply trends in the coming months, the minister said the government will receive over 30 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines in October and over 100 crore doses in the upcoming quarter from October-December. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-got-over-6525-crore-covishield-doses-91-crore-covaxin-jabs-till-september-19-1036311.html
01-10-2021||National||Once thought of forming panel to check atrocities by bureaucrats, police officers: CJI||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Friday said that he had once thought of creating a panel headed by Chief Justice of the High Court to examine the atrocities and complaints against bureaucrats, particularly the police officers. "I have lot of reservations at the way, how bureaucracy particularly, how police officers are behaving in this country," he said. “I was at one point of time thinking of creating a standing committee to examine atrocities and complaints against bureaucrats particularly police officers headed by Chief Justice of High Court…I want to reserve that…Don’t want to do now," Justice Ramana orally said. The bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, was hearing a plea filed by a suspended Additional Director General of Police of Chhattisgarh Gurjinder Pal Singh seeking protection from arrest in three criminal cases – sedition, extortion, and disproportionate assets – lodged against him for change in the government. The top court provided protection from arrest to the officer in two cases and declined in another case. It asked the High Court to decide his pending applications over there preferably within two months, while maintaining interim protection granted to him till then. It had further said that cops, falling in such a category, must not be protected and rather they should be jailed. On August 26, the court had again, while hearing Singh's plea, expressed its concern over a "disturbing trend" of police officials aligning with a political party in power, later getting targetted with criminal cases when the another regime comes into office. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/once-thought-of-forming-panel-to-check-atrocities-by-bureaucrats-police-officers-cji-1036318.html
01-10-2021||National||Forcing one to undergo DNA test impinges upon liberty, privacy: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said forcing an individual to undergo DNA test would impinge upon one's personal liberty and right to privacy. "The possibility of stigmatising a person as a bastard, the ignominy that attaches to an adult who, in the mature years of his life is shown to be not the biological son of his parents may not only be a heavy cross to bear but would also intrude upon his right of privacy," a bench of Justices R Subhash Reddy and Hrishikesh Roy said. The top court said DNA is unique to an individual, barring twins, and can be used to identify a person’s identity, trace familial linkages or even reveal sensitive health information. "Whether a person can be compelled to provide a sample for DNA can also be answered considering the test of proportionality laid down in the unanimous decision of this court in K S Puttaswamy Vs Union of India, wherein the right to privacy has been declared a constitutionally protected right in India," it added. The court set aside the Himachal Pradesh High Court's decision which allowed a plea by daughters of a deceased couple to conduct DNA test on a man who claimed to be son of their parents in a suit filed by him for declaring him to be owner of a property at Kalka. It said, "When the plaintiff is unwilling to subject himself to the DNA test, forcing him to undergo one would impinge on his personal liberty and his right to privacy." The bench restored the trial court order which dismissed the plea of daughters, saying the nature of further evidence to be adduced by the plaintiff (by providing DNA sample), need not be ordered at the instance of the other side. "In any case, it is the burden on a litigating party to prove his case and the court should not compel the party to prove it in the manner, suggested by the contesting party," the bench added. In such cases, the court should examine the proportionality of the legitimate aims whether those are not arbitrary or discriminatory, whether those may have an adverse impact on the person and that they justify the encroachment upon the privacy and personal autonomy of the person, being subjected to the DNA test. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forcing-one-to-undergo-dna-test-impinges-upon-liberty-privacy-supreme-court-1036325.html
01-10-2021||National||Dependents of deceased won't need death certificate, surviving member proof for Covid aid: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said dependents of people who died of Covid-19 no longer need a death certificate and a surviving member certificate to avail financial aid under a state-run scheme. At a high-level review meeting, he expressed strong displeasure over the pendency of cases, and directed officers to disburse financial aid at the earliest. "Laid-back attitude will not be tolerated. This scheme aims to provide financial assistance to families as they mourn the loss of their loved ones. All these people are victims and do not deserve to be troubled because of paperwork," a statement quoted the CM as saying. "There should no longer be a need for submitting death certificates and surviving member certificates for the processing of the applications," he told officers. Officials should verify applications using the MHA list or the official records instead and immediately disburse the money, Kejriwal said, adding that applicants should not be asked to come to the office. "If we have their names on our lists, the officials must go to the homes of these families and hand them over their rightful amount by next week," he said. The chief minister also brought a citizen to the meeting who had reached out to him with grievances related to the scheme. On hearing the grievance of the person, the CM instructed the officials to be more sensitive in dealing with the applicants. He said there should be no delay in disbursal of the amount over “frivolous reasons” and if the spouse is alive, they be given the entire amount. “If multiple children are surviving, members divide the amount among them equally. Don't pile up paperwork,” Kejriwal said. In June, the city government had notified the “Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna” to “provide immediate financial relief” to families who have lost their dear ones to the coronavirus. Under the scheme, the Delhi government has promised to provide a one-time financial assistance of Rs 50,000 to each Covid-19 victim's family, and Rs 2,500 monthly assistance to households that lost their sole breadwinner and for orphaned children. Officials said 25,709 applications have been received for the one-time ex-gratia amount of Rs 50,000 under the scheme. Out of this, 24,475 applications have been tallied against the list of the MHA. Verification of around 19,000 applicants has been completed. During this process, 1,250 people opted out of the scheme. The health department has approved 9,043 applications, and the ex gratia payment has been transferred to the accounts of 7,163 beneficiaries so far. As many as 1,425 applications have been rejected due to various reasons. The officials said 6,700 applications have been received for monthly financial assistance under the scheme. Out of this, 3,648 have been approved and 3,131 beneficiaries have started receiving the benefit. So far, Rs 1,56,57,500 have been transferred to their accounts. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dependents-of-deceased-wont-need-death-certificate-surviving-member-proof-for-covid-aid-kejriwal-1036331.html
01-10-2021||National||BJP appoints Union Minister as its incharge for Dadra and Nagar Haveli LS bypolls||The BJP on Friday appointed Union Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw as its incharge for the by-election to the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha constituency on October 30. BJP president J P Nadda has appointed Vaishanw as the party's incharge and Ganpatsinh Vasava and Piyush Desai as co-incharges for the bypoll, the party said in a statement. Vasava and Desai are BJP MLAs from neighbouring Gujarat. The by-election to the Dadra and Nagar Haveli seat was necessitated following the death of Independent MP Mohan Delkar. He was found hanging in a hotel in Mumbai earlier this year. The Lok Sabha seat is reserved for Scheduled Tribe. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-appoints-union-minister-as-its-incharge-for-dadra-and-nagar-haveli-ls-bypolls-1036336.html
01-10-2021||National||Order issued to ‘hunt’ man-eater tiger T23 in Nilgiris||Tamil Nadu Chief Wildlife Warden Shekar Kumar Niraj issued an order to hunt ‘T23’, a tiger, which is said to have killed four persons so far, including a 55-year-old man on Friday, in Nilgiris district after concluding that the big cat has “become very dangerous” to human life in the area. The order was issued after a week-long effort by the Forest Department to catch the tiger alive failed. The Forest Department came under severe pressure from locals since Friday morning after the news of the tiger fatally attacking its fourth target spread like wildfire. Villagers in Masinagudi and Gudalur complain that the tiger has been wreaking havoc in the area. “Today, as per the report received from Conservator of Forests and Field Director, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve through WhatsApp and other media, it has now been informed that the tiger MDT 23 Has killed one person in Masinagudi area today. The said tiger MDT 23 has clearly become dangerous to human lives in the area,” Niraj said in his order. He ordered that the entire operation be “carried out meticulously” under the supervision of the Conservator of Forests and Field Director, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Udhagamandalam. “The entire operation shall be photographed and video recorded and a detailed report should be submitted soon after completion of the operation,” the order said. The decision to hunt the “problematic tiger” was taken under Section 11 (1) (a) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The section says the Chief Wildlife Warden may, if he is satisfied that any wild animal specified in Schedule I has become dangerous to human life or is so disabled or diseased as to be beyond recovery, by order in writing and stating the reasons therefore, permit any person to hunt such animal or cause such animal to be hunted. The forest department launched an operation to capture the ‘T23’ tiger on September 24 after the big cat killed a 56-year-old man. Special teams were formed for the capture of the tiger and five cages were placed in vital locations. “The tiger has been eluding all efforts of the department for its capture and continued preying on the livestock in the areas of Devan Estate in Gudalur division. The presence of thick tea bushes, inclement weather, challenging terrain and disturbances by the local public had rendered the capture operation very difficult,” Niraj noted in his order. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/order-issued-to-hunt-man-eater-tiger-t23-in-nilgiris-1036343.html
01-10-2021||National||Over 20 lakh Indian accounts banned by WhatsApp in August: Monthly compliance report||Over 20 lakh Indian accounts were banned by WhatsApp, while 420 grievance reports were received by the messaging platform in August, according to its compliance report. In its latest report released on Tuesday, WhatsApp said 20,70,000 Indian accounts were banned on WhatsApp during the said period. An Indian account is identified via a +91 phone number, it added. Previously, the Facebook-owned company had stated that more than 95 per cent of bans are due to the unauthorised use of automated or bulk messaging (spam). The global average number of accounts that WhatsApp bans to prevent abuse on its platform is around 80 lakh accounts per month. WhatsApp, in its latest report, said it received 420 user reports spanning across account support (105), ban appeal (222), other support (34), product support (42) and safety (17) during August. During this period, 41 accounts were "actioned", as per the report. WhatsApp explained that "Accounts Actioned" denotes reports where it took remedial action based on the report. Taking action denotes either banning an account or a previously banned account being restored as a result of the complaint. Also, reports may have been reviewed but not included as "Actioned" for many reasons, including the user needing assistance to access their account or to use some features, user-requested restoration of a banned account and the request is denied, or if the reported account does not violate the laws of India or WhatsApp''sTerms of Service. Over 30 lakh Indian accounts were banned by WhatsApp, while 594 grievance reports were received by the messaging platform between June 16 and July 31. The new IT rules - which came into effect on May 26 - require large digital platforms (with over 50 lakh users) to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken. Previously, WhatsApp had emphasised that being an end-to-end encrypted platform, it has no visibility into the content of any messages. Besides the behavioural signals from accounts, it relies on available unencrypted information, including user reports, profile photos, group photos and descriptions as well as advanced AI tools and resources to detect and prevent abuse on its platform, it had said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-20-lakh-indian-accounts-banned-by-whatsapp-in-august-monthly-compliance-report-1036349.html
01-10-2021||National||SC asks Army not to discharge women officers not considered for PC from service till next hearing||The Supreme Court Friday restrained the Army from discharging 72 Women Short Service Commission Officers (WSSCO) who were not considered for Permanent Commission (PC), till further hearing of the matter and sought a reply within a week on why they were not considered for the service. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna asked the Army to file its reply by next week on a batch of pleas filed by the women officers who alleged that top court's March 25 ruling was not considered and all 72 of them were rejected from consideration for the PC at one go. “Don't discharge these women officers from services till further hearing in the matter,” the bench said, while listing a batch of pleas for further hearing on October 8. In its March 25 verdict, the Army was directed by the top court to consider granting PC to the WSSCOs subject to their obtaining 60 per cent marks in the assessment subjects, being found fit on medical criteria as per the August 1, 2020 order of the Army and having received disciplinary and vigilance clearances. At the outset, senior advocate V Mohana, appearing for some of the WSSCOs, said that they have passed the order rejecting the officers at one go on Wednesday without giving reasons. “This court has directed the Army in March to consider all the 72 officers for grant of permanent commissions but they have rejected all of them. This act is against the verdict of the top court and the order be set aside,” she said. The bench asked Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Centre, what is happening in this matter. Jain said that as per his understanding there cannot be one reason for rejecting all of the officers at one go but there has to be 72 reasons for rejecting them and he along with senior advocate R Balasubrmanian have sought information from the concerned department and all the relevant document to examine the factual matrix. He sought time of two weeks to come back to the court with all the relevant details. Mohana said that they have scored over 60 per cent marks in their subjects, they were found to be medically fit and no disciplinary and vigilance inquiry was pending against them as per the three criteria listed by the top court in its verdict. “There is no justification that all of these women officers were not considered at one go. This is in clear breach of the top court's verdict,” she said. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, also appearing for women officers, said that these women have cleared all the three criteria laid down by this court and now they will be discharged from services. Balasubramanian said that as per his knowledge that out of this batch of 72 officers only 25 will be released in November and not before that and hence the court may grant some time to file their replies in the matter. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, also appearing for one of the WSSCOs, said that this order of the Army was in teeth of the top court's verdict and tantamount to breach of the conditions laid down by this court. The bench said it will be taking up this matter for further hearing on October 8. On March 25, the top court had said that the evaluation criteria set by the Army for granting permanent commission to women SSC officers constituted “systemic discrimination” which has caused an economic and psychological harm and an “affront to their dignity”. The apex court said the administrative requirement imposed by the Army while considering the case of WSSCOs for PC, of benchmarking them with the officers lowest in merit in the corresponding male batch, is “arbitrary and irrational”. It had said this administrative requirement “shall not be enforced” while implementing the last year's verdict of the top court which had directed that women officers in the Army be granted PC. It had directed that all women officers, who have fulfilled the cut-off grade of 60 per cent in the Special No 5 Selection Board held in September last year, shall be entitled to grant of PC subject to their meeting medical criteria prescribed by the general instructions dated August 1, 2020 and receiving disciplinary and vigilance clearance. It had said that medical criteria stipulated in the general instructions shall be applied at the following points of time -- at the time of fifth year of service or at the time of tenth year of service, as the case may be. “In case the officer has failed to meet the medical criterion for the grant of PC at any of these points in time, the WSSCO will not be entitled to the grant of PC,” it had said. The top court had clarified that a WSSCO, who was in the temporary low medical category (TLMC) in the fifth or tenth year of service and subsequently met the SHAPE-1 criterion after the one year period of stabilization, would also be eligible for grant of PC. On February 17 last year, in a landmark verdict, the top court had directed that women officers in the Army be granted permanent commission, rejecting the Centre's stand of their physiological limitations as being based on "sex stereotypes" and "gender discrimination against women". The apex court had directed that within three months, all serving SSC women officers have to be considered for PCs irrespective of them having crossed 14 years or, as the case may be, 20 years of service. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-army-not-to-discharge-women-officers-not-considered-for-pc-from-service-till-next-hearing-1036353.html
01-10-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi makes veiled attack on PM Modi over rising fuel prices||In a veiled attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over rising fuel prices, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday that only one person is responsible for breaking all the wrong records. Party leader Randeep Surjewala also blamed the central government for high inflation in the country and said the Modi dispensation has made life "difficult" for the common man. "Petrol prices are responsible for the record-breaking inflation. The central government is responsible for the record-breaking petrol prices. One person is responsible for breaking all the wrong records," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. In his tweet, he also mentioned the prices of petrol and diesel in the national capital which are above Rs 100 and Rs 90 respectively. रिकॉर्ड तोड़ महंगाई के लिए पेट्रोल के दाम ज़िम्मेदार हैं। रिकॉर्ड तोड़ पेट्रोल दामों के लिए केंद्र सरकार ज़िम्मेदार है। Taking to Twitter, Surjewala said, "Ever since the Modi government was formed, prices have been increasing. The Modi government has made life difficult for the common people. He said Rs 41.32 tax is being extracted on petrol and Rs 42.29 tax on diesel which has raised their price to Rs 101.89 and Rs 90.17 per litre respectively.  जब से बनी मोदी सरकार,हर रोज़ हो रही महँगाई की मार। मोदी सरकार ने आम जनता का जीना दूभर कर दिया है। 41.32 रुपये के पेट्रोल पर टैक्स लगाकर 101.89 रुपये और 42.29 रुपये के डीज़ल के लिए 90.17 रुपये वसूला जा रहा है। Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-makes-veiled-attack-on-pm-modi-over-rising-fuel-prices-1036358.html
01-10-2021||National||Chacha Chaudhary declared mascot for Namami Gange programme||Indian comic book character Chacha Chaudhary has been declared as the mascot of the government's Namami Gange Programme with an aim of bringing behavioural change among children towards the Ganga and other rivers. The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), which has been focusing on the youth as part of its outreach and public communications efforts as they are the impellers of change, has tied-up with Diamond Toons to develop and distribute comics, e-comics and animated videos. The content will be designed with the objective of bringing about behavioural change among children towards the Ganga and other rivers, according to an official statement. At the 37th executive committee meeting of the NMCG, which was chaired by Director General Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Chacha Chaudhary was declared as the mascot of the Namami Gange programme and some major projects in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were discussed and evaluated. Executive Director (ED), Projects, Ashok Kumar Singh presented the project details and said Chacha Chaudhary can be useful in ground-level activation for Ganga rejuvenation. Initially, the comics will be launched in Hindi, English and Bengali. "The NMCG has always been into community engagement with special focus on youth and children. This association will be one more step towards it,” Mishra said. Nostalgia!! Dipak Kumar Singh, the principal secretary of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change in Bihar presented a proposal for conserving and sustainably managing Gangetic floodplain wetlands in Bihar. The major components of the project will be wetland inventory and assessment, wetland management planning, wetland's monitoring, and capacity development and outreach. "This will be a 100 per cent centrally funded project with an estimated cost of Rs 2.505 crore. The proposal aims at creating a knowledge base and capacities for effective management of floodplain wetlands in the 12 Ganga districts in Bihar to ensure sustained provision of wetlands ecosystem services and securing biodiversity habitats,” the statement said. Singh also gave an overview about the initiatives taken to conserve Gangetic dolphins, He shared that the government is working on sensitising local fishermen. Mishra suggested that collaborating with other stakeholders like CIFRI can be beneficial in achieving the goal of conservation of dolphins. A detailed project report (DPR) for interception and diversion of drains and sewage treatment works at Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh was presented by Dr Pravin Kumar Mutiyar, Director Technical, NMCG. The main aim of this project is reduction of pollution load from Pratapgarh into the Sai river, along with the improvement in biodiversity and ecosystem of the river and improvement in general hygiene and sanitation. It will also add to the overall aesthetics of the arena, the statement said. Major components of this project will be interception and diversion of drains discharging into the river to existing STPs, development of 12.472 KM sewer line for connection of drains to STP (of these 7.60 KM is already built and the balance 4.872 KM is in-progress), two separate low-cost treatment processes based STPs for two different drains and an onsite low-cost treatment based on wetland technology proposed for a drain which flows parallel to the railway line, it added. The project also includes repairing of the existing main pumping station, construction of intermediate pumping station and electric power substation. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 39.67 cr, including 15 years of operations and maintenance. This project was initially approved in 2006 but only construction of STP was completed, it was not operational. As the NMCG has started working on rejuvenation of tributaries of the Ganga in the second phase, this project was re-visited after more than a decade and started with a new approach. The revised detailed project report for development of ghat and crematoria at Simariya, Barauni, Bihar was presented by National Buildings Construction Corporation Limited (NBCC) at the EC meeting. The field survey of the project location had already been done by the NBCC and it has estimated the total project cost as Rs 11.92 crore to be implemented in 20 months. Simariya being the birthplace of Rashtra Kavi Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, is of historical significance. It is believed that the poet spent a lot of time on this bank of Ganga and penned some of his best poems. This ghat is also popular for Kalpvas, an ancient tradition in which devotees live on ghats, sing and meditate during the Magh Mela. Another ghat construction was also sanctioned at Balughat, another important place along the Ganga in the vicinity of a famous temple, the statement said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chacha-chaudhary-declared-mascot-for-namami-gange-programme-1036370.html
01-10-2021||National||Centre releases SDRF share for ex-gratia to Covid-19 victims' kin||In a bid to ensure payment of ex-gratia to kin of Covid-19 victims, the government on Friday approved release of the second instalment of its share of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) amounting to Rs 7,274.40 crore, in advance, to 23 states. The move came after a nudge by the Supreme Court on petition seeking ex-gratia payments for Covid-19 victims. Last month, the Centre had told the apex Court that it would pay Rs 50,000 as ex-gratia to the next of kin of Covid-19 victims. The central government had issued an order on September 25, revising the items and norms of assistance under the SDRF, making therein a provision for grant of ex-gratia payment to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid-19. This enabling provision in the SDRF norms has been made to implement the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on September 11 in compliance with the order passed by the Supreme Court on June 30. The decision was taken by Union Home Minister Amit Shah as part of the Modi government's initiative to facilitate state governments to have enough funds in their SDRF to deal with any emergency arising out of any disaster, an official statement said. It said five states have already been released in advance the second instalment amounting to Rs 1,599.20 crore.  Shah has approved release of the second instalment of the central share of the SDRF amounting to Rs 7,274.40 crore, in advance, to 23 states, the statement said.  The state governments will now have an amount of Rs 23,186.40 crore in their SDRF, including state's share, during the financial year 2021-22, in addition to the amount of opening balance available in their SDRF, to meet the expenses for granting ex-gratia to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid and for providing relief on other notified calamities, it said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-releases-sdrf-share-for-ex-gratia-to-covid-19-victims-kin-1036372.html
01-10-2021||National||Managed to save CO2 emission by 5.88 lakh tons in 2020-21 towards net zero emission target: S Railway||Southern Railway on Friday said it has managed to save carbon-dioxide emission by 5.88 lakh tons leading to a saving of Rs 377 crore as a result of various steps taken to attain net zero emission target set by Indian Railways by 2030. "Energy savings by 570 million units in traction category and 18 million units in non-traction were achieved during 2020-21 as against 2019-20. This has offset carbon-dioxide emission by 5.88 lakh metric tonne and notional savings of Rs 377 crore", Southern Railway said. Coimbatore railway station has contributed to the huge energy savings and has obtained the Indian Green Building Council Platinum rating while the Chennai Central Railway station received the Green-CO certificate, a press release said. The Tondiarpet and Ernakulam Diesel loco sheds and Erode, Arakkonam and Royapuram electric loco sheds have received the ISO 50001 certification. Under mission electrification of the routes, Southern Railway said it has added 370 track kilometres during 2020-21 and has enabled introduction of electric loco run passenger and goods trains, reduction of diesel automotive and improved operational efficiency. "The total holding of electric locomotives has increased to 568 units and diesel locomotives have reduced to 120 thereby saving huge quantities of diesel and efficient running of trains", the release said. Southern Railway said it introduced three-phase EMUs (electric multiple unit) in Chennai suburban and MEMUs (mainline electric multiple unit) in other remote areas in place of conventional trains towards energy conservation. "LED lights and BLDC fans (brushless direct current) fans are used in these trains as well as in conventional design coaches resulting in 29 per cent of energy saving in EMU and 23 per cent in MEMUs". Fuel savings was done online by shutting down the locomotives during "idle hours" saving Rs 47 crore in 2020-21 and reduction in number of diesel filling depots and diesel locomotives from 340 to 120 units has further reduced consumption of diesel thereby saving Rs 371 crore. Southern Railway said it has installed 4.9MWp of solar energy and the total solar energy generated from the installation of solar plants was 12 million units leading to savings of Rs 5 crore. Windmill plants with an installed capacity of 10.5 MW has been set up which has resulted in savings of Rs 13 crore by generating 26 million units. "Southern Railway was working towards increasing the capacity of the solar plants and has planned for installation of 109 MWp solar plants in a 288 acre land..", the release said. On the electrification of routes, Southern Railway said it expects to complete the electrification process by 2023 and would connect all routes of Southern Railway to all parts of the country eliminating delay in train operation due to change of locomotives offering convenience to passengers.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/managed-to-save-co2-emission-by-588-lakh-tons-in-2020-21-towards-net-zero-emission-target-s-railway-1036388.html
01-10-2021||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on plea denying maternity leave for adopting child above 3 months||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Union government on a plea challenging "discriminatory and arbitrary" provision of the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 allowing maternity leave to a woman who adopted a child just below the age of three months.  A bench of Justices S A Nazeer and Krishna Murari sought a response from the Ministry of Law and Justice, Ministry of Women and Child Development on the petition by Karnataka resident Hamsaanandini Nanduri challenging the constitutional validity of Section 5(4) of the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961. The law states that a woman who legally adopts a child below the age of three months or a commissioning mother shall be entitled to maternity benefit for a period of twelve weeks from the date the child is handed over to the adopting mother or the commissioning mother. The plea claimed, "Section 5(4) apart from being discriminatory and arbitrary towards the adoptive mothers, also arbitrarily discriminates against orphaned, abandoned or surrendered children above the age of three months, which is completely incompatible to the object of the Maternity Benefit Act as well as the Juvenile Justice Act."  It also contended that the purported 12 weeks of maternity benefit to adoptive mothers was not only a "mere lip service but when juxtaposed with the maternity benefit of 26 weeks provided to biological mothers, fails to stand even the basic scrutiny of Part III (fundamental rights) of the Constitution which is wedded to the concept of non-arbitrariness."  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-plea-denying-maternity-leave-for-adopting-child-above-3-months-1036405.html
01-10-2021||National||Come to India, be part of our growth story, PM Modi tells investors at Dubai Expo||Today's India is one of the most open countries in the world and it offers maximum growth, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, inviting investors to the country. In his video message to a gathering at the India Pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, Modi said India is a powerhouse of talent and is making many advances in the world of technology, research and innovation. "Our economic growth is powered by a combination of legacy industries and start-ups," he said. Referring to the theme of India's pavilion -- 'Openness, Opportunity and Growth' -- Modi said today's India is one of the most open countries in the world -- open to learning, perspectives, innovation and investment. "That is why I invite you to come and invest in our nation. Today, India is a land of opportunities. Be it in the field of arts or commerce, industry or academia," he said. There is opportunity to discover, opportunity to partner, opportunity to progress, Modi said, urging investors to come to India and explore these opportunities. "India also offers you maximum growth. Growth in scale, growth in ambition, growth in results. Come to India and be a part of our growth story," he said. Over the last seven years, the government of India has undertaken several reforms to boost economic growth, he said. "We will keep doing more to continue this trend," he added. Underlining that India is famous for its vibrancy and diversity, Modi said the country has different cultures, languages, cuisines, forms of art, music and dance. "This diversity is reflected in our pavilion.... India's pavilion will showcase the best of India across these multiple areas. It will also showcase investment opportunities in multiple sectors like health, textiles, infrastructure, services and more," the prime minister said. Noting that the main theme of the Expo 2020 is 'Connecting Minds, Creating the Future', Modi said the spirit of this theme is also seen in India's efforts as it moves ahead to create a New India. "I would also like to congratulate the Government of UAE for organising the Expo 2020 in a splendid way. This expo is also testimony to the resilience of mankind against the once-in-a-century pandemic," he said. Welcoming people to the India Pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, Modi said this is a historic event as it is the first one to be held in the Middle East, Africa and South Asia region. "India is participating with one of the largest pavilions in the Expo. I am sure the Expo will go a long way in further building our deep and historical relations with UAE, and with Dubai," he said. Modi also conveyed greetings on behalf of the government and people of India to UAE President and Ruler of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed bin Al Nahyan. "I would also like to convey hearty congratulations to His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Vice President of UAE and the Ruler of Dubai. Let me also express my best wishes to my brother, His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi. He has been instrumental in the progress we have achieved in our strategic partnership," Modi said. He said he looks forward to continuing the work for the progress and prosperity of both countries. "As India celebrates 75 years of Independence in the form of Amrit Mahotsav, we invite everyone to visit the India Pavilion and capitalise on the opportunities in the resurgent New India. Let us make the world a much better place to live with Sabka Saaath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas," Modi said in his remarks on the occasion. The Expo 2020, which was postponed for a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, opened on Friday and will conclude on March 31, 2022. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/come-to-india-be-part-of-our-growth-story-pm-modi-tells-investors-at-dubai-expo-1036413.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Congress leaders attack G-23, launch defence of top leadership||With barbs being traded thick and fast within the Congress, some senior leaders of the party came out in strong defence of the top leadership on Thursday and attacked Kapil Sibal and other G-23 leaders. A day after questions were raised on the functioning of the party, these senior leaders continued the attack on Sibal and other G-23 leaders and strongly defended the Gandhi family's leadership. In an apparent dig at Sibal and the G-23, Congress general secretary Tariq Anwar said it is amazing to see how some people's character can change so much in their "selfishness". "Those who took advantage of being in power the most by the grace of the leadership, are today bent on challenging the leadership. It seems that they have a habit of being in power, how can they cope with struggle?" Anwar said in a tweet in Hindi. Speaking with reporters in Raipur, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel termed Sibal's remarks raising questions over the party's functioning as "unfortunate". "Kapil Sibal ji is our senior leader, a former Union minister, a senior lawyer and such a statement by him is unfortunate. After Rahul ji resigned as AICC president (in July 2019), everyone (in the party) had accepted Sonia Gandhi ji as the interim president and she is still in the post," he said. "Due to the coronavirus pandemic, election (to the post of Congress president) was cancelled. After all this, it is ridiculous to raise such questions," Baghel said. Posting a Urdu couplet of Mirza Ghalib, senior Congress leader and former law minister Ashwani Kumar took a dig at Sibal and tweeted, "Humein unse thi wafa ki umeed, jo jante nahi wafa kya hai (We hoped for loyalty from those who do not know what loyalty is)." At a press conference in Ahmedabad, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the party leaders must not go public with the internal matters as it hurts the ground level workers. Asserting that the Congress gives enough freedom to its leaders to express their views, he said internal matters should not be discussed publicly for the sake of "discipline" and that they should be raised on a proper platform only. "Crores of Congress workers are in pain due to such acts. Senior party leaders should discuss such matters on a proper platform, not in public. There is a difference between BJP and Congress. While there is no ban on free speech in our party, our leaders need to put their opinion on a proper platform," said Khera during his interaction with mediapersons. "Suppose you have a family dispute, would you prefer to solve it internally or go to your neighbour's terrace and speak about it? There should be discipline, which is necessary to run a family, an organisation and a country," he added. The remarks came on a day several Congress leaders of the 'Group of 23', which had last year written to party chief Sonia Gandhi demanding an organisational overhaul, strongly condemned the attack on their colleague Sibal's house and termed it as "orchestrated hooliganism". Senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, P Chidambaram, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Shashi Tharoor, Vivek Tankha and Raj Babbar were among those who rallied behind Sibal, with Sharma asking Gandhi to take strong action against those involved. Chidambaram tweeted that he feels helpless when "we cannot start meaningful conversations within party forums". "I also feel hurt and helpless when I see pictures of Congress workers raising slogans outside the residence of a colleague and MP. The safe harbour to which one can withdraw seems to be silence," he said. In the wake of several Congress leaders quitting the party and its Punjab unit in turmoil, Sibal has demanded that an immediate meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) be convened and wondered who in the party was taking decisions in the absence of a full-time president. Sibal said at a press conference that the G-23 grouping is "not a Jee Huzur 23" and will continue to put forth the views and will continue to repeat the demands. Carrying 'Get Well Soon Kapil Sibal' placards and raising slogans against Sibal, Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) workers had protested outside his Jor Bagh residence, saying they were "hurt" by his remarks. The protesters raised slogans against Sibal, asking him to "leave the party". A protestor also stood on his car. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaders-attack-g-23-launch-defence-of-top-leadership-1035999.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Congress leader Hooda expresses concern over multiple desertions||Senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday expressed deep concern over recent developments in the party's Punjab unit and multiple desertions, and said the party leadership should hold deliberations on these matters. He said weakening of the Congress is also not in national interest. "Why are such things happening? The party should do 'manthan'. Efforts should be made to find a solution to these things," said Hooda, who is part of the G-23 group which wrote a letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi last year seeking organisational overhaul. When asked to comment on former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh's emphatic statement that he will quit the party, Hooda said it is his personal decision. Commenting on multiple desertions recently, Hooda, who is also the leader of opposition in the Haryana Assembly, said not just in Punjab, in Goa too, a senior leader has left the party. "I am very much concerned about the future of my party. Weakening of the Congress is also not in national interest,” Hooda told a news channel. Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, who recently quit the Congress, had joined the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday and called for uniting various factions of the grand old party under the leadership of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to fight the BJP. Hooda said many others, including some senior leaders, have left the party. Amarinder Singh had resigned as the chief minister of Punjab on September 18 after accusing the Congress of humiliating him. Earlier in the day, while some senior leaders of the party came out in strong defence of the top leadership and attacked Kapil Sibal and other G-23 leaders, Hooda came in Sibal's defence. Hooda, while referring to the protest by Congress workers outside Sibal's Delhi residence a day before, said this is something which is not part of Congress' culture. If any one has any difference of views, the same should be brought up and discussed at the party forum, he said. Sibal said at a press conference that the G-23 grouping is "not a Jee Huzur 23" and will continue to put forth the views and will continue to repeat the demands. Carrying 'Get Well Soon Kapil Sibal' placards and raising slogans against Sibal, Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) workers had protested outside his Jor Bagh residence, saying they were "hurt" by his remarks.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-hooda-expresses-concern-over-multiple-desertions-1036005.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Congress leaders ask Sibal to 'reform'||With barbs being traded thick and fast within the Congress, some senior leaders of the party came out in strong defence of the top leadership on Thursday and attacked Kapil Sibal and other G-23 leaders. A day after questions were raised on the functioning of the party, these senior leaders continued the attack on Sibal and other G-23 leaders and strongly defended the Gandhi family's leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-congress-leaders-ask-sibal-to-reform-1036046.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Param Bir Singh missing, may have fled to Russia: Report||Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, infamous after he claimed that former minister Anil Deshmukh asked cops to collect money, is missing, Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil said.  Several news agencies, on Friday, reported that Singh likely fled to Russia.  "Along with the Union Home Ministry, we're also searching for his whereabouts. I've heard something like that but as a government officer, he can't go abroad without government clearance. We've issued a Lookout Circular and if he went away, then it is not good," Patil told ANI. He said the state government was in touch with the Centre to find Singh, who had levelled allegations of bribery against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.  Singh has been failing to appear in court in connection with the corruption allegations levelled by him against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The panel had issued a bailable warrant against him on September 7. But as the warrant couldn't be served upon him, it was re-issued till October 6.  Earlier, the commission had thrice imposed fines on Singh - Rs 5,000 in June and Rs 25,000 on two occasions last month - for failing to appear before it.  Singh was shunted as Mumbai Police Commissioner after his handling of the bomb scare case near Mukesh Ambani's residence.  Days after he was transferred to the Home Guards in March, he had claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh used to ask police officers to collect money from restaurant and bar owners in Mumbai. Deshmukh, an NCP leader, resigned as minister in April this year, denying the allegations against him. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by Param Bir Singh. Singh has been booked in multiple cases of extortion. He is also facing a case under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act registered in April this year on a complaint lodged by a police inspector. With PTI inputs Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/param-bir-singh-missing-may-have-fled-to-russia-report-1036123.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi to meet PM Modi on October 1||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday and is expected to urge him that the Centre withdraws its letter on postponing the paddy procurement in the state from October 1. This will be Channi's first meeting with Modi after the senior Congress leader took oath as Punjab chief minister recently. Channi is also likely to meet senior Congress leaders during his visit to the national capital amid the ongoing tumult in the party's Punjab unit, sources said. According to a senior Punjab government official, Chief Minister Channi will meet Prime Minister Modi. Sources said in his meeting with Modi, Channi is likely to urge the Centre to immediately start paddy procurement in the state. The Punjab chief minister on Thursday had urged the Centre to withdraw its letter on postponing the paddy procurement in the state from October 1. Paddy procurement usually commences from October 1. Channi had sought the prime minister's personal intervention in advising the ministry concerned to withdraw its letter forthwith, allowing the state to start paddy procurement from October 1 instead of October 11, according to an official statement here on Thursday. The Centre on Thursday postponed procurement of Kharif paddy in Punjab and Haryana till October 11 as the crop maturity is delayed owing to recent heavy rains. Crop procurement is undertaken by the central government's nodal agency Food Corporation of India along with state agencies.          Channi is also expected to meet his party's senior leadership in Delhi. Notably, a coordination panel will be set up, which is expected to be consulted before any major decisions by the Punjab government in future. The decision to form the panel was reached earlier on Thursday after an over two-hour meeting at the Punjab Congress Bhavan between Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had tendered his resignation from the post of the state party chief on Tuesday. The panel would comprise the chief minister, Navjot Singh Sidhu and a representative of the All India Congress Committee, sources said. A miffed Sidhu on Wednesday had raised questions over the appointments of the DGP, the state's advocate general and "tainted" leaders. Sources said that Sidhu has been backing senior IPS officer Siddharth Chattopadhyay to be appointed as the DGP. Meanwhile, the Channi government has suggested the names of 10 officials to the Union Public Service Commission for the appointment of a regular director general of police. The names include Chattopadhyay, present DGP Dinkar Gupta and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, V K Bhawra, sources said. Sahota was a week ago given the additional charge of the Punjab DGP after incumbent DGP Dinkar Gupta proceeded on leave.        On Thursday, Sidhu had reached Chandigarh from Patiala to meet Channi. The meeting came a day after Channi reached out to him and offered to resolve issues through talks. Just before his meeting with Channi, Sidhu attacked Sahota, alleging that the new DGP had wrongly indicted two Sikh youths in a desecration case and gave a clean chit to the Badals. The desecration of a religious text allegedly took place in Punjab's Faridkot district in 2015, whose investigation was handed over by the then Parkash Singh Badal-led government to an SIT led by the current DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-to-meet-pm-modi-on-october-1-1036135.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||We want strong Opposition, not one full of contradictions, confusion: Naqvi's dig at Congress||Taking a swipe at the Congress embroiled in an internal feud, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Friday alleged "the family" has paralysed the grand old party in a bid to make the 'panja' (party's symbol) "personal property". The internal feud of the Congress escalated on Thursday with some senior leaders coming out in strong defence of the top leadership and slammed Kapil Sibal and other dissenting veterans of the group of 23 (G-23) who in turn strongly condemned the attack on the house of the former union minister here calling it an "orchestrated hooliganism". Asked about the ongoing turmoil in the Congress, Naqvi told reporters here, "We (government) want a strong opposition, not one full of contradictions and confusion". The Minority Affairs Minister said while on the one hand, the grand old party has been hit by a "tsunami of political crisis", on the other it is suffering from "frustrated feudal authority". In an obvious reference to the Gandhi family, he said "The family has paralysed the grand old party in a mess to make the 'panja' a personal property." Some people are trying to become "chieftains" of the opposition but their own party has slipped out of their hands, Naqvi said. The Congress has become a "non-performing asset" which has neither any value outside nor inside, the senior BJP leader alleged. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-want-strong-opposition-not-one-full-of-contradictions-confusion-naqvis-dig-at-congress-1036144.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Congress old guard in 'secret pact with BJP' to stop Rahul, claims Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Friday called for the need to appoint a full-time Congress president, and said the confusion prevailing over the leadership in the party was as much responsible for the political crisis in Punjab as the BJP. The Sena also claimed that although Rahul Gandhi was trying to resolve the issues faced by the Congress, the old-timers in the party were in a secret pact with the BJP to stop him from doing so with the aim of sinking the party. "Congress needs a full-time president. What is the use of a body without a head?...Congress is ailing and it is being treated, but whether that treatment is right or not needs to be reviewed," the party said in an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana. "Rahul Gandhi is trying to fix the leakages in the old mansion (Congress), but some old feudal lords are not letting the new people work. They have started claiming ownership over several things in the mansion…It is now confirmed that the party's old guard is in a secret pact with BJP and they are trying to sink Congress," it alleged. But if there is no commander, how will the party fight? This demand of some wise Congress veterans is not wrong. The answer to this question over leadership question is the Gandhi family, but who exactly from among them is a question that persists, said the Uddhav Thackeray-led party, which shares power in Maharashtra with Congress and NCP. The doubt and confusion over the leadership in Congress needs to be cleared, it added. Rahul Gandhi has taken a strong step by appointing a Dalit leader as the chief minister of Punjab, but his own dear Navjot Singh Sidhu has created problems for him. As there was already no dearth of leaders in Congress who shoot their mouths off, there was no need for Rahul Gandhi to show so much trust in Sidhu, who joined the party recently, the Sena said. Congress has increased its own troubles by giving undue importance to this unpredictable leader, it added. Criticising former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and also Goa's ex-CM Luizinho Faleiro, who has now joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Sena said, "It is the height of their thick-skinned behaviour. These leaders were given top posts, like chief minister of their respective states by the Congress, but they are now leaving the party." Similarly, Jitin Prasada was made a union cabinet minister when Congress was in power. However, he joined BJP later and made a minister in the party-led UP government, it said. Congress has been in power for many years in the country and presently ruling in some states. However, the party has been facing problems after the BJP came to power and Narendra Modi became the prime minister, the Sena said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-old-guard-in-secret-pact-with-bjp-to-stop-rahul-claims-shiv-sena-1036147.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Developments in Afghanistan will have 'very significant consequences', says Jaishankar||India was not taken into confidence on various aspects of the Doha deal inked between the US and the Taliban last year and the latest developments in Afghanistan will have "very, very significant consequences" for the region and beyond, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said. He also said that the key concerns for India at this juncture included whether Afghanistan will have an inclusive government and that Afghan soil is not used for terrorism against other states and the rest of the world. Speaking virtually at the annual leadership summit of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) on Thursday, Jaishankar also suggested that India was in no hurry to deliberate on giving any recognition to the new dispensation in Kabul. In an interactive session with former American ambassador Frank Wisner, the external affairs minister also said that the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan is not against any country and it should not be seen as some kind of "ganging up" and a negatively driven initiative. India and the US are on the same page on many issues relating to the recent developments in Afghanistan including apprehensions about the possible use of Afghan soil for terrorism. "I think, to some degree, we would all be justified in having levels of concern and to some degree, I think the jury's still out. When I say levels of concern, you know, there were commitments which were made by the Taliban, at Doha, I mean, the US knows that best I mean, we were not taken into confidence on various aspects of that," he said. "So whatever, whether deal which was struck in Doha, I mean, one has a broad sense. But beyond that, you know, are we going to see an inclusive government? Are we going to see respect for the rights of women, children, minorities?" he asked. "Most important are we going to see an Afghanistan whose soil is not used for terrorism against other states and the rest of the world, I think, these are our concerns," Jaishankar added. The Doha deal was signed between the US and the Taliban in February last year in which the US promised to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan while the Taliban committed to several conditions including ending violence. Jaishankar said what had happened in Afghanistan, is going to "have very, very significant consequences for all of us, and we are so close to the region." He said that the key concerns were captured by a UN Security Council resolution in August and that how those questions are addressed today is still an open question, which is why "I said the jury is still out". "If you ask me is this the time to draw sharp conclusions, I would sort of take my time and study this with a certain degree of deliberation, because as I said, a lot of this, whatever understandings, there have been, many of these are not known to the entire international community," he added. To another question on how India and the US looked at the situation in Afghanistan, Jaishankar said both sides are on a similar page, at a principle level on many of the issues, particularly on possible usage of Afghan soil for terrorism. He said the issue figured in discussions between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden in Washington last week. "Again, look, there would be issues on which we would agree more, there would be issues on which we would agree less. Our experiences in some respects are different than yours (the US). You know, we have been victims of cross border terrorism ourselves from that region," Jaishankar said. "And let us say that has shaped in many ways, our view of some of the neighbours of Afghanistan. So now, how much, the US shares that view, and where is it that the US sort of makes its tactical compromises I think that is for the Americans to figure out," he said. Asked whether it included a joint signal to Pakistan, he only said: "There are aspects that we share, and there are aspects where maybe our positions are not exactly the same." To a query on Quad and ways to manage the rise of Chinese power, Jaishankar said the four-nation partnership is not against somebody. "I think it's very important not to be sort of railroaded into some kind of negative discourse, which actually is not from our script, it is somebody else's script. And I don't think we should fall for that. I think we need to be positive," he said. On the question of how to deal with the rise of China, Jaishankar said: "I would say, in many ways, those are bilateral choices that all of us have to make, we each have a very substantial relationship with China." "And, in many ways, China being today is such a big player and so salient in the international economy, I think it's natural that these relationships are quite unique. So what are my problems, or my opportunities would not be the same as that for the US, or Australia, or Japan, or Indonesia or France," he added. Jaishankar said it would be different for each country and added that the rise of China has had a very fundamental impact on the international order. "So as participants in the international order, we need to assess that and respond to that, in the light of our own interest. So I think it's sort of essential to normalise this conversation," he said. "This should not end up as though it's some kind of ganging up and a negatively driven event, I don't think that's the fair description of what is a completely natural evolution of international order to my mind," he added. Talking about geopolitical issues, Jaishankar said he saw a big change at the American approach as it has shown a much greater willingness to work with other partners, "not necessarily on terms that the US has unilaterally set". "I think the US is also getting beyond that era of alliances and treaty-based relationships. It's a far more flexible, I would say diverse differentiated world out there and I think US policymakers are beginning to adjust to that and some of that you'll see in arrangements like Quad," he added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/developments-in-afghanistan-will-have-very-significant-consequences-says-jaishankar-1036156.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||BJP may drop over 100 sitting MLAs in Uttar Pradesh||In an apparent bid to counter any possible anti-incumbency, BJP is likely to deny re-nomination to over one hundred sitting legislators in the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, scheduled to be held in March next year. According to the sources in the state BJP in Lucknow, the saffron party has decided not to re-nominate the MLAs, who have not been active or with whom the party workers and leaders in their respective assembly constituencies are not happy. ''Those above the age of seventy and also those, who have been making statements against the state government, will not be repeated,'' a senior UP BJP leader here said while speaking to DH. Sources said that the party was also conducting a survey to get the feedback of the workers in different constituencies to identify the possible candidates.  A few BJP legislators have been spewing venom against the state government, especially over its alleged mismanagement during the second wave of Covid-19. A few legislators hailing from the influential 'brahmin' community had also accused the state government of 'persecuting' the members of their community much to the discomfort of the leadership. One of them, Rakesh Rathore, an MLA from the Sitapur Sadar assembly seat, had met Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav amid speculations that he could soon leave the saffron party and join the SP. At that time the SP leaders had claimed that as many as eight BJP legislators were in touch with them and could soon quit the BJP. Earlier also several BJP lawmakers had expressed resentment over chief minister Yogi Adityanath's style of working and there were demands that he be replaced. The BJP central leadership however made it clear that Adityanath would be the party's face in Uttar Pradesh. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-may-drop-over-100-sitting-mlas-in-uttar-pradesh-1036171.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Foreign Secretary Shringla begins 4-day visit to Sri Lanka on Saturday||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will pay a four-day visit to Sri Lanka beginning Saturday to take stock of the overall ties and review the progress of certain ongoing bilateral projects. Announcing the visit, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Friday said that Sri Lanka occupies a central place in India's 'Neighbourhood First' policy. "At the invitation of the Foreign Secretary of Sri Lanka Admiral Jayanath Colombage, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will pay an official visit to Sri Lanka from October 2 to 5," the MEA said. "Sri Lanka occupies a central place in India's 'Neighbourhood First' policy. Foreign Secretary's visit signifies the importance both the countries attach to strengthening their close and cordial relations in all spheres of mutual interest," it added. The MEA said that Shringla's visit will provide an opportunity to review "our bilateral ties, the progress of ongoing bilateral projects and ongoing cooperation to tackle Covid-related disruptions". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/foreign-secretary-shringla-begins-4-day-visit-to-sri-lanka-on-saturday-1036186.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Captain, Congress engage in war of words after former Punjab CM says he will quit party||A day after former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh raised "humiliation" charge and announced he will quit Congress, the party central leadership on Friday rebutted his charge, reminding him how it gave him top positions even after his defeat and saw "some pressure" from outside behind his remarks. AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat issued a detailed statement on the sequence of events and alleged that the BJP wants to "use Amarinder Singh as a mask" and urged the former Chief Minister not to let this happen and reconsider the remarks he made about Congress. The remarks came after Singh had a meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday and NSA Ajit Doval on Thursday after which he said he will leave the Congress but will not join BJP, amid indications that he will form a new political outfit in Punjab. "After meeting Amit Shah and BJP’s contact man, the theory of humiliation is being circulated to gain the sympathy of the people. The humiliation-based sympathy politics may help a person, but it will not help Punjab," said Rawat in a statement. Hitting back, the former Chief Minister asked if Congress didn't intend to humiliate him, why did they let Navjot Sidhu attack him on public platforms for months and give rebels led by Sidhu a free hand in undermining his authority? 'What hold does Sidhu still have on the party?’ Captain said rejecting Rawat's claims as "outrageous" and asked why he kept him in the dark on party leadership's stance & claimed just weeks ago that 2022 polls would be fought under him?. "Even my worst critics can't doubt my secular credentials. But I'm no longer surprised that a senior and seasoned Congress leader like Rawat is questioning them. It's evident I'm no longer trusted in Congress, which I've served loyally for years," the former CM said. "Three weeks before quitting I offered my resignation to Sonia Gandhi & she said no. Then I was forced to resign just hours before the CLP meeting, which was clearly convened to oust me. What was this if not humiliation? We spoke just a day before the CLP meeting was called. Harish Rawat told me then there was nothing in the works & even claimed he had not seen any letter sent by 43 MLAs. I am shocked at the blatant way in which he is now lying about this," he said. Singh flagged that he had said on the day of his resignation, long before meeting Shah that he had been "humiliated thrice by Congress" and hence what Rawat is saying "nonsense". "Any suggestion of a link between my humiliation remark & meeting with the Union Home Minister is nonsense," he said. Rawat's statement made no mention of Sidhu but sought to highlight the "humble background" of Charanjit Singh Channi, the first Dalit Chief Minister of Punjab from Congress after Captain's resignation. Rawat said the party expected the former Chief Minister to "bless" him but that did not happen. In an indication that days of niceties between the Captain and the party's central leadership are over, the Congress statement said tersely that despite continuous reminders from his colleagues and the leadership, unfortunately, Captain "failed to keep his promises on important issues like Bargadi, drugs, electricity etc." It also reminded him that "even after suffering a crushing defeat from Patiala Constituency in 1998", he was inducted into the Congress Party and immediately appointed by Sonia Gandhi, as the President of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee on three occasions from 1999 to 2002, 2010 to 2013 and 2015 to 2017. "Twice, the Congress Party made him the Chief Minister of Punjab from 2002 to 2007 and 2017 to 2021. As the Chief Minister, he was given a complete free hand," Rawat said. "There was a general perception throughout the state that Captain and the Badals are helping each other, and they have a secret understanding. I was always politely suggesting to him to initiate action on our election promises. At least five times I discussed these issues with Captain sahib but with no result," Rawat said days after the former CM hit out at Gandhi siblings- Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, calling them "inexperienced" and being misguided by their advisors. Rawat said Singh "did not implement even one out of eighteen points agreed upon," and "forgot about his promises" even after a time bound implementation course was discussed and mutually agreed later. "Born out of his stubbornness, he was of the belief that he does not need any advice from anyone, including his own MLAs and Ministers and party leadership," Rawat said recalling how he repeatedly went to his house and had lengthy discussions to implement five points later but it did not happen. "The Congress MLAs and Ministers were getting restless. As a result, in a written letter to the Party leadership, 43 MLAs told the party that despite repeated efforts we could not get anything done by Captain Amarinder Singh, so please call a CLP meeting otherwise we are going to call a separate meeting. Then I tried to contact Amarinder Singh ji thrice, but I could not get him on telephone. Then through one of his well-wishers I sent him a message that there is a demand for a CLP meeting, and we have no option but to call the CLP meeting. "Despite getting the message, Captain Amarinder Singh didn't bother to telephone me. Then I suggested to the party high command, that if we delay the matter then many MLAs may form a separate group or may create some more problems for the party. It was then decided to call a CLP meeting. I then officially informed Captain Amarinder Singh that the party had called a CLP meeting and requested him to attend the meeting," Rawat said, detailing the sequence of events which ultimately led to Captain's resignation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/captain-congress-engage-in-war-of-words-after-former-punjab-cm-says-he-will-quit-party-1036190.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Dalai Lama wishes President Kovind on turning 76||The Dalai Lama congratulated President Ram Nath Kovind on the latter's 76th birthday on Friday. “I greatly appreciate your dedication as President to the nation's steady development especially when it comes to the well-being of the less privileged,” the Buddhist leader wrote in a letter addressed to the president. “India has long been home to a broad range of spiritual and cultural traditions living in respectful harmony, side by side. It is the most populous, vibrant democracy in the world. The country's stature is growing on the international stage," the Nobel laureate said. "As our world becomes increasingly interdependent, I look forward to seeing India take a leading role in guiding humanity towards peace. This may include sharing the treasured principles of karuna and ahimsa, time-tested ideas that remain very relevant today," the Dalai Lama further said. He said that it was his firm belief that India is the only country with the potential to combine ancient knowledge with modern education and with a view to creating a more peaceful world. “This year marks the 62nd year of our life in exile. On behalf of all my fellow Tibetan brothers and sisters, I would like to thank the government and people of India for their unparalleled generosity and kindness. We remain forever grateful," the spiritual leader said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dalai-lama-wishes-president-kovind-on-turning-76-1036206.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Congress must come out of Gandhi family shadow to be relevant: Former HP CM Shanta Kumar||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister and BJP leader Shanta Kumar on Friday said the Congress must come out of the Gandhi family's shadows to become relevant again in national politics. If Congress is eliminated from the political canvass, India's democracy will be without a national opposition, he stressed. In a statement issued here, the veteran BJP leader highlighted the Congress’ importance by calling it the only national party in the country after the BJP. "The chariot of democracy moves on two wheels. One is the ruling party and the other is the opposition," Kumar said. The oldest party in the country, once led by the likes of Nehru, Gandhi, and Patel, has become a “joke” of late, he said. Kumar praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing an able leadership, but also stressed the importance of a strong opposition in the country. "Atal ji (Atal Bihari Vajpayee) used to say that we should not always stay in the small walls of parties – that is why I am saying this while standing in the temple of the nation," he added. The 87-year-old leader said the only treatment for the Congress is to come out of the “slavery” of the Gandhi family, adding that there is more than one national leader in the party. He also urged former chief minister of Punjab Amarinder Singh to not leave the Congress but sit together with G-23 leaders like Ghulam Navi Azad, Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor to “fight for freedom” in the party and break out of the “bondage” of one family. The G-23 referred to by Kumar is a group of Congress leaders who had last year written to Sonia Gandhi, seeking an organisational overhaul of the party. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-must-come-out-of-gandhi-family-shadow-to-be-relevant-former-hp-cm-shanta-kumar-1036213.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Ground situation in J&K belies BJP’s developmental claims post Article 370 abrogation: PAGD||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Friday claimed that the ground situation in Jammu and Kashmir was contrary to the BJP government’s claims of development post abrogation of special status of the erstwhile state. In a statement, CPM leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, who is also the spokesperson of the PAGD, alleged that a systematic disempowerment of the people was being carried out through bureaucratic rule in the region. While reacting to a recently released report by the Union Home ministry titled “The dream of one nation, one law, one symbol fulfilled: After effective removal of the provisions of Article 370, the picture has changed: a new start in Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh" he said these claims are far from the reality. “The claims of the BJP government that the abrogation of Article 370 has paved the way for new industries, created new employment opportunities, decreased terror incidents, brought atmosphere of peace and security, nurtured democracy, eradicated corruption, brought new Central laws for betterment of people in this region are nothing but a concocted and fabricated stories,” he said. The PAGD is an alliance of National Conference, PDP, CPM, Peoples Movement and ANC - formed in October last by Kashmir-centric leaders with the pledge towards restoration of the special status of J&K, which was revoked by the Centre in August 2019. The alliance spokesperson said the projects mentioned in the MHA report were mostly approved by the earlier governments “but shown to have been the outcome of abrogation of Article 370.” Watch latest videos by DH here:  “Reality is that Nashri Tunnel, Zojilla Tunnel, establishment of 50 degree colleges and various medical colleges are projects approved much before the abrogation of Article 370,” he said. Similarly, Tarigami said, on 7 November, 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Srinagar announced a reconstruction programme during the PDP-BJP coalition government of about Rs 80,000 crore to strengthen the social-economic infrastructure and for the development of Jammu & Kashmir. “It is claimed that after the re-organisation of the erstwhile state, 53 projects of Rs 58,477 crores in J&K and nine projects of Rs 21,441 crore in Ladakh are under progress which is part of the PM’s 2015 package. How can you attribute this progress to the abrogation of Article 370?” he asked. The PAGD statement reads that it was really baffling and misleading to claim high moral ground in implementing the PM Kisan Scheme and PMAY. “Jammu and Kashmir is getting benefitted the same way as other states and UTs. claiming to implementation of Jammu & Kashmir under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Scheme in which 4.4 lakh beneficiaries have been verified in this scheme, 1.77 lakh treatments have been authorised in the hospitals of J&K, for which, an amount of Rs 146 crores has been authorised. Simple question is what relevance it has with the abrogation of Art 370. This scheme is in vogue in the rest of India as well. So attributing this to abrogation of Art 370 is not correct,” it added. Tarigami said the slogan of “development”, in short, is a red herring. “The presence of Article 370 was not an impediment in the overall development of the State as claimed by the government. All government data and surveys indicate a marked improvement in almost all human development indices in the State,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ground-situation-in-jk-belies-bjp-s-developmental-claims-post-article-370-abrogation-pagd-1036242.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Kanhaiya like another Sidhu who would destroy Congress: RJD||Bihar's main opposition party RJD on Friday mocked Kanhaiya Kumar's induction into the Congress, saying that the former JNU student is like "another Navjot Singh Sidhu" who would "destroy" the grand old party. Ridiculing the Congress by calling it a sinking ship, senior RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari said that Kumar's joining won't make any difference to the party. Referring to the CPI turncoat's statement that "Congress is a big ship that needs to be saved", Tiwari said, "He is just like another Navjot Singh Sidhu who will further destroy the party." "Kanhaiya Kumar's induction won't make any difference. He can't save the party. Congress is a sinking ship and it has no future," the RJD leader told reporters. RJD sources said that the party is unhappy with the fact that Kumar was inducted into the Congress without consulting the Tejashwi Yadav-led party. The Congress is a part of the RJD-led opposition alliance Mahagathbandhan that fought the 2020 Bihar assembly elections against the NDA. Bihar Congress leaders declined to comment on the matter. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kanhaiya-like-another-sidhu-who-would-destroy-congress-rjd-1036260.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Punjab CM Channi meets PM Modi, urges him to repeal farm laws||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence here and urged him to repeal the three farm laws. Channi also said that he has called for early resolution of the farmers' agitation. The prime minister has said he also wanted it to end and is working towards it, the chief minister said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi's borders against the three farm laws since November last year and have been demanding the legislations be repealed. During his meeting with Modi, Channi called for immediately starting the procurement of paddy in Punjab, which has been delayed this time to October 10. "I have urged the prime minister to end this agitation over the three farm laws. He listened to me intently and said he also wants a solution to this problem and is working in this direction," Channi told reporters after the meeting. He also urged the prime minister to resume talks with the protesting farmers, "because I feel the matter can only be resolved through dialogue". "I have urged him (prime minister) that the three laws should be scrapped," Channi said. "I have told him that Punjab’s economy is agriculture driven and Punjab can only progress if our farmers and farm labourers are happy," the chief minister said. Channi said that he has also told the prime minister that Punjab is suffering because of the farmers’ agitation and the state has always fought for the country and “our people have sacrificed their lives in the freedom struggle and for the unity of the country”. Modi also shared pictures of his meeting with Channi on Twitter and said, "The Chief Minister of Punjab, Shri @CHARANJITCHANNI called on PM". This is Channi's first meeting with Modi after becoming chief minister. Asked about Navjot Singh Sidhu's issues with him and whether they have been resolved, Channi evaded the question. "I met the prime minister for the first time after becoming the chief minister. It was also a courtesy call. This was the first meeting and hence, there was no agenda as such. But still I have raised three issues with him" Channi told reporters after the meeting that last over half an hour. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-channi-meets-pm-modi-urges-him-to-repeal-farm-laws-1036283.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Nitish Kumar's aide sceptical of Kanhaiya Kumar's move to join Congress||Akey aide of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday cast doubts over Kanhaiya Kumar’s induction into the Congress yielding any benefits to either the young leader or the party. which seems riddled with insurmountable crises. Ashok Choudhary, who was himself a dynamic president of the state Congress a few years ago before being done in by a factional feud that played itself out on the streets, nonetheless wished the former JNU student leader well. “Kanhaiya is a young man from Bihar and my best wishes are with him” said Chaudhary, a powerful member of the state cabinet on whom the former JNUSU president had called on here a few months ago intensifying speculations about the ex-student leader’s plans to quit the moribund CPI. Choudhary, however, wondered “What future can he (Kanhaiya) look forward to in a party in which there is something fundamentally wrong. Look at what is happening in Punjab. They humiliated Capt Amarinder Singh, who has decided to quit. And they seem unable to appease Sidhu on the other hand”. He also cited recent crossovers by a host of prominent Congress leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasad and pointed to dissatisfaction among the old guard who are being referred to as “G-23” and “frustrated” young faces like Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan. “So, what benefit a party in such a mess can expect with the induction of one or two people. And what prospects can the new entrants hope for in such a scenario ?”, he asked. Notably, Choudhary had joined JD(U) in 2018 after having burnt his bridges with the Congress. He had earned plaudits after the 2015 assembly election when the Congress had contested in alliance with JD(U) and RJD and performed well. He was inducted into the cabinet from the Congress quota but factionalism reared its head no sooner than Nitish Kumar returned to the NDA in July, 2017 citing irreconcilable differences with the RJD. Choudhary’s detractors accused him of working at the behest of the chief minister to “break” the party which led to his removal from the BPCC chief’s post. Pictures of Choudhary, defending himself before the camera, teary-eyed, had made headlines. He had alleged that the national general secretary in-charge in those days, C P Joshi, was in cahoots with the BPCC “lobby” which was uneasy over his rise in the party. Born to late Mahavir Choudhary, a senior Congress leader of his time, Ashok Choudhary, then an MLC, finally made the much-anticipated crossover in March, 2018. He joined JD(U) along with two other party legislators, effecting a split in the Congress in the legislative council. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-kumars-aide-sceptical-of-kanhaiya-kumars-move-to-join-congress-1036314.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Just as Congress saw a ray of hope in CM Channi things tumbled out of control, says Salman Khurshid||With P Chidambaram expressing helplessness over lack of "meaningful conversations" within the Congress, party colleague Salman Khurshid on Friday said he had hoped the discussions the former finance minister speaks of might have been led by him and called for a dialogue between the leaders of the party. In an apparent swipe at the 'Group of 23' leaders and Kapil Sibal's remarks questioning the party's functioning amid a raging feud in the Congress, Khurshid, known to be close to the Gandhi family, said questioning time tested leadership style and substance in isolation from the popular prevailing opinion of ground-level workers, despite strong opinion amongst sundry leaders, is "very worrying". Weighing in on the internal bickering within the Congress following Navjot Singh Sidhu's resignation as the party's Punjab unit chief, Khurshid, in a long Facebook post, said just "as we saw" a ray of hope in the appointment of the new chief minister of Punjab "things tumbled out of control". "The new order astutely carved out of the crisis of confidence at several levels was challenged from within before the bonhomie pictures had become dated in terms of hours, not days. We continue to hope and pray that the disagreements will settle down in the interest of the party that deserves to win another term," he said, referring to the developments in Punjab. The former Union minister also expressed his views over the protests outside Sibal's house after he demanded that an immediate meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) be convened and wondered who in the party was taking decisions in the absence of a full-time president. In his post, Khurshid singled out Chidambaram's tweet in which he had expressed hurt and helplessness over the protests outside Sibal's house. "I feel helpless when we cannot start meaningful conversations within party forums. I also feel hurt and helpless when I see pictures of Congress workers raising slogans outside the residence of a colleague and MP," Chidambaram tweeted on Thursday. I feel helpless when we cannot start meaningful conversations within party forums. I also feel hurt and helpless when I see pictures of Congress workers raising slogans outside the residence of a colleague and MP. The safe harbour to which one can withdraw seems to be silence. The safe harbour to which one can withdraw seems to be silence, he had said. One cannot escape noting the sadness and helplessness of the tweet by Chidambaram, not one to be at a loss for ideas and expression in the toughest of situations, Khurshid said. "I had indeed hoped that the conversations he speaks of might have been led by him. Be that as it may, and without giving up on hope, one has to empathise with his rejection of the manner of protests that greeted some statements that the protesters found unsavoury. But to forgive my reiteration, once again it is a matter of pigeons coming home to roost," Khurshid said. "Good or bad, over the past we have encouraged or condoned certain conduct today being described as hooliganism as opposed to sycophantic conduct," he said. "But of course Mr Chidambaram let us all talk, not just talk but talk with each other," Khurshid added. Addressing Chidambaram, Khurshid said it would not serve to seek silence and certainly not by someone with eloquence and intellect like yours. "However, it would be fair that we speak with the young workers who expressed their ire in a manner seemingly unbecoming, but as I said, frequently condoned or encouraged when we were not the targets," he said. Khurshid said curiously the prevailing norm in national politics seems to be that unless such demonstration of disquiet is publicly expressed political entities are dismissed as ineffective and invisible. "If we are concerned about fixing decision making in our party we can surely fix communications with ordinary workers. They are the ones who have made us what we are. Without them, we are just names. Perhaps they will, if encouraged to speak up, tell us that we are the mistakes. In other words, there may be a lot to say about others in the party but perhaps we need to reflect on ourselves a bit as well," he said. In this moment of "trial and tribulation", Khurshid said, Congress leaders' paramount obligation is to restore faith in ourselves and each other. "Our leaders have led us from the front and for decades together ensured that we have the comfort of being in power. They believe that they get their strength and power from the thousands of workers and ordinary folk. Today they face the crisis with confidence because at the end of the day it is the workers’ devotion that sustains them," he said. Congress is a way of life and a matter of faith for millions of workers, he said. "If there is a sense amongst some people that the way of life should change they must account for those who do not wish to leave the path shown to them by their ancestors. We hope to find the end of the rainbow along this very road. What conversation can we have with those who cannot see the colours of the rainbow anymore," Khurshid said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/just-as-congress-saw-a-ray-of-hope-in-cm-channi-things-tumbled-out-of-control-says-salman-khurshid-1036316.html
01-10-2021||National Politics||Delay in paddy procurement triggers row in Punjab, Haryana||The Centre's decision to delay the procurement of paddy in Haryana and Punjab citing late September rains triggered a political row, with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to re-consider the move. Farmers' organisations protesting against the farm laws threatened to launch fresh protests at the procurement centres if the central agencies failed to start purchase of paddy immediately instead of October 11 as announced by the government. The Centre rejected the demand for early procurement of paddy in Punjab and Haryana, citing the high moisture content in the grains due to late September rains in the two states. The Food and Public Distribution ministry said high moisture content could leave the rice grain vulnerable to shriveling, blackening, discolouration and prone to infestation. “This may lead to rejection at procurement centres and would lead to distress sale of paddy and consequent loss to the farmers,” the centre said. Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said farmers will lay siege to the houses of leaders of the BJP and its ally JJP if the government did not start procurement of paddy from Saturday. The Punjab Chief Minister, during his meeting with the Prime Minister also called for early resolution of the farmers' agitation. The prime minister has said he also wanted it to end and was working towards it, the chief minister said. “I have urged the prime minister to end this agitation over the three farm laws. He listened to me intently and said he also wants a solution to this problem and is working in this direction,” Channi told reporters after the meeting. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delay-in-paddy-procurement-triggers-row-in-punjab-haryana-1036341.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||People from villages around Singhu, Tikri protest sites of farmers narrate woes to Khattar||A group of people from more than 20 villages around the farmer protest sites in Singhu and Tikri adjoining Delhi on Thursday met Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here and apprised him about the problems being faced by them due to the prolonged blockade of roads. After giving a patient hearing to their problems, Khattar said that the government is making every possible effort to reopen the roads while maintaining law and order. The villagers also handed over a memorandum to the chief minister demanding that the roads be reopened at the earliest. During the meeting, Khattar said that he is also worried about the losses being caused to traders and shopkeepers due to the closure of roads. Some among the delegation apprised the chief minister that due to the closure of the roads, they have even come to the verge of almost closing their businesses.  Khattar assured that the issue will be resolved, an official statement said. Along with the villagers, small shopkeepers from the area also put their problems before the chief minister. They said that the business of shopkeepers and showroom owners near the Singhu and Tikri borders, where farmers protesting against the Centre's farm laws have been squatting for over 10 months, has come to a standstill. The situation is so grave that people are even forced to migrate, they said, according to the statement. It has become difficult for the local people to commute during night time, the villagers said, while demanding police patrol. Khattar assured that the patrolling of the police would be increased immediately. The villagers also said that due to the closure of roads on the border, children from nearby villages have almost stopped going to schools. The future of the children is also badly affected, they said. According to the statement, a villager informed the chief minister that due to the closure of roads a few patients had died as they could not reach hospitals in time. "If someone's condition deteriorates at night, then it is not possible to take them to the hospital in time,” the statement quoting the villager said. Recently, the Haryana government had constituted a high-powered committee to make efforts to clear the road blockade along the state's borders with Delhi. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-from-villages-around-singhu-tikri-protest-sites-of-farmers-narrate-woes-to-khattar-1036002.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Proceedings of Delhi riots UAPA case must be expedited, says court||A court on Thursday said the proceedings of the Delhi riots "conspiracy" case, in which several persons have been booked under the anti-terror law, must be expedited.  Several persons have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the case and are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. To expedite the case, Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat has directed all the accused to file applications under section 207 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) within two weeks. Section 207 commands that an accused must be supplied with a copy of all the evidence and material collected against him during the course of the investigation and relied upon by the prosecution in the chargesheet. "The court deems it fit that the proceedings of the case must be expedited and the application for discharge/charge of accused can't be decided without other co­accused persons arguing on the point of charge, which would happen only after the scrutiny of documents under section 207 is complete," the judge said. He directed the prosecution to supply all the deficient documents as pointed out in the applications and file a reply only on those documents on which it has reservations. "This would smoothen the entire process and crystallise the arguments in respect of only those documents/records on which arguments are required to be addressed," the judge added. All the accused were produced before the court through a video-conference on Thursday. During the course of the hearing, accused Salim Khan told the court, "I am in jail for the last 19 months. I am innocent. My children's education has been disturbed." He further said, "I am not financially strong to rope in a big lawyer. In such a situation, I have no choice but to die. I am in depression. I do not feel like eating. I am alive just because my children are outside." The other accused put forth various requests. Tasleem pointed out that he was attacked in the jail about two-and-a-half months ago and sought security. Ishrat Jahan requested for headphones to be provided to her during her meetings with her family members and counsel. Athar Khan said certain books were sent by his family to him which were not delivered to him. He also requested for a copy of the Holy Quran. Former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, students of the university Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have been booked in the case.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/proceedings-of-delhi-riots-uapa-case-must-be-expedited-says-court-1036003.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat arrives in Jammu on 4-day visit||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat arrived in Jammu on Thursday on a four-day visit to the union territory during which he will address a group of intellectuals and meet prominent people. This is Bhagwat's first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019, when the erstwhile state's special status was ended and it was bifurcated into union territories -- J-K and Ladakh. Bhagwat interacted with RSS leaders in Jammu and Kashmir at its office. During the next three days, Bhagwat will hold meetings with various people to get feedback on various service initiatives of the organisation. On October 2, Bhagwat will address a seminar at the General Zorawar Singh Auditorium in Jammu University.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-arrives-in-jammu-on-4-day-visit-1036008.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Unidentified militant killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian||An unidentified militant was killed in a gunfight with security forces in the Rakhama area of south Kashmir's Shopian district on Friday. A police official said a cordon-and-search operation was launched in Rakhama, Shopian, by the army’s Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police after a specific input about the presence of militants in the area. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire on security forces, who retaliated, he said. In the ensuing firefight, one militant was killed whose identity was not known immediately. Nearly 110 militants and 21 security forces and police personnel have been killed in Jammu Kashmir since the beginning of this year. The highest number of militants (31) were killed in July. Among the militants slain in J&K this year, only 11 were Pakistanis while the rest were all locals. According to the army, there are still 200-225 militants active across the J&K despite low infiltration this year. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unidentified-militant-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-1036058.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Landslide leads to collapse of eight-storey building in Shimla||A landslide triggered by recent rains has led to the collapse of a multi-storey building which in turn damaged two adjacent structures, a senior disaster management official said on Friday. No loss of life has been reported in the incident, he said. According to Himachal Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, the eight-storey building at Ghoda Chowki near Hali Palace in Shimla collapsed on Thursday afternoon due to a landslide triggered by recent rains. Parts of the eight-storey structure hit two two-storey buildings, damaging them, he said, adding two adjoining buildings, including a hotel, were also at risk. Mokhta said that the district administration has provided Rs 10,000 as immediate financial aid to each of the occupants of the buildings. Check out the latest DH videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/landslide-leads-to-collapse-of-eight-storey-building-in-shimla-1036082.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||In this UP school, Dalit children face constant violence||An Amethi school has grabbed headlines for notorious reasons - caste-based violence against students as young as 10 years old. The incidents, which have been reported to be going on for a while now in Banpurwa Government Primary School, started to garner attention when a ten year old Dalit child, Jyoti Rao, fessed up to his family about Soni's violent practices. The child, who is reportedly reluctant to speak, is only comfortable to talk with her parents around. “We are made to sit separately during lunch time… The teacher (headmistress) is always late herself, but if someday we are even slightly late, we are beaten up. If we do anything even slightly wrong, we are beaten up", she was quoted telling The Indian Express. Soni, children of the school say, had beaten them up in the past too. When their greiviances had once reached the 'pradhan' of Ganderi village, Vinay Kumar, she had trashed the students. Kumar and the kin of one of the children filed a complaint against Soni for caste-discrimination on Tuesday after which an FIR was registered against her name. On Tuesday, the pradhan, Vinay Kumar, and the grandparent of one of the students filed a complaint with the local SHO against Soni, accusing her of caste discrimination. “I went to the school along with my representative Pawan Dubey and did not find the headmistress", Kumar said in his complaint, according to The Indian Express. A tweet by Kumar on the issue had been noticed by Basic Siksha Adhikari Arvind Pathak who revealed that following this Soni had been suspended and an FIR had been registered against her for discrimination along Caste lines. Although Soni denies the charges against her, the FIR reveals that she also used castiest slurs while speaking to the Dalit children. This is unfortunately not a one-time occurrence in Uttar Pradesh. Just days earlier, action was taken against a school in Mainpuri for making Dalit pupils keep their utensils separately, according to The Indian Express. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-this-up-school-dalit-children-face-constant-violence-1036108.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Seven killed, 13 injured in bus-dumper collision in Madhya Pradesh||Seven persons were killed and 13 others injured after an Uttar Pradesh-bound bus collided with a dumper truck near Gohad town in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh on Friday, a police official said. The accident took place around 8 am when the Itawa-bound bus from Gwalior collided head on with the dumper, Additional SP Kamlesh Kharpuse said. The mishap occurred on the national highway near Hargovindpura under the Gohad police station limits, he said. The injured persons have been shifted to Gwalior district hospital for treatment, he added.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-killed-13-injured-in-bus-dumper-collision-in-madhya-pradesh-1036111.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Seven killed, 13 injured in bus-dumper collision in Madhya Pradesh||Seven persons were killed and 13 others injured after an Uttar Pradesh-bound bus collided with a dumper truck near Gohad town in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh on Friday, a police official said. The accident took place around 8 am when the Itawa-bound bus from Gwalior collided head on with the dumper, Additional SP Kamlesh Kharpuse said. The mishap occurred on the national highway near Hargovindpura under the Gohad police station limits, he said. The injured persons have been shifted to Gwalior district hospital for treatment, he added.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-killed-13-injured-in-bus-dumper-collision-in-madhya-pradesh-1036112.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||You strangulated the city, now want to come inside: SC on Kisan Mahapanchayat's plea to stage 'Satyagraha' at Jantar Mantar||The Supreme Court on Friday took an exception to a plea filed by 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' for permission to hold 'Satyagrah' at Jantar Mantar here, by saying "you have already strangulated the city, blocked the highways and roads and now want to come inside". "Once you have approached courts challenging the laws, what is the point of continuing the protests? If you have faith in courts, pursue that for urgent hearing instead of protesting," a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar told the petitioner's counsel. As petitioner's counsel sought to argue on the petition for permission to hold "peaceful, unarmed and non-violent" 'Satyagrah', the bench said, "You cannot come to the court and continue protesting at the same time. Are you protesting against the judicial system?" The bench, also comprising Justice C T Ravikumar, said although the petitioners had a right to protest, "but you cannot destroy property. You are also heckling the security person. This business has to stop." Advocate Ajay Choudhary, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that blocking the highways not part of the protest. He also maintained that it was the police who had blocked the highways not the farmers. On this, the bench asked the petitioner to file an affidavit in this regard and put the matter for consideration on October 4. The court also allowed the petitioner to serve the copy of the petition on the office of the Attorney General. Notably, acting on a batch of petitions, including by some farmers leaders, a separate bench of the top court had on January 12 stayed implementation of three farm laws. The court had then constituted a committee to report on these laws. The panel had already submitted its report on March 19 after consulting a large number of farmers and several stakeholders. However, the farmers groups, which started their protests against the three laws since November 26, 2020, continued to stage their sit-ins at the borders of the national capital. On September 30, a bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, acting on a plea by Noida resident, questioned the Union government on steps taken to remove the road blockade by the farmers, while voicing its concern that the roads can't remain occupied perpetually. In its October 7, 2020 judgement with regard to Shaheen Bagh sit-in against the Citizenship Amendment Act, the top court had then declared that public roads and spaces can't be occupied indefinitely for protests, causing inconvenience to the people, and the demonstrations must be organised at designated places only. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/you-strangulated-the-city-now-want-to-come-inside-sc-on-kisan-mahapanchayats-plea-to-stage-satyagraha-at-jantar-mantar-1036114.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Extortion racket link behind killing of Kanpur businessman: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party National President Akhilesh Yadav on Friday lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the Kanpur businessman death case, and charged that "someone" is saving himself and there is an extortion racket linked to the matter. Businessman Manish Gupta died in a Gorakhpur hotel during a police raid late on Monday night, prompting the authorities to suspend six policemen and book them on the charge of murder.Gupta was staying along with two friends in the hotel. "No policeman has been arrested in the Manish Gupta murder case. This shows that they did not escaped themselves but they were made to escape. Actually, someone is not saving the accused but saving himself as its strings are linked to the 'vasooli tantra' (extortion racket)," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. "Zero tolerance' is also a BJP jumla (rhetoric),"  he said, in an apparent reference to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's assertion that the state has zero tolerance towards crime and corruption. A case of murder has been lodged in the case against six policemen who are absconding. A top Uttar Pradesh Police official on Thursday claimed that Gupta died from a head injury caused by a fall as he tried to escape during a police raid at a hotel where he was staying in Gorakhpur. He also said Gupta died at a hospital during treatment. Checkout the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/extortion-racket-link-behind-killing-of-kanpur-businessman-akhilesh-yadav-1036117.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Extortion racket link behind killing of Kanpur businessman: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party National President Akhilesh Yadav on Friday lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the Kanpur businessman death case, and charged that "someone" is saving himself and there is an extortion racket linked to the matter. Businessman Manish Gupta died in a Gorakhpur hotel during a police raid late on Monday night, prompting the authorities to suspend six policemen and book them on the charge of murder.Gupta was staying along with two friends in the hotel. "No policeman has been arrested in the Manish Gupta murder case. This shows that they did not escaped themselves but they were made to escape. Actually, someone is not saving the accused but saving himself as its strings are linked to the 'vasooli tantra' (extortion racket)," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. "Zero tolerance' is also a BJP jumla (rhetoric),"  he said, in an apparent reference to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's assertion that the state has zero tolerance towards crime and corruption. A case of murder has been lodged in the case against six policemen who are absconding. A top Uttar Pradesh Police official on Thursday claimed that Gupta died from a head injury caused by a fall as he tried to escape during a police raid at a hotel where he was staying in Gorakhpur. He also said Gupta died at a hospital during treatment. Checkout the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/extortion-racket-link-behind-killing-of-kanpur-businessman-akhilesh-yadav-1036118.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Here's why Delhi's private liquor stores will remain shut for 45 days||All private liquor stores in Delhi will remain shut for about 45 days in order to implement the new excise policy in the national capital that will mark the government's exit from the alcohol business. Until November 16, only government liquor stores will function across the city while private ones will remain shut to acquire the new licenses and make other arrangements under the new norms.  Delhi government runs about 60 per cent of the 850 alcohol stores in the city. From November 17, it will completely exit the liquor business in an attempt to increase transparency, revenue and service quality. The licenses will be alloted via open tenders to private ventures, who are only allowed to operate with the new licenses.  As many as 26 municipal wards will have no open liquor stores for over a month as they were only catered to by private players. Besides, there are 80 wards that have no liquor vendors.  Under the new policy, the government has decided to divide the city into 32 zones and scatter licenses across the zones in an equal manner to facilitate liquor business. Each zone will have about 8-10 wards, with about 27 outlets.     The ambitious new policy also allows the online sale of liquor through apps and websites. It also envisages five super-premium stores for high-end products. It also does away with iron grills -- mandating that stores are at least 500 square feet and that the customers are able to browse and buy the product of their choice. However, officials have reportedly said the changes may take time as the new vendors have to find land and construct stores. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heres-why-delhis-private-liquor-stores-will-remain-shut-for-45-days-1036124.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Modi launches Swachh Bharat-Urban and AMRUT 2.0||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation, asserting that these missions were aimed at making the cities garbage free and water secure. In his address after launching SBM-U 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 at the Ambedkar International Centre here, Modi said the new phases of these missions are also an important step in fulfilling dreams of B R Ambedkar.  "It's our privilege that today's programme has been organised at the BR Ambedkar Centre. Babasaheb believed that urban development was pivotal to removing inequality," Modi said. Noting that many people from villages come to cities with the aspiration of a better life, he said they get employment but their living standard is often worse than in villages. This is like a double whammy as they are away from home, and stay in such a situation, Modi said adding that Babasaheb's great emphasis was on changing this situation. Modi noted that the young generation has taken the initiative to strengthen the cleanliness campaign. "Toffee wrappers are no longer thrown on the ground, but kept in pockets. Small children now urge the elders not to litter," Modi said. "We have to remember that maintaining cleanliness is not just for a day, a fortnight, a year or for a few people, it is a mega campaign for every day, every fortnight, every year, for everyone and a continuous programme from one generation to another," the prime minister said. India is processing about one lakh tonne of waste every day, he said, adding that garbage mountains in cities will be processed and removed completely under the new phases of the two missions. In line with the vision of the prime minister, SBM-U 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 have been designed to realise the aspiration to make all cities garbage free and water secure, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). These missions signify a step forward in the march towards effectively addressing the challenges of rapidly urbanising India and will also help contribute towards achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 2030, the PMO said. SBM-U 2.0 envisions to make all cities garbage free and ensure grey and black water management in all cities other than those covered under AMRUT, make all urban local bodies open defecation free+ and those with a population of less than one lakh as open defecation free++, thereby achieving the vision of safe sanitation in urban areas.  The mission will focus on source segregation of solid waste, utilising the principles of 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle), scientific processing of all types of municipal solid waste and remediation of legacy dumpsites for effective solid waste management, the PMO said.  The outlay of SBM-U 2.0 is around Rs 1.41 lakh crore, it said. AMRUT 2.0 aims at providing 100 per cent coverage of water supply to all households in around 4,700 urban local bodies by providing about 2.68 crore tap connections and 100 per cent coverage of sewerage and septage in 500 AMRUT cities by providing around 2.64 crore sewer or septage connections, which will benefit more than 10.5 crore people in urban areas, the PMO said.  AMRUT 2.0 will adopt the principles of a circular economy and promote conservation and rejuvenation of surface and groundwater bodies, it said. The mission will promote data-led governance in water management and technology sub-mission to leverage the latest global technologies and skills, it said. The outlay of AMRUT 2.0 is around Rs 2.87 lakh crore, the PMO statement said.  SBM-U and AMRUT have contributed significantly to improve the urban landscape during the last seven years, PMO has said.  The two flagship missions have augmented the capacity to deliver basic services of water supply and sanitation to the citizens,it said. 'Swachhta' has become a 'jan andolan' today, all urban local bodies have been declared open defecation free and 70 per cent solid waste is being scientifically processed now, the PMO said. AMRUT has been ensuring water security by adding 1.1 crore household water tap connections and 85 lakh sewer connections, thus benefiting more than four crore people. Union Minister for Housing & Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Housing & Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore as well as ministers of urban development of several states and union territories were also present on the occasion. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-launches-swachh-bharat-urban-and-amrut-20-1036128.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Religious places in Delhi opened for devotees||The Delhi government has allowed the reopening of religious places in the city for devotees from Friday with strict adherence to Covid guidelines and standard operating procedures. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority issued fresh Covid-19 guidelines on Thursday. Religious places in the national capital were closed for devotees for over five months, since April 19, following the imposition of a lockdown due to the severe second wave of Covid infections. Although the DDMA order permitted the entry of devotees to religious places, it prohibited large gatherings there.  It also directed the district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to ensure strict compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour in view of the upcoming festivals. The authority in its fresh Covid-19 guidelines stated that fairs, melas, food stalls, jhoolas, rallies and processions will not be permitted during festivals in Delhi. "Chhat pooja celebration shall not be allowed in public places and people are advised to celebrate the same at their homes," the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in official order. The activities permitted and prohibited by the DDMA will continue up to October 15 midnight. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/religious-places-in-delhi-opened-for-devotees-1036153.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||LeT militant arrested in J&K's Pulwama||Security forces on Friday arrested a Lashkar-e-Taiba militant in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. The arrested "categorised" militant has been identified as Shamim Sofi, a resident of Nikloora area of south Kashmir, a police official said. He said Sofi is affiliated with the LeT militant group. Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, have been recovered from his possession, the official said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/let-militant-arrested-in-jks-pulwama-1036155.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||SC dismisses plea by Ex-Kerala minister to relax bail condition in 2008 Bengaluru serial blasts case||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected a plea by Kerala's People Democratic Party leader Abdul Nazir Maudany, prime accused in the 2008 serial bomb blast case, seeking to stay the Lokayukta findings that he had “abused” his position as a public servant to obtain a favour for a relative. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari dismissed his application against the condition imposed on July 11, 2014 order for him not to leave the city of Bengaluru. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for Maudany, contended that he was wheel-chair bound and his conditions had worsened in all these years. The court had then ordered for the trial to be completed within four months, seven years down the line, the prosecution evidence was complete with no chance of tampering with the evidence. The counsel said the applicant was advised Ayurvedic treatment at his home town. Further, he was unnecessarily being made to pay rent in Bengaluru. He said the applicant also wanted to reside with ailing father. Karnataka's Additional Advocate General Nikhil Goel, opposing the plea, submitted that Maudany had filed applications for recall of 44 witnesses who belonged to Kerala. Out of nine cases, 200 witnesses in each had been examined and the statement of 31 accused had been recorded in seven cases, he submitted. Goel said relaxing bail conditions for the applicant might allow him to come in contact with the witnesses, which would go against another condition for his bail. He also said the applicant faced about 24 cases in Kerala, besides other serious charges previously. Earlier, in its written response, the state government has told the court that allowing Maudany, to stay in his home state, would affect the integrity of the nation and enable him to escape or establish contacts with other absconding accused to indulge in further terrorist activities. On July 25, 2008, as many as eight serial bomb blasts occurred on Mysore road, in Bengaluru city, leading to the death of one Sudha, besides causing injuries to nine others and huge damage to the public properties.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-dismisses-plea-by-ex-kerala-minister-to-relax-bail-condition-in-2008-bengaluru-serial-blasts-case-1036178.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Haryana Police uses water cannon to disperse farmers in Jhajjar||The Haryana Police on Friday used a water cannon to disperse a group of farmers who tried to force their way in Jhajjar where Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was to attend a programme. A group of protestors jumped barricades and tried to force their way to the venue, police said. The venue of the event was a government college in Jhajjar. Police said the protestors gathered near the venue with some of them jumping over the barricades to force their way inside. Jhajjar's senior police officials and the deputy commissioner reached the spot to oversee law and order. Later in the day, Chautala is also scheduled to attend another event in Jhajjar.   A group of farmers on Thursday jumped over police barricades in a bid to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting in Karnal's Indri, police said earlier.  Among those present at the meeting were Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap and senior state BJP leader Pawan Saini. Farmers, who are protesting against the three central farm laws, have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-police-uses-water-cannon-to-disperse-farmers-in-jhajjar-1036184.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Teen rapes 4-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh||A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a teenager in a village in Karari town area in Kaushambi, police said on Friday. The incident took place on Wednesday afternoon when the girl was playing outside. She entered a neighbour's house where she was raped by a 15-year-old boy who was alone there, Superintendent of Police Radheyshyam Vishwakarma said. An FIR was lodged on Thursday by the police on the complaint of the victim’s father, he said. The girl has since been admitted to the hospital, where her condition was said to be stable. Police are trying to trace the whereabouts of the absconding accused.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teen-rapes-4-year-old-girl-in-uttar-pradesh-1036187.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Body of woman with burn injuries found in southeast Delhi||The body of a 19-year-old woman with burn injuries was found at a house in southeast Delhi's Lajpat Nagar area on Friday morning, police said. The woman is a resident of Madrasi Camp. She, along with her mother, used to work as domestic help at a house in Lajpat Nagar-II here, they said. The Lajpat Nagar police station received a PCR call on Friday morning informing them that a woman has got electrocuted but police, however, said that the exact cause of her death will be ascertained only through an autopsy report. A preliminary enquiry has revealed that the victim had burn injuries on her body. She had come to work at the house around 7 am on Friday, a senior police officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) Esha Pandey said the spot was also inspected by forensic experts. The body has been sent for post-mortem and further legal action will be taken according to the autopsy report, she said.  An investigation into the matter is underway, police said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-woman-with-burn-injuries-found-in-southeast-delhi-1036197.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||IMA scam: Congress leader Zameer Khan appears before ED||Congress leader and former Minister B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan on Friday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate officials in New Delhi for inquiry into his "properties." Zameer, who appeared before the officials at the ED headquarter in Lok Nayak Bhavan in the Khan Market area, was inside the office for more than an hour. Emerging out of the meeting, he told reporters, "Earlier the ED officials sought some details in connection with my properties. I have submitted all the documents. Since they asked me to appear before them personally, I appeared before them for clarification. I have replied to all their questions." He further said the ED officials asked him about his properties, his new house in Bengaluru, investment in lands and his transport business.  While refusing to disclose further, he said he will be staying in Delhi for a few more days and if the ED officials asked him to appear again, he will attend the inquiry.  However, Zameer dismissed the speculation that the ED summoned him in connection with the IMA scam probe.  In the first week of August, the ED officials conducted search operations at properties connected to Zameer Khan including offices of National Travels, a firm he owns, and other properties linked to him.  The Congress MLA is stated to have had a purported property transaction with then MD of IMA Group Mansoor Khan.  The ED action is linked to its probe in the Rs 4,000-crore I-Monetary Advisor (IMA) alleged ponzi scam case, taking cognisance of a CBI FIR and a charge sheet. However, Zameer has been denying that he is facing a probe related to the IMA scam. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ima-scam-congress-leader-zameer-khan-appears-before-ed-1036214.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Congress UP unit VP Gayadeen Anuragi joins Samajwadi Party||Ahead of next year's Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the Congress' state unit vice-president Gayadeen Anuragi joined the Samajwadi Party on Friday and alleged that his voice was not being heard in the grand old party. He joined the Samajwadi Party in the presence of its national president Akhilesh Yadav here. The problem of senior leaders choosing to part ways continues to vex the Congress despite its General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's earnest effort to gear up the party for the polls. She completed her five-day visit to the state on Friday to review the party's poll preparedness. Earlier, Lalitesh Pati Tripathi, the great-grandson of late Congress stalwart Kamalapati Tripathi, bid adieu to the party. This came a few months after ex-Union minister Jitin Prasada, the son of former Congress leader Jitendra Prasad, crossed over to the BJP. When asked about his joining in SP, Anuragi, a former MLA from Rath in Hamirpur, claimed that he was not feeling comfortable in the Congress as he was not heard. On the occasion, Jan Parivartan Dal president J P Dhangarh announced the merger of his party with the Samajwadi Party. Prominent among those who joined the SP included National President of Dali Mahasabha Rahul Bhartiya, former MP from Balrampur and three-time MLA Rizwan Zaheer, and former legislators R P Kushwaha and Vinod Chaturvedi among others. Gondwana Gantantra Party's national president Tuleshwar Singh also announced support to the SP. On the occasion, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said all sections of the society are joining his party and making it strong. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-up-unit-vp-gayadeen-anuragi-joins-samajwadi-party-1036216.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Nomination begins for bypolls to Rajasthan's Dhariyavad, Vallabhnagar assembly seats||The nomination process for the bypolls to Dhariyavad and Vallabhnagar assembly seats in Rajasthan began on Friday with the Election Commission of India issuing a notification for the same. Polling will be held on October 30, Additional Chief Electoral Officer Krishna Kunal said. According to the notification, nominations can be filed for both the seats till October 8, scrutiny of papers will be done on October 11, and nominations can be withdrawn by October 13. Counting of votes will take place on November 2, it stated. Major political parties, including the Congress and the BJP, are yet to announce their candidates for the seats. The bypolls were necessitated by the death of Vallabhnagar Congress MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and Dhariyavad BJP MLA Gautam Lal Meena on January 20 and May 19 respectively. Both had tested positive for Covid-19. The Congress currently has 106 MLAs in the state's 200-member assembly, while the BJP has 71, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) three, the CPI(M) and the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) have two each and 13 are independents. Two seats are vacant.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nomination-begins-for-bypolls-to-rajasthans-dhariyavad-vallabhnagar-assembly-seats-1036217.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi University releases first cut-off for UG courses — Check here||Delhi University on Friday announced its first cut-off list for undergraduate admissions with prominent colleges like Shri Ram College of Commerce and Hindu College pegging the cut-offs at 100 per cent for various courses. Other colleges that have set a perfect score for admissions are Ramjas College, Jesus and Mary College, Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College and Hansraj College. Among the colleges that have declared 100 per cent cut-off are Shri Ram College for Commerce (SRCC) for BA (Hons) Economics and BCom Honours, Hindu College and Ramjas College for Political Science Honours, SGTB Khalsa College for BCom, Hansraj College, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies and Deen Dayal Upadhyay College for BSc (Hons) Computer Science and Jesus and Mary College for BA(Hons) Psychology and Ramjas College for a combination of BA programme. The cut-offs have soared higher this year with some courses even seeing a six to seven per cent rise in scores than last year. While SRCC has demanded cent per cent marks for admission to BA(Hons) Economics and BCom (Hons), last year the college had pegged the cut-off for BA (Hons)Economics at 99 per cent and for B.Com (Hons) at 99.50 per cent. Jesus and Mary College (JMC) has pegged the cut-off for BA (Hons) Psychology at 100 per cent for those who do not include the subject while calculating their best of four percentage. The cut-off for students who will include the subject in their best of four (BFS) marks is 99 per cent. Last year, the cut-off for Psychology (Hons) was 99.5 per cent if the subject was not included in BFS or if a student had scored less than 85 per cent in the subject, while for the others it was 98.5 per cent. To get into BSc (Hons) Computer Science at Hansraj College, a student requires cent per cent marks, a significant increase from last year when 97.25 per cent was needed to get into the course. This year, Hindu College and Ramjas College have kept a perfect score for getting into BA (Honours) Political Science. In 2020, the minimum marks required for admission to BA (Hons) Political Science at Hindu were just 0.50 per cent short of the 100 per cent requirement while at Ramjas College, the cut-off was 99 per cent. For getting into BCom at SGTB Khalsa College, students will this time need 100 per cent scores, a significant increase from last year when 96.5 per cent was required to be eligible for admission to the course. Ramjas College has pegged the cut-off at 100 per cent for a combination of BA programme under which a student can opt any of the two subjects (English/Hindi/Political Science/Economics/History/ Mathematics). Last year, the minimum eligibility requirement for this combination was 96 per cent. Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies had pegged the cut-off at 97 per cent for BSc (Hons) Computer Science while this year, it has gone up to 100 per cent. Deen Dayal Upadhayya College had a cut-off of 96 per cent for admissions to BSc(Hons) Computer Science last year with it going up to 100 per cent this year. College principals had predicted the cut-offs to soar high this year with over 70,000 students scoring above 95 per cent in CBSE class 12 board exams. In 2020, Lady Shri Ram College (LSR) released a cut off requirement of 100 per cent for three courses - BA (Hons) Economics, Political Science and Psychology. It was in 2015 that two colleges -- College of Vocational Studies (CVS) and IP College for Women -- required the perfect score for admission to BSc (Hons) Computer Science. Students will start applying to colleges from October 4. Over 2.87 lakh students have applied for Delhi University's undergraduate courses, down from 3.53 lakh applications last year, with the maximum aspirants from CBSE. Over 2.29 lakh applicants are from CBSE-affiliated schools, followed by Board of School Education Haryana (9,918), Council for the Indian School Certification Examination (9,659) and UP Board of High School and Intermediate Education (8,007).  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-releases-first-cut-off-for-ug-courses-check-here-1036235.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Special Swachhta Abhiyan in health, chemicals and fertilizers ministries from Oct 2 to 31||Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who holds the health as well as Chemicals and Fertilizers portfolios, has directed all departments and offices under these two ministries to undertake a special cleanliness drive from October 2 to 31. According to the directive issued on September 29, cleanliness of the buildings and premises, disposal of wastes, condemned furniture, e-waste and cleaning and maintaining of sitting areas will be undertaken under the special Swachhta Abhiyan. "From October 2 to October 31 special drive on Swachhta Abhiyan may be conducted by the ministry and department and all the attached offices, subordinated offices, statutory bodies, autonomous bodies/PSUs etc under administrative control," it said. There is a need to dispose of long-pending files, representations. Also weeding out of old records according to Record Retention Schedule should also be done during this period, the directive stated. A set proforma has been enclosed with the directive for making daily reports with before and after photographs and a control room may a set up to collect the report on a day-to-day basis, it stated. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation, asserting that these missions were aimed at making the cities garbage-free and water secure. Modi said the new phases of these missions are also an important step in fulfilling the dreams of B R Ambedkar. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/special-swachhta-abhiyan-in-health-chemicals-and-fertilizers-ministries-from-oct-2-to-31-1036241.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||PoK resident arrested along LoC in J&K's Poonch||A man from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir was arrested by the Army for allegedly infiltrating along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Friday, officials said. "Today, at about 1230 hours, one PoK national (male) crossed LoC and has been apprehended by Indian Army troops along Mendhar river in Balnoi area," PRO defence said. He said further investigation is underway and updates will follow.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pok-resident-arrested-along-loc-in-jks-poonch-1036281.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Smog tower: Primary results show 80% reduction in pollution, says Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday said the smog tower at Connaught Place has started working at full capacity and primary results show an 80 per cent reduction in pollution levels. Rai said the large air purifier reduced PM2.5 level from 151 micrograms per cubic meter to 38 µg/m³, and PM10 concentration from 165 µg/m³ to 41 µg/m³ on Friday morning. "Primary results indicate the pollution levels have reduced by 80 per cent," he told reporters. A 16-member team of experts from Delhi Pollution Control Committee, IIT-Bombay, NBCC and Tata Projects has been formed to monitor the functioning of the smog tower. "It will submit its first report in three months. Based on the results of the two-year study, the government will take a call on installing more such structures," the minister said. Sensors have been installed at the top and the bottom to measure PM2.5 and PM10 concentration in the air entering the smog tower and after it is cleaned, he said. The over 24-meter-high structure was inaugurated by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on August 23. The smog tower has 40 fans and 10,000 filters developed by experts at the University of Minnesota which also helped design a 100-metre-high smog tower in Xian, China. The smog tower can purify air in a one-km radius around the structure, at a rate of around 1,000 cubic metres per second. Experts will try to ascertain the area of influence and the optimum fan speed for best results at minimum costs, according to officials. The study will also focus on reducing the size of the structure, minimizing energy consumption, and developing design parameters and specifications for low-cost indigenous filters and fans. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/smog-tower-primary-results-show-80-reduction-in-pollution-says-delhi-environment-minister-gopal-rai-1036299.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Hathras case: KUWJ shocked at inclusion of Siddique Kappan's news stories in UP STF's charge sheet||The Kerala union of working journalists (KUWJ) on Friday expressed shock over the Uttar Pradesh police charge sheet against journalist Siddique Kappan, in which the reports and interviews done by the Delhi-based scribe have also been allegedly included. KUWJ said the action of the UP police was nothing but treating "journalism as a crime". According to news reports, the 5,000 page charge sheet, filed by the UP Special Task Force (STF), lists the news items and articles by Kappan. "This goes against the very spirit of freedom of expression guaranteed under the constitution. We appeal to the Honorable Supreme Court of India to intervene in the matter and quash the shameful act of the UP police," the KUWJ said in a statement. The journalists' body said the police in UP was acting against the freedom of expression and fundamental rights of the individual citizen. "The KUWJ is also anguished to learn that the copy of the charge sheet has not been given to Siddique Kappan even though we are on the brink of completing one year of his arrest and subsequent incarceration in the jail," the statement read. KUWJ also pointed out that Kappan has volunteered to undergo narco analysis and other tests as part of his struggle to prove his innocence in the cases slapped against him. "The KUWJ as an organisation of professional journalists committed to protect the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of expression would reiterate its support for Mr Kappan and his struggle against the false charges made by the UP police," it said. Delhi-based Kerala journalist Kappan and three others were arrested by Mathura police on October 5 last year, while they were on their way to a village in Hathras to meet the family members of a Dalit girl who had died in a Delhi hospital while undergoing treatment after being gang raped in her village. The four were arrested earlier on the apprehension of causing a breach of peace but were later slapped with stern charges of sedition and being involved in various terror offences. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-case-kuwj-shocked-at-inclusion-of-siddique-kappans-news-stories-in-up-stfs-charge-sheet-1036313.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Sarbananda Sonowal, L Murugan take oath as Rajya Sabha members||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday administered oath to two newly elected members Sarbananda Sonowal and L Murugan in his chamber. Sonowal was elected from Assam and Murugan from Madhya Pradesh in the bye-elections held recently. While Sonowal took oath in Assamese language, Murugan took oath in Tamil. Sonowal is the Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways and also of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH). Murugan is the Minister of State in the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and also in Information and Broadcasting. Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Rajya Sabha Secretary-General P P K Ramacharyulu and other senior officers of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat were also present on the occasion. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sarbananda-sonowal-l-murugan-take-oath-as-rajya-sabha-members-1036315.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Dust pollution in NCR: Air Quality Commission kicks off online monitoring||The Commission on Air Quality Management on Friday made it mandatory for construction agencies in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan to link up with an online monitoring system in order to keep track of the dust pollution originating at their sites. The agencies have been asked to install low-cost but reliable PM2.5 and PM10 sensors at the sites to keep an eye on such dust particles and undertake mitigation measures accordingly. They would also have to provide video footage from the construction site to the portal. This is one of the first clean up measures undertaken by the commission, set by the Centre earlier this year. The CAQM replaces the Supreme Court mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority that used to look after air pollution issues for Delhi and its satellite towns. As per the directions of the CAQM, all the projects (on plot area equal to or greater than 500 square meters) of construction and demolition under the territorial jurisdiction of Urban Local Bodies in the National Capital Region have to mandatorily register at the web portal. Following the norms would help the project proponents to self-audit and certify compliance of stipulated dust control measures as they are expected to upload the self-declaration on a fortnightly basis, the Union Environment Ministry said in a statement. Directions have been issued to Delhi Pollution Control Committee and other state pollution control boards within the NCR to strictly monitor compliance of dust mitigation measures. Construction dust is one of the key air pollutants in the NCR, which continue to witness extensive developmental activities in Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Gurgaon, Ghaziabad and Faridabad. According to the DPCC officials, nearly 30% of air pollution in Delhi and its surrounding is caused by dust from construction sites. The Commission’s directives come days ahead of the stubble burning season in Punjab and Haryana, which will increase the air pollution level in the national capital. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dust-pollution-in-ncr-air-quality-commission-kicks-off-online-monitoring-1036342.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||SC concerned over pendency of criminal cases in Allahabad HC, grants bail to man serving life term||Expressing concern over “long pendency”, the Supreme Court Friday granted bail to a man, serving life imprisonment after being convicted for burning his wife to death, on the ground of delay in hearing on his 2016 appeal against the conviction before the Allahabad High Court. An irked bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana on Wednesday had directed the Home Secretary of Uttar Pradesh government to either file an affidavit giving details such as the number of adjournments taken by the convict before the high court or be ready to appear in person on Friday after the state counsel blamed the convict for the delay. The bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, Friday perused the affidavit filed by the state government and was told by lawyer Garima Prasad that it was a convict who has taken several adjournments before the high court which is seized of his second bail application in the case. The counsel for the convict, however, reiterated his submissions that even the appeal records have not been prepared in the high court for hearing his challenge to the conviction and the award of life imprisonment. “We know the long pendency of criminal cases there. And because of no effective hearing, we are disposing of the appeal and granting him the bail,” the bench said. On Wednesday, the counsel for the state government had referred to the records and had alleged that it was the counsel for the convict who has been taking adjournments and consequently delaying the trial. "Please do not make impossible statements. I know the state (of affairs) in Uttar Pradesh," the CJI had observed. The bench was hearing the criminal appeal of one Pintu Saini, who was seeking bail and has been alleging that his appeal against his conviction has been pending adjudication since 2016 in the high court. The bench, in its order, had noted that the counsel for the state government submitted that the petitioner had taken several adjournments when his criminal appeal was listed. On the other hand, the counsel for the convict had denied such a contention claiming that even the "Criminal Appeal Paper Book" has not yet been prepared in the High Court, the order said. "Under the circumstances, we direct Home Secretary to the State of UP to file an affidavit on or before October 1, 2021, indicating therein (i) as to how many times the Criminal Appeal filed by the petitioner is listed, (ii) as to how many times learned counsel who appeared for the petitioner before the High Court has taken adjournments, (iii) as to whether the Criminal Appeal filed by the petitioner before the High Court has reached for hearing or not and (iv) whether the Paper Books in the said matter have been prepared or not," the order had said. The bench had also made it clear that if the officer fails to file the affidavit on or before October 1, "he shall have to appear personally before us on October 1." Saini, who was convicted and sentenced in 2016 by the trial court for burning his spouse to death, had moved the top court for bail against the denial of the same by the High Court on February 27, 2018. "Learned AGA (state counsel) has strongly opposed the prayer for bail with the contention that the applicant is the husband and he has been convicted under Section 302 IPC, cause of death of the wife of the appellant is burn injuries. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, we do not find it a fit case for bail. The bail application moved on behalf of appellant is hereby rejected at this stage," the high court had ordered. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-concerned-over-pendency-of-criminal-cases-in-allahabad-hc-grants-bail-to-man-serving-life-term-1036352.html
01-10-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath accuses SP, BSP of 'banning' Hindu festivals, favouring 'particular community'||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday charged that the SP and the BSP had "banned" Hindu festivals while they were in power, indirectly accusing them of favouring the Muslim community. There used to be riots during the previous governments, curfew used to be imposed and people could not celebrate festivals, he said, addressing the concluding session of the state working committee meeting of the BJP Yuva Morcha. "When there were no riots, the administration used to put such strange conditions that there would be no cracker bursting on Diwali or people would not be able to go on Kanwar Yatra," Adityanath added. "But for festivals of a particular community ('varg vishesh'), a red carpet used to be laid. Whenever there were Hindu festivals, they were banned," he said. He also referred to the Ram temple which is under construction. "A grand temple of Lord Shri Ram is being constructed in Ayodhya, and this could only be done by the BJP," the chief minister said. Shri Krishna Janmashtami was the only festival that was celebrated in prisons and police stations, but the governments of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) banned it too, he said. "When we came to power, the first festival was Kanwar Yatra, and officials warned that there could be riots as people from six states come for it," Adityanath stated. "I replied that I have come to stop the riots, you need not worry about this, the responsibility of protecting 24 crore people of the state is on us and Kawad Yatra will take place. We said we will not stop Kanwar Yatra. All festivals will be celebrated," he added. The chief minister alleged that when the SP and the BSP got their chances to govern the state, they only filled their coffers and left the state in the lurch. "In 15 years, these people changed the direction of UP, changed its fortunes and ended its identity. But within just four and a half years, the BJP-led government has worked to bring the glory of UP back," he added. Recently, Adityanath had said that earlier, rations meant for the poor used to go people who say "abba jaan", an indirect jibe at the SP and the Muslim community. The chief minister also asked the members of the youth wing of the party to make all-out preparations to connect with the six crore young people in the state. He appreciated the role played by the Yuva Morcha workers during the Covid-19 pandemic and other calamities. Addressing the inaugural session of the BJYM working committee meeting earlier, national president of BJP Yuva Morcha Tejashwi Surya praised the development work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Yogi Adityanath, and urged the youth to play an important role in the assembly elections to be held next year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-accuses-sp-bsp-of-banning-hindu-festivals-favouring-particular-community-1036383.html
01-10-2021||Opinion||In Afghanistan’s darkest hour, the Taliban must know we are watching||By Ruth Pollard We’re just six weeks into the Taliban’s second shift as Afghanistan’s rulers, and the picture could not be bleaker. Bodies hang in public squares and women are banned from their jobs. High schools are closed to girls, the women’s ministry has been replaced by the Ministry for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice, while former government officials, public servants, civil society activists, journalists and minorities are being targeted in a ruthless house-to-house crackdown. Afghans rightly feel deserted by the international community, and betrayed by the US’s chaotic and deadly exit from their country. But while the news cycle has moved on, those working to protect the gains made over the past 20 years and investigate the human rights abuses committed by all parties — the US-led coalition forces and the Afghan Government troops included — have kept going, both inside and outside the country.  Calls by human rights campaigners for an independent fact-finding mission to investigate those abuses were growing louder even before the Taliban arrived in Kabul. Spurred by a spike in targeted killings — which worsened after the US-Taliban deal was signed in Doha in February 2020 — the push has taken on fresh urgency as the security situation deteriorates across the country. Taliban officials now speak of the resumption of executions and amputations as punishment, creating a “culture of impunity and an environment of fear,” Shaharzad Akbar, the chair of the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission, told an online forum Monday on the sidelines of the latest UN Human Rights Council meeting. The Taliban are targeting former national security force members and their families, beating and torturing journalists, and erasing women from public spaces, Akbar said. There also have been forced displacements of the ethnic Hazara minority from their homes in several villages. “This is a really hopeless moment for Afghanistan,” she said. “In this moment of darkness we need member states to step in.” There’s an immediate need for the international community to work out a way to deliver aid to a population where as much as 97% are at risk of sinking below the poverty line in the coming months. But there is also more pain-staking work to be done to document past and future abuses and reform the sanctions regime, which essentially operates outside the rule of law and without consistent humanitarian exemptions, says the United Nations’ Special Rapporteur on counter terrorism and human rights, Fionnuala Ní Aoláin. “Afghanistan is ground zero of post-9/11 counter-terrorism and our experiment of trying to address the violence committed by non-state actors like the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State,” Ní Aoláin told me. That’s led to 20 years of systematic human rights abuses in Afghanistan — not only by the Taliban and other groups — but serious violations by the Afghan government and acts of torture and violence by the US-led coalition, she said. “I know there is a cry for clear, grand gestures from the international community, but we we need something more old-fashioned and reliable.”  Syria — with the Assad regime’s sustained human rights abuses and the myriad terrorist groups operating within its borders — provides a possible way forward. After the failure of the UN Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court (thanks to Russia and China), the International, Impartial and Independent Mechanism was born. Created by a UN General Assembly resolution in 2016, the mechanism — properly funded and with some heavy-hitting jurists on board — has been collecting, preserving and analyzing evidence of human rights violations in Syria with the aim of expediting criminal proceedings against perpetrators.  It’s already had some early success with the February sentencing in a German court of a former Syrian intelligence officer for complicity in crimes against humanity. Another trial is ongoing. In a separate action in July, a Syrian doctor was charged for his alleged role in torturing prisoners in military hospitals in Homs and Damascus. These are important advances for the principle of universal jurisdiction for such violations, which allows national courts — like the ones in Germany — to prosecute individuals for serious crimes against international law. A similar body could be established on Afghanistan. Those who’ve been gathering evidence on the Taliban and other groups for 20 years will continue to do so — whether they’re part of the growing diaspora or members of the country’s civil society who were unable or unwilling to flee since the hardline Islamist group took control on Aug. 15. Along with the evacuation of many of those working in the field, a significant collection of human rights records has been safely taken out of Afghanistan in these last weeks that could feed into those investigations, Ní Aoláin said.  It’s even more important since the International Criminal Court announced Monday the resumption of its Afghanistan investigation — which was welcomed by those seeking justice for victims. However its clarification that it would prioritize alleged crimes committed by the Taliban and the local Islamic State affiliate over those perpetrated by US and other coalition troops and the Afghan National Security Forces was roundly condemned. When decades of serious violations have taken place, laying the seeds for accountability, for acknowledging to the victims what happened, who was killed and harmed by whom, can prove key to future endeavors to rein in impunity. It can also send a powerful message to the Taliban that their actions — not their words — are under a microscope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-afghanistan-s-darkest-hour-the-taliban-must-know-we-are-watching-1036067.html
01-10-2021||Opinion||Naveen Patnaik's OBC turn to outfox BJP||Amid calls for a caste-based census, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik's demand to ascertain the numbers of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) is intriguing. Unlike the Hindi heartland, Odisha is not known for its overt OBC politics. But like that of his Bihar counterpart Nitish Kumar, Patnaik's move has discomforted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has played the OBC card in a veiled manner in Odisha since its prime focus was on Hindutva.  When, in August, Parliament passed the constitutional amendment bill to restore states' power to make their own OBC lists, a delegation of Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MPs met Union Home Minister Amit Shah to demand a caste-based census. They also demanded central legislation to do away with the 50 per cent cap on reservations. In Odisha, its Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) population comprise over 38 per cent of its people, making its cases exceptional. It, therefore, could not provide 27 per cent reservation to OBCs without breaching the 50 per cent ceiling. Odisha currently provides 11.25 per cent reservations for OBCs in government jobs. According to the 1931 Census, the number of OBCs in Odisha was 52 per cent. While it had capped the quota for SCs, STs and OBCs at 50 per cent in urban local bodies and panchayats, reservation exceeding 50 per cent in some municipal bodies was challenged in the past. The Orissa High Court directed the state government to limit reservation to 50 per cent, and the Supreme Court had upheld the order. The High Court had in 2017 struck down the Odisha Reservation of Posts and Services (For Socially and Educationally Backward Classes) Act, 2008, which had provisioned for 27 per cent reservations for the backward classes in government jobs. However, recently the Patnaik government piloted a resolution in the Odisha Assembly seeking to remove the 50 per cent ceiling to enable 27 per cent reservation to OBCs.  Last year, the state government also set up the Odisha State Commission for Backward Classes (OSCBC), based on the OSCBC Act, 1993. The government's action came after National Commission for Backward Classes chairperson Bhagwan Lal Sahni criticised Odisha for not appointing the commission and not reserving a 27 per cent quota for backward classes in jobs and educational institutions. Further, the Odisha State Backward Classes (Amendment) Bill was also passed in the Assembly this year, enabling the OSCBC to survey the social and educational conditions of the people belonging to the backward classes. Subsequently, the government approved a proposal of OSCBC to conduct the survey. The survey's findings, carried out in May this year, have not been made public so far. Patnaik started playing the caste card ahead of the 2019 elections in which BJP's vote share saw a dramatic increase – from 18 per cent in 2014 to 31.6 per cent in 2019, with the saffron party striving to consolidate the support of the backward classes. The BJP highlighted Prime Minister Narendra Modi's OBC roots in the run-up to the 2019 polls. Also, union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who belonged to the backward classes, inducted many OBC leaders into the BJP before the simultaneous elections to the Lok Sabha and the state Assembly in 2019. After coming to power in 2000 riding an anti-Congress wave in alliance with the BJP, the BJD has primarily relied on its women support base to win elections. Before parting ways with the BJP ahead of the 2009 polls, Patnaik had launched the Rs two per kilo rice scheme in 2008 and the rice per Rs one per kilo scheme before the 2014 polls. Anticipating a robust BJP challenge in the 2019 polls, Patnaik launched the KALIA scheme, essentially a financial package, for farmers and landless agricultural labourers. The BJP, which has a good support base in western Odisha, has strived to woo the Khandayats in the coastal belt in the last few years by highlighting the Paika rebellion against the British and providing financial support for the construction of a memorial on the foothills of a mountain near Bhubaneswar. Despite the Patnaik government's efforts to make the backward classes happy, the opposition parties have continued to question its commitment to OBCs. They have accused the state government of not making sincere efforts to ensure 27 per cent reservation for backward classes in government jobs and educational institutions. The 21-member council of ministers headed by Patnaik has as many as nine ministers belonging to the upper castes that comprise about six per cent of the population – five Brahmins, three Kayasthas (Karan) and one Kshatriya. There are, however, five ministers who are Khandayats. The Khandayats, who constitute 22 per cent of the population, are on the state's list of SEBCs, but not included in the central list of OBCs. Four ministers are STs, two SCs, and one an OBC. Upper castes also dominate the state administration. There have been instances when senior officials belonging to lower castes were sidelined in appointments to top posts in the bureaucracy. Since the upper castes have dominated Odisha's politics all these years, barring few exceptions, the Khandayats, a land-holding caste, have been fighting for their rights by challenging the dominance of Kayasthas and Brahmins. They, however, have remained with the upper castes while claiming to be champions of the OBCs. Many of these leaders had opposed the Mandal Commission recommendations in the past. In Odisha, this social coalition is termed the state's second KBK – Karan, Brahmin and Khandayat. The Patnaik government has largely succeeded in preventing the BJP from uniting people on religious lines by taking up major developmental works at several temples across the state. Moreover, the population of Christians and Muslims in Odisha was 2.77 per cent and 2.17 per cent, respectively (2011 Census).  Patnaik is now trying his best to stay ahead of the saffron party in terms of caste politics too. As the demand for caste-based census gains ground, 27 per cent reservation for backward classes remains a big question in Odisha. (The writer is a journalist based in Bhubaneswar) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/naveen-patnaiks-obc-turn-to-outfox-bjp-1036105.html
01-10-2021||Opinion||New development mantra: Throwing Le Corbusier, planning colleges in dustbin||Sanjeev Sanyal, the principal economic adviser, recently said, "Many of these old master plans, Le Corbusier-inspired planning and ideas that we still teach by the way in the SPA (School of Planning and Architecture) and other institutions, first of all, we need to throw them in the dustbin."  He meant that basic Nehruvian principles of planning a city must be dumped, and we should adopt more market-friendly city developmental models of planning. During our interaction in an urban age conference held by the Deutsche Bank and the LSE in November 2014, Sanyal was rabidly intolerant towards state intervention in the planning processes. One hundred smart cities were supposed to be the lighthouses of urban growth and SPV (Special Purpose Vehicles) as the new governance models for quick and rapid development. The private capital was supposed to enter these smart cities for infrastructure development projects and ameliorate the problems of the people. However, as a practitioner and an urbanist, I can say this with full affirmation that it's been a complete disaster in city development. Neither the private capital entered these cities nor the SPVs could bring in a pro-people governance model. The SPV model was synonymous with writing an obituary of the 74th constitutional amendment, thus reducing it to a mere bureaucratic riddle. To get rid of Corbusier's model, the central government wrote the National Urban Policy Framework (NUPF) document, which was full of contradictions. Sanyal was instrumental in authoring this document. The document was so controversial that it had an ignominious exit. Even the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development has not owned this document. The NUPF, with ten sutras, was supposed to provide the vision for city development for the coming few decades in the country. It was supposed to be like the first urban commission set up by the Rajiv Gandhi government, which architect Charles Correa had headed. The aversion to the planning institutions by the BJP and its cohorts and advisers like Sanyal is quite natural. The basic principle of development is, "Let the market determine the development trajectory of cities." This is quite the opposite of what was discussed in the UN-Habitat III. Not that the free-market economy principles have not been tested. Since 1990, the urban reforms have been based on such principles. But, post-2008, there has been strong criticism across the globe of how city development is happening. John Closs, the then executive director of the UN-Habitat, reminded in Quito, the venue of Habitat III, that to ensure the success of SDGs (sustainable development goals), we must go back to the basics of planning. He backed ridding of the decades-old practised model of laissez-faire. It meant that the free-market economy would not alleviate the basic challenges of mass poverty, inequality, unemployment, infrastructure and climate change in contemporary times. Hence, more focus must be given to planning with a people-centric vision. Sanyal is saying just the opposite. In the guise of failures of successive planning models, he is trying to inverse the entire argument. The failure of planning, globally and in the Indian context, must also be understood in the same framework. In the Indian context, the state's role in planning was minimised, and market-oriented principles were followed. That is why the city planning institutions in the country are not subject to political control of the city's elected institutions. Nowhere in the country does the city and its citizens and residents plan for themselves. The city planning is done at the behest of parastatals, which consultants then guide, most of whom come from large consulting firms. These parastatals like the Delhi Development Authority, the Mumbai Development Authority, and the Greater Mohali Development Authority are not answerable to the elected regional or city institutions. Hence, most of the planning is done in contravention of the provisions of the 74th constitutional amendment. The Twelfth Schedule of the Constitution firmly listed that city planning must be under the domain of the city administration. Post-independence adopting Nehruvian principles, the city development plans emphatically spoke about the issues of the poor and housing. Though the exercise was not ideal or completely inclusive, it still had an element of inclusion. However, post the 90s and now post 2014, there has been a complete absence of these principles after Modi's era. Take, for example, the latest master plan of Delhi - 2041. It mentions that nearly 34 lakh dwellings will be required. But how will this happen? What would be the role of the agencies? All of it is pretty ambiguous. In effect, it intends to play with the land pooling policy and usurp the village commons of the people and thus cater to affluent sections in society. Sanyal lamenting about infrastructure is correct, but he does not mention that the state agencies must lay the basic infrastructure and not expect the private capital to invest in that area. If it does, then there is a considerable cost which the people have to bear. All that is being done and further consolidated is the massive drive for capital intensive technologies to solve basic problems like solid waste management and even mobility in the town. The drive is such that instead of a playground, there is a drive for constructing a stadium. Instead of a primary health centre for a multi-speciality hospital. Instead of decentralised waste management for high capital cost waste to energy plants. Instead of pedestrianised and non-motorised mobility, more flyovers and more capital-intensive technological metros. While this will not be sustainable, it has confused Sanyal's nonchalance with Nehruvian principles. The same recipe of a free-market economy, a time-tested failure, is being served in the name of putting forth something new. It is time to allow the blooming of people-centric ideas—cities for people and not vice-versa. (The writer is a former deputy mayor of Shimla)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/new-development-mantra-throwing-le-corbusier-planning-colleges-in-dustbin-1036130.html
01-10-2021||Opinion||Discussing Taliban in the Kashmir Valley||On Friday afternoon, the summer sun shone against a bright blue sky in Srinagar. Almost all the shops in the city were open, with the streets teeming with shoppers. Three young men sitting on a metal settee in a well-manicured park watched a video showing exultant Taliban fighters celebrating their triumph. "After a good 20 years, they finally drove the foreign forces out and took Afghanistan back from the collaborators," one of the three said. A few hundred meters away, inside a newly constructed café on MA Road, young men in faded jeans and tees engaged themselves in a discussion over Afghanistan. "Now they (Taliban) won't be harsh towards women, and they will allow them to have access to modern education," they averred. Since the lightning advance of Taliban fighters following the US troop pullout, people in the Kashmir Valley have keenly tracked the situation in Afghanistan. From cafés to hair salons to social media platforms, Afghanistan and the Taliban dominate discussions in the Valley.  Last month, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen's statement that the Taliban had the right to raise its voice for Muslims worldwide, including in Kashmir, has only provided more grist to such discussions. Themselves caught in the throes of a protracted conflict, Kashmiris largely praise the grit and determination of the Taliban fighters. "They did not cave in, remained unyielding in the face of the world's most powerful army," Zeeshan Bhat, as he sips his cappuccino, says. In 1988, when the Soviet soldiers began withdrawing from Afghanistan, the people also celebrated the victory of the Mujahideen across Kashmir.  Noted Kashmiri writer and poet, 78-year-old Zareef Ahmad says that people in alleyways, mosques and market stalls would talk and praise the Mujahideen. "Some small newspapers carried articles applauding the Mujahideens for defeating the Soviet troops", Zareef says. Why do Kashmiris discuss the Taliban?  Kashmir has found itself caught in the throes of a long-drawn-out conflict since 1989. Thousands have lost their lives so far, and the number of militants fighting the security forces has waxed and waned over the past 30 years.  Besides local militants, a scant percentage of foreign nationals from Pakistan and Afghanistan also sneaked into the Valley to fight the Indian military. In June, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh apprised reporters in Srinagar that many foreign militants were present in the region.  Ever since the Taliban fighters captured Kabul, there has been a general feeling among a large section of people in the Valley that the Taliban would make their way into the Valley to help local militant groups, a key reason why Kashmiris are discussing the Taliban. Another reason might be the religious sentiment. Some pro-freedom Kashmiri leaders had welcomed foreign militants from Pakistan and Afghanistan to Kashmir in the past. Prominent separatist leader, founder of People's Conference, Abdul Ghani Lone, would describe foreign insurgents mehmaan or guest, mujahideen. Later, however, he changed his position on this, and in an interview, said that foreign militants should leave Kashmir as they had their own agenda. The Taliban victory has galvanised some in the Valley, but security experts believe the development could also animate local militants. Last month, former top cop Shesh Paul said that the outcome would embolden militants in Kashmir.  However, a significant increase in the infiltration is unlikely since the Line of Control (LoC) has changed much since the 1990s when militants would cross it easily. After India and Pakistan inked a ceasefire agreement in 2003, India fenced the 450-mile long LoC within a year, significantly reducing infiltration. New surveillance gadgets also help the Indian security grid in tracking down intruders.  However, the situation next summer would help us better assess the impact of the developments in Afghanistan on Kashmir infiltration as snow is about to clog the mountain passes this year. Until then, the Valley's streets will continue to be filled with debates and gossip about the Taliban and Afghanistan. (The writer is a journalist based in Srinagar) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/discussing-taliban-in-the-kashmir-valley-1036232.html
01-10-2021||Opinion||Gandhi: Neither a saint nor a politician||In a self-explanatory note written in Young India, Mahatma Gandhi pictured his own persona aptly. “The politician in me has never dominated a single decision of mine, and if I seem to take part in it, it is only because politics encircles us like the coils of a snake from which no one cannot get out easily, and I have been experimenting with myself and my friends by introducing religion into politics.” Becoming one among the masses, a majority of whom followed age-old caste/class-ridden practices, and embracing poverty as a philosophy of life, he converted a huge mass of people and made them his spiritual soldiers, making imperialist war weapons look hollow and breaking the jaws of the religion of power. From Yeravada Jail in 1932, he sent a cable to his biographer William L Shirer. “My politics is derived from my religion. Those who say that religion has nothing to do with politics do not know what religion means.” Though Gandhi, an unorthodox but devout Hindu, absorbed within himself the truths of other religions, he never believed ‘Heaven’ reserves a definite comfortable place to only those who believe in “my faith”. Though influenced by the New Testament, he writes in his autobiography that he would not believe that Jesus alone was the son of God. “If God should have sons, then all men are God’s sons. I accept Jesus as a martyr, an embodiment of supreme sacrifice, a great and divine teacher, but it is impossible for me to regard any religion as perfect, and I am convinced that Hinduism, with such defects precisely piercing into my eyes, is equally imperfect.” Neither did Gandhi accept the Muslim theory of the Last Prophet and the Final Book. Mohammad Ali Jinnah, who wore a badge of secularism on his sleeve, was unsentimental in his homage to Gandhi when he was killed. Jinnah’s dry tribute that “Gandhi was one of the greatest men produced by the Hindu community” drew an aptly titled caption in New York Times, “Jinnah sorrows for his Hindu foe”. Jinnah started out as a constitutionalist who initially considered the idea of Pakistan an impossible dream, but gradually transformed himself to become so fanatical that against the pleadings of Lord Wavell, Gandhi’s several walk-ins into his grandly carpeted house, and many of his own followers’ requests, declared that he would prefer a moth-eaten Pakistan to living in Hindu-majority India. The atheist Jinnah wrote a new chapter in the history of India, making religion a great divider of hearts and minds. As the Pakistani-origin writer Ishtiaq Ahmed noted in his well-researched book on the founder of Pakistan, “Jinnah, with his unexplainable malice, bordering on psychopathic disorder, against Gandhiji and Pandit Nehru, declared almost a war against whoever opposed the creation of Pakistan…Jinnah’s disenchantment with Congress and Gandhiji were not ideological but personal and strategic-tactical. With Gandhiji’s rise, the Congress was inclusively harmonised and became such a mass movement that he found it difficult to adjust and was not willing to play second fiddle and allow a Hindu like Gandhiji to become the ‘leader of Muslims’.” Jinnah was supported by Churchill who, too, hated Gandhi. Ishtiaq Ahmed makes several references to rumours of a secret arrangement that Churchill had with Jinnah, promising to “reward him with Pakistan for the support to the war effort” and giving him his private postal address! Churchill, who did not “become the King’s First Minister to liquidate the British Empire” had a congenital dislike of Gandhi. He repeatedly mocked Gandhi as “a malignant subversive fanatic and seditious Middle Temple lawyer posing as a fakir of a type well known in the East, striding half-naked up the steps of the Vice Regal palace.” As Louis Fischer aptly put it: “Churchill loved social traditions, Gandhiji smashed social barriers. Churchill lived in his own, and Gandhiji lived with everybody. To Gandhiji, the lowest Indian was a child of God. To Churchill, all Indians were a pedestal for the British throne. He would have died to keep England free, but also against those who wanted India free. But Gandhiji would not have hesitated to die to keep both England and India free.” Churchill could not “pardon” Gandhi even in death, for freeing India, the jewel in the British crown. But to Gandhi, Churchill was inconsequential, as his fight was not against the British but against British colonisation. Gandhi was not killed by a lone misguided Hindu as his murder was meticulously planned. The role of the Hindu Mahasabha and V D Savarkar come up again and again for discussion, though it could not be proved in the court of law that Savarkar was part of the plot. What is undeniable is that Savarkar, another ‘atheist’, vehemently opposed Gandhi’s tolerant, all-embracing ideology and his path of Ahimsa to achieve freedom. But Gandhi never failed to acknowledge Savarkar’s role in the freedom movement. Gandhi wrote a touching letter to “Bhai Savarkar” condoling the death of his brother G D Savarkar. He took exception to the British government not releasing the Savarkars when other political offenders had been discharged. Gandhi’s three powerful contemporaries who opposed him ideologically and even his ‘personal looks’ -- Jinnah, Churchill and Savarkar -- perhaps never knew that Gandhi never hated them. All of them, with their so-called modern attitudes, abhorred this “half-naked fakir.” He was a spiritual challenge to them! He was too deeply religious to hate anybody. To Gandhi, “There is no other God than truth. I worship God as truth only, but I have not yet found him.” Perhaps he, to whom “religion means self-realisation or knowledge of self,” was always in search of the Absolute Truth. Gandhi believed that politics had to be guided by religion which treats all beings as equal and removes excessive greed from life. To many today, deeply sucked into comfort-seeking lifestyles, Gandhi may look impractical and too naïve for the complicated ‘modern’ world. But no one, not even his worst enemies, would deny that he was a “simple soul”, yet a gritty one, who became a powerful weapon to make colonialism history. Gandhian ideals are not easy to follow, but to forget them or to find fault in him for the social divisions of India for narrow political messaging is a sin. Political parties are never tired of shamelessly using him as a marketing tool. “Gandhi’s India” is a much-invoked phrase on foreign soil. But as the Irish poet Gabriel Rosenstock wrote: “Crowds gather/for a glimpse of you/Who can see the soul? The Mahatma, neither a saint nor a politician, is a challenge even today for bigoted power-seekers!  (The writer is a scholar and educationist, and a former vice president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/gandhi-neither-a-saint-nor-a-politician-1036377.html
01-10-2021||South||IISc-incubated startup L2MRail, SID & IISc sign MoU with Kerala Rail||The Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, IISc-incubated startup L2MRail and the Society for Innovation and Development (SID) have signed an MoU with Kerala Rail aimed at enhancing rail safety, especially in vulnerable terrains. T he L2M Rail team and IISc have pioneered Fiber Bragg Grating sensing technology, to develop a Structural Health Monitoring System (SHMS) which will monitor civil engineering structures of Kerala Rail's Silverline project, according to a statement. The MOUs were exchanged between the MD of Kerala Rail V Ajith Kumar and IISc Register Capt. Sudhir Warrier, in the presence of Govindan Rangrajan, Director, IISc and B Gurumoorthy, Chief Executive of SID, IISc in Bengaluru on Thursday, it said. The partnership addresses the need for accurate, real-time data regarding the condition of all rail structures. The team uses FBG-sensor technology to ensure the stability and integrity of structures even in vulnerable areas, which comprise a large part of the terrain covered by the ambitious Silverline project, it said. Ensuring rail safety in settlement prone locations, flood prone areas, earth slip locations, weak soil and heavy rainfall areas etc, necessitates a shift from conventional manual inspection. Constant, technology-driven monitoring of both running trains and rail structures offers the ideal solution, the statement said, adding that through this partnership, the Kerala Rail Development Corporation aims to ensure the safety of trains on this 530 km, double-track stretch between Thiruvananthapuram and Kasargod. Concerning the partnership, Sreenivasa Rao Ganapa, co-founder, L2M Rail and ex-IRSSE officer, said there is a gap between the critical need for rail safety, and the lack of systems that constantly monitor both trains and railway structures in real-time. "Structural defects are generally identified only when an accident occurs, and preventative identification of weak links could have helped avoid mass casualties, like the recent Mexico metro rail structure collapse," he said. The potential of FBG sensor technology is immense, and its application is not just restricted to rail monitoring, but to any field that necessitates constant, real-time monitoring and timely warning alerts to identity damages, the official added. Through this FBG-sensor driven monitoring system, rail corporations will be able to embed or attach sensors in rail structures, enabling both on-demand and continuous data, as well as 24/7 warning alerts in case of damage detection. The technology will also be uniquely customised for each structure and location with no standard methodology for the same. "Rail safety has always been a key concern for us, and while trains are routinely inspected, structural damage is more likely to go unnoticed during manual inspection. We welcome the channelling of innovative solutions towards strengthening Silverline infrastructure and taking preventative action against potential rail casualties," said V Ajith Kumar, Managing Director, Kerala Rail. The immense potential of FBG sensor technology has been tapped by IISc researchers in a variety of domains, ranging from aerospace to biomedical. Previously, an L2MRail-innovated Fibre Bragg Grating Sensing Technology based Wheel Impact Load Detector deployed in two locations in Bengaluru, with the support of RDSO /Indian Railways and IISc. L2MRail has also developed several other IPs for innovative applications of FBG sensing technology to monitor parameters critical to ensure train safety. The start-up aims to take the technology to all parts of the country, thereby transforming the parameters of rail safety, the release added. Lab To Market Innovations Private Limited is developing / innovating next generation technologies to make railways safe and efficient. Lab to Market Innovations Private Limited is seed funded by Society for Innovation and Development (SID) at IISc. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iisc-incubated-startup-l2mrail-sid-iisc-sign-mou-with-kerala-rail-1036131.html
01-10-2021||South||Spot admission for PG programmes at Digital University Kerala||The Digital University Kerala (DUK) is conducting spot admissions in online mode to the vacant seats, including reserved category seats, for its post-graduate programmes on October 6. The spot admission for the vacant seats will be held for M.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering, M.Tech in Electronics Engineering, M.Sc Ecology with specialisation in Ecological Informatics, MSc Computer Science and PG Diploma in e-Governance, a university statement said here. Located in a verdant campus in Technocity here, the DUK offers post graduate on-campus courses in cutting-edge areas that cater to the demands of Industry 4.0. The AICTE-approved two year M.Tech programmes offer specialisation in latest technologies. The M.Tech-CS Program gives more emphasis on AI fundamentals, its application in different areas such as computer vision and NLP, it said adding that the program has two different tracks- cyber security and IoT based Cyber physical systems. The M.Tech in Electronics Engineering programme offers high quality research, product innovation and teaching for hardware engineers, in the areas related to AI Hardware, and Signal Processing and Automation while the MSc in Computer Science programme provides specialisations in four areas which are of high demand currently in the industry. Top notch companies have been participating in campus recruitment for the students completing these programmes. M.Sc in Ecology with specialisation in Ecological Informatics is expected to have a huge potential in the emerging scenario where sustainable environment has become an important global concern. The course integrates ecology, computational science, informatics and social sciences for students with a background in natural and physical sciences. Established by the Government of Kerala, the Digital University Kerala stands apart in the academic scenario with its innovation cluster consisting of incubation facilities, centres of excellence in emerging areas, research centres and specialised labs in the emerging cross-disciplinary application domains within Electronics and Information Technology.  DUK's innovation centres, Kerala Blockchain Academy and ThingQbator, help students to work in real-life projects. With facilities like Maker Village, the largest hardware incubator in the country, students can turn their ideas into prototypes. From the third semester onwards, top performing students will get opportunities for paid internships in real-life projects undertaken by the University. Deadline for online registration is 2 PM on October 4, the statement added.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/spot-admission-for-pg-programmes-at-digital-university-kerala-1036146.html
01-10-2021||South||Ashtamudi Lake, gateway to Kerala's backwaters, now a sewage dump site||Kerala's once scenic Ashtamudi Lake, described as the gateway to the state's backwaters and preferred by tourists world over for houseboat rides, has become a dump site for sewage which is slowly choking it to death according to an inspection by the state legal services authority KeLSA on the Kerala High Court's direction. "Very pathetic" is how the Kerala State Legal Services Authority's (KeLSA) report to the High Court describes the condition of the lake spread over an area of around 1,700 sq km and surrounded by swaying coconut groves and palm trees and spotted by several small islands. The report also said that sewage from nearby residences and government establishments was the main reason for pollution of the lake and also for putting its unique wetland ecosystem under risk of permanent damage. According to the Kerala Tourism website, cruises would give a "deeper look at the heart and spirit of the backwaters." "The 8 arms or channels of the Ashtamudi Lake are what gave it its name. It is the entrance to the famous backwaters of Kerala and the houseboat rides here are extremely famous. The Kollam to Alappuzha route is considered among the best in the backwaters. Cruises here give you a deeper look at the heart and spirit of the backwaters," the tourism site claims. However, the ground reality is something else according to local resident K M Salim, who told PTI that no one would want to walk alongside the "highly polluted" lake let alone go for a "cruise" on it when it is reeking with the smell of decades worth of municipal solid waste and sewage. Incidentally, it is based on his letter sent to the Kerala High Court that it decided to examine the issue, initiated a PIL on its own and asked KeLSA to inspect the waterbody which is the second largest lake in the state and is spread over an area of around 1,700 sq km. Salim further said that tourism too has contributed to the lake's pollution as effluents from the house boats are also discharged into the waterbody. District Judge and KeLSA Member Secretary K T Nisar Ahammad, who inspected the lake, told PTI that the filth and garbage floating in the lake and choking its ecosystem, which includes thousands of years old Mangrove trees, also includes "legacy waste" dumped there over the past several years. On being asked whether the filth in the lake was being termed as such due to it being the legacy we are leaving for future generations, he laughed and said, "Maybe". The judge further said that people do not realise that polluting the waterbody could very well affect the underground water in the area and eventually the general public health in the long run. "This situation is not just confined to Ashtamudi lake, it is prevalent in many other places in the state. People don't realise that the quarrying of mountains and dumping of filth in rivers and lakes would have serious environmental consequences. There has to be awareness on this issue," he said. The judge further said that with a little bit of effort the corporation could have cleaned up some portion of the lake, especially the part close to the KSRTC bus stand where the situation is really bad, but no one, including the local body, appeared to be bothered. He said that a few years back the government had sanctioned funds for cleaning up the lake, but it never took off and now there was another project, worth over Rs 100 crore, in play for the same purpose. Salim said that the garbage and filth were being dumped in the area for years and as a result the more than 100 species of fishes, mangroves, coconut groves and palm trees were being adversely affected. A resident of the area for decades, he remembers his younger days when along with his friends he used to take a dip in the lake. "Now you cannot even dare to dip your hand in the water, as if you do you could end up having rashes or blisters or some other infection," he said. Even fish, like Karimeen, found in the lake no longer taste the same as they used to during his younger days when Ashtamudi was not as polluted as it was presently, he said. "You cannot walk along the lake side without your olfactory senses being overwhelmed by the stink emanating from there," he added. Photographs attached along with the KeLSA report, filed through advocate Santhosh Mathew, show all kinds of garbage and waste floating in the lake, along with the house boats, turning its colour to a murky green. In some photographs, which according to the judge "speak volumes", the waterbody looks more like an open drain and less like a lake whose borders are also lined in many places with garbage. What is more anguishing, other than the inaction of the local bodies and their contribution in polluting the lake, is the fact that Ashtamudi despite being a Ramsar site -- a wetland site designed to be of international importance under Ramsar Convention which is also known as the 'Convention of Wetlands' -- nothing was being done by anyone to remedy the situation, both the judge and Salim said. The Convention, an intergovernmental environmental treaty adopted in 1971 by UNESCO and which came into force in 1975, provides for national action and international cooperation regarding the conservation of wetlands and wise sustainable use of their resources, according to the KeLSA report. The report by KeLSA further states that inspection of the lake revealed that the main reason behind its pollution was the direct dumping of sewage into it from the nearby government institutions, residences and a public toilet, very near to the waterbody, meant for passengers arriving at the KSRTC bus stand close by. It also said that while the Secretary of the District Panchayat denied dumping of sewage waste in the waterbody from a nearby district hospital, "the fact remains that the lake is highly polluted and its present condition is very pathetic." Pollution of water bodies, like Ashtamudi Lake, in this manner was a "common scenario" in the whole of Kerala, the report said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ashtamudi-lake-gateway-to-keralas-backwaters-now-a-sewage-dump-site-1036150.html
01-10-2021||South||'Jilted lover' stabs girl to death in Kerala college||In a love affair gone wrong, a college student is suspected to have killed a girl on a college campus in Kerala's Kottayam district on Friday. The girl, Nithinamol, a food processing course student at St Thomas College in Pala, was appearing for an exam on the college campus when Abhishek stabbed her to death. Police sources said that prima facia jilted love affair was suspected to be the provocation for the murder. Abhishek allegedly slashed the girl's neck with a paper-cutter after beating her and remained at the spot after the killing. Local media reports suggest that the two had a verbal duel and a security staffer was proceeding towards them when the incident occurred. Though the girl was rushed to a nearby hospital, she succumbed to the injuries inflicted. Sources said that the two students were quite close for some time but differences cropped up between them in the recent past. It was even suspected that Abhishek took away Nithinamol's mobile phone a few days ago. Recently, Kerala witnessed many such incidents of jilted lovers killing girls. Two months ago, a youth had shot a 24-year-old dental student.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jilted-lover-stabs-girl-to-death-in-kerala-college-1036172.html
01-10-2021||South||CM Stalin to chair meeting in village that once shunned Dalit representatives||Pappapatti, a remote village in Madurai district that was once infamous for not allowing Dalit representatives to contest elections and assume power, will have a special guest at the gram sabha meeting on Saturday.  The special guest, Chief Minister M K Stalin, will visit the village on Saturday and chair the gram sabha meeting on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. This is probably the first time that a Chief Minister is participating in a gram sabha meeting, considered a routine event.  Sources in the government said Stalin will take a flight to Madurai on Saturday morning after paying floral tributes to a statue of Mahatma Gandhi on Marina Beach. From Madurai, he will proceed to Pappapatti, the sources added. Though this is Stalin’s first gram sabha meeting as Chief Minister, the DMK President has attended hundreds of such events organised by his party during his stint as the Leader of Opposition. Stalin began attending gram sabha meetings in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 assembly elections, to drive home the point that he was an accessible politician who listens to the rural masses.  Stalin’s choice of Paapapatti is significant as it was during his tenure as Rural Administration Minister in 2006 that rural elections were held in the village along with two other hamlets after several years. The smooth conduct of elections was attributed to tremendous efforts taken by the then Madurai Collector T Udhayachandran to ensure that a Dalit representative takes over as the panchayat chief with support from the upper castes.  Udhayachandran is now the Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Stalin, and it is believed that the upright bureaucrat has had a major role to play in the selection of venue for the CM’s maiden gram sabha meeting.  Paapapatti, along with Keeripatti and Naattamangalam, had hit the headline for wrong reasons in the late 1990s and early 2000s for their stiff resistance to Dalits getting elected as panchayat chiefs. The villagers would either boycott elections or force the elected chiefs from the Dalit community to resign.  Pappapatti is still reserved for Dalits and the village’s current president is Muruganandam. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-stalin-to-chair-meeting-in-village-that-once-shunned-dalit-representatives-1036321.html
01-10-2021||South||Treat HC judges on par with ministers, says Madras HC judge||Justice N Anand Venkatesh of the Madras High Court on Friday urged the government authorities to treat the HC judges on par with ministers and observe the protocol they are entitled to, remarks that came in response to him getting delayed to work due to certain traffic restrictions in the city. Irked over the action of the police in erecting barricades on the roads and stopping all the vehicles, including that of his, which resulted in he starting the court work late today, the judge rapped the police for not making any arrangement to let the judges go without any hindrance. The police had made special arrangements, restricting the movement of vehicles in view of an event to mark the 94th birth anniversary of late thespian Sivaji Ganesan at his memorial near Adyar bridge in RA Puram, in which Chief Minister M K Stalin and other ministers participated. The judge's vehicle was also stopped for about 30 minutes. He said this happened despite his PA informing the police authorities concerned in advance. Following summons from the High Court, Home Secretary SK Prabakar appeared through video-conferencing and expressed regret to the court over the incident. He also told the judge steps would be taken to avoid recurrence of any such incident in the future. Though he could initiate contempt proceedings on the ground that he was prevented from discharging his public duty, the judge said he was not doing so and chose to leave the matter at it. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/treat-hc-judges-on-par-with-ministers-says-madras-hc-judge-1036375.html
01-10-2021||South||Pledge for gender equality to be taken at gram sabha meetings in TN||For the first time, lakhs of people participating in the gram sabha meetings across Tamil Nadu on Saturday will take a pledge to treat everyone with respect regardless of their gender, caste, and religion, to respect women and shun dowry.  The Pledge for Gender Equality has been included in the agenda for the gram sabha meetings scheduled for October 2 on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanthi.  In a letter to Collectors of 29 districts, barring nine districts where local body elections are scheduled, the Director of Rural Development Department said pledges on zero tolerance, gender equality, and resolutions on removing hoardings, eradicating poverty, and preventing child marriage should be included in the agenda for the meetings.  Gram Sabha meetings will be held in Tamil Nadu after two years with the sessions in 2020 being cancelled due to Covid-19 restrictions. Chief Minister M K Stalin, who has been holding gram sabha meetings as part of his campaign in the run-up to the 2019 and 2021 elections, will himself participate in a meeting at Paapapatti in Madurai district.   Tamil Nadu will be the first state in the country to include a pledge for gender equality in the gram sabha meetings. The pledge will also be taken by government officials and school students.   “I solemnly affirm that I will respect women, treat them equally, will not indulge in sexual harassment or violence against them (women), will stand with the survivors of violence by complaining against the perpetrators, speak against female infanticide and foeticide and ensure that the society is free of dowry,” the pledge said.   “I will strive towards building a strong Tamil Nadu by treating everyone as equal regardless of their gender, caste, and religion,” the pledge further said.   Tara Krishnaswamy, founder of Political Shakti that bats for more women’s representation in state legislatures and parliament, said she mooted the idea of people taking a pledge for gender equality and ensuring women’s safety during a recent meeting with Tamil Nadu Social Welfare Minister Geetha Jeevan. “Though our Constitution guarantees equality, the reality is something different. Women and transgender persons are viewed as lesser in the eyes of society, which is the gap between legislation and its implementation. We wanted people to embrace gender equality and that is how this pledge was conceived,” she told DH. The pledge was proposed first in Tamil Nadu where the “social justice movement” has brought in tremendous changes in society. “Despite social justice being part of people’s gene in Tamil Nadu, there is a gap between what is said and what is being done. We hope the pledge ushers in a new era of equality,” she added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pledge-for-gender-equality-to-be-taken-at-gram-sabha-meetings-in-tn-1036387.html
01-10-2021||State||CA site sale to a trust linked to MP quashed||The high court on Thursday quashed the allotment of a civic amenity (CA) site in Bengaluru to a trust linked to Kalaburagi MP Umesh G Jadhav. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma termed Karnataka Housing Board's actions a clear case of favouritism and directed it to take back the land in 30 days. “The most shocking aspect is that KHB allotted the site without following regulations,” the bench said and imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on KHB. The court directed the principal secretary, Housing Department, to recover the cost from erring officials. The original allotment of the site in Yelahanka New Town was made in 2004. The lease was executed in favour of Murthy Charitable Trust, of which Umesh Jadhav’s wife Gayatri is the president. The trust had paid Rs 3.87 lakh for the 232-sqmts site. One of the conditions of the allotment was to put the site to educational and public use in two years. While no construction was put up for 16 years, KHB executed an absolute sale deed in 2020 for 278 sq mtr, including additional land, for Rs 21.87 lakh. One Adinarayana Shetty contended that KHB sold a CA site worth Rs 10 crore to the influential person. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ca-site-sale-to-a-trust-linked-to-mp-quashed-1036019.html
01-10-2021||State||Blockchain for property data: Pilot launch soon||The state government, which was in the process of developing a blockchain technology-based system for online property documentation, is all set to launch the new system in a week’s time.  To begin with, the government will implement it in two sub-registrar offices in the state on a pilot basis. One in Tumakuru’s Gubbi sub-registrar office and another one in Davangere’s Jagalur sub-registrar office, according to officials in the revenue department. Once the pilot is successful, the system will be extended across the state.  Speaking to DH, Additional Chief Secretary (e-governance), Rajeev Chawla said the software was ready and the security testing had already been done. The government will begin the pilot in seven to ten days, he said.   DH had in January 2021 reported that the government was developing the blockchain-based system for online property documentation. Developed in collaboration with IIT-Kanpur, this new system assures tamper-proof documentation of properties. By providing electronic storage of data, it allows users to access the data through a security pin. In essence, it is being brought in to ensure there is no unauthorised tweaking of records.  According to revenue department data, there have been at least 15 cases of fraud and data tampering in property registration and documentation in the last three years. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/blockchain-for-property-data-pilot-launch-soon-1036023.html
01-10-2021||State||Midday meal at schools to resume on October 21||The midday meal programme will be back in school campuses from October 21. Following a demand from various stakeholders to restart the programme considering nutrition issues among kids, the department of public instructions has decided to resume cooking under the midday meal from October 21 on which day the schools reopen after Dasara Vacation. The midday meal project joint director has sought suggestions from deputy directors in the districts about their preparedness to resume midday meals. A copy of the circular issued by the joint director is available with DH. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has given nod for resuming cooking at schools. In a meeting with the former minister for primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar in Bengaluru on Friday, the chief minister agreed to restart the scheme. “I have discussed about the importance of midday meal with the Chief Minister and he has agreed and assured of issuing an official order soon,” Suresh Kumar wrote in a social media post.  The sources from the chief minister’s office also confirmed the decision on the resumption of midday meal.  On Tuesday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh had hinted about the resumption of midday meal.  The serving of cooked meals at the schools was stopped during March 2020 following the spike in Covid-19 cases. For the academic year 2020-21  the department distributed ration for children for 240 days to compensate for cooked food. The distribution of ration for 2021-22 is yet tocommence. According to child rights activists, parents, teachers and other stakeholders, midday meal plays a vital role in boosting attendance and also nutrition quotient among children. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/midday-meal-at-schools-to-resume-on-october-21-1036361.html
01-10-2021||State||'Comorbidities a major cause of poor prognosis in heart patients'||Comorbidities are one of the major causes of a poor prognosis of heart problems. They also affect the treatment of heart ailments. An eminent panel of speakers discussed the risk of heart diseases in patients suffering from comorbid conditions in an event curated by DH Brandspot and Manipal Hospitals, on Thursday. The speakers included interventional cardiologists - Dr Mohan Kumar H N, Columbia Asia Hospital, Sarjapur; Dr Ranganath Nayak P, Vikram Hospital, Millers Road; Dr Ranjan Shetty, HoD, Cardiology, Manipal Hospital, Old Airport Road; and Dr Davinder Singh Chadha, Manipal Hospital, Old Airport Road. The discussion was moderated by Director of Forest Creative Communications Ranjit Padmakumar. "High cholesterol can lead to depositions in blood vessels leading to coronary heart disease (CAD). Uncontrolled hypertension can also damage heart muscles. They can lead to diastolic dysfunction, and relaxation capacity of the heart can come down," said Dr Mohan Kumar H N. Dr Ranjan Shetty, said, "Comorbidities, as the word suggests, is something that is associated. Unfortunately, Indians tend to get heart attacks one to two decades earlier compared to people of other nationalities. While they get heart attacks when they're 50-55 years old, we get it when we are 35-40 years of age. This is because of comorbidities. Indians are diabetic by 20-25 years of age compared to the West who get it by 50 years." Smoking, lack of exercise, sedentary lifestyle are factors to blame, said doctors. "Life expectancy is much lower in Indians compared to western countries. Obesity is another comorbidity. These are some of the most common comorbidities we see among heart patients," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/comorbidities-a-major-cause-of-poor-prognosis-in-heart-patients-1036362.html
01-10-2021||State||JD(S) MLC Sandesh Nagaraj to join BJP||In yet another party leader announcing his intention to exit JD(S), the regional party's MLC Sandesh Nagaraj is all set to join the BJP. Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, Nagaraj, who is also a film producer and a businessman, said he was "not in touch" with JD(S) for the past one-and-a-half years. "It is true that I have distanced myself from the party," he said, adding that he would definitely join the BJP. "However, until January 5, 2021, I am a JD(S) legislator. After that I want to join the BJP. It all depends on Bommai and Yediyurappa," Nagaraj said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-mlc-sandesh-nagaraj-to-join-bjp-1036363.html
01-10-2021||State||Panchamasalis to defer quota agitation after CM's assurance||Having set an October 1 deadline for the state government to include Panchamasali Lingayats under 2A category in the reservation list, Panchamasali seer Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami relaxed his stance and agreed to wait for the report by Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission. The decision was taken following his meeting with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday. The seer had earlier threatened a Satyagraha if the demands of the community were not met by October 1. Bommai said that he convinced the seer of the measures initiated by the government to fulfil the demands of the community. Recalling the recent constitutional amendment, Bommai said that permanent backward classes commissions in each state now has the powers to identify backward communities. “I explained the process initiated by the government (to provide reservation under 2A for Panchamasalis). The seer’s demand was to ensure justice to the community at the earliest,” he said. Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami said that they have decided not to hold a Satyagraha as the chief minister assured them reservation as soon as the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission submitted its report. “The chief minister informed us that he was taking time to provide reservation under 2A as he did not want the provision to hit legal hurdles,” he said. “If the government does not grant us the provision in three months, the agitation will continue,” he said. The seer, along with community leaders PWD Minister C C Patil and Congress leader Vijayanand Kashappanavar met Bommai earlier in the day. A meeting of the Akhila Bharatha Panchamasali Mahasabha was held subsequently, during which the decision to call off the protest was made. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panchamasalis-to-defer-quota-agitation-after-cms-assurance-1036384.html
01-10-2021||State||Experts call for augmenting paediatric infra ahead of third wave||The government has to procure more paediatric ventilators to tackle the third Covid wave, said members of the state paediatric expert committee after details of the government's preparedness were revealed in the recent Assembly session. Health Minister K Sudhakar in response to a query in the Assembly said there are 25,870 oxygen beds and 502 paediatric ventilators both at the government and private hospitals. He also said there were about 285 paediatricians, 1,250 medical officers and 1,202 nurses. However, when asked, members of the state paediatric expert committee said as per their projections, those numbers won't be sufficient. "It's not only invasive ones but also non-invasive ventilators (NIV) which will be required. We have projected critical cases requiring both NIV and IV. In the worst case scenario, children requiring ICU will be around 1,300 to 1,500. The government will require at least 750 ventilators," said a paediatrician, also a part of the 16-member state paediatric expert committee. Director of Medical Education Dr P G Girish said procurement of additional equipment was happening at various levels but it would be hard to put a number on how many paediatric ventilators the state will finally manage to have in the near future. Another paediatrician from a state-run hospital said, "If the government purchases ventilators and has no manpower, it will be a difficult task to treat patients. At least 50% of all paediatric ICU beds should have ventilators. One nurse is required per shift per ventilator bed. If diluted further, for three shifts, one nurse is needed per shift for six beds. We need at least 16,000 nurses, as a conservative estimate." "We can redirect as many nurses as we want catering to adults to care for children, if it comes down to that. Skills like intubating kids can be taught in training sessions. Everybody has given separate work orders for neonatal and paediatric ventilators in the past three months. Data compilation will take time," said Dr Girish. Principal Secretary, Health and Medical Education, Anil Kumar, said, "By the end of October, ramping up of infrastructure in NICUs and PICUs of health  and medical education departments will be complete. Tenders have already been called for procuring additional paediatric ventilators. Across 17 medical colleges we have a target of adding 1,258 paediatric beds. This will include PICU units with and without ventilators." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/experts-call-for-augmenting-paediatric-infra-ahead-of-third-wave-1036398.html
01-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccines for kids soon, says Sudhakar||Covid vaccines for children will be available from this month, Health and Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. Speaking to reporters at the BJP office in the city, he said that the trials of Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D vaccine were in their final stages. The price of the vaccine will be finalised today or tomorrow, he said. His remarks came after the Centre announced the Zydus Cadila vaccine would soon be part of the immunisation programme in the country. Sudhakar said that there was no cause for alarm regarding Covid in children. Guidelines are already in place regarding children attending schools in the state, he said. The government will not allow any large gatherings until everyone is vaccinated. Covid case numbers in states such as Kerala and Maharashtra remained high, due to which Karnataka government was insisting on Covid negative certificates for people who travel from these states, he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccines-for-kids-soon-says-sudhakar-1036357.html
01-10-2021||West||Navratri: BMC caps height of Durga idols, says no garba events in Mumbai||The Mumbai civic body on Thursday said no 'garba' events will be allowed during the upcoming Navratri festival in view of the coronavirus pandemic and capped the height of Goddess Durga idols to four feet for community mandals and two feet for household ones. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) urged citizens to scrupulously follow Covid-19 protocols and keep celebrations low-key in view of the pandemic as it issued guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOP) for the nine-day-long Navratri festival which begins on October 7. For the second straight year, the popular festival will be celebrated under the long shadow of the pandemic. An official said the BMC has urged people to celebrate the festival in a low-key manner and asked 'sarvajanik' (public) mandals to take permission from the civic body via the online mode for installing Goddess Durga idols in pandals (marquees). Heights of idols should be four feet for mandals and two feet for household ones, the civic official said. He said no 'garba' events will be allowed during the festival. Garba is a popular folk dance of Gujarat which is performed by devotees during the Navratri festival. Mandals should arrange online darshan of idols to avoid crowding and use Facebook and other social media platforms to reach out to devotees, he said. At the time of 'aarti' (a ritual of worship), not more than 10 people should be present at the venue and they should follow coronavirus guidelines like wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing, the official said. Immersion of household idols should be done at homes by devotees if it is not possible for them to go to the nearest immersion point set up by the civic body, he said. Only five people can take part in immersion of household idols and 10 devotees in those installed by community groups. In both cases, people taking part in immersion should be fully vaccinated against coronavirus, the official said. People will not be allowed to submerge idols, which will have to be handed over to BMC officials at immersion points, he said. Devotees should follow noise pollution rules as well as police guidelines during celebration of the festival to avoid to face any action, the official said. If any community mandal installing idols falls under Covid-19 containment zone, it will have to immerse them in iron water tank in their premises, he said. If during the festival, any building or 'chawl' (old row tenement) is sealed due to detection of coronavirus cases, their residents should immerse idols in buckets or water drums in their houses, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/navratri-bmc-caps-height-of-durga-idols-says-no-garba-events-in-mumbai-1036020.html
01-10-2021||West||Maharashtra DGP, Chief Secretary called by CBI in corruption probe against Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra DGP Sanjay Pande and Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte have been called by the CBI in connection with its corruption probe against former minister Anil Deshmukh, officials said on Thursday. Though the agency remained tight-lipped, officials said the senior officers have been asked to respond to some queries related to the probe. The CBI had booked Deshmukh and some other unidentified people under IPC sections related to criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty." Allegations against Deshmukh had surfaced after the removal of Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.  He was removed after the role of policeman Sachin Waze surfaced in the case of the recovery of an explosive-laden SUV parked outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. Waze was arrested by the NIA. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, after his removal, Singh had alleged Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants of Mumbai, they said. The FIR alleged that Deshmukh "and others" exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of officials and thereby exercising undue influence over the performance of public duties by them.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-dgp-chief-secretary-called-by-cbi-in-corruption-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-1036030.html
01-10-2021||West||Mumbai traffic cop dragged on car bonnet for 1 km; FIR filed against driver||A traffic police constable was dragged on the bonnet of a car for almost 1 km on Thursday after he asked its driver to stop the vehicle for violating traffic norms, an official said. The DN Nagar police in suburban Andheri have registered an FIR against the unidentified car driver after the incident which was captured on mobile phone cameras, he said. According to the official, constable Vijay Singh Gurav was on duty below Azad Nagar metro station in Andheri when a car entered from the wrong side and moved towards SV Road. The constable signalled the car driver to stop the vehicle, but he tried to flee after waiving some ID card, he said. However, Gurav jumped and sat on the bonnet of the car even as the driver accelerated the speed. The constable was dragged for around 1km before he was thrown off after the car entered a lane, the official said. Local people shot videos in which the constable can be seen sitting on the car bonnet and being dragged by the driver. These videos soon surfaced on social media. Gurav rushed to a police station and lodged a complaint against the car driver, who is yet to be identified. A case has been registered against the car driver under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) like 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 279 (rash driving), the official said, adding further investigation was underway.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-traffic-cop-dragged-on-car-bonnet-for-1-km-fir-filed-against-driver-1036038.html
01-10-2021||West||Extreme weather events killed over 400 people in country during June-August: IMD data||A total of 435 people died in the country due to extreme weather events during the last three months of the southwest monsoon, according to the data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Of them, lightning strikes claimed the lives of 240 persons, which is more than 50 per cent of the total number of casualties, the data states. Nearly one-third of the total extreme events-related deaths were from Maharashtra - one of the core monsoon zones in the country. Of the three months, 109 people died due to extreme weather events in June, 301 in July and 25 in August.  Extreme weather events during the monsoon comprises lightning, heavy rains which could lead to floods and other incidents. Officials in Maharashtra had earlier said that at least 213 people died after incessant rainfall caused flooding and landslides in many parts of the state in July this year. Large-scale damages had been reported from Konkan and western Maharashtra districts of Kolhapur and Sangli at that time. IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said the figures for the casualties in September are being compiled. As the planet warms at a rapid pace, extreme weather events have been on a rise. According to a study published this year by senior meteorologists, including M Rajeevan, the former secretary of the Ministry of Earth Sciences, in 50 years spanning from 1970 to 2019, as many as 7,063 extreme weather events have killed 1,41,308 people. Lightning killed more than 8,862 people in the country from 1971-2019, it added.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/extreme-weather-events-killed-over-400-people-in-country-during-june-august-imd-data-1036163.html
01-10-2021||West||Maharashtra leopard attacks: SGNP captures wild cat suspected to be behind incidents||After more than half a dozen attacks by leopards in the periphery of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai, a wild cat suspected to be behind the incidents was trap-caged in the wee hours of Friday.  The trapped leopard is a female sub-adult and she has been taken to the Leopard Rescue Centre of the SGNP, located in the suburbs of Mumbai.  The Maharashtra Forest Department and the SGNP, however, have not yet confirmed whether the leopard is the same one responsible for the seven back-to-back attacks on locals in the past month. After the attacks, the SGNP set up four trap cages in the Aarey Colony area -- and in one of those, one leopard was trapped.  MFD and SGNP officials said that the animal was found trapped at 6 am when his team went in for inspection. A couple of days ago, when a leopard attacked a woman, it was caught on CCTV.  The camera trap pictures of the leopard and CCTV footage would be matched with other evidence and then the SGNP would be able to reach any conclusion whether the leopard trapped was responsible for the attacks.  The SGNP, the only national park in India and the world to be located within the metropolitan limits, has the highest leopard density in the world with around 47 leopards staying in an area of 103 sq km and its periphery.  The SGNP and its larger periphery -- spread in three districts of Mumbai Suburban, Palghar and Thane -- is frequented by locals. Besides leopards, the SGNP and its neighbourhood which include the Aarey Milk Colony and FilmCity is home to more than 275 species of birds, 35 species of mammals, 80 species of reptiles and amphibians, 170 species of butterflies, several species of fish and a staggering 1,300 species of plants. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-leopard-attacks-sgnp-captures-wild-cat-suspected-to-be-behind-incidents-1036169.html
01-10-2021||West||Drugs meant to be smuggled to Australia seized in Mumbai||In a major operation, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday seized 4.6 kgs of Ephedrine from Andheri in Mumbai which was meant to be smuggled to Australia.  The NCB’s Mumbai Zonal Unit carried out the seizure of the parcel which has "international ramifications".  “The contraband was sourced from Hyderabad and was destined to Australia via Mumbai,” NCB’s Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede said on Friday. The contraband seized was concealed inside of three mattresses packed in one carton box in the form of a parcel. During the search, all the mattresses were taken out. Further investigation is underway to nab the consignee and consignor and other links of the drug smugglers in Mumbai also. Ephedrine has a similar chemical structure to amphetamines and is a methamphetamine analogue having the methamphetamine structure.  “Because of ephedrine's structural similarity to methamphetamine, it can be used to create methamphetamine. This has made ephedrine a highly sought-after chemical precursor in the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine,” the NCB said. Ephedrine is covered under Sec 9A of NDPS Act, 1985 and table-I precursor under the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-meant-to-be-smuggled-to-australia-seized-in-mumbai-1036199.html
01-10-2021||West||Won't arrest Param Bir Singh in atrocities act case till Oct 21, Maharashtra govt tells HC||The Maharashtra government on Friday told the Bombay High Court that it will not take any "coercive action" against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh till October 21 in a case registered against him under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. In a separate case, the state government gave a similar assurance to the court about not taking action against Rashmi Shukla, another IPS officer. The government was extending its assurance given on May 24, 2021, about not taking any coercive action (such as arrest) against Param Bir Singh, said its lawyer Y P Yagnik. He made the statement after a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar adjourned till October 20 the hearing on a petition filed by Singh seeking the quashing of an FIR lodged against him by Thane police. A First Information Report was registered against Singh under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in April in Thane on a complaint made by inspector B R Ghadge, attached to Akola city police. Ghadge, who belongs to a Scheduled Caste community, claimed he had refused to follow Singh's `illegal orders' to favour certain accused persons, and the IPS officer then conspired with other officers and falsely implicated him in extortion cases. Incidentally, a lookout notice has been issued against Singh following inputs that he might have left the country, Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil told reporters on Thursday. Singh was shunted out from the post of Mumbai police commissioner following the case of an SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house here. Singh later accused then state home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption. The bench, meanwhile, also adjourned till October 20 the hearing on a petition filed by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla seeking the quashing of an FIR in a case of alleged illegal phone tapping and leak of her 2020 report about alleged corruption in police transfers and postings in Maharashtra. Shukla was heading the state intelligence department when she prepared the report. It is alleged that phones of politicians and officials were tapped illegally and the report was deliberately leaked to opposition leaders. The HC adjourned the hearing due to lack of time and the state government assured that it will not take any coercive action against Shukla till October 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wont-arrest-param-bir-singh-in-atrocities-act-case-till-oct-21-maharashtra-govt-tells-hc-1036256.html
01-10-2021||West||Where is Param Bir Singh? Maharashtra govt silent||Days before he is scheduled to appear before a Maharashtra government-appointed Commission of Inquiry, speculation is rife that senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh may have fled India -- and is possibly in the United Kingdom or Russia.  Singh, an IPS officer of the 1988-batch is the former Commissioner of Police in Mumbai and Thane and currently is the Commandant-General of Home Guard.  For over two months, Singh had not attended office.  The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government is also contemplating suspending the police officer for prolonged absence, however, there was no independent confirmation.  While initially there were reports that Singh may have been in London, fresh information suggests that he may be in Russia.  However, the Maharashtra government has refused to comment on the developments.  Singh had alleged that then Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh had fixed a “collection target” of Rs 100 crore per month for now dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Waze, who was arrested and charge-sheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Waze in the sensational twin cases of planting 20-odd gelatine sticks and a threat note in a Mahindra Scorpio near Antilia along the Carmichael Road, the residence of the Ambani-family and murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiran, has levelled allegations of corruption against the minister.  State Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil has said that the Maharashtra government and the Centre is not aware of its whereabouts. “Neither the state nor the Central government's investigating agencies have any inkling of Singh's whereabouts and are searching for him,” he said. A lookout circular (LOC) has been issued against him, he added, pointing out that an IPS or IAS officer cannot travel abroad without permission of the government.  “Senior officers have to follow certain rules…they cannot leave the country without permission,” he said.  On what action would be taken, Walse-Patil said: “We are looking for him and once he is found, we will decide the future course of action.”  It may be mentioned that the CoI headed by Justice (Retd) Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal to probe allegations of bribery and misuse of office levelled by Singh against Deshmukh, had repeatedly issued summons, however, the police officer has failed to appear. It has slapped fines thrice, then issued a bailable warrant and he is scheduled to appear next week. In case he fails to do so, the CoI may issue a non-bailable warrant.  Singh hails from Haryana and notices were also sent to his Chandigarh and Rohtak addresses besides his Mumbai office/home.  Meanwhile, the state Congress has accused the BJP of giving Singh a “safe passage.”  “If Singh has fled India, then there has to be a definite role of BJP in giving a safe passage to him. Quite clear that saving Singh supports the agenda of BJP,” state Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant tweeted.  According to him, the NIA had probed the Antilia terror threat case first and its charge sheet clearly mentions that dismissed cop Sachin Waze was reporting to Singh, who paid Rs 5 lakh to a cyber expert to create an alibi.  “Still if Singh flees, then it's a failure of the NIA. What was the chowkidar government doing? How often do we find the chowkidar government napping when people like Nirav Modi, (Mehul) Choksi, (Vijay) Mallya and Singh elope?” he tweeted. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/where-is-param-bir-singh-maharashtra-govt-silent-1036305.html
01-10-2021||West||Saki Naka rape-murder: Accused attacked victim who knew him, was trying to avoid him||The Mumbai police in the chargesheet filed in the Saki Naka rape and murder case have stated that the accused had been acquainted with the victim, who had been avoiding him, which prompted him to track her down and attack her, sources said on Friday. The 345-page chargesheet was filed at Dindoshi sessions court by the Special Investigation Team of the Mumbai police on September 28, almost 18 days after the incident, in which a 34-year-old woman was raped and brutalised with an iron rod. The woman was raped and brutally assaulted on her private parts with a rod in a stationary vehicle on September 10 by a 45-year-old man. The victim died during treatment at civic-run Rajawadi Hospital a day after the attack, due to heavy blood loss. The accused was subsequently arrested, and an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered against him. According to the chargesheet, the accused tracked down the victim, as she had been avoiding to meet him for 25 days, sources said. Once the accused saw the victim, he attacked her in a fit of rage, they said. Apart from this, the statement of the security guard, who had alerted the police about the injured woman, is also part of the chargesheet, they said. The police have recorded statements of at least 77 persons in connection with the case, and of these, over 24 statements are of key witnesses, they added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/saki-naka-rape-murder-accused-attacked-victim-who-knew-him-was-trying-to-avoid-him-1036322.html
01-10-2021||West||Covid-19: Attendance limit at Mumbai's places of worship capped at 50% capacity||The civic body in Mumbai on Friday issued an order capping the number of visitors to places of worship to 50 per cent of total capacity. It said that barring the point about places of worship, all other guidelines issued on September 24 by the Maharashtra government under its 'break the chain' initiative to rein in the Covid-19 pandemic will be applicable in the metropolis as has been laid down. "The number of religious attendees will be limited to 50 per cent of the total capacity of those places of worship. Full compliance of Covid-19 preventive measures will be necessary," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation order said. It said all Covid-19 norms like social distancing and wearing of masks must be adhered to while visiting places of worship and stringent action would be taken against violators. The state government had, earlier, announced that places of worship would open from October 7 but had given local authorities, like collectors and civic chiefs, the right to decide on the attendance limit at such venues based on factors like size, ventilation etc. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-attendance-limit-at-mumbais-places-of-worship-capped-at-50-capacity-1036327.html
01-10-2021||West||Why should central agencies trust Param Bir Singh who has fled country, asks Jayant Patil||Maharashtra cabinet minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil on Friday asked why the central agencies should trust the allegations of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh who has “fled the country”. State home minister Dilip Walse-Patil had told reporters on Thursday that a look-out notice had been issued against Singh following inputs that he might have left the country, but there was no concrete information. “Why should the central agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate, trust Param Bir Singh who has fled the country,” Patil said, addressing NCP workers at Yevla-Lasalgaon, the constituency of Chhagan Bhujbal, another minister in the state government. Singh had alleged earlier this year that NCP leader Anil Deshmukh, then state home minister, wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels in Mumbai. Deshmukh resigned after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into the allegations. The state police, on the other hand, registered multiple cases of extortion against the IPS officer following his sensational allegations against Deshmukh. Patil, meanwhile, also claimed that the "BJP's machinery" earlier tried to put Bhujbal in jail but the court gave him a clean chit, and now the saffron party was targeting Deshmukh. Efforts were being made to malign the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in the state and divert attention from real issues, he further alleged. A court in Mumbai recently discharged Bhujbal, a senior NCP leader, in the alleged Maharashtra Sadan scam case for want of evidence. Bhujbal was also doing good work on the issue of restoration of OBC reservations in local bodies, Patil said. Patil, who holds the water resources portfolio, also assured that the state government will provide help to the farmers who lost crops due to the recent spell of heavy rains. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-should-central-agencies-trust-param-bir-singh-who-has-fled-country-asks-jayant-patil-1036368.html
01-10-2021||West||Shiv Sena to go solo in Goa polls; contest 22-25 seats: Sanjay Raut||The Shiv Sena on Friday announced a change in strategy for the upcoming polls in Goa, with its national spokesperson Sanjay Raut stating that the party would contest the upcoming elections on its own and contesting between 22 to 25 seats out of the 40 seats which are up for grabs in the 2022 state assembly polls.  Addressing a press conference in Panaji on Friday, Raut also said that the 25-year-old Shiv Sena-Bharatiya Janata Party alliance in Maharashtra, had restricted the party's efforts to increase its footprint in Maharashtra over the last two and a half decades.  "All this while, we focussed on alliances. In Maharashtra, our leader and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had to concede that we could not expand our base (in Maharashtra) because of the alliance for 25 years," the Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP said.   "Even in Goa, we used to opt for alliances that is why we could not expand. That is why we have decided that we will contest 22 to 25 seats in Goa on our own strength," Raut also said. Raut, who is his party's election overseer in Goa, has been in the coastal state for two days working out a strategy to contest the assembly polls, which are scheduled to be held in early 2022.  The Shiv Sena had contested the 2017 assembly polls in alliance with the Goa Suraksha Manch and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party. It had poorly lost all the three seats it had contested in. While the party has been dabbling in state politics over the last two to three decades, the Shiv Sena has launched an aggresive campaign against the Bharatiya Janata Party government in Goa over the last few years, especially after the formation of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition comprising of Shiv Sena, Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party.  Raut also said that if the party comes to power it would stop casinos from functioning in the state, blaming the BJP for reneging on its promises to do away with casinos, while the party was in the opposition.  "BJP under Manohar Parrikar has been against casinos. They even launched an agitation against them. Now half the ministers have partnerships with casinos... Should tourism states allow gambling and drugs to proliferate? Does it say that in our Constitution? We will stop casinos if we come to power," Raut said.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-to-go-solo-in-goa-polls-contest-22-25-seats-sanjay-raut-1036392.html
