02-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man killed in Shivamogga, family members arrested||Shivamogga police have arrested five of a family including wife and sons in connection with the murder of a man from Sagar cracking the murder case which was belived to be a suicide earlier. The body of Vinod (45), native of Aachapura village and a businessman, was found burnt inside a car in the forest region at Hunasekoppa village attached to Mitlugodu gram panchayat limits on September 28. Initially, the police thought it was a suicide but investigation of the vehicle showed that it was his wife Beenu (42), sons Vivek (21), Vishnu (19), his brother Sanjay (36) and his relative Ashok (23) who plotted his murder and executed it.  Police stated that the accused had taken cues from films and had planned to murder Vinod over his extra-martial affair with a woman from Hosanagar taluk. He used to give money to the woman, ignoring his family members. He had planned to give Rs 51 lakh which he had obtained by selling one acre of land to the woman. Enraged by this, his family planned to murder him on September 25. His family purchased a can of petrol at Aanandpur in Sagar taluk and killed him by hitting his head with an iron rod. Later, they kept his body in a car and drove it to the forest area at 11:00 pm and torched it by pouring petrol on it. They had kept their mobile phones at home to ensure that police don't get any evidence. Police interrogated them separately and their contradictory statements led to suspicion. At last, they admitted to committing the crime. Thirthahalli police team cracked the murder case in three days.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-killed-in-shivamogga-family-members-arrested-1036464.html
02-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Youth Congress to hold campaign against hate politics, immoral policing in Dakshina Kannada||Youth Congress will carry out a campaign against hate politics and immoral policing across Dakshina Kannada (DK) district, DK Youth Congress President Luqman Bantwal said on Friday. He said that the Youth Congress will try to create `500 constitution protectors' by the end of the year in the district. About 12 ‘moral policing’ incidents had taken place in the DK district. These incidents were a black mark on the district, he told media persons in Congress Bhavan. "The district is known for religious, medical and educational tourism. Thousands of students from outside the district and state study in the DK district. If such incidents continue, then parents will not send their children to study in DK", he warned. Even investors will shy away from investing in the district and this, in turn, will have an impact on employment. The police should conduct an impartial probe into the incidents. It is people from SC/ST, backward classes and minorities who are falling prey to such acts of anti-social elements, he said. Moral policing incidents are being used for political gain during the election, which the youth should understand. The Youth Congress will hold ‘Sarvodaya Sankalpa programme every month in the district, he declared. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-congress-to-hold-campaign-against-hate-politics-immoral-policing-in-dakshina-kannada-1036504.html
02-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga cops arrest wife, her sons for murder of husband||Shivamogga police have arrested five of a family, including a wife and her sons in connection with the murder of a man from Sagar, which until now seemed more like a suicide. The body of Vinod (45), a native of Aachapura village, Sagar taluk, was found burnt inside a car inthe  forest region at Hunasekoppa village attached to Mitlugodu gram panchayat limits on September 28. While police initially, thought it was a suicide, they later initiated an investigation based on the registration number of the vehicle. To their surprise, they found out that it was his wife Beenu (42), sons Vivek (21), Vishnu (19), his brother Sanjay (36) and nephew Ashok (23) who plotted the murder and executed without leaving behind any evidence. Police stated that the accused had taken cues from films and had planned to murder Vinod — who was running a herbal life business — over an extramarital affair with a woman from Hosanagar taluk. He used to give money to the woman and ignored his family members. He had even planned to give the Rs 51 lakh he obtained from selling an acre's worth of land. Enraged by this, the family members planned to murder him on September 25. They purchased a can of petrol at Aanandpur in Sagar taluk and killed Vinod by hitting his head with an iron rod. They later kept his body in a car, drove the vehicle towards a forest area in Hunasekatte at 11 pm and torched the car by pouring petrol on it. They had left their mobile phones at home to ensure that police do not get any evidence. Upon interrogating them separately, all five accused offered contradictory statements, raising suspicion among the cops. Following this, the accused eventually admitted to committng the crime. The murder case was cracked by the Thirthahalli police team in three days. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-cops-arrest-wife-her-sons-for-murder-of-husband-1036566.html
02-10-2021||National||BSF to launch retreat ceremony on IB in Jammu on Saturday||The Border Security Force will launch a retreat ceremony on the Indo-Pak border in Suchetgarh on Saturday to attract domestic tourism to the International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir like the Wagah border in Punjab, "It is a historic occasion when retreat ceremony will be launched at 1630 hours at Border outpost (BoP) Octroi (Suchetgarh) on Saturday," DIG BSF, Jammu Frontier, P S Sandhu said. He said a structured parade by BSF personnel will take part in the retreat ceremony, which will be a regular feature. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will be the chief guest on the occasion and senior officers from various government departments will take part in the event, the DIG said. The retreat ceremony is an initiative as part of the border tourism on the lines of the Wagah border, officials said. However, the retreat ceremony will only be held on the Indian side of the border. Suchetgarh is about 27 kilometres from Jammu and served as a route to Sialkot (now in Pakistan) during the pre-partition era, the officials said. On July 4, 2016, the then Jammu and Kashmir government had launched border tourism at Octerio BoP.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-to-launch-retreat-ceremony-on-ib-in-jammu-on-saturday-1036432.html
02-10-2021||National||Shah, Nadda hold deliberations over Manipur assembly polls||Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda on Friday held deliberations with Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh and other party leaders over the assembly elections in the northeastern state early next year, sources said. Besides Shah and Nadda, BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh, the party's election incharge for Manipur and Union Minister Bhupender Yadav and incharge of party affairs in the state Sambit Patra were present in the meeting. The meeting started late evening, sources said, adding that a comprehensive analysis of the political situation in the state was done in the meeting. It has been reported that the Conrad Sangma-led National People's Party (NPP), an ally of the BJP, is to go it alone and contest in majority of the seats in Manipur. The state has 60 assembly seats. At present, the NPP has four MLAs in Manipur and two of them are ministers in the BJP-led coalition government.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shah-nadda-hold-deliberations-over-manipur-assembly-polls-1036433.html
02-10-2021||National||Muslim religious leaders demand action over girl dancing in Bada imambara||Muslim religious leaders have taken a strong exception to a viral video of a young girl dancing in prominent shrine 'Bada Imambara' and demanded strict action against those involved in it. A video of a girl dancing in the shrine has gone viral on social media, though details about when it was filmed or the identity of the girl are not yet known. Expressing strong objection, prominent Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad demanded that the responsibility of managing the Imambara be taken back from the district administration and handed over to a committee led by Imam-e-juma to maintain the sanctity of the place of worship. "Such incidents at places of worship like Bada Imambara have come to light in the past too,” he said. Spokesperson of All India Shia Personal Law Board Maulana Yasoob Abbas said there should be a ban on tourists visiting the places of worship. District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash said that he will get the matter probed. Till now, we have not received any complaint in this regard, he said. Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur, "So far, no complaint has been received in this matter. Action as per the rules will be taken on receiving a complaint.” Besides being a historical heritage of Lucknow, Bara Imambara is also a place of worship. It was built by Asaf-ud-Daula, the Nawab of Awadh, in 1784. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-religious-leaders-demand-action-over-girl-dancing-in-bada-imambara-1036436.html
02-10-2021||National||Bhagwat stresses for setting up shakhas in J&K to ‘inculcate patriotism’ among people||Asserting that the Sangh must set an example for others by creating a peaceful society that takes everyone along, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday stressed setting up a network of ‘shakhas’ across Jammu and Kashmir to “inculcate patriotism” among people. Bhagwat arrived in Jammu on Thursday on a four-day visit to the union territory during which he will meet intellectuals and prominent citizens. This is Bhagwat's first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019, when the erstwhile state's special status was ended and it was bifurcated into union territories -- J-K and Ladakh. On Friday, he held detailed discussions with pracharaks on various aspects especially working of the Sangh in the union territory, an RSS spokesman said. Bhagwat stressed spreading of the organisation’s work in new areas and further setting up the network of RSS shakhas in every nock and corner of Jammu and Kashmir to inculcate patriotism among people, he said. The RSS chief said swayamsevaks must set an example for others by creating a peaceful society that takes everyone along. "We have to expand our work in scope and make it more organized," he said. The Sarsanghchalak also reviewed various projects initiated by the J-K RSS for the development of villages and rural economy, the spokesman said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhagwat-stresses-for-setting-up-shakhas-in-jk-to-inculcate-patriotism-among-people-1036473.html
02-10-2021||National||53 African nationals held for vandalising police station, attacking policemen||Fifty-three African nationals were arrested for allegedly creating a ruckus outside a police station in southwest Delhi and attacking personnel, police said on Friday. The incident took place on the night of September 26. According to the police, an African man died under mysterious circumstances at a hospital following which doctors asked his friends to inform the police. However, they insisted on taking the body due to which an altercation took place and later, the police were informed. Thereafter, a crowd gathered outside Mohan Garden police station where the African nationals attacked the police personnel. The incident was captured on a mobile phone of a local and the video of the incident went viral on social media. In the video, several people are seen vandalising the police station and damaging vehicles in the area. The police said around 20 to 25 African nationals entered the police station with stones and rods in their hands. They attacked the police station and pelted stones. They also damaged vehicles in and outside the police station. The police said the African nationals also attacked the personnel in which three policemen got injured. Later, the police personnel fired three rounds in the air, following which they escaped from the spot. A case has been registered for creating ruckus, damaging property and obstructing police personnel from performing their duties, and 53 African nationals have been arrested over a period of time. The investigation is going on and identification of other foreign nationals is underway, the police added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/53-african-nationals-held-for-vandalising-police-station-attacking-policemen-1036474.html
02-10-2021||National||Speak Out: October 2, 2021||Karnataka MP and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) National President Tejasvi Surya took a swipe at Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party ahead of polls in the state, saying the party follows the principle of "Bhaijaan ke saath...Mian ke vishwaas aur apna vikas".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-october-2-2021-1036478.html
02-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Swachh Bharat 2.0 to clean up dirty politics?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation, asserting that these missions were aimed at making the cities garbage free and water secure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-swachh-bharat-20-to-clean-up-dirty-politics-1036479.html
02-10-2021||National||India going to play most important roles in bringing this pandemic to end: USAID administrator||Indiaᨊ is going to play one of the most important roles on planet earth in bringing this (Covid-19) pandemic to an end, a top Biden administration official has said, underlining that the country has made investments over a long period of time in expanding vaccine manufacturing capacity. India will resume the export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines in October under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool. COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and WHO. “What is clear now, that the export ban on vaccine manufacturing is going to be lifted... India is going to play one of the most important roles on planet earth in bringing this pandemic to an end. Because of its innovation, because of the investments that have been made over a long period of time in expanding vaccine manufacturing capacity,” United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Administrator, Samantha Power said. “...Right now we're in a really difficult period because there are significant vaccine shortages as you know. And... India is very soon going to be back online. As a critical engine in meeting the targets that the world's leaders just rallied behind at the Covid summit, which is mainly to get 70 per cent of each of the world's country's populations vaccinated by the UN General Assembly next year,” she said. “I think it's also India as an inspiration. You know, we -- and I'll stay on Covid, just because it's certainly the topic of our time, along with the climate. But in both domains, in fact. You know, as India innovates in its transition to renewables, on the climate front, as it extends its vaccine manufacturing capacity,” Power said, participating in the USAID discussion with former US Ambassador to India Richard Verma. Speaking at the virtual event, Power said, “Not only for Covid vaccines but now to make itself again a hub for vaccinations for other diseases that have been concentrated in the developed world.  That manufacturing capacity, that's giving a lot of countries ideas.  We are talking of Rwanda, Senegal, we just, through the Development Finance Corporation, made a big investment in South Africa." “Once India is in a position, you know, to move past Covid in a way that, of course, is in the interests of the Indian people to do. And we're seeking to support them to do.  For it to bring its expertise to bear on how a country like South Africa can extend already what it is doing in the manufacturing space,” Power said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-going-to-play-most-important-roles-in-bringing-this-pandemic-to-end-usaid-administrator-1036489.html
02-10-2021||National||Congress leader says will meet Pak officials to secure release of Rajasthan man jailed in Karachi||Congress leader Manvendra Singh on Friday said he would meet Pakistani officials to secure the release of a 19-year-old man from Barmer in Rajasthan who strayed into the neighbouring country last year and was jailed there. Gemra Ram Meghwal, a resident of Kumharo Ka Tibba along the India-Pakistan border, had gone missing from his home in November last year. His family members lodged a missing complaint at the Bijrad police station on November 16, 2020. A senior BSF officer had later said Pakistan Rangers confirmed that he was in police custody in the neighbouring country. Congress leader Singh posted purported Pakistani court documents on his Facebook page that show that Meghwal has been sentenced to six-month jail and that he was lodged in a prison in Karachi. "I have a meeting with Pakistani officials for the release of Gemra Ram on Monday. I will make all efforts for his safe return to the country," he wrote. It was not immediately known who Singh will meet and where. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-says-will-meet-pak-officials-to-secure-release-of-rajasthan-man-jailed-in-karachi-1036490.html
02-10-2021||National||Demanding probe into road construction, man attempts suicide outside Gadkari's residence||Demanding inquiry into the construction of a road, a man tried to consume poison outside Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari's house here on Friday evening, police said. Security personnel, however, stopped him in time, said an official of the Rana Pratap Nagar police station. Vijay Marotrao Pawar, resident of Mehkar in Maharashtra's Buldhana district, had written a letter demanding inquiry into the alleged substandard construction of the Shegaon-Khamgaon Palkhi road. He had threatened to end his life outside Gadkari's house if the demand was not met. After receiving the threat, extra policemen were deployed outside the Union minister's house, the police official said. Pawar arrived near Gadkari's house around 5 pm on Friday and tried to consume a poisonous chemical but the police overpowered him immediately, the official said. He was admitted to the Government Medical College and his condition was reportedly stable. A case will be registered against him under IPC section 309 (attempt to commit suicide), the official said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demanding-probe-into-road-construction-man-attempts-suicide-outside-gadkaris-residence-1036491.html
02-10-2021||National||Kangana Ranaut named brand ambassador of UP govt's 'one district-one product' scheme||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday named actor Kangana Ranaut as the brand ambassador of its ambitious 'one district-one product' programme. The actor met Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at his official residence here. The UP government has launched the one district-one product (ODOP) programme with the aim to create product-specific traditional industrial hubs across 75 districts of the state. In a tweet , Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Navneet Sehgal said, "Famous actress Kangana Ranaut met...Chief Minister of UP, who presented her with an ODOP product. Kangana ji will be our brand ambassador for the ODOP." According to a senior official, the actor praised the works being done by the chief minister during the meeting. The CM requested her to pay a visit to Ram temple in Ayodhya.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-ranaut-named-brand-ambassador-of-up-govts-one-district-one-product-scheme-1036493.html
02-10-2021||National||India snags cheap Australian coal stranded at Chinese ports||By Rajesh Kumar Singh India is buying Australian coal that’s been stranded inside China for months, according to people who have made the purchases, spotlighting how geopolitics is complicating Beijing’s battle against an energy supply crisis. The fuel is being bought at a $12 to $15 a ton discount to fresh shipments from Australia and is some of the cheapest thermal coal relative to its quality on the market, said the people, who asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorised to speak with the press. Indian cement makers and sponge iron plants are among buyers that are using the supplies to bridge domestic shortfalls. The development reflects the extent to which China-Australia relations have soured: China is battling a crippling energy crunch that’s set to get worse as winter sets in, and yet it won’t touch coal from Australia due to a geopolitical squabble. Indian firms have bought nearly 2 million tons of Australian thermal coal that has been sitting in warehouses at the Chinese ports, the people said. Stockpiles of the fuel at Indian coal-fired power plants, which produce nearly 70% of the country’s electricity, are near the lowest levels in four years and have prompted the state-owned miner Coal India Ltd. to direct more supplies to domestic utilities. That’s reduced shipments to other consumers, including aluminium makers, cement companies and steel mills. Prices for Australia’s Newcastle coal, considered an Asian benchmark, have surged close to a record. The discord between China, the world’s largest consumer and importer of coal, and Australia had stranded as many as 70 ships and 1,400 seafarers waiting to discharge their cargoes outside Chinese ports in January. Most vessels subsequently discharged their cargoes or diverted to other destinations. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-snags-cheap-australian-coal-stranded-at-chinese-ports-1036494.html
02-10-2021||National||India reports 24,354 new Covid-19 cases, 234 deaths||India logged 24,354 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,37,91,061, while the active cases declined to 2,73,889, the lowest in 197 days, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,48,573 with 234 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.81 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.86 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. India's total number of active cases at 2,73,889, which is the lowest in 197 days. A decrease of 1,335 Covid cases has been recorded in the total number of active cases in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 14,29,258 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 57,19,94,990. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.70  per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 33 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.68 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 99 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,30,68,599, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 89.74 crore. The 234 new fatalities include 95 from Kerala and 50 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,48,573 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,117 from Maharashtra, 37,807 from Karnataka, 35,603 from Tamil Nadu, 25,182 from Kerala, 25,087  from Delhi, 22,892 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,806 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-24354-new-covid-19-cases-234-deaths-1036507.html
02-10-2021||National||6 injured in stone-pelting during clash in UP||At least six people were injured in stone-pelting during a clash between two groups over an agriculture field's boundary dispute in the district, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday evening when Ajab Singh and Shiv Kumar got into a confrontation, which turned into a violent clash in Khedi village under Khatoli police station, they said. All the injured were shifted to a hospital, police said. They said Singh has alleged that Kumar was trying to reduce the boundary of his agriculture field.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-injured-in-stone-pelting-during-clash-in-up-1036538.html
02-10-2021||National||Over 88.14 crore vaccine doses given to states, UTs so far, says Centre||Over 88.14 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories so far through the Centre's free-of-cost channel and direct state procurement category, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. More than 5.28 crore unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs. A total of 88,14,50,515 vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs so far through the government (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category, the ministry said. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, it said.  The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government has been supporting states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines for free, the ministry said. Under universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Centre will procure and supply free of cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs, it said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-8814-crore-vaccine-doses-given-to-states-uts-so-far-says-centre-1036539.html
02-10-2021||National||UIDAI plans to open 166 standalone Aadhaar enrolment, update centres||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has plans to open 166 standalone Aadhar enrolment and update centres across the country, an official statement said on Saturday. At present, 55 Aadhaar Seva Kendras (ASKs) out of the 166 planned centres are operational in addition to about 52,000 Aadhaar enrolment centres run by banks, post offices and state governments. "UIDAI plans to open 166 stand-alone Aadhaar Enrolment and Update Centres in 122 cities across the country," the statement said. The ASKs are open on all days of the week and have so far catered to over 70 lakh residents including Divyang persons. The operational centres have a capacity to handle up to 1,000 enrolments and update requests per day for Model-A ASKs, up to 500 enrolments and update requests per day for Model B ASKs and up to 250 enrolments and update requests per day for Model C ASKs. As of date, over 130.9 crore Aadhaar numbers have been generated.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uidai-plans-to-open-166-standalone-aadhaar-enrolment-update-centres-1036544.html
02-10-2021||National||I-T dept detects Rs 500-crore unaccounted transactions after raids on Gujarat realty group||The Income Tax Department has detected unaccounted transactions of over Rs 500 crore after it raided an Ahmedabad-based real estate developer and linked brokers as part of a tax evasion probe, the CBDT claimed on Saturday. "Documents reveal unaccounted income of more than Rs 200 crore in the hands of the real estate group and also unaccounted income of more than Rs 200 crore in the hands of the parties recorded in the documents found from the possession of the brokers. "Over all, the search & seizure operation has resulted in the detection of unaccounted transactions of more than Rs 500 crore," it said in a statement. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) frames policy for the tax department. The raids that were launched at 22 premises of the group and the brokers on September 28 are underway, the statement said. The Board said about Rs 1 crore cash and jewellery worth Rs 98 lakh was seized during the operation. Twenty-four lockers have been put under restraint, it said. Incriminating documents, loose papers, digital evidences have been seized from the premises of the real estate developer and these "evidences" contain detailed records of the group's unaccounted transactions spread across multiple financial years, the statement said. "Documents showing unaccounted investment in land of more than Rs 200 crore and unaccounted cash receipts from sale of land amounting to more than Rs 100 crore have been seized so far. "A large number of original documents of properties purchased over the years, which are apparently held in the name of benami individuals have also been found," it claimed. ​In the case of the broker, documents showing details of payments in cash and in cheques relating to transactions of purchase and sale of land carried out through the broker have been found, the CBDT said. Documents showing cash transactions of over Rs 230 crore in these land deals have been seized so far, it said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-dept-detects-rs-500-crore-unaccounted-transactions-after-raids-on-gujarat-realty-group-1036547.html
02-10-2021||National||Piyush Goyal digitally analyses BAPS Temple 3D model at Dubai Expo||Union Minister for Commerce & Industry Piyush Goyal has digitally analysed the 3D translucent crystalline model of the upcoming BAPS Hindu Temple in Abu Dhabi, which is being showcased at the India Pavilion of the Expo 2020 Dubai that commenced here. Goyal, who inaugurated the India Pavilion at the expo on Friday, was left with admiration as he analysed the 3D model of the BAPS Temple. "This BAPS Hindu Mandir in Abu Dhabi will be amazing once completed," he said, inquiring about when it will be finished. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February 2018 laid the foundation stone for the Swaminarayan temple of the Bochasanwasi Shri Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan (BAPS) Sanstha through videoconferencing from the Dubai Opera House, where he addressed the members of the Indian community. Once completed, it would be the first Hindu temple in Abu Dhabi. The construction of the iconic BAPS Temple began in December 2019. The current structure under construction stands at a height of 15-feet. Upon completion, this magnificent mandir will be a marvel made of seven spires and five ornate domes, which shall serve the UAE and the world for millennia to come. Goyal, who also holds the portfolios of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution and Textiles ministries, said that once completed the Temple would be a great addition to the UAE. While each level of the India Pavilion explores India’s different regional states and leading corporations, the grand finale towards the end of the pavilion features a panoramic segment of India’s most famous historical and spiritual landmarks. It includes heritage sites and grand buildings like the Red Fort, the Gwalior Fort, the Statue of Unity, Varanasi Ghat, Temple of Tanjore, the Swaminarayan Akshardham Temple and many other landmarks that one can expect to visit on their journey through India. Apart from Minister Piyush Goyal, the other dignitaries and leading businessmen who visited the India Pavilion, included Lakshmi Mittal, the steel magnate based in the United Kingdom and Executive Chairman, Anil Agarwal, Chairman of Vedanta Resources and Vinod and Karan Adani, both members of the Adani Group.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/piyush-goyal-digitally-analyses-baps-temple-3d-model-at-dubai-expo-1036550.html
02-10-2021||National||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu pays tributes to Gandhi, Shastri on birth anniversaries||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary, urging people to participate in the Swachh Bharat campaign and make cleanliness a part of their lives. He also paid tributes to Lal Bahadur Shastri, the second prime minister of India, on his 117th birth anniversary. "My respectful tributes to the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi ji on his birth anniversary today. Universally revered as an apostle of peace and non-violence Gandhiji was an embodiment of selfless service, kindness and compassion," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. Mahatma Gandhi led the struggle to liberate India from colonial rule based on the values of truth and non-violence. His principle of 'ahimsa' (non-violence) will continue to guide us and the rest of the world in our shared quest for peace, harmony and universal brotherhood, he said.  "The nation also celebrates Swachh Bharat Diwas as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, who had famously said 'sanitation is more important than independence'. I urge everyone to participate in Swachh Bharat campaign and make it a part of their lives," the vice president said. On the International Day of Non-Violence, Naidu urged people to resolve to take forward Gandhi's legacy of peace and non-violence. Violence can never solve any problem and dialogue is the only way forward to resolve even the most intractable issue, he observed. In his tributes to Shastri, the vice president said he was a man of utmost integrity, humility and competence. "He cared deeply for our defence personnel and farmers. His selfless and dedicated service to the nation will always be remembered, as also his famous slogan of Jai Jawan Jai Kisan," Naidu said.  At Shastri's memorial Vijay Ghat, the vice president met family members of the former prime minister.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-pays-tributes-to-gandhi-shastri-on-birth-anniversaries-1036552.html
02-10-2021||National||India crosses landmark 90 crore Covid-19 vaccinations||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 90 crore, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. The country-wide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. "Shastri ji gave the slogan 'Jai Jawan - Jai Kisan'. Revered Atal ji added 'Jai Vigyan' and PM @Narendra Modi Ji gave the slogan 'Jai Anusandhan'. Today the result of anusandhan is this corona vaccine.#JaiAnusandhan," Mandaviya tweeted. श्री शास्त्री जी ने 'जय जवान - जय किसान' का नारा दिया था। श्रद्धेय अटल जी ने 'जय विज्ञान' जोड़ा The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1. The government then decided to expand the vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Watch the latest DH Videos here:   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-crosses-landmark-90-crore-covid-19-vaccinations-1036557.html
02-10-2021||National||No evidence to prove lung cancer caused by smoking addiction, says court; asks insurer to pay claim||A consumer court in Ahmedabad has ordered an insurance company to reimburse the amount of expenditure on medical treatment for lung cancer after the insurer refused to pay the claim saying the patient was addicted to smoking, which caused the disease. The court said there was no evidence to prove that the patient suffered from lung cancer due to his addiction to smoking, apart from the mention of "addiction smoking" on the treatment papers, which, it said, cannot form the basis for the insurer to reject his claim. It also said that people who do not smoke also suffer from lung cancer. The insurance company had rejected the claim of Rs 93,297 incurred by policy holder Alok Kumar Banerjee on treatment of his "adenocarcinoma of lung" or lung cancer, at a private hospital, on the ground that he was addicted to smoking as mentioned on his treatment papers. Banerjee's wife, Smita, challenged this in the Ahmedabad Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission together with Consumer Education and Research Centre. On September 30, the consumer court allowed her petition and observed that there is no evidence to prove that her husband was addicted to smoking, apart from the mention of "addiction smoking" on the treatment papers. Neither was any clarification of evidence sought from the doctor who made the same observation. Observations made in discharge summary or treatment papers alone cannot be counted as conclusive proof. Independent proof is required to be presented to support the claim, it said. "The complainant's husband had lung cancer, but there is no proof to ascertain that it was due to his addiction to smoking. The insurer has presented a report from a doctor that says that smokers are 25 times more likely to get lung cancer, but that alone does not prove that he suffered from lung cancer due to smoking," said the order passed by commission's president K S Patel and member K P Mehta. "People who do not smoke also suffer from lung cancer, and all those who smoke do not necessarily suffer from lung cancer. Therefore, the Commission is of the opinion that the insurance company falsely rejected the claim without providing any conclusive proof in its support," it said. The court ordered the insurance company to pay Rs 93,297 as claim with 7 per cent interest from the date of application on August 2, 2016. Further, the insurer will pay Rs 3,000 for mental torture and Rs 2,000 towards cost of litigation within 30 days, it said. The policy was valid between May 2014 and 2015, and the complainant's husband was treated on July 29, 2014 and incurred a cost of Rs 93,297 over treatment which he claimed form the insurer. The insurer rejected the claim and said in its repudiation letter that the complainant is not qualified for the claim as per the policy terms and conditions, as he was addicted to smoking. This is based on the hospital papers which mentions "addiction smoking," it said. The complainant was a chain smoker and was suffering from lung cancer and had sought treatment in different hospitals. He got cancer due to his smoking habit, as smoking and lung cancer are directly related, the insurance company said in its reply to the court. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-evidence-to-prove-lung-cancer-caused-by-smoking-addiction-says-court-asks-insurer-to-pay-claim-1036563.html
02-10-2021||National||Monsoon likely to withdraw from Madhya Pradesh in second week of October: IMD||The southwest monsoon that arrived in Madhya Pradesh on June 10, is expected to withdraw from the state in the second week of October, which is at least 10 days beyond its usual departure date, an IMD official said on Saturday. The rainy season in the state has stretched a bit longer this time as it normally begins on the first day of June and ends on the last day of September, he said. "The monsoon will start relenting from the second week of this month," P K Saha, senior meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Bhopal office told PTI. Talking about the showers being witnessed in some parts of Madhya Pradesh at present, he said they were caused due to the moisture in the atmosphere and some other local factors. "There is no system like a lower pressure area built over MP that is causing rain," he added. Saha said that Khandwa city received the highest 103 mm rainfall in west MP, while Pench area in Seoni district area received highest 6.5 mm rainfall in east MP in the last 24 hours that ended 8.30 am. He said that besides Khandwa, Indore, south Betul, Burhanpur, Ujjain, north Dewas, Shajapur and Dhar districts in west MP received significant showers in the last 24 hours. Similarly, apart from Seoni, drizzles were witnessed at Singrauli, Chhindwara, Panna and Sidhi districts in east MP. He said that light thunderstorms with lightning are likely to continue over Barwani, southern parts of Khargone, Khandwa, Burhanpur and Chhindwara districts. G D Mishra, another senior meteorologist with the IMD, said that Madhya Pradesh has received little more than its average quota of rainfall as the 2021 monsoon season has officially ended on September 30. Till Thursday morning, the state has received 945.2 mm rainfall, as against the normal rainfall of 940.6 mm, he added. Sheopur district received 100 per cent more rainfall than its average, while Guna and Shivpuri districts recorded 84 per cent and 62 per cent more than their average rainfall, respectively, during the same period. These three districts in north Madhya Pradesh received abundant showers during the monsoon. North MP, particularly Gwalior and Chambal divisions, were ravaged by floods in August. In all, 11 districts in the state received excess showers, while nine districts remained rain deficient till Thursday, the senior meteorologist said. According to him, Damoh district in the Bundelkhand region of MP recorded a 38 per cent drop in the average rainfall - the lowest for any district. Against the average of 1,046.3 mm, it has received only 644.8 mm showers between June 1 and September 30. Mishra said that 31 districts, including Bhopal, Indore and Gwalior, have received normal rainfall during this monsoon season so far. He said 15 per cent less rainfall in east MP has been made up by 15 per cent excess showers in the western region of the state. The IMD has divided MP into two parts – East with 20 districts and West with 31 districts. Madhya Pradesh has 52 districts, but Tikamgarh district has not been added in any of the two parts. In June, the state received copious showers, but July, a month that usually witnesses hectic rain activity, saw a dry spell, Mishra said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-likely-to-withdraw-from-madhya-pradesh-in-second-week-of-october-imd-1036564.html
02-10-2021||National||India, Sri Lanka to conduct 12-day military exercise; focus on counter-terror cooperation||India and Sri Lanka will carry out a 12-day mega military exercise from Monday with a focus on enhancing counter-terror cooperation. The eighth edition of the 'Mitra Shakti' exercise will be conducted at the Combat Training School in Sri Lanka's Ampara from October 4 to 15, the defence ministry said on Saturday. "The aim of the exercise is to promote close relations between armies of both countries and enhance inter-operability and sharing best practices in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations," it said. Meanwhile, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla arrived in Colombo on a four-day visit to take stock of the overall ties. On the exercise, the defence ministry said an all arms contingent of 120 personnel of the Indian Army will participate in the drills along with a battalion-strength contingent of the Sri Lankan Army. "The exercise will involve tactical level operations at sub-unit level in an international counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism environment," it said in a statement. The ministry said that the exercise will go a long way in further strengthening the relationship between both the South Asian nations and will act as a catalyst in bringing synergy and cooperation at the grass-root level between both armies. Sri Lanka was rocked by a series of deadly bomb blasts in April 2019 in which over 300 people were killed. In the backdrop of the blasts, India and Sri Lanka enhanced their anti-terror cooperation. The seventh edition of the Mitra Shakti exercise was conducted at the Foreign Training Node (FTN) in Pune in 2019. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sri-lanka-to-conduct-12-day-military-exercise-focus-on-counter-terror-cooperation-1036565.html
02-10-2021||National||Tiger rallies across 51 reserves in India||Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav on Saturday kicked off tiger rallies in 18 tiger range states across 51 reserves in the country as part of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' and Wildlife Week celebrations. The rallies will cover a distance of over 7,500 km in seven days (October 2 to October 8) traversing the diverse and picturesque landscapes spanning across India. The minister kicked off the rally virtually in three tiger reserves -- Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve in Karnataka, Navegaon Nagzira Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra and Sanjay Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh -- by waving a green flag. Yadav also released guidelines on sustainable eco-tourism in forest and wildlife areas, field guide for monitoring the Ganges and Indus river dolphins, associated aquatic fauna and habitat; and Nagar Van guidelines. Besides, the minister released an online portal on wetlands, which is a single-point access to all information related to such ecosystems. The launch event was held at the Environment ministry headquarters in the national capital and was attended by Minister of State for Environment Ashwini Choubey, Environment Secretary R P Gupta, and Additional Director Generals of Forest Soumitra Dasgupta and S P Yadav. With the theme "India for Tigers - A Rally on Wheels", it will journey across 51 tiger reserves, 18 tiger range states where field directors, deputy directors and associated staff from respective tiger reserves will follow the assigned routes and unite at the designated focal point of celebration (the first nine tiger reserves designated during the inception of Project Tiger in 1973). It will conduct outreach activities along the way and at the focal point of celebration. “With an aim to raise awareness on the importance of tiger conservation, the rally will bring together people from different walks of life and the large-scale coverage of the event will enable its global outreach,” the environment minister said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tiger-rallies-across-51-reserves-in-india-1036567.html
02-10-2021||National||'Intellectual dishonesty', 'political deceit': PM Modi slams Opposition over farm reforms criticism||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has accused the opposition of “intellectual dishonesty” and “political deceit” for making grand announcements in election manifestos only to make a U-turn later. Modi, in an interview to Open magazine, lashed out at political opponents, particularly for their criticism of his decisions such as the new farm laws, rollout of the GST and Aadhaar, and construction of a new parliament building. “There are political parties which will grandiosely make promises before elections, even put them in their manifestos. Yet, when the time comes to deliver on the same promises, these same parties and people do a complete U-turn and worse, spread the most malicious kind of misinformation on the promises they themselves had made,” Modi said. “If you look at those who are opposing the pro-farmer reforms today, you will see the real meaning of intellectual dishonesty and rajneetik dhokhadhadi (political deceit),” the prime minister said. Modi said the government was ready to discuss aspects of the farm laws on which the farmers disagree with the government. “Many meetings have also been held in this regard but no one till now has come up with a specific point of disagreement that we want this to be changed,” the prime minister said. Modi also said that he attached big importance to criticism as it was his conviction that this helped in his own healthy development. “I, with an honest mind, respect critics a lot. But, unfortunately, the number of critics is very few. Mostly, people only level allegations, the people who play games about perception are more in number. And, the reason for this is that, for criticism, one has to do a lot of hard work, research and, in today's fast-paced world, maybe people don't have time. So sometimes, I miss critics,” he said. Modi has said that he has tried to live a life walking on knife’s edge, experiencing every issue concerning the people, which reflected in policy-making over the 20 years he has been in power. The Prime Minister said when he takes decisions, the common man feels that the prime minister understands them, think of him as one amongst them. “I have attempted to live a life where I walk on a knife’s edge, experiencing and living every issue concerning the people. I had promised three things to people when I came to power: I will not do anything for myself. I will not do anything with wrong intention. I will create a new paradigm of hard work. People see this personal commitment of mine even today. This is how people develop trust,” the prime minister said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intellectual-dishonesty-political-deceit-pm-modi-slams-opposition-over-farm-reforms-criticism-1036568.html
02-10-2021||National||Centre disrespecting majority sentiment with closure of mosques: Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday accused the Centre of bias, saying preventing people from offering prayers at mosques and shrines in Kashmir shows the Government of India's "disrespect" for the sentiments of the majority community. Mehbooba was reacting to the continuous closure of a few mosques and shrines in Srinagar city, including Jamia Masjid in Nowhatta here, for the past few weeks in the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-disrespecting-majority-sentiment-with-closure-of-mosques-mehbooba-mufti-1036570.html
02-10-2021||National||President Kovind stresses on 'women-led development'||As a country our goal should be to graduate from women development to women-led development, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Saturday while stressing on the need to increase the number of women in legal services institutions. Speaking at the launch of six-week-long 'The Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign' of the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), Kovind said the legal services authority should make special efforts to help the marginalised section of society. "As a country our goal should be to graduate from women development to women-led development. Therefore, increasing the number of women in legal services institutions is as important as reaching out to the largest possible number of women beneficiaries," Kovind said. Talking about Mahatma Gandhi, Kovind said that he did a lot of pro bono work to help the poor and indentured labourers looked up to him to help them in courts.  He said that senior advocates should earmark a certain part of their time for pro bono services to people from weaker sections. Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said NALSA has been performing an exemplary role in bringing justice delivery to the doorsteps of people. "NALSA and state legal authorities have developed a robust system of legal aid delivery and empowerment right at grassroots level that each individual can be proud of. NALSA has been playing an exemplary role in justice delivery of the system by creating legal awareness," he said. He said the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has focussed on access to justice and also ease of living which is access to business. Chief Justice N V Ramana said since May this year, the Collegium has recommended more than 106 judges to High courts and 9 chief justices to various High Courts. "The government has cleared some and the Law Minister has informed me that the rest of it is going to come in one or two days' time. I thank the central government for clearing these vacancies and quick access to justice," the CJI said. The CJI said that for a healthy democracy a vibrant judiciary is essential.  Speaking about the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the CJI said Covid-19 has created many problems in many institutions including the judiciary where thousands of cases have accumulated in different forums, apart from large vacancies and non-working of courts and lack of virtual conferencing facilities in rural areas. Supreme Court judges Justices U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud also spoke on the occasion. Besides them, several apex court judges, Attorney General K K Venugopal was also present among others on the occasion. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-stresses-on-women-led-development-1036572.html
02-10-2021||National||Assimilating Mahatma Gandhi's ideals of non-violence, cleanliness true homage to him: Gujarat CM||Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel on Saturday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary, and urged people to assimilate his principles of non-violence and cleanliness. Patel was speaking at an all-faith prayer meet organised at Kirti Mandir, a memorial house in Porbandar, located close to Gandhiji's ancestral house, where he was born on this day in 1869. On the occasion, the chief minister appealed to people to pay "true homage' to the Mahatma by assimilating his ideals of non-violence and cleanliness. He also urged people to inculcate the Gandhian thoughts and his spirit in the heart through prayers. Patel called upon the people to make cleanliness an instinct and keep Gujarat at the forefront in the second phase of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Clean India movement as well as Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) by realising Gandhiji's mantra of cleanliness. "Gujarat has been at the forefront of sanitation and water supply works through sustainable development," he said, and expressed confidence that the Gujarat of Mahatma Gandhi would achieve new heights. In the first phase of AMRUT Mission, Gujarat is placed at the third position in the country, having completed 305 important works at a cost of Rs 2,800 crore, Patel said. "As many as 95 projects related to safe drinking water supply have been completed in 31 cities. As a result, connections have been provided to 1.70 lakh houses," he said. Gandhiji's mantra of cleanliness was taken up by the prime minister as a social campaign to bring awareness across the country, which has become a huge public campaign. If Mahatma Gandhi gave us Swarajya, which paved the way for the uplift of the poor villages, the prime minister has started the journey of Surajya (good governance), Patel added. State Agriculture Minister Raghavji Patel, MP Ram Mokariya, MLA Babu Bokhiriya, other leaders and officials of the district administration were present on the occasion. A prayer meet was also organised at the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, in which several Gandhians and school children participated. Sabarmati Ashram was set up by Gandhi on June 17, 1917, on the banks of the river Sabarmati.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assimilating-mahatma-gandhis-ideals-of-non-violence-cleanliness-true-homage-to-him-gujarat-cm-1036578.html
02-10-2021||National||Retrospective tax settlement: Companies must indemnify government; wait five months to get refund||Companies such as Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Group of the UK will have to indemnify the Indian government against future claims in order to settle their retrospective tax cases, according to rules notified by the government to settle disputes arising from seeking back taxes. The Ministry of Finance on October 1 notified rules that when adhered to will lead to the government withdrawing tax demands raised using the 2012 retrospective tax law and any tax collected in enforcement of such demand is paid back. But the repayment, going by the timelines drawn in the rules, will take a minimum of 2-3 months. According to the rules, the companies will have to withdraw any pending litigation or proceeding before any forum against the levy of the retrospective tax and also give an assurance that they won't pursue any further claims in the future. In addition, the companies and any other interested party will have to furnish an indemnity bond committing not to seek damage from the Indian government or its affiliates. Companies will have to file a declaration with the income tax authorities along with a board resolution or legal authorisation besides an indemnity bond, the rules said. According to the timelines drawn in the rules, the initial submission of an undertaking to withdraw all pending legal proceedings has to be done in 45 days. Thereafter the relevant Principal Commission of Income tax has to give a certificate accepting or pass an order rejecting the claim in 15 days from the receipt of the application. After grant of certificate, the companies will have to within 60 days fulfil the condition of indemnity by all interested parties. After this, the order granting relief has to be made within 30 days and only after this the refund will be initiated which will take at least 10 days. Assuming companies are able to shorten time schedules, the initial submission under Form 1 will still take 15 days as the undertakings are quite onerous, tax experts said. After grant of certificate by the Principal Commissioner after a fortnight, the conditions of rule 11UE will take another 15 days to be met. Thereafter a month is the outer timeline set for granting relief and a refund initiated thereafter. "Even if the timelines are shortened by companies, it will still take 2-3 months to get a refund," a tax expert said. According to the rules, the companies concerned will irrevocably withdraw, discontinue and not pursue any lawsuits, arbitration, conciliation or mediation either in India or abroad. A company will also have to withdraw proceedings in respect of any award against the government and all Indian affiliates. "The declarant and all the interested parties shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Republic of India and Indian affiliates from and against any and all costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees and court's fees), interest, damages, and liabilities of any nature arising out of or in any way relating to the assertion or, bringing, filing or maintaining of any claim, at any time after the date of furnishing the undertaking," one of the conditions says. Another condition says, "The declarant and all the interested parties shall refrain from facilitating, procuring, encouraging or otherwise assisting any person (including, but not limited to any related party or interested party) from bringing any proceeding or claims of any kind related to any relevant order or orders, or in relation to any award, order, judgment, or any other relief against the government or Indian affiliates in connection with any relevant order or orders." An Indian affiliate is any department, agency, instrumentality, public sector company or any other entity of the government owned directly or indirectly in India or abroad. After facing the embarrassment of its properties in Paris getting attached and Air India assets in the US being pursued to enforce an international arbitration award that overturned levy of retrospective tax on Cairn Energy and ordered refund of $1.2 billion collected to enforce such demand, the government in August amended the Income Tax Act to withdraw all retro tax demands. It committed to refunding Rs 8,100 crore in taxes collected for enforcement of the demand. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore is due only to Cairn. No major enforcement proceedings were done to collect taxes from other 16 companies including Vodafone which faced retrospective tax demands. Once these conditions are fulfilled, the government will refund the tax amount paid by the companies, without interest and penalty. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retrospective-tax-settlement-companies-must-indemnify-government-wait-five-months-to-get-refund-1036579.html
02-10-2021||National||Government has not taken any decision on Air India so far, says Piyush Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the government has not taken any decision on Air India so far and the final winner will be selected through a well defined process. "I have been in Dubai since...day before and I don't think there is any such decision that has happened at all. Of course bids were invited...and that is assessed by the officers and in due course of time, there is a whole well laid down process through which the final winner will selected," he told reporters here. He was replying to a question about media reports stating Tatas have emerged as the top bidder for the takeover of debt-laden Air India. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Secretary to Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) -- the government department responsible for privatisation -- had said in a tweet on Friday that the Centre has so far not approved any financial bid for Air India. "Media reports indicating approval of financial bids by Government of India in the AI disinvestment case are incorrect. Media will be informed of the Government's decision as and when it is taken," he tweeted. When asked about the proposed free trade agreement with the UAE, he said there are lot of opportunities for Indian businesses in sectors such as textiles, gems and jewellery, pharma and healthcare. There is tremendous potential in both goods and services, he added. On investments, he said "we have to encourage Indian businesses to engage with the UAE." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-has-not-taken-any-decision-on-air-india-so-far-says-piyush-goyal-1036584.html
02-10-2021||National||Tamil Nadu cop wears bloodstained reminders of Rajiv Gandhi assassination on retirement day||Wearing the bloodstained cap and badge-- evidence in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case - on the day of his retirement was a cocktail of emotions, says IPS officer Prateep V Phillip, who survived the ghastly attack that killed the former Prime Minister in a 1991 election rally near here. The senior official, who retired as DGP (Training) was allowed possession of the cap and badge by a city court recently, allowing him to wear them on his day of retirement. Phillip said he would pen a book on his experiences on the horrendous tragedy at Sriperumbudur on May, 21, 1991, that left at least another 14 dead after a suicide bomber of the LTTE blew herself up. A city civil court granted permission to the IPS officer to wear on the last day of his service, the bloodstained cap and name badge that he wore on duty when the former Prime Minister was assassinated. Phillip then served as Additional Superintendent of Police, Kancheepuram, and survived the human bomb blast that killed Gandhi and others. Phillip sustained injuries in the incident and due to the impact of the blast, his cap and name badge fell down. Since then, his cap and badge, which were part of the evidence from the scene of crime, collected by the Special Investigation Team (SIT), had remained in the custody of the trial court. Few days before his retirement, he moved the First Additional Sessions Court here seeking permission to take possession of the cap and name badge, as they were of "immense sentimental value" to him. The First Additional Sessions judge T Chandrsekharan on September 28, granted permission for interim custody, on own bond of Rs one lakh and ordered they should be handed over to the court on or before October 28 after the purpose was fulfilled. The officer retired on September 30. The cap and badge literally symbolised his blood, sweat and tears of his professional career which spanned about 34 years, the court further noted. "Holding the cap and badge, in my capacity, at the closure of 34 years of service life, symbolises the trauma I went through, the exhilaration, the law, sadness - a cocktail of emotions. I was the only person on the planet who underwent the ordeal," Phillip, who retired on Thursday as Director General of Police (DGP), Training, told PTI. The tragedy has transformed his life and perspective so much he resolved to dedicate his entire service life for the cause of the people. "Your life gets transformed and your perspective undergoes changes. The incident (assassination) made me think of what I can do for the people. This changed my career and I never aspired for position or power, but consistently involved in equipping and encouraging people," Phillip said, adding his sole goal in his service life was to humanise the police force. "Now taking stock after over three decades in service, I still find the Friends of Police (FoP) methodology and concept that I launched (in 1993) transforming countries across geographies," he claimed. His colleagues appreciated his innovative concept of FoP and said it worked very well. Post-retirement, Phillip keeps himself active. He flagged off a run organised in Tenkasi to mark the Quit India Movement. "I ran with the FoP members for a distance of 1.2 km today. Now it is time for Fit and secure India," he said and added that the letter "P" in FoP can stand for many things including people, peace, progress, principles and police. Asked what it meant to wear the bloodstained cap and the name badge on the last day of his service life, Phillip replied "more than wearing, they symbolised what I stood for and Tamil Nadu police adopted my idea of community policing through the FoP concept. It later spread throughout the country and beyond the borders. My idea influenced different domains throughout the world," he said. He said he had effectively used the FoP to tackle crimes, drugs and scams and formed even the sea shore committee. "In fact, my magnum opus Fillipisms 3333 Maxims to Maximise Your Life, was born out of my experience in Sriperumbadur. Now the second volume is on the way," he said. Asked how he would utilise his free time, he replied, "I have a lot to do. I will publish a book on the Sriperumbadur experience. I have already written 30 books containing 1.7 million words and it is in the process of getting published as one volume." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-cop-wears-bloodstained-reminders-of-rajiv-gandhi-assassination-on-retirement-day-1036589.html
02-10-2021||National||Varun Gandhi slams those glorifying Nathuram Godse||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Saturday lashed out at those who glorified Mahatma Gandhi's assassin Nathuram Godse on the birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation, saying they are irresponsibly shaming the country. "India has always been a spiritual superpower, but it is the Mahatma who articulated our nation's spiritual underpinnings through his being & gave us a moral authority that remains our greatest strength even today. Those tweeting 'Godse zindabad' are irresponsibly shaming the nation," Varun Gandhi, who is not related to Mahatma Gandhi, tweeted. The Lok Sabha member's comments came amid "Nathuram Godse Zindabad" (long live Nathuram Godse) being among the top Twitter trends on the birthday of Mahatma Gandhi. A section of right-wingers has often posted comments eulogising the man, who shot dead Mahatma Gandhi on January 30, 1948, especially on the days linked to India's most famous freedom fighter. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/varun-gandhi-slams-those-glorifying-nathuram-godse-1036596.html
02-10-2021||National||Samajwadi Party's office bearer in Kanpur shot dead, accused arrested: Police||A young Samajwadi Party office-bearer was shot dead allegedly by a fellow party affiliate in the Barra area here, a senior police officer said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday evening and the deceased person has been identified as Harsh Yadav (20), a law student and resident of Damodar Nagar in Barra. Yadav was recently made the district vice-president of Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha of Kanpur Dehat, said an official. Police, however, claimed to have arrested prime accused Shivendra Singh (23), who has an affiliation with the SP, on Saturday morning in an encounter. Kanpur Police Commissioner Asim Arun said that the accused confessed to his crime during interrogation. Singh and Yadav had gone together outside for drinks and they fought over some issues related to liquor. An angry Singh took out an illegal pistol in his possession and fired at Harsh, who sustained bullet injuries on his head, forehead and stomach, resulting in his death, police said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/samajwadi-partys-office-bearer-in-kanpur-shot-dead-accused-arrested-police-1036601.html
02-10-2021||National||EC freezes LJP poll symbol till dispute between Chirag Paswan, Pashupati Paras factions is settled||The Election Commission on Saturday barred the Chirag Paswan and the Pashupati Kumar Paras factions from using the name of Lok Janshakti Party or its symbol 'bungalow' till the dispute between the rival groups is settled by the poll panel. The commission also said that the two factions can use free symbols available to field their candidates for the bypolls to two Assembly seats in the coming days. "Both the groups shall be known by such names by as they may choose for their respective groups, including, if they so desire, linkage with their parent party Lok Janshakti Party," the order read. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-freezes-ljp-poll-symbol-till-dispute-between-chirag-paswan-pashupati-paras-factions-is-settled-1036611.html
02-10-2021||National||Speedy, affordable delivery of justice is legitimate expectation of people, says Law Minister Rijiju||Speedy and affordable delivery of justice is the "legitimate expectation" of the people and different organs of the State have a collective responsibility to ensure this, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said on Saturday. The law minister, while speaking at the launch of a six-week-long 'Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign' of the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), also stressed on the need for strengthening the legal education system in the country. President Ram Nath Kovind and Chief Justice of India Justice N V Ramana were also present at the campaign's launch here. "I would like to remind us all that the speedy and affordable delivery of justice is the legitimate expectation of the people and is the collective responsibility of the different organs of the State," the minister said, adding that it is important that all stakeholders work together to "deliver this mandate". Rijiju said that access to justice has been recognised as the integral part of the legal framework prescribed under the Constitution and to achieve and realise this vision, better collaboration between the legal services authority, various departments of the government and the judiciary will be needed. He also said efforts should be made to ensure that mediation becomes the preferred mode of deciding commercial disputes as this will lessen the burden on courts and bring investments in the country, leading to ease of doing business and ease of living. "In this regard endeavours should be to restrict the adjournments to the bare minimum and mediation should be the preferred mode for litigation for commercial disputes, and this would not only lessen the burden of courts but also boost the confidence in the Indian legal system so that more investment can be attracted," he said. Efforts should be made to strengthen legal education, and law colleges and universities have onerous responsibilities on their shoulders in this regard, Rijiju said, adding that "today's law students are tomorrow's lawyers and judges". The Union minister said that the quality of education and training of law students will contribute to their success in the future and upholding the rule of law. He said "legal illiteracy" is one of the barriers for those who are not aware of their entitlements under the welfare laws and schemes of the central and state governments and this comes in the way of speedy justice. He said that contact with the justice system can be a challenging experience for many people due to its complexity. "For the poor and marginalised group, the justice system can be difficult to understand and navigate due to various obstacles such as lack of financial resources, awareness due to insufficient command of the local language, and long-distance to reach a legal service provider," Rijiju said. He said that legal aid is the only means for such people to overcome the barriers and extolled NALSA and state legal authorities for performing exemplary roles in bringing justice to the doorstep of citizens. The minister said legal service authorities make people aware of their entitlement and duties on various laws and schemes relating to children, labourers, SC-ST, persons suffering from disabilities. "The legal service authorities touch upon the lives of disaster victims, victims of trafficking, acid attack, sexual exploitation. Each scheme is testimony to the fact that our legal service authorities are committed to help disadvantaged persons in realizing their legal rights and build a secure future," he said. He said that more than 90 lakh people so far have been facilitated by the legal service authorities in accessing their need for food, medicine, and shelter. “They are also using their colossal network to reach out to people in remote areas. Particular work that I applaud is the Lok Adalat, especially the e-Lok Adalat,” Rijiju said. Rijiju, however, emphasised that there needs to be better collaboration between legal service authorities and various departments and agencies of the government to achieve the vision and build on the work accomplished so far. Judges of the Supreme Court Justice U U Lalit and Justice A M Khanwilkar were also part of the event. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speedy-affordable-delivery-of-justice-is-legitimate-expectation-of-people-says-law-minister-rijiju-1036621.html
02-10-2021||National||Goa: Boxing assotiation's D'gama, footballer Franco join TMC||Goa Boxing Association vice president Lenny D'Gama and former India footballer Denzil Franco on Saturday joined the Trinamool Congress here. They joined the Mamata Banerjee-led party at an event held in Saligao Assembly constituency in North Goa district in the presence of West Bengal Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Manoj Tiwary and TMC MP Prasun Banerjee. The TMC had earlier announced that it would contest the Goa Assembly polls slated for early next year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-boxing-assotiations-dgama-footballer-franco-join-tmc-1036622.html
02-10-2021||National||Tried to live life on knife's edge; miss critics: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that he has tried to live a life walking on knife’s edge, experiencing every issue concerning the people, which is reflected in policy-making over the 20 years he has been in power. Modi, in an interview to ‘Open Magazine’, said when he takes decisions, the common man feels that the prime minister understands them, and thinks of him as one amongst them. “I have attempted to live a life where I walk on a knife’s edge, experiencing and living every issue concerning the people. I had promised three things to people when I came to power: I will not do anything for myself. I will not do anything with wrong intention. I will create a new paradigm of hard work. People see this personal commitment of mine even today. This is how people develop trust,” the prime minister said. “There are political parties which will grandiosely make promises before elections, even put them in their manifestos. Yet, when the time comes to deliver on the same promises, these same parties and people do a complete U-turn and worse, spread the most malicious kind of misinformation on the promises they themselves had made,” Modi said. “If you look at those who are opposing the pro-farmer reforms today, you will see the real meaning of intellectual dishonesty and rajneetik dhokhadhadi (political deceit),” the prime minister said. On the farm laws, Modi said the government was ready to discuss aspects on which the farmers have disagreement with the government. “Many meetings have also been held in this regard but no one till now has come up with a specific point of disagreement that we want this to be changed,” the prime minister said. Modi also said that he attached big importance to criticism as it was his conviction that this helped in his own healthy development. “I, with an honest mind, respect critics a lot. But, unfortunately, the number of critics is very few. Mostly, people only level allegations, the people who play games about perception are more in number. And, the reason for this is that, for criticism, one has to do a lot of hardwork, research and, in today's fast-paced world, maybe people don't have time. So sometimes, I miss critics,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tried-to-live-life-on-knifes-edge-miss-critics-pm-narendra-modi-1036627.html
02-10-2021||National||Maharashtra: Alibag's famed white onion gets GI tag||The famed white onion of Alibag in Maharashtra's Raigad district has earned itself a 'Geographical Indication', giving the crop a unique identity and wider markets, agriculture department officials said here on Saturday. They pointed out that Alibag's white onion, which has medicinal qualities and is used for the treatment of heart ailments, controlling cholesterol and creation of insulin, has been mentioned in the official gazette as long back as 1883. "The agriculture department here and Konkan Agriculture University had jointly submitted the GI application on January 15, 2019. On September 29 this year, the proposal was scrutinised in the Mumbai office of the Registrar of Patents and it was decided to confer GI tag on Alibag's white onion," an official said. He said the average income per acre from the crop is around Rs 2 lakh. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-alibags-famed-white-onion-gets-gi-tag-1036630.html
02-10-2021||National||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel launches cow dung based power generation project||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday launched an electricity generation project that uses cow dung as fuel at a farmers' event to mark Gandhi Jayanti , officials said. Addressing a farmers' rally at Basic School ground in Bemetara district, Baghel said the project will see involvement of villagers, women and youth, and was a step towards realising Mahatma Gandhi's dream of 'Gram Swaraj' (village self rule). "The entire world is worried over global warming. There is talk of green energy everywhere, so our government has decided to make electricity from cow dung. In every village, such a unit will be set up in gauthans (a place in rural areas where cattle are kept), where cow dung is procured under the Godhan Nyay Yojana scheme," he said. It will be environment-friendly and also benefit women's self-help groups engaged in dung procurement and gauthan committees, he added. On the occasion, the chief minister also launched such cow dung powered units set up at Sikola gauthan in Durg, Bancharoda gauthan in Raipur and Rakhi gauthan in Bemetara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-launches-cow-dung-based-power-generation-project-1036635.html
02-10-2021||National||Justice Chandrachud praises women advocates' role in #MeToo movement||Supreme Court judge, Justice D Y Chandrachud on Saturday commended the women lawyers for promptly taking up cases related to #MeToo campaign, while highlighting the need for creating a database of such lawyers at institutional level for legal aid purposes. Highlighting creation of a case-type-specific database as the need of the hour, he pointed out that such a database being compiled was seen in 2018 with the rise of the #MeToo movement. “The rise of the Me Too movement, where young women lawyers started offering their services free of cost to assist women who have been sexually harassed. This even led to creation of databases of lawyers, who could be approached for specific issues,” Justice Chandrachud said. He was speaking here at the launch of six-week long ‘Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign’ of National Legal Services Authority (NALSA). Justice Chandrachud said creating a database at an institutionalised level would help in legal aid cases only assigned to empanelled lawyers, who may not have a specialised practice area. "It may be worthwhile for NALSA to solicit support from young lawyers who are passionate about certain specific issues. This will provide comfort to hesitant individuals to see legal aid without the fear of being shamed or harassed," he said. Justice Chandrachud also stressed the importance of a similar exercise perhaps for the members of the transgender or sexual minority communities. “Many of individuals in these communities are closeted and do not seek legal aid of the fear of disclosure of their identities. A number of them face significant threat to life by society and event their own family member," he pointed out. President Ram Nath Kovind, who launched the legal awareness and outreach campaign, said “As a country, our aim is to graduate from ‘women development’ to ‘women-led development’. Therefore, increasing the number of women in National Legal Services Institutions is as important as reaching out to the largest possible number of women beneficiaries”. He added that there are about 11,000 women lawyers among over 47,000 panel advocates at the district level and about 17,000 women para-legal volunteers out of the total number of nearly 44,000. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-chandrachud-praises-women-advocates-role-in-metoo-movement-1036640.html
02-10-2021||National||Nathuram Godse's photograph garlanded at Hindu Mahasabha event||Photographs of Mahatma Gandhi's assassins Nathuram Godse and Narayan Apte were garlanded at a seminar organised by the local unit of the Hindu Mahasabha here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters after the event held on Gandhi's 152nd birth anniversary, a leader of the right-wing organisation also blamed him for Partition. “We have nothing to do with Gandhi, but Gandhi and Mohammad Ali Jinnah were responsible for the partition of the country,” Hindu Mahasabha national vice president Jaiveer Bharadwaj said. “Partition led to the biggest genocide and more than 10 lakh Hindus were killed and another 50 lakh displaced. That is why Nathuram Godse and Narayan Apte had resolved to kill Gandhi and Jinnah," he said. While they assassinated Gandhi, they could reach Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, he said. The seminar on "Gandhi, and Hutatma (martyrs) Godse and Apte" was held at the Mahasabha's office in Daulatganj area here. Photographs of Godse and Apte were garlanded and some workers shouted "Pandit Nathuram Godse and Narayan Apte Amar Rahe (Long live Pandit Nathuram Godse and Narayan Apte)." In January this year, the Mahasabha had opened a study centre on Godse at its office here but closed it two days later following intervention by the district administration. In 2017, the Mahasabha had installed Godse's bust at the office which was seized by the district administration. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nathuram-godses-photograph-garlanded-at-hindu-mahasabha-event-1036647.html
02-10-2021||National||Govt launches web portal to find solutions to India's waste problems||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, the government on Saturday launched a web portal to bring together technology providers, government stakeholders and urban local bodies to find solutions to India's waste problems. Principal Scientific Advisor Vijay Raghavan said the 'Waste to Wealth' portal aims to enable collaborations for sustainable development. "On #GandhiJayanti 2021, taking forward Swachh Bharat, Unnat Bharat mission; Office of @PrinSciAdvOff launches a @wasteto_wealth portal to enable collaborations for sustainable development through a circular economy & community participation," Raghavan tweeted. "The @wasteto_wealth mission of #PMSTIAC aims to enable collaborations to validate decentralized scientific solutions: feasible, pragmatic, and implementable in resource/land constrained settings. Treat waste at source; a zero-waste & zero-landfill approach," he said. In another tweet, the Ministry of Science and Technology said the portal aims to bring together technology providers, government stakeholders and urban local bodies to seek solutions to India's waste problems.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-web-portal-to-find-solutions-to-indias-waste-problems-1036648.html
02-10-2021||National||Government assured it will clear proposals on judge appointments in day or two: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday said Law Minister Kiren Rijiju has assured to clear the pending recommendations for appointment of judges to High Courts, including eight Chief Justices, in a day or two, enabling quick access of justice. Justice Ramana was speaking at the launch of a six-week-long ‘Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign’ of National Legal Services Authority (NALSA). "Since May onwards we have recommended more than 106 judges to different High Courts and nine Chief Justices to various High Courts. The government has cleared seven names out of the 106 judges and one out of the nine Chief Justices, so far," he said. "I expect that the government will clear the rest of the names very soon," he added. Justice Ramana maintained clearing these vacancies would ensure quick access to justice to the people and would take care of the pendency to some extent.  Highlighting the importance of legal awareness, the CJI said people need to feel that law and institutions are for everyone and in a democratic country it is the faith and trust of the people that helps institutions sustain.  “We must earn that faith. The quality of democracy rests on the quality of justice. For a healthy democracy, a vibrant judiciary is essential," he said. Justice Ramana also stressed the importance of ensuring access to justice to all including the vulnerable sections, saying guarantee of equal justice will be rendered meaningless if the vulnerable sections cannot enforce their rights. He said Covid-19 has created many problems for institutions, including the judiciary, with accumulation of thousands of cases, apart from the large vacancies and non-working of courts, and lack of virtual conference facilities in rural areas. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-assured-it-will-clear-proposals-on-judge-appointments-in-day-or-two-cji-ramana-1036650.html
02-10-2021||National||UK updates travel advisory for its nationals going to India; says in 'close contact' with Indian authorities||The UK government on Saturday updated its official advisory for its nationals travelling to India following New Delhi's decision to impose reciprocal curbs on the British visitors from Monday, and said it was in “close contact” with Indian authorities on the issue. The updated travel advisory by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) noted an additional Covid-19 test on day eight and a 10-day mandatory quarantine for all travellers going to India from Britain from Monday. The advisory was updated a day after the Indian government announced that all British nationals arriving in India from the UK will have to undergo a mandatory 10-day quarantine from Monday irrespective of their vaccination status as part of a reciprocal action against the UK's new international travel rules with similar measures for Indians. “The Indian authorities are responsible for setting and enforcing the rules for entry into India. We are in close contact with them, and will update FCDO Travel Advice on GOV.UK with the latest information on any changes to the rules,” a UK government spokesperson said. The updated FCDO advisory states that all travellers irrespective of their vaccination status arriving in India must undertake a Covid-19 RT-PCR test on arrival at airport and on day eight after arrival, at their own cost, and undergo mandatory quarantine at home or at the destination address for 10 days. “All such passengers under isolation/quarantine shall be regularly monitored by State/District Health Authorities,” the advisory noted. The move follows India’s vaccine certification not yet being officially recognised by the UK, requiring vaccinated Indian travellers to Britain to undergo the same level of PCR tests and quarantine restrictions as unvaccinated travellers from Monday when England’s new travel norms come into force. UK government sources said on Saturday that the extension of vaccine certification to additional countries will be reviewed approximately every three weeks and that it continues to engage with the Indian government on the issue. “The UK is continuing to work on expanding the policy to countries and territories across the globe in a phased approach. We are continuing to engage with the government of India on technical cooperation to expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India,” sources said. “We are working with an array of international partners and look forward to continuing the expansion of the policy to countries and territories across the globe in a phased approach. Extension of vaccine certification will be reviewed approximately every three weeks,” they added. According to UK officials, decisions on vaccine recognition are made by ministers, taking into account public health factors. They said the UK is looking at expanding the role that vaccination can play more widely for those who have been fully vaccinated elsewhere to enter the UK. The UK has reiterated that it remains committed to opening up international travel again as soon as it is practicable and the extension of vaccine certification is a further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health. From Monday, England's traffic light system of red, amber and green countries based on levels of Covid-19 risk officially ends. However, despite India-manufactured Covishield recognised within the UK’s eligible vaccine formulations and being the predominant vaccine used in India, it would not offer any advantage to vaccinated Indian travellers planning a UK visit. The Indian government had expressed its strong condemnation of such a move and warned of “reciprocal measures” if vaccinated travellers from India continued to be treated in a "discriminatory" way. On Friday, UK government sources said that talks between officials from the British High Commission in New Delhi and the Indian health ministry to agree on a vaccine certification system are ongoing. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-updates-travel-advisory-for-its-nationals-going-to-india-says-in-close-contact-with-indian-authorities-1036651.html
02-10-2021||National||Five crore households got water connections since 2019: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said five crore households across the country have been provided with water connection and tap water now reached every household in about 1.25 lakh villages. Addressing gram panchayats and village water and sanitation committees (VWSC), the prime minister said the objective of the Jal Jeevan Mission was not just to make water accessible to the people, but a big movement of decentralisation. The prime minister said the vision of Jal Jeevan Mission was village-driven and women-driven movement, and its main base is mass movement and public participation. Pointing out that from the time of independence till 2019, only three crore households in the country had access to tap water, he said since the launch of Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, five crore households have been connected with water connections. “Today, water is reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages in about 80 districts of the country. In the aspirational districts the number of tap connections have increased from 31 lakh to 1.16 crore,” he said, asserting that in just two years, more work has been done than was done in the last seven decades. He appealed to every citizen of the country who lives with an abundance of water, to make more efforts to save water, and called upon them to change their habits too. The prime minister also listed out measures to improve the health and safety of the daughters of the country such as toilets in every home and school, affordable sanitary pads, nutrition support during pregnancy and immunisation. Earlier, he interacted with gram Sabha and pani samiti members from Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu and Manipur. The prime minister also launched the Jal Jeevan Mission app for improving awareness among stakeholders and for greater transparency and accountability of schemes under the mission. He also launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh, where any individual, institution, corporate or philanthropist, be it in India or abroad, can contribute to help provide tap water connection in every rural household, school, anganwadi centre, ashramshala and other public institutions. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-crore-households-got-water-connections-since-2019-pm-modi-1036658.html
02-10-2021||National||Goa's roads should not have potholes by November 1: CM||Under fire over poor condition of roads, which are pockmarked with potholes during the monsoons, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday urged Public Work Department officials to ensure that not a single pothole is visible on the state's roads after November 1. Swant was speaking at a function here to inaugurate a new PWD office building here. "From November 1, there should be no pothole on Goa's roads," Sawant said. The Chief Minister also blamed the potholes on excessive rains which occurred during the ongoing monsoon season. Potholes on Goa's roads have been a recurring theme with social media users in Goa, with videos, songs doing the rounds regularly on Facebook and Twitter. On Saturday, the Congress, which is the main opposition party in the state, also launched a new campaign to train the spotlight on the poor condition of roads by announcing a "spot the pothole" contest. "People, who are exasperated by bad road conditions are invited to send photographs of potholes to us on social media. The best photos will be given prizes in form of electronic gadgets which includes smart phones and Bluetooth speakers," Goa Youth Congress president Varad Mardolkar said. On Friday, Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar had publicly chastised Chief Minister Pramod Sawant over the poor roads in his assembly constituency of Pernem. Ajgaonkar had said that his back and neck hurt while driving through his constituency due to potholes. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goas-roads-should-not-have-potholes-by-november-1-cm-1036666.html
02-10-2021||National||Cinemas to reopen in Kerala from October 25||Cinemas and auditoriums in Kerala will reopen on October 25, the Kerala government said on Saturday as it granted permission with a few riders, including allowing only 50 per cent occupancy. The high-level Covid-19 evaluation meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, directed that entry to cinemas will be to those who have taken two doses of vaccine. The staff should also be fully vaccinated, a release issued by the Chief Minister's office said. "Only 50 per cent of the seating capacity will be allowed in cinemas and auditoriums," it said. Colleges will reopen from October 18 with staff and students who are fully vaccinated. The meeting also decided that the number of people for marriages and funerals be increased to 50. Theaters and auditoriums in Kerala have remained shut for over one and half years since the outbreak of Covid-19. The film industry recently expressed concern over the continuing closure of cinemas as it affects the livelihood of several persons and their families. After remaining shut since March last year, the Kerala government had decided to reopen schools in the state from November 1. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cinemas-to-reopen-in-kerala-from-october-25-1036670.html
02-10-2021||National||After Punjab, fresh trouble for Congress in Chhattisgarh, Meghalaya||As Congress grappled with the crisis in Punjab, trouble was brewing in Chhattisgarh where MLAs loyal to Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel were camping here to thwart any attempts at leadership change, while disgruntled legislators in Meghalaya were all set to join the Trinamool Congress. “Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji … Post or No Post will stand by Rahul Gandhi & Priyanka Gandhi! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every Punjabi win,” Sidhu said on Twitter. Congress is keen to retain Sidhu as the Punjab Congress chief despite opposition from a section of the state leaders and look ahead at the preparations for the assembly elections early next year. In Chhattisgarh, the Congress is in a fix over the reported power-sharing agreement between Baghel and Health Minister T S Singh Deo. The two leaders have met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi recently amid indications that the chief minister may have to make way for Singh Deo. While Singh Deo awaited a decision from the leadership quietly, MLAs loyal to the chief minister have been camping in Delhi to thwart any attempts at leadership change in the state. In Meghalaya, former chief minister Mukul Sangma and a group of MLAs were unhappy over the appointment of former Union Minister Vincent Pala as the state Congress chief. Reports had it that Sangma, the leader of the opposition in the state assembly, had a meeting with Trinamool Congress general secretary in Kolkata recently. Congress President Sonia Gandhi has summoned Sangma to Delhi on Sunday to avert a “Punjab-like crisis” in the north-eastern hill state. Sangma and a few disgruntled MLAs are expected to meet Gandhi and decide on their future course of action later. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-punjab-fresh-trouble-for-congress-in-chhattisgarh-meghalaya-1036681.html
02-10-2021||National||Veteran Marathi writer D M Mirasdar passes away||Noted Marathi writer and storyteller Dattaram Maruti Mirasdar passed away due to age-related ailments at his residence in Sahakarnagar here on Saturday, his family said. He was 94. He is survived by two daughters and extended families. Born on April 14, 1927, Mirasdar worked as a journalist initially and later as a teacher. The troika of Mirasdar, Vyankatesh Madgulkar and Shankar Patil -- all eminent writers in their own right -- popularised the art of oral story-telling in the 1960s. Mirasdar penned several collections of short stories. "Vyankuchi Shikavani", one of his stories, was made into a Marathi film, while a short film based on "Bhutacha Janma" won acclaim at international film festivals. He was the recipient of several awards including Vinda Karandikar Lifetime Achievement Award and Pulotsav Lifetime Achievement Award. Expressing grief over his death, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said Marathi literature has lost an eminent and gifted writer. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said Mirasdar's writings were appreciated by common readers as well as critics. "Through authentic rural style, he developed his own unique style of storytelling. He was instrumental in popularizing the Marathi storytelling genre," Pawar added. Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and and former Union Minister Prakash Javadekar also condoled Mirasdar's death. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veteran-marathi-writer-d-m-mirasdar-passes-away-1036684.html
02-10-2021||National||J&K police register case after temple desecrated in Anantnag||Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday registered a case against unknown miscreants for desecrating a temple in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. Police said it was revealed by some sources that at around 2 pm on Saturday, some miscreants desecrated the Barghshikha Bhavani temple in Mattan area of Anantnag. “After receiving the information, a case under sections 295, 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered and investigation has been set into motion," a police official said and added senior officers of police and civil administration visited the area for an on the spot inquiry. Anantnag Deputy Commissioner Piyush Singla said the culprits will be punished, and no one will be allowed to harm social and communal harmony. “Such immoral and illegal acts will not be tolerated and the culprits will be penalised as per relevant provisions of the law. Nobody will be allowed to harm or disrupt the social and communal harmony in society,” he said. The incident evoked sharp reaction from netizens in Kashmir, who termed the incident as unacceptable. “Unacceptable. I strongly condemn this vandalism and urge the administration, especially @JmuKmrPolice police to identify the culprits so they can be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” National Conference (NC) vice president and former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah tweeted. PDP president and another former CM Mehbooba Mufti tweeted: “Pained & disturbed by reports of malicious damage & vandalism at the Mata temple in Mattan. Need of the hour is to reassure our pandit brethren. Request SSP Anantnag & DC Anantnag to look into the matter immediately.” Sumiara Yosuf, a netizen, while condemning the vandalism of the ancient temple, tweeted: “Such acts are aimed at hampering the prevailing peace & harmony in valley. The culprits should be nabbed & punished.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-police-register-case-after-temple-desecrated-in-anantnag-1036688.html
02-10-2021||National||Appropriate for couple to part ways if no companionship from beginning: SC||The Supreme Court has said if husband and wife have not been able to subserve the very objective of the marriage of companionship for each other from the very inception and have been living separately for more than 19 years, it is appropriate that they formally part company. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh used its extraordinary power to do complete justice under Article 142 of the Constitution to allow the woman's plea for divorce, on account of irretrievable breakdown of the marriage. In the instant case, the woman sought divorce on the ground of cruelty and harassment but her husband opposed it. She even offered to go through a mutual consent divorce and withdraw all allegations, including a case of dowry harassment, and not claim any maintenance from now onwards. The court noted there is little doubt, that the marriage did not take off from the very beginning.  The marriage took place on June 09, 2002, and on June 29, 2002, the case was registered under Sections 498-A and 406, IPC alleging that the woman was not being permitted to enter the house on account of her inability to satisfy the dowry demands. She filed the divorce petition was on September 09, 2003. Going through the facts of the case, the bench wondered, "We are of the view that if this is not an irretrievable breakdown of marriage then what would be the situation of that kind!" The top court referred to its judgement in the case of 'Sivasankaran vs Santhimeenal' decided on September 13, 2021, wherein it had noted cruelty was made out as also the marriage did not take off from the very inception for almost 20 years, somewhat similar in the present case.  "We thus observed that there was the disintegration of marital unity and thus disintegration of the marriage (A Jayachandra vs Aneel Kaur) (2005) and went out to notice that there was no initial integration itself which would really allow disintegration afterwards. The position is not different in this case. We are thus of the view that it is appropriate that the parties formally part company having actually lived apart for about 19 years," the bench said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/appropriate-for-couple-to-part-ways-if-no-companionship-from-beginning-sc-1036690.html
02-10-2021||National||India, China militaries may hold talks next week, says Naravane||India and China may be having their 13th round of senior military commander level talks next week to resolve the boundary stand-off at eastern Ladakh, Chief of the Army Staff Gen M M Naravane said on Saturday, after asserting that China enhanced their troop presence along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “We're hopeful of having the 13th round of (Corps Commander level) talks in the second week of October and reaching a consensus on how disengagement will take place,” Gen Naravane said in an interview to news agnecy ANI after taking stock of the Army’s operational preparedness on the ground. The Army Chief noted an increase in the People’s Liberation Army’s presence along the disputed boundary but observed that India matched them in equal strength. “Chinese (troops) have been deployed in considerable numbers all across eastern Ladakh and northern front right up to our Eastern Command. Definitely there has been an increase in their deployment in the forward areas, which remains a matter of concern for us,” he said. "But we are monitoring all their developments. Based on whatever inputs we get we are carrying out matching developments in terms of infrastructure. At the moment, we are quite well poised to meet any eventuality.” Each side has currently deployed 50,000-60,000 troops in areas close to the LAC. Since April 2020, the Indian and PLA troops have engaged in a “sensitive face off” at several locations at eastern Ladakh including the Galwan valley that witnessed a brutal hand-to-hand combat between the two sides leading to the death of 20 Indian soldiers and a large number of Chinese troops. After long negotiations over months, the two sides mutually withdrew front line troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso as well as from the face-off point at Gogra Post. But the stand-off remained unresolved in other locations along the LAC. Asked about the disengagement through bilateral talks, Gen Naravane said: "By and by, all friction points will get resolved. I am of the firm opinion that we can resolve our differences through dialogue. I am hopeful we will be able to achieve results.” Meanwhile, to improve its firepower, the Indian Army deployed the K-9 Vajra made-in-India howitzers in eastern Ladakh. More than 100 such guns have been inducted in the Army and there are plans to buy more. “We have inducted an entire regiment and it adds to our firepower,” Gen Naravane said. The Army also deployed light weight M-777 howitzers in the eastern sector of the LAC. The Army Chief also attended an event in which India’s largest flag, covering an area of 33,750 sq ft and weighing 1,400 kg, was unfurled atop a high mountain overlooking the Leh valley to commemorate Gandhi Jayanti and the 75th anniversary of India's independence. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-militaries-may-hold-talks-next-week-says-naravane-1036696.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||'Bhaijaan ke saath': Tejasvi Surya takes a swipe at SP||Karnataka MP and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) National President Tejasvi Surya took a swipe at Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party ahead of polls in the state, saying the party follows the principle of "Bhaijaan ke saath...Mian ke vishwaas aur apna vikas". While addressing an inaugural session of the BJYM working committee in Lucknow, Surya said, "Unlike SP, the BJP follows the principle of 'Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas'." He urged people to bring CM Yogi Adityanath back to power in the 2022 elections. Surya also said he will visit all six organisational regions and 18 commissionerates to help the party's prospects in the state. "UP elections have national repercussions. We will ensure BJP wins more seats than in 2017. Haathi thak gaya hai... cycle puncture ho gayi hai (the elephant is tired, the cycle is punctured)," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhaijaan-ke-saath-tejasvi-surya-takes-a-swipe-at-sp-1036477.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||PM Modi pays tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary, saying his life and ideas will inspire every generation to walk the path of their duties.  "I bow to respected Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. His noble principles are globally relevant and give strength to millions," he added.  पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री लाल बहादुर शास्त्री जी को उनकी जयंती पर शत-शत नमन। मूल्यों और सिद्धांतों पर आधारित उनका जीवन देशवासियों के लिए हमेशा प्रेरणास्रोत बना रहेगा। The prime minister visited Raj Ghat and Vijay Ghat, memorials to Gandhi and India's second prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, respectively, to pay floral tributes to them. He paid homage to Shastri on his 117th birth anniversary.  राष्ट्रपिता महात्मा गांधी को उनकी जन्म-जयंती पर विनम्र श्रद्धांजलि। पूज्य बापू का जीवन और आदर्श देश की हर पीढ़ी को कर्तव्य पथ पर चलने के लिए प्रेरित करता रहेगा। I bow to respected Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. His noble principles are globally relevant and give strength to millions. His life based on values and principles will always be a source of inspiration for all citizens, Modi tweeted. An interfaith prayer meeting was held at Raj Ghat, where Mahatma Gandhi's favourite devotional songs were rendered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-lal-bahadur-shastri-on-their-birth-anniversaries-1036509.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh may float own party, tie up with BJP: Report||“I’d fight my battle in the field, in the court of the people,” Singh said, adding that he intends to meet the group of senior Congress leaders who had last year written to Sonia Gandhi, seeking an organisational overhaul of the party. Singh, who said that he will be meeting Congress’s G-23 leaders on his next Delhi visit, may also consider an alliance or seat adjustment with the BJP in Punjab, as per the report. Questioning Amarinder Singh's "proximity" with BJP leaders like Amit Shah and his "secular credentials", Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat on Friday warned the Centre against any attempt to topple "a majority government" in the state. Singh, who resigned from the top post in the state last month and met Union Home Minister Shah in Delhi on September 29, dismissed Rawat's remark as "total nonsense", saying even his worst critics and enemies would not doubt his integrity. According to analysts, Singh's tie-up with the BJP likely depends on whether the Centre makes a climbdown on the contentious farm laws. If the Modi government works to resolve the farmers' issue, then it will smoothen Singh's path to either join the BJP or support it, they said. Multiple media reports suggest that Amarinder may call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, however, there is no official confirmation. Check out latest videos from DH:  (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-may-float-own-party-tie-up-with-bjp-report-1036521.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||Political pot heats up in Chhattisgarh: Here's what we know||Lately, simmering tension has gripped the state of Chhattisgarh as Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel completed his two-and-a-half-year tenure in June, triggering rumours regarding the change of guard as per the 2.5-years power-sharing formula. MLAs known to be close to Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel have been camping in Delhi over the last few days, raising speculations over the change in power, and TS Singh Deo taking over as the next CM. The suspense over the possibility of change in leadership in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh continues, as more Congress leaders are expected to reach the national capital on Saturday. Baghel campers deny show of strength Brihaspat Singh, who has also been camping in Delhi, also denied the possibility of a change in the state leadership and said that the Baghel-led government would complete its full term. Meanwhile, supporters of TS Singh Deo have been pushing for a change of guard since incumbent CM Bhupesh Baghel completed 2.5 years in office.  What is the Chhattisgarh crisis?  The speculation over the possibility of a leadership change in Chhattisgarh gained momentum after Baghel completed two-and-a-half years as Chief Minister in June 2021. Back in 2018, the Congress won 68 of 90 seats beating the BJP in the Assembly Elections. Bhupesh Baghel, TS Singh Deo, Tamradhwaj Sahu, and Charandas Mahant were four contenders waiting to be the next CM of Chhattisgarh. The Congress narrowed down to TS Deo and Bhupesh Baghel with Rahul Gandhi finalising Bhupesh Baghel for the top post.  Sources told the Republic World that Congress had agreed to divide the CM tenure between the two with each ruling 2.5 years. With Baghel now completing two-and-a-half years in his tenure, TS Singh Deo has already told Congress to hand over the top post to him within two months, as per the agreed formula, according to reports. While Deo has repeatedly hinted at his wish to be CM, Baghel on the other hand, has said that he would quit his post whenever either Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi tell him to do so. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-pot-heats-up-in-chhattisgarh-heres-what-we-know-1036523.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||I will do 'Tukde-Tukde' of BJP: Kanhaiya Kumar||The newly appointed Congress leader said that he would ensure BJP's defeat in the next elections. "The BJP calls me 'Tukde-Tukde gang'. I am 'Tukde-Tukde' for the BJP, and I will do 'Tukde-Tukde' of BJP. This party considers Godse the father of the nation, not Gandhi. They only praise Gandhi in front of US President Joe Biden," he told the publication.   "All other opposition parties are regional parties. Congress is the only opposition force with a national presence. It always had the potential. The BJP can absolutely be defeated. If I did not think they could be defeated, I would have quit the fight," he added. Kanhaiya, who is often described as "anti-national" by the ruling party for his alleged "Bharat Tere Tukde Honge" slogans at JNU in 2016, fired salvo at BJP calling PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah a "Nathuram-banai jodi", refering to Nathuram Godse, the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi. Kanhaiya said that it is high time that the Congress should rise up again as the strongest opposition party. Referring to the recent criticisms that the party leadership faced from its own senior leaders, Kanhaiya said that such actions only helps the BJP. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-will-do-tukde-tukde-of-bjp-kanhaiya-kumar-1036529.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||Hundreds protest against arrest of Islamic scholar in UP, eviction drive in Assam||Hundreds of people, led by a Muslim organisation, held a protest at Mumbra in Maharashtra's Thane against the BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh and Assam over the arrest of an Islamic scholar and the eviction drive in those states, respectively. The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) recently arrested Islamic scholar Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui from Meerut for allegedly running the "biggest conversion syndicate", while the Assam government carried out an eviction drive in Darrang district against alleged encroachers, largely drawn from the Bengali Muslim community. The Ulama Committee Mumbra-Kausa held the protest on Friday against the arrest of Maulana in UP and the eviction drive in Assam, terming both these actions as "illegal". A large number of women were also took part in the protest carrying placards, banners and shouting slogans. After the agitation, the protesters submitted a memorandum to senior inspector of Mumbra police station, Madhukar Kad, over their demands.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hundreds-protest-against-arrest-of-islamic-scholar-in-up-eviction-drive-in-assam-1036534.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||Explained | Will paddy procurement delay affect farmers in Punjab, Haryana?||Amid criticism from Punjab and Haryana farmers, the Centre postponed paddy procurement from October 1 to October 11 stating that it has been done to protect farmers as the sale of paddy with high moisture content caused due to untimely rains might lead to rejection of the grain at buying centres and consequent loss to farmers. The decision to postpone paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana is in the "overall interest of farmers and consumers, as well as to accept paddy stock as per FAQ specifications, to ensure quality procurement for millions of consumers under Public Distribution System (PDS) of National Food Security Programme. However, the moisture content is the main determining factor", the government said. The Centre’s move didn’t go down well with the farmers. They said that they would protest with paddy-laden tractor trolleys near the homes of BJP leaders. Why are farmers criticising the Centre’s move? Lakhs of quintals of paddy have already arrived in mandis from September 20. If the farmers delay harvesting the paddy by more than 11 days, the grain will no longer be of any use and the yield will go down, putting farmers at a loss. Since only the paddy crop is procured by the government at the minimum support price, if the farmers sell it to private players, they will be paid lesser than the MSP of Rs 1,960 per quintal. The news website also quoted a farmer who was waiting for October 1 to harvest crops. He also stated that a private player offered him Rs 1,500-1,600 per quintal, which would cause him a loss of Rs 460-360 per quintal compared to MSP. By October 11, other crops will also mature and reach the mandis which would make it harder for the farmers to store all the crops. Not just the farmers, even the Opposition slammed the government for its move by calling it a ‘conspiracy’ to end paddy procurement at MSP. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/explained-will-paddy-procurement-delay-affect-farmers-in-punjab-haryana-1036535.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||PM Modi launches Jal Jeevan Mission app, hails it as 'village, women-driven movement'||Since the launch of the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, five crore households have got water connection and now tap water is reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, asserting that today's India has done more work in just two years than what was done in seven decades. Speaking after interacting with gram panchayats and pani samitis/village water and sanitation committees (VWSC) on the Jal Jeevan Mission, Modi said the mission is not just about bringing water to people but it is also a decentralisation movement that is a village and women-driven. "From the time of Independence till 2019, only three crore households in our country had access to tap water. Since the launch of the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, five crore households were provided with water connections," he said. "Today, water is reaching every household in about 1.25 lakh villages in about 80 districts of the country. That is, today's India has done more work in just two years than what was done in the last seven decades," he said. In aspirational districts, piped water connections have risen from 31 lakh to over 1.16 crore, the prime minister said. Modi said it has to be ensured that the situation of bringing water to any part of the country through tankers or trains never arises. In an apparent dig at previous Congress dispensations, he said for a long time those who were responsible for policy-making lived in an abundance of water. They had water at their homes and in their swimming pools, Modi said. "They had not seen poverty and it was just an attraction for them. It was just a means for them to show off knowledge. They should have strived for an ideal village but they kept liking the shortcomings in the villages," he said. The prime minister also launched the Jal Jeevan Mission app for improving awareness among stakeholders and for greater transparency and accountability of schemes under the mission. He also launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh, where any individual, institution, corporate or philanthropist, be it in India or abroad, can contribute to help provide tap water connection in every rural household, school, Anganwadi centre, ashramshala and other public institutions. 'Pani samitis' play a key role in planning, implementation, management, operation and maintenance of village water supply systems, thereby providing clean tap water to every household on a regular and long-term basis. Out of over six lakh villages, pani samitis/VWSCs have been constituted in around 3.5 lakh villages. More than 7.1 lakh women have been trained to test the quality of water by using field test kits. On August 15, 2019, Modi announced the Jal Jeevan Mission to provide clean tap water to every household. To realise the prime minister's vision of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas', and following the 'bottom up approach, the Jal Jeevan Mission is implemented in partnership with states with a budget of R 3.60 lakh crore, according to the PMO. Further, Rs 1.42 lakh crore has been allocated to Panchayati raj institutions as a tied grant under the 15th Finance Commission for water and sanitation in villages for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, the statement said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-launches-jal-jeevan-mission-app-hails-it-as-village-women-driven-movement-1036537.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||Haryana Police use water cannons to disperse protesters as they break barricades outside CM Khattar's house||Haryana Police on Saturday used water cannons to disperse protesters as they broke the barricades outside the residence of Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar's house.  The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Friday had given a call for holding protests outside the residences of legislators in both states to register their protest over the delay in purchasing paddy crop. The Centre on Thursday postponed procurement of kharif paddy in Punjab and Haryana till October 11 as the crop maturity is delayed and moisture content in fresh arrival is beyond permissible limits owing to recent heavy rains. The procurement operation is undertaken by the central government's nodal agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) along with state agencies. Paddy procurement usually commences from October 1. Meanwhile, Haryana minister Anil Vij on Saturday said the farmers' agitation against the Centre's new laws is getting “violent day by day”. “Farmers' agitation is getting violent day by day. Violent movement in the country of Mahatma Gandhi cannot be allowed….,” said Vij in a tweet. किसान आंदोलन दिंन प्रतिदिन हिंसक होता जा रहा है । महात्मा गांधी के देश मे हिंसक आंदोलन की इजाजत नहीं दी जा सकती । किसान नेता अपने आंदोलन को संयम में रखें । Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urged the Centre to start purchase of paddy crop. “The farmers of Punjab are upset, the central government has postponed the purchase of paddy for 10 days, farmer is standing outside the mandis carrying lakhs of quintals of paddy on his tractor,” said Kejriwal in a tweet. In Punjab, farmers gathered outside the residences of several Congress legislators, including Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana K P Singh in Rupnagar and MLA Harjot Kamal in Moga and staged protests over delay in the purchase of paddy crop. Police personnel were deployed in strength to maintain law and order, said officials. Farmers expressed apprehension that they would suffer if their crop is not purchased at the grain markets. Paddy crop, though in small quantity, has started arriving in mandis especially in border areas of Punjab, said farmers. They questioned where the farmers, who have brought their crop at mandis, will go if their produce is not purchased. Some fear that they would be forced to sell their crop below the minimum support price (MSP) to private traders. A farmer in Haryana's Karnal said his paddy crop will get damaged by October 11 when the Centre would start procuring it. At some places, farmers even handed over memorandum to the Deputy Commissioners demanding commencement of paddy purchase. In Haryana's Ambala, police put up barricades to prevent farmers from laying siege to the residence of BJP legislator Aseem Goel. A fire fighting vehicle and a water cannon vehicle were also deployed outside the residence of the MLA. Tight security arrangement has been made outside the residence of Minister Vij at Ambala Cantonment, said officials.  (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here: More to follow||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/haryana-police-use-water-cannons-to-disperse-protesters-as-they-break-barricades-outside-cm-khattars-house-1036554.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||Sonia, Rahul pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Shastri on their birth anniversaries||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Saturday paid tributes to Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul visited Raj Ghat and Vijay Ghat, memorials to Mahatma Gandhi and India's second prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, respectively, to pay floral tributes to them. In a tweet in Hindi, Rahul Gandhi paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and posted the quote, "Vijay ke liye kewal ek satyagrahi hi kaafi hai (Only one 'satyagraha is enough for victory)", in a swipe at the government over the farmers' protest. He also used the hashtag farmers protest and posted a video collage with glimpses from the farmers' protest and Mahatma Gandhi's satyagraha for independence. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi with a reference to the farm laws. "The flag of Bapu's ideas of truth, non-violence and justice is still flying high in the farmers' 'satyagraha' against the black farm laws, in the fight for justice for the tribals of Sonbhadra and for the Dalit girl of Hathras, and in the rising voices for the ideology of love against the ideology of hatred," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Priyanka Gandhi also paid tributes to Shastri and recalled his 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' slogan. "Farmers and soldiers are the pride of India and hailing them reflect the sentiments of crores of Indians. This sentiment of crores of Indians was conveyed in the 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' slogan of former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri given at a rally in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Rahul Gandhi also paid tributes to Shastri in a tweet and said, "Jai Jawaan Jai Kisaan tha, hai aur rahega." "Shastri ji's simplicity and determination are a source of inspiration even today. Salute to this son of Congress!" he tweeted. In a tweet, the Congress, on its official Twitter handle, said, "We pay tribute to the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary. As a guiding light, his ideals guide us to work for the nation and its people, following the path of peace and non-violence." In its tribute to Shastri, the Congress said he was an active participant in the freedom struggle against the British and contributed to nation-building until his last breath.  Several senior Congress leaders, including Congress' chief spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Shastri.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-rahul-pay-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-shastri-on-their-birth-anniversaries-1036574.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||Former Meghalaya CM Mukul Sangma reacts to buzz about joining Trinamool Congress||Former Meghalaya Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Mukul Sangma will be travelling to Delhi on Sunday, where he would seek the intervention of the Congress high command for resolving issues within the party. The visit comes amid speculation that Sangma is not happy with Vicent H Pala being made the state Congress chief, and that he along with a dozen of MLAs are gearing up to join the Trinamool Congress. Responding to questions from the media, the veteran political leader also maintained that it would be too premature to speculate about his leaving the Congress and joining other political parties. “That particular presumption and assumption is too premature (about me along with other colleagues leaving the Congress). I have always maintained that I should,” Sangma added. On asking about the speculation on joining the TMC, Sangma had a witty reaction to it. “You know you have to wait for the time, if it is coming from the horse's mouth then you give credibility, it's a question of giving weightage to news when it comes from the right source", said Sangma according to the report. The much-awaited by polls for the Mawryngkneng, Rajabala and Mawphlang are scheduled for October 30. Votes will be counted on November 2. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-meghalaya-cm-mukul-sangma-reacts-to-buzz-about-joining-trinamool-congress-1036575.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||Chhattisgarh can never become Punjab, says CM Baghel on change of guard buzz||Amid speculation about a possible change of guard in the Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday asserted that his state can never become Punjab, and said the two states bear only one similarity - that of having numbers in their names. The Congress has been in turmoil in Punjab after Amarinder Singh quit as the chief minister and the party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned from his post ahead of the crucial assembly elections in the state early next year. "Chhattisgarh will always remain Chhattisgarh. It cannot become Punjab. The two states have only one similarity that both have numbers in their names," Baghel told reporters at the helipad here when asked that the BJP has equated Chhattisgarh and Punjab over turmoil in the ruling Congress. "Punjab is land of punj (five) aab (water). It is made up of five rivers. Similarly Chhattisgarh has derived its name from 'chhattis' (thirty six) 'garh' (fort). No other states have numbers in their names. There is no other similarity between the two states," he added. The political corridor in Chhattisgarh has been rife with speculation of possible leadership change in the Congress government soon as around two dozen party MLAs, considered close to Baghel, flew to Delhi in the last three days. While the purpose of their trip is yet to become clear, some party sources said the MLAs were visiting the national capital to express solidarity with Baghel. The CM had said on Thursday that the visit by Congress MLAs to Delhi should not be seen through the prism of politics. When asked on Saturday about the MLAs' trip to Delhi, Baghel said, there is no ban on the legislators from going somewhere and they are independent. "It is not a political movement. You ask if it is a political movement. They will visit and return," he added.  Health Minister T S Singh Deo, who is apparently seeking to replace Baghel, too, played down the visit by MLAs to Delhi as he had said it should not be made an issue. About the possible leadership change, Singh Deo had reiterated that the decision is reserved with the party high command. Brihaspat Singh, who is among the legislators who were in Delhi, had said on Wednesday that 15 to 16 party legislators were in Delhi to meet P L Punia ahead of Rahul Gandhi's proposed tour of the state. Singh is considered to be close to Baghel. The buzz about possible leadership change began after Baghel completed two-and-a-half years as chief minister in June 2021. The Singh Deo camp claimed the top Congress leadership in 2018 had agreed to hand over the CM's post to him after the government completed half its term. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chhattisgarh-can-never-become-punjab-says-cm-baghel-on-change-of-guard-buzz-1036623.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||In Modi regime, silence is no safe harbour: Kapil Sibal||Skirting questions on protests outside his house following his statement questioning recent decisions of the party high command, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Saturday said that under the regime of Prime Minister Narendra Modi "silence is not a safe harbour." He said that if anyone is silent against the "atrocity of this government" then that person is complicit. Sibal said this while answering questions of media persons in Ahmedabad where he landed to participate in Girish Patel Memorial Lecture on "India in the age of Modi". Responding to a question on a tweet by his party colleague P Chidambaram, Sibal said, "What Chidambaram says, ask him. He is a colleague of mine. I have no comment. I can only say that in politics, when I talk about Modi, safe harbour is not silence. ...to oppose Modi safe harbour is not silence." He clarified that "It's not a comment on Chidambaram but Modi... this is not a time to be silent. If you are silent against the atrocities of this government then you are complicit." Chidambaram stated in his tweet on September 30 that "I feel helpless when we cannot start meaningful conversations within party forums. I also feel hurt and helpless when I see pictures of Congress workers raising slogans outside the residence of a colleague and MP. The safe harbour to which one can withdraw seems to be silence." He said that following a protest by Congress workers outside Sibal's house in Delhi. Saying that he had "no grievances" against anyone in the party, Sibal said, "I have already made my statement and there is nothing more to add. I am still a Congress worker and have come to Gujarat as one." He also said that he had neither invited any Congress leader for a meeting nor anyone came to meet him. When asked about the G-23 group, he said, "There is no such group...you(media) have named it... it is sort of a set of people who want reform from within." G-23 includes several senior party leaders including Ghulam Navi Azad Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, among others, who had written to the party high command demanding several reforms. To a question of BJP appropriating Gandhi, Sibal said that "he (Modi) talks of Gandhi as a great leader who brought us freedom and that Gandhi was from Gujarat. But he is doing everything opposed to what Gandhi ji stood for. Even Sardar patel, the iron man, is also being appropriated. What did he (Patel) say about RSS... when I talk in parliament that 'alright, condemn Godse for having killed Gandhi', no BJP member will stand up and dare and condemn Godse. What does it tell you about - how can this party even think of appropriating Gandhi." He also said that the BJP has "changed the rules of the game" for opposition parties. Giving an example of cricket he said, "Cricket is played by the rules. If you have a doubt about an LBW or a catch, the decision is to be given by the third umpire. Here, they have taken over every system and they have become umpires." "ED is the umpire, CBI is the umpire, they try to influence courts, they have captured the system. If you change the rules, then there will be no middle ground," he added. He further said that whoever is criticising this government gets raided by CBI or ED. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-modi-regime-silence-is-no-safe-harbour-kapil-sibal-1036634.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||Congress leaders cannot even coordinate their lies properly: Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday slammed the Congress over the "preposterous lies" being floated by various party leaders in a bid to cover up their "mishandling of the crisis" in the state. Pointing to the conflicting numbers shared by Harish Rawat and Randeep Surjewala on the purported letter received by the party's central leadership expressing lack of confidence against him, Captain Amarinder termed it a comedy of errors. His remarks came after Surjewala claimed that 78 of the 79 Punjab Congress MLAs had written to the party leadership seeking Captain Amarinder's ouster. Interestingly, just a day earlier, Harish Rawat had, in a press statement, said that 43 MLAs had written to the high command on the issue. "It seems the entire party has become imbued with Navjot Singh Sidhu's sense of comic theatrics," he quipped, retorting, "Next they will claim that 117 MLAs wrote to them against me!" "This is the state of affairs in the party. They cannot even coordinate their lies properly," remarked Captain Amarinder, adding that the Congress was in a total state of disarray, and the crisis seemed to be escalating by the day, with a large majority of its senior leaders completely disenchanted with the party's functioning. The fact of the matter, said the ex-Chief Minister, was that the 43-odd MLAs who had signed the said letter had been forced to do so under duress. Having been pushed into a corner over its mishandling of the Punjab crisis, the Congress was now in a total state of panic, which was evident in the statements of its leaders, said Captain Amarinder. The former Chief Minister said the panic-stricken party, grappling with internal chaos, was trying hard to shift the blame of its own failures. "It's sad to see the way they are resorting to blatant lies to justify their wrongdoings," he added. He pointed out that since 2017, the Congress had swept every election in Punjab with him at the helm of the government, which was in total contrast to the claims being made by the party leadership. In the last Assembly elections, the party won an unprecedented 77 seats. In the bye-elections in 2019, Congress won three of the four seats, even winning from Sukhbir Badal's stronghold of Jalalabad. Even in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the party swept eight of the 13 seats despite the massive BJP wave in the country, said Captain Amarinder. And as recently as February this year, in the seven municipal corporation elections, Congress won 281 of the 350 seats (80.28 per cent), he said, pointing out that in the Municipal Council elections of the 109 municipal councils, the party won 97. Clearly, the people of Punjab had not lost trust in him, as claimed by Surjewala, said the former Chief Minister, adding that the whole affair had been orchestrated by a few leaders and MLAs at the behest of Navjot Singh Sidhu, who, for some inexplicable reason, was being allowed to dictate the terms for the Congress in Punjab. This was evident from the lies Harish Rawat had mouthed yesterday, even on a sensitive and emotive issue like Bargari and the subsequent police firing cases, said Captain Amarinder, warning that the party will have to pay a heavy electoral price in the state for these falsehoods. "Had I been hand in glove with the Badals, as they are alleging, I would not have spent the last 13 years fighting them in courts," he said, lamenting that not a single party leaders had stood by him in his legal battles. Further, in the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan firing cases, senior most police officers, including IGP Pramraj Umranagal and SSP Chanranjit Sharma, were arrested within two years of the Congress taking over the state's reins. About 12 people, including former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and former MLA Mantar Singh Brar, were nominated and chargesheeted in the case. In both these cases, seven chargesheets were filed but some of these were stuck down by the high court, he said, adding that the entire bogey of no action in these cases was created by Sidhu and his aides whose only interest was to grab power, by hook or by crook. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaders-cannot-even-coordinate-their-lies-properly-amarinder-singh-1036652.html
02-10-2021||National Politics||None can doubt patriotism of Muslims in Lakshadweep: Rajnath Singh||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said that no one in the world can dare to question or doubt the patriotism of the Muslim populace in Lakshadweep or even the other inhabitants of the islands as they have thwarted attempts of anti-India forces to brew trouble or instigate the people there against the country. "No one on Earth can dare to doubt the patriotism of the Muslim people in Lakshadweep. No one can put a question mark on the patriotism of the people of Lakshadweep," Singh said during his speech on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. He was addressing the people after unveiling a statue of Gandhi. Singh, during the event, also spoke on the issue of climate change and how global warming and resulting rise in ocean levels pose a threat to the existence of Lakshadweep. He said that as part of the government's "positive attitude" towards reduction of carbon emissions, the Prime Minister has decided to ban manufacture, sale and usage of single-use plastics and related products from July 1 next year. He also said that cleanliness on land should also include cleaning of the oceans and this has been emphasised upon by the PM. "The marine ecosystem has to be kept clean," he added. On the issue of anti-India forces attempting to foment trouble in the island, Singh said that due to the strategic location and importance of the island archipelago, such attempts have been made in the past and even now, but efforts of such entities were unsuccessful because of the islanders. He further said that there were attempts to promote extremism, radicalism and terrorism in Lakshadweep, but all these efforts failed and for that, he congratulated the people of the island union territory. He also said that the BJP government at the Centre has taken a strict stance against terrorism, which was evident from its "cross-border" actions against terrorists. However, where radicalisation was concerned, the government has not taken such a hard stance and has instead opted for "counselling" to bring those radicalised back into the mainstream. The Defence Minister said the people of the island were true followers of Mahatma's principles as there was no hatred amongst them on the basis of caste, creed or religion. He said that even the present BJP government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was totally against any discrimination on the basis of caste, creed and religion. However, "some vested interests" have been projecting the present central government as "anti-minority", which was "incorrect" and a "false allegation", the Union minister said. He said the aim of the present government at the Centre was "justice for all and appeasement of none". The central government and the PM were also focused on "uplift of the poor and marginalised" sections of society and empowering them. He said that while the island may be thousands of kilometres away from Delhi, the people living there are not far from the hearts of the central government and this message was coming not just from him, but also from the Prime Minister. Singh said this was evident from the development work being planned and carried out in the island and said any shortcoming in it should be brought to the Centre's attention. Outlining the Centre's plans for the island, he said Lakshadweep will be turned into the next Maldives, which has a unique identity of its own in the world. Singh said that Lakshadweep too would soon have a unique identity of its own in the world and for that development work in the island was being expedited. As part of the development work, the administration of the Union Territory was taking steps to realise the islands' tourism potential, he said and congratulated the administrator – Praful Khoda Patel – for his efforts. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/none-can-doubt-patriotism-of-muslims-in-lakshadweep-rajnath-singh-1036668.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||100% cut-offs of DU colleges leave aspirants dejected||The cent per cent cut-offs of Delhi University colleges have left many aspirants who have scored above 90 per cent dejected and are now scouting for alternatives as they feel that their dream of getting admissions into DU might not become reality. Bhavika, a Chandigarh-based aspirant, has 95.5 per cent in her Best of Four and wants to pursue BA(Honours) Economics from either Lady Shri Ram College or Shri Ram College of Commerce. "Seeing the cut-offs, DU looks like a distant dream at the moment. I have applied under the ECA quota, for which the admissions will happen after seats under the various cut-offs are filled. There is a lot of time to go for that. As a backup plan, I have taken admission in Symbiosis Law School, Pune but DU is my first preference," she said. Her friend Ishita Mehra, who has scored 93.6 per cent in Best of Four, has taken admission in SD College, Chandigarh as a backup option. "They should have held the central universities common entrance test for aspirants. I didn't get enough marks and had there been exams, I am sure I would have scored 96 per cent or 97 per cent. I want to get into BCom(Honours) in a good North Campus college. I will wait for the remaining cut-offs but I won't settle for a lesser college in DU," she said. Roshni Zahoor, a resident of Rataul in Uttar Pradesh, has 94.75 per cent in her Best of Four subjects and wishes to pursue BA(Honours) History at a prominent North Campus college. "The cut-offs are quite high and I won't be able to make it in the first list in the campus colleges. However, I am meeting the cut-offs in Deshbandhu College and Aryabhatta College. I will take admission in Deshbandhu College and then migrate to the college I want if I manage to meet the scores in any of the subsequent lists," Zahoor said. Riya Sharma, who has scored 94.8 per cent in her Best of Four, wants to pursue BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science which is offered in three colleges -- Acharya Narendra Dev, Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences and Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences. "At Bhaskaracharya, the cut-off for the course is 99 per cent while at Acharya Narendra Dev it is 97 per cent. I am meeting the eligibility at Shaheed Rajguru where the cut-off is 94 per cent. I will take admission to that college and wait for the cut-off at Acharya Narendra Dev to come down," she said. Another DU aspirant Prishya Jain, who has scored 98.25 per cent in Best of Four subjects, wants to pursue BCom programme in Shri Ram College of Commerce and Lady Shri Ram College but the high cut-offs have put a spanner. "I will wait for the subsequent cut-offs for these colleges. I have taken admission in a college in my hometown as a backup option," Jain said. The Delhi University Teachers' Association treasurer Abha Dev Habib said students should not lose heart and wait for subsequent cut-offs. Dr Babli Moitra Saraf, the principal of Indraprastha College For Women, said students should not be in despair even if they are not able to meet the cut-offs in the first list. "The first and the second cut-offs are higher because colleges do not want to run the risk of excessive admissions. The rule is that everyone within the cut-off has to be accommodated irrespective of the number of seats," she said. Saraf added that there are many colleges and universities in Delhi like the Indraprastha University and Ambedkar University. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/100-cut-offs-of-du-colleges-leave-aspirants-dejected-1036430.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||SC imposes Rs 7 lakh cost on UP govt for protecting police officers in encounter case||The Supreme Court on Friday took a grim view of the Uttar Pradesh government's act of protecting its police officers and making a man run from pillar to post for about two decades for justice in the encounter killing of his 19-year-old son. A bench of Justices Vineet Sarana and Aniruddha Bose said, "Such conduct of the state cannot be understood. The laxity with which it has proceeded in the present case speaks volumes of how state machinery is defending or protecting its own police officers”. The court imposed interim costs of Rs 7 lakh to be paid to petitioner Yash Pal Singh, who is the father of the deceased. Entertaining Singh's writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution, the court said this is a very serious case as the petitioner is running from pillar to post to ensure that the justice is given to him in a case which was registered against the accused, who were all police officers.  “The incident is of 2002 and since then the matter has been pending," it pointed out, adding the accused officers were not arrested promptly and the order to stop payment of their salaries were not complied with. In January 2005, the trial court had rejected a closure report filed by the police against the accused.  The bench noted that as per case records, the accuse-police personnel was not even arrested for the next nine months even though there was no stay of the proceedings.  “Even after the High Court dismissed the writ petition and also the petition under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code filed by the co-accused, which was on 20.02.2017, the accused persons were then also not arrested," the top court said.  In 2018, the trial court directed the government to stop the payment of salary of the accused persons but still the same was not done except in the case of one accused. According to the father of the deceased, the order of stopping the salary of the accused was again passed on April 2, 2019, which has not been complied with so far. It was only after the top court issued notice on September 1, 2021, on Singh's writ petition, the state machinery was swung into action and had arrested two of the accused persons after 19 years and another accused had surrendered. However, the fourth accused was still on the run. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the fourth accused, who is absconding, has retired from service in 2019 and has been paid all his retiral dues even though there was an order for stopping payment of salary. “Normally, we are slow in entertaining petitions directly filed in this Court but in the extraordinary circumstances of this case, we have entertained this petition to ensure that justice be given to the petitioner, which has been denied for about two decades,” the bench said. Additional Advocate General for Uttar Pradesh submitted the government has ordered an inquiry as to why steps were not taken at the appropriate stage.  The court imposed Rs seven lakh cost in the matter and put it for consideration on October 20. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-imposes-rs-7-lakh-cost-on-up-govt-for-protecting-police-officers-in-encounter-case-1036468.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Monkey sits by the bar counter at Delhi's IGI airport||Travellers in the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi found themselves in the company of an unusual "travel buddy" at the VIP lounge recently. In a viral video, a monkey was spotted sitting at a bar counter at the airport where a lot of travellers were seated. The monkey was seen roaming near the bar counter before he hops on to a bookshelf. His surprise visit perplexed restaurant staff and people, who unlocked their smartphones to shoot the monkey menace at the country's busiest airport.  This video surfaced days after Delhi witnessed record rainfall which ended up flooding the airport with water leaking from places inside the IGI T3 terminal. A video was doing rounds on social media where the travellers were seen stranded at the waterlogged airport. Yet again..||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monkey-sits-by-the-bar-counter-at-delhis-igi-airport-1036527.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Kashmir beekeepers head southward for warmth, honey and cash||As the winter months near, Kashmiri beekeepers like Abid Hussain are preparing for an annual migration southward in search of warmer climes, more honey and bigger payouts. Hussain wears protective gear on his arms and face as he readies to send his convoy of bees hundreds of kilometres from the Himalayan region into the desert state of Rajasthan. "Everything comes to a halt in Kashmir in winter, including nature," says Hussain, who takes his colonies 750 kilometres (465 miles) to vast mustard fields around Sri Ganganagar on the edge of Rajasthan's Thar desert. Dozens of his fellow beekeepers make the same autumn journey, travelling across twisting mountain highways and the northern Indian plains to reach warmer provinces. Honeymakers started taking the journey in the 1980s, when an insect disease nearly wiped out the local population and a replacement European species -- much more sensitive to the Himalayan cold -- was introduced. Now hundreds of millions of bees feast on rich farm crops to the south of Kashmir every year and help feed a honey-making boom for the beekeepers. Each hive can net Hussain, who transports tens of millions of bees, as much as 9,000 rupees ($120) worth of honey during his time in Sri Ganganagar. While the bees get fed, the mustard farmers are happy to have their crops pollinated for future harvests. For the beekeepers, the annual pilgrimage is crucial to their survival, says Parvez Ahmad Sofi, a professor at Kashmir's agriculture university. "Migration saves the bees from the harsh weather, helps them reproduce colonies and produce honey," he said. Without it, the beekeepers have only two harvests a year, instead of four if they travel south. As temperatures rise in February, Hussain will begin his return north, stopping for two months in the ancient city of Pathankot near the Pakistan border. He will lease land and wait for the flowers on lychee trees to blossom in early April, allowing him one more harvest before the final journey home. But back in the Kashmir Valley, authorities say the region's temperatures are rising, while freak winter storms remain a threat to its wildlife. Nearly 750 tonnes of honey were produced there last year and, while experts say the region could make more, storms, warmer winters and unpredictable rains have hit production in recent years. Hussain says the changing climate in Kashmir makes the annual migration increasingly vital to his livelihood. "Hot weather can destroy the flowers and the bees cannot collect nectar," he said. "In recent times, there has been more heat and too much rain." Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-beekeepers-head-southward-for-warmth-honey-and-cash-1036536.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Former Delhi Congress chief Tajdar Babar no more||Veteran Delhi Congress leader and former president of the party's city unit Tajdar Babar passed away on Saturday. Babar, aged around 85 years, was admitted at a hospital in Malviya Nagar for 15-20 days due to health issues. She passed away at 5.30 am, said Delhi Congress party president Anil Kumar. Several party leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, paid homage to Babar at the Nizamuddin East community centre where her mortal remains were kept for people to pay tributes. "My condolences to the family and friends of Smt. Tajdar Babar ji. We remember her commitment towards the people of Delhi and the values of the Congress party," Gandhi tweeted. My condolences to the family and friends of Smt. Tajdar Babar ji. Babar was the mother of senior Congress leader and former Mayor Farhad Suri. She was also an MLA of the Delhi assembly from Minto Road constituency that was later merged with the New Delhi assembly segment. The Congress has lost its valuable leader, Kumar said over the death of Babar. She was Delhi Congress president from 1984-88, he said. "Tajdar Babar made immense contribution to the Congress party throughout her life. The party will never forget her contribution. Her absence will always be missed," Kumar said. The mortal remains of Babar were put to rest at a graveyard in East Nizamuddin in the evening, party leaders said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-delhi-congress-chief-tajdar-babar-no-more-1036571.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand govt moves high court to remove daily cap on Chardham pilgrims||The state government has approached the Uttarakhand High Court seeking removal of the daily limit imposed on the number of pilgrims visiting Chardham.  While vacating its stay on the Chardham Yatra last month, the high court had imposed a daily cap on the number of pilgrims visiting the Himalayan temples as a precautionary measure in view of the Covid pandemic.  The state government, in a modification application filed before the division bench of Justice R C Khulbe and Justice Alok Kumar on Friday, also said if the cap cannot be removed entirely then the limit should be increased to 3,000 for both Badrinath and Kedarnath, 1,000 for Gangotri and 700 for Yamunotri.  The current limit is 1,000 pilgrims daily for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri.      The state government's application said that the daily limit on pilgrims is affecting the earnings of people engaged in Chardham-related businesses as the yatra, which had a delayed start, can go on only till mid-November.        However, the court directed that the matter be mentioned in the regular bench of the Chief Justice on Monday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-govt-moves-high-court-to-remove-daily-cap-on-chardham-pilgrims-1036590.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||12 policemen injured as bus falls into ditch in Chhattisgarh's Surguja||At least 12 policemen were injured after a bus carrying them fell into a ditch in Chhattisgarh's Surguja district on Saturday, a police official said. A total of 38 police personnel were on board the bus at the time of the accident, he said. It was going from Mainpat Police Training School in Surguja to Mungeli where the police personnel were to be deployed in view of Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's visit there on Sunday. "The accident took place between Mainpat and Aamgaon villages in the morning," Surguja Additional Superintendent of Police Vivek Shukla said. The driver of the bus apparently lost control over the vehicle while negotiating at a sharp curve, due to which it fell into the ditch, injuring at least 12 jawans, he said. After being informed, a police team was rushed to the spot and the injured were shifted to a local hospital, he said. While eight injured personnel were discharged after a preliminary treatment, four others were referred to the district hospital for further treatment, Shukla added. The chief minister is scheduled to reach Mungeli on Sunday, while he was in Bemetara district on Saturday, an official communication said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-policemen-injured-as-bus-falls-into-ditch-in-chhattisgarhs-surguja-1036600.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers break barricades, face water cannons in Haryana, Punjab during protest over paddy procurement||Farmers broke police barricades and faced water cannons, including near Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's house in Karnal, as they laid siege on residences of legislators and ministers in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday to protest the delay in commencement of paddy crop procurement. The Centre on Thursday had postponed procurement of kharif paddy in Punjab and Haryana, which usually begins on October 1, to October 11 as the crop maturity is delayed and moisture content in fresh arrival is beyond permissible limits owing to recent heavy rains. In Karnal, the Haryana Police used water cannons to disperse protesting farmers after they tried to lay siege on Khattar's residence, while in Shahabad and Panchkula, the agitators used tractors to break police barricades to reach houses of BJP leaders, including Haryana Minister Sandeep Singh, officials said. The situation became tense in a few places in Haryana and Punjab after minor clashes broke out between farmers and police. In several places in these states farmers after reaching residences of ministers, legislators and MPs, parked their food grain-laden trolleys in front of their houses. While the BJP in alliance with the JJP is in power in Haryana, the Congress is the ruling party in Punjab, and both state governments have urged the Centre to ensure farmers do not face any problem in paddy procurement. In Punjab, farmers gathered outside the residences of several Congress legislators, including state assembly Speaker Rana K P Singh in Rupnagar and MLA Harjot Kamal in Moga, and staged protests over the delay in purchase of paddy crop. While Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ask government agencies to begin paddy procurement, Khattar along with Haryana Agriculture Minister J P Dalal rushed to Delhi on Saturday to ensure farmers do not face any problems in crop procurement. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, on Friday had given a call for holding protests outside the residences of legislators in Punjab and Haryana to register their protest. Police said that there was no report of any "major" untoward incident from the two states. The procurement operation is undertaken by the central government's nodal agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) along with state agencies. Haryana Minister Anil Vij on Saturday said the farmers' agitation is getting "violent day by day". "Farmers' agitation is getting violent day by day. Violent movement in the country of Mahatma Gandhi cannot be allowed…," said Vij in a tweet. Police personnel were deployed in strength to maintain law and order, the officials said. Farmers expressed apprehension that they would suffer if their crop is not purchased at the grain markets. Paddy crop, though in small quantity, has started arriving in mandis (markets) especially in border areas of Punjab, farmers said. They said the farmers who have brought their crop at mandis, will go if their crop is not purchased. Some fear that they would be forced to sell crops below the minimum support price to private traders. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-break-barricades-face-water-cannons-in-haryana-punjab-during-protest-over-paddy-procurement-1036603.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt floats tenders for inducting 640 low-floor AC buses||The Delhi government has floated tenders for inducting 640 low floor air-conditioned buses, including 190 electric buses, to strengthen the public transport fleet in the national capital. In a notice published on Saturday, the Transport department issued the request for qualification and proposal (RFQP) for operation of 190 low floor air-conditioned private stage carriage electric buses under the Cluster scheme. Under the Cluster scheme of Delhi Integrated Multi Modal System (DIMTS), the government has so far inducted 3,033 buses. A day before, the Transport department published RFQP for induction of 450 low floor AC buses under the Cluster scheme. The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) runs around 3,600 low floor buses. Together, the DTC and Cluster buses comprise the public transport fleet. Another important segment of public transport is Delhi Metro trains. The new buses equipped with latest features like GPS, panic buttons, and CCTV cameras are expected to roll out on the city roads by mid-2022, if the bids are successfully carried out, officials of the department said. The new low floor buses will replace old ones in two Clusters that will complete road life of 7.50 lakh kilometres by next year. This will ensure that people do not have to face shortage of buses, said a department officer. The buses completing their road life are standard ones that will be replaced by low floor AC buses. According to estimates, Delhi requires at least 11,000 buses to fulfil public transport needs of the people. The Delhi government has been making efforts to bring more buses. The DTC too had floated tender for 300 electric buses recently that are expected to roll out from November this year.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-floats-tenders-for-inducting-640-low-floor-ac-buses-1036604.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Post or no post, will stand by Rahul, Priyanka: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had abruptly resigned as the Punjab Congress chief, said on Saturday he would stand with Gandhi siblings Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi whether he holds any post or not. Upset with some appointments after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi took charge, Sidhu had put in his papers and, though efforts were made to placate him, it remains unclear if his resignation has been accepted. "Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji … Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi ! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every Punjabi win !!," Sidhu wrote on his Twitter handle on the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri. The cricketer-turned-politician in his tweet also posted photos of Mahatma Gandhi and Shastri. After a bitter fight between the then chief minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu, the Congress took a call to replace Amarinder with Channi. However, Amarinder Singh vowed to defeat Sidhu if he contests the assembly elections, dubbed Gandhi siblings as "inexperienced" and later announced that he will leave the party. After Sidhu's resignation plunged the party in a turmoil, Channi met him and it was agreed to set up a coordination panel of the party to take key decisions. Sidhu has been made part of the panel. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/post-or-no-post-will-stand-by-rahul-priyanka-navjot-singh-sidhu-1036606.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Lucknow's iconic Bara Imambara bans entry for girls in shorts||Girls wearing shorts and without headscarf would not be allowed entry into the iconic Bara Imambara of Lucknow. Several Shia clerics had sharply criticised the incident and demanded strict rules for the tourists, who visited the Bara Imambara, which was used by the Shia Muslims to hold mourning congregations during Muharram. "It is a serious matter...a probe should be conducted and strict action should be taken against the girl," said senior Shia cleric Saif Abbas. "Imambara is not merely a tourist place....it is a religious place also...such activities cannot be allowed inside its premises," said an office bearer of the Trust here on Saturday. The Trust deployed volunteers in the Bara Imambara to distribute headscarf among the women visitors. "We are not allowing girls in shorts or in mini skirts," the office bearer said. The building was built in 1784 by the fourth Nawab of Avadh Asaf-ud-Daula as a major famine relief project. Its central hall was considered to be the largest arched hall in the world without any kind of support from wooden, iron or stone beams. It is also known as 'Bhulbhulaiya' (labyrinth). The term became popular as it was very difficult for the visitors to navigate without a guide. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lucknows-iconic-bara-imambara-bans-entry-for-girls-in-shorts-1036612.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Largest khadi national flag unfurled in Ladakh||A 1,000 kg handwoven khadi tricolour, the largest in the country, was unfurled atop a high mountain overlooking the Leh valley on Saturday to commemorate Gandhi Jayanti and the 75th anniversary of India's Independence, a defence spokesman said. Fire and Fury Corps organised a historic event at Leh Garrison where a monumental national flag was unfurled by Lieutenant Governor R K Mathur on a hill feature overlooking the Leh valley, Srinagar-based PRO Defence Col Emron Musavi said. He said Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane and GOC-in-C Northern Command Lieutenant General Y K Joshi also attended the event. Lieutenant General PGK Menon, GOC, Fire and Fury Corps and senior military and civil officials were also present. The grand ceremony was held to celebrate the 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi along with 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', commemorating the 75th anniversary of India's Independence, the defence spokesman said. He said the flag which was unfurled is the largest handwoven and handspun cotton Khadi flag ever manufactured in India and it measures 225 feet by 150 feet and weighs 1000 kg. The flag is made by Khadi Dyers and Printers based in Mumbai which is affiliated to the Khadi Village and Industries Commission. The Sura-Soi Engineer Regiment was entrusted with the responsibility of bringing the national flag from Mumbai to Leh and also with the task of installing it at the top of the high mountains for the unveiling ceremony. The ceremony included a series of events to mark the momentous occasion, Col Musavi said. The event commenced with the Brass Band of Ladakh Scouts Regimental Centre along with the students of Ladakh Ignited Minds performing the National Anthem when the flag was unveiled, he said. The PRO Defence said advanced light helicopters of the Army Aviation Squadron carried out a fly past and showered flower petals over the tricolour, followed by students of the Lamdon Model School singing a patriotic song symbolising the spirit of nationalism. The chief guest addressed the gathering of about 500 people which included personnel of the Indian Army, Indian Air Force, Indo Tibetan Border Police, Vikas Battalion, besides veterans, veer naris, NCC cadets and school children, he added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/largest-khadi-national-flag-unfurled-in-ladakh-1036624.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Congress government in Rajasthan will complete five-year tenure, says CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said his government will complete its full tenure of five years, amid internal rumblings in the Congress in neighbouring Punjab, where Amarinder Singh resigned as CM, and Chhattisgarh. Speaking at a programme at his residence here to launch the 'Prashasan Sharon ke Sang and Prashasan Gaon ke Sang' campaign, Gehlot said there was speculation doing the rounds about Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh also after Punjab. "The Congress government in Rajasthan will not only complete its five years but will again come back to power in the next assembly elections in the state," he said. Gehlot said that according to feedback from people, there is no anti-incumbency factor against his government. In Rajasthan, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and Gehlot have been locked in a leadership tussle, while in Chhattisgarh after Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel completed two and a half years on the post in June, the T S Singhdeo camp claimed that the Congress leadership in 2018 had agreed to give the post to him after the government completed half its term. Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister, claiming that he was humiliated by the Congress, drawing a strong response from the party, with senior leader Harish Rawat saying that the party always gave him respect. On the launch of the campaign, Gehlot also said that he will allot the urban development and housing department again to Shanti Dhariwal, if the Congress wins in the next Rajasthan elections, as he has done hardwork with regard to the campaign. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-government-in-rajasthan-will-complete-five-year-tenure-says-cm-ashok-gehlot-1036629.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Civilian shot dead in Srinagar by unidentified gunmen||Unidentified gunmen shot dead a civilian in Karanagar area of Srinagar on Saturday. A police official said the gunmen fired at Abdur Rehman Guroo, a resident of Galwanteng, Chattabal in Srinagar from a close range. He was shifted to the nearby SMHS hospital where he was declared brought dead, he said.  A health official said the slain civilian had received three bullets on his chest and one on his face. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civilian-shot-dead-in-srinagar-by-unidentified-gunmen-1036633.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Congress names Bhupesh Baghel senior observer for UP polls||The Congress on Saturday named Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel as a senior observer for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year. Baghel, who had played a crucial role in the run up to the Assam assembly polls with his team carrying out extensive booth training of party workers, has in the past discussed the preparations for the elections in UP with Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. "The Congress president has appointed Shri Bhupesh Bhagel, chief minister, Chhattisgarh, as AICC senior observer for the ensuing elections in Uttar Pradesh, with immediate effect," the Congress said in a statement.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-names-bhupesh-baghel-senior-observer-for-up-polls-1036641.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Sonia Gandhi did not remove Amarinder as Punjab CM, 78 Congress MLAs did: Surjewala||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Saturday claimed that it was not party president Sonia Gandhi who made Amarinder Singh quit as the Punjab chief minister but he had to quit after 78 party MLAs sought his removal. Surjewala’s remarks came as Amarinder Singh had accused the Congress leadership of "humiliating" him after he tendered his resignation as the Punjab CM. Amarinder Singh was replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi after the Congress chose him as the new legislative party leader last month. Congress general secretary Surjewala said when any chief minister loses the confidence of all of his legislators, he should not remain in his post. “Seventy-eight out of 79 legislators (in Punjab) had written for a change of the chief minister. Had we not changed the CM, you would have accused us of being a dictator. Seventy-eight MLAs are on one side and a CM is on the other side and you are not listening to them,” said Surjewala while addressing the media here. “Sonia Gandhi is the president of the Congress party and the decision on changing the CM in Punjab was not taken by her. As I told you, 78 MLAs had written and then we changed the CM,” Surjewala added. Notably, Amarinder Singh had earlier rejected the charge of the Congress leadership that he had lost the confidence of the MLAs. The former chief minister had said he would quit the Congress which he had asserted was going downhill with senior leaders being ignored. Surjewala said it was for the first time in Punjab a person belonging to the Scheduled Caste community became chief minister and a new history was created. He questioned the BJP whether they have any chief minister belonging to the SC. “If the Congress has made a move, what is their problem?” he asked the BJP. Surjewala also took a dig at the BJP, referring to changes of chief ministers in BJP-ruled states of Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Karnataka. To a question on some party MLAs of Chhattisgarh camping in Delhi, Surjewala said it is the party's internal matter. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sonia-gandhi-did-not-remove-amarinder-as-punjab-cm-78-congress-mlas-did-surjewala-1036644.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||ABVP launches 150 helpline numbers to assist students in Delhi University admission process||RSS-affiliated ABVP has launched 150 helpline numbers to assist students in the admission process of various Delhi University colleges, a statement said on Saturday. The move comes a day after Congress-affiliated National Students' Union of India launched a helpline number to address queries of students about admissions in DU. The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has issued college-wise helpline numbers. To assist the students, a centralised helpline number 011-27662725 and WhatsApp number -- 9818459062 -- have also been made operational, a statement from the students' organisation said. "For the ongoing admissions, two helpline numbers on behalf of each college have been generated along with a centralised helpline number. "The Vidyarthi Parishad will set up its own helpdesk in each college of Delhi University along with a central helpdesk in front of the Arts Faculty of DU to assist the students," it said. Apart from the central number, 150 helpline numbers have been issued by ABVP for admission for 71 DU colleges.  "Most of the issues of the students will be solved at the college level. Students can contact the college helpline for any problem like calculating the best of four marks, college selection, lack of considerations, non-approval on time for admission. "ABVP activists will also assist the students on all the platforms of social media," the statement read. ABVP national media convenor and Delhi state secretary Siddharth Yadav said the student outfit has also spoken to the administration for the smooth running of admission procedures so that the students do not face much problems. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abvp-launches-150-helpline-numbers-to-assist-students-in-delhi-university-admission-process-1036659.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Centre issues order for paddy procurement in Punjab, Haryana from Oct 3||After widespread protests by farmers, the Modi government on Saturday relented and announced procurement of paddy in Punjab and Haryana from Sunday. The decision to begin paddy procurement was announced by Minister of State for Food Ashwini Choubey after Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala met him to discuss the issue. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday and urged him to begin paddy procurement at the earliest. The Centre had put off procurement of paddy in Haryana and Punjab, which usually begins on October 1, by ten days, citing late September rains in the two states and high moisture content in the grains. The decision triggered protests by farmer organisations, who contended that not all parts of the state had received rainfall in late September and the procurement should begin where farmers had already brought the crop to the wholesale markets. “Keeping view of the interest of farmers, the Centre has decided that procurement of paddy in states of Punjab and Haryana for KMS 2021-22 will begin from Sunday, October 3, 2021,” an official statement said. It added that paddy stock would be procured as per FAQ specifications to ensure quality procurement for millions of consumers under PDS of the National Food Security Programme. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-issues-order-for-paddy-procurement-in-punjab-haryana-from-oct-3-1036662.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Militants target CRPF bunker in grenade attack||Militants hurled a grenade towards a CRPF bunker in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday evening but there was no damage due to the explosion, police said. "The incident occurred at about 6:50 PM. Militants hurled a grenade towards 40 Battalion CRPF bunker at K P Road in the south Kashmir district," a police official said. He said the grenade missed the target and exploded nearby without causing any loss. The attack came as militants shot dead a civilian in Srinagar this evening. Terrorists fired at Majid Ahmad, a resident of Chattabal Srinagar at Karan Nagar, injuring him critically, a police official said, adding that he was shifted to the nearby SMHS hospital where he succumbed to injuries during treatment. The area has been cordoned off and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers, the official said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-target-crpf-bunker-in-grenade-attack-1036663.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to soon announce 'Winter Action Plan' to fight pollution: official||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will soon announce the 'Winter Action Plan' to fight pollution, a Delhi government official said on Saturday. At an event, Environment minister Gopal Rai said the Delhi government is trying to reduce pollution naturally. "Suggestions have come to us from all departments and on October 4, the upcoming 'Winter Action Plan' of Delhi will be announced by the chief minister. "And as per his announcement, we will start an all-around campaign inside Delhi. Whatever kind of pollution is there, we will fight together," he told reporters on the sidelines of the event earlier in the day. However, a government official later clarified that the 'Winter Action Plan' will be announced soon. The minister also said Delhi's pollution is also caused by activities going on in its neighbouring states like stubble burning and construction activities. Rai said the government is aiming to plant 35,00,000 saplings by March 2022, starting this year. "I want to congratulate all the employees and officials as so far more than 22,00,000 saplings have been planted which is a great achievement. This work is being done in mission mode. "Delhi comes in the plains and 20 per cent of the total area is supposed to be a green belt. I want to congratulate you on the fact that today there is a 22 per cent green belt in Delhi crossing the target of about 20 per cent," he said. Rai also spoke about the government's tree transplantation policy and the Electric Vehicle policy. "It is the first capital of the country where a tree transplantation policy has been made. We used to do this earlier as well. But we realized that it takes ten years for those plants to grow and take the shape of a tree. "That's why the government made a policy, with the help of new techniques. Trees which can be transplanted are transplanted. And 10 new trees are installed in its place. In my opinion, for the first time in the whole country, our government has brought forth such a policy," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-soon-announce-winter-action-plan-to-fight-pollution-official-1036689.html
02-10-2021||North and Central||Akali Dal attacks Punjab govt for 'failing' to compensate cotton farmers hit by pink bollworm attack||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Saturday lashed out at the Congress-led Punjab government for "miserably failing" to compensate farmers of the state's cotton belt who faced "huge losses" due to pink bollworm attack. "The non-committal attitude of the government had resulted in suicide by five farmers in the last four days in Bathinda alone," the SAD claimed in a statement here. SAD Kisan Wing president Sikander Singh Maluka alleged that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa resorted to theatrics during their tour of the state's cotton belt to assess the crop damage due to the pink bollworm attack. He said neither the government conducted a 'girdawari' (revenue survey) to assess the losses, nor it provided immediate relief to the farmers who have suffered huge losses due to the destruction of their crops. A few days back, Channi and Randhawa had gone to Bathinda to assess the damage to the cotton crop due to the pest attack. Maluka claimed that cotton crop spread over thousands of acres has been destroyed due to the pink bollworm attack. The distressed farmers are committing suicide but the Congress government is busy with internal bickering and has no time to solve their problems, he said. Spraying hundreds of litres of pesticides has also not helped the farmers, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akali-dal-attacks-punjab-govt-for-failing-to-compensate-cotton-farmers-hit-by-pink-bollworm-attack-1036695.html
02-10-2021||Opinion||Air India sale: Life comes full circle for Tatas||As the process for the privatisation of the state-owned Air India reaches its final lap, there are all indications that the Tatas will be the new owners of the Maharaja. In a clear case of life coming full circle, the Maharaja is likely to go back to the Tatas, who originally started the airline in 1932 under the leadership of JRD Tata. The airline was taken over by the government in 1953, but JRD Tata remained at its helm till the Janata Party government removed him. While a formal announcement on the winner is yet to be made, a Committee of Secretaries is said to have cleared the Tata bid as the winner. The Tata bid is said to be about Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 crore more than the reserve price of between Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 crore set by the government. A formal announcement is expected after the Union cabinet clears the deal. The Tatas and SpiceJet's Ajay Singh had bid for Air India, with the Tatas emerging the winner in the race, which proved to be third time lucky for the government. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government's two previous attempts at privatising Air India had failed. Air India that the Tatas are getting now is a very different airline from the one JRD Tata started and mounted its first international flight with a brand new Lockheed Constellation L-749 on the Mumbai-Geneva-London flight route with Air India International (AII) 's colours. At that time, AII only flew on international routes. This was also the start of a glorious journey for the Maharaja. On its journey, Air India notched up many firsts to its credit. It was the first airline in Asia to induct the Boeing 707 in 1960. In an attempt to become India's ambassador abroad, Air India added a touch of India to its aircraft. The windows of the Boeing 747 in its fleet had jharokhas painted on the windows. Air India designed its own interiors for these aircraft. These glory days continued for two decades, but things began to sour for Air India towards the 1980s with people being inducted from outside the airline. Since Michael Mascarenhas retired in 2013 as managing director, a bureaucrat has almost always held the airline's top position. While Air India was ferrying passengers from India to various parts of the world, its domestic counterpart, Indian Airlines, was entrusted with flying passengers within the country, which it did very successfully till 1993 when private airlines were allowed to start operations. Like Air India, Indian Airlines, too, had a glorious past. By 1966, Indian Airlines Corporation (IAC) was operating over 100 flights a day over a route network of over 36,000 km and boasted of carrying one million passengers annually, making it one of the largest domestic airlines in the world. In 1969-70, the airline earned Rs 8.50 crore in foreign exchange. In its heydays, Indian Airlines introduced the concept of a metro shuttle in 1999 — an hourly departure between Delhi and Mumbai at a time most people thought there was no market for so many flights. In 2007 the government merged Air India and Indian Airlines, which had both been created by the 1953 Air Corporation Act of Parliament - the entity which the Tatas are believed to have won.  The new owners will get a 100 per cent stake in Air India which includes both domestic and international routes, and a 100 per cent stake in Air India Express, which was started in 2004 and primarily flies between Kerala and the Gulf.  Besides this, the new owner will also get over 2,700 utilised slots abroad and over 4,400 slots at various airports in India. A slot is defined as the scheduled time of arrival or departure made available at an airport to an airline for operating regular flights. In addition, the new owner will also get 1,500 trained pilots and around 2,000 engineers to take care of the fleet. Eventually, the merger between Air India and Indian Airlines did not work as there were way too many differences in the work cultures of the two. Arvind Jadhav, the then chairman and managing director, told a parliamentary committee in 2010 that nowhere in the world had a merger been successfully completed. Meanwhile, Air India's fortunes were nosediving. The airline ran up losses year after year, and the situation became so dire that the government had to come up with a 10-year bailout package of over Rs 30,000 crore to save the airline in 2012. But even that did not seem to help. In June 2019, Hardeep Puri, then Minister of Civil Aviation, told the Lok Sabha that in 2014-15, the government infused Rs 5,780 crore, and the airline posted a loss of Rs 5,859.91 crore. The following year the fund infusion was to the tune of Rs 3,300 crore, with the airline reporting a loss of Rs 3,836.78 crore. The Maharaja's financial health continued to deteriorate. Given this situation, it left the government with little choice but to divest its stake in the airline. This time, the government sweetened the divestment by not predetermining the airline's debt levels and leaving it to the market to decide. In addition, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said that the buyer of a state-run company could carry forward losses of the erstwhile state-owned company and claim up to 30 per cent tax rebate annually. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/air-india-sale-life-comes-full-circle-for-tatas-1036561.html
02-10-2021||South||Kerala teacher jailed for injuring student's eye with a pen||A Kerala school teacher has been sentenced to a year of rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs 3 lakh after she was found guilty of causing eye injury to a student of Class 3 by throwing a pen at him for not being attentive in class. The incident took place in 2005 at a government school in Thiruvananthapuram. Prosecution lawyer J K Ajith Prasad told DH that the incident occurred on January 18, 2005 at Kandala government school. The teacher threw a ball-point pen at the child accusing him of talking during class and assaulted him later. Though three surgeries were performed on the child, his left eye's vision could not be recovered. The student is Al Ameen, a native of Maranallor who is now aged 25. The accident hampered his studies and he could not get a driving licence, the prosecution lawyer said. The convict, identified as Sherifa Shajahan, already retired from service. A special court for considering crimes against women and children issued the judgment on Thursday. Prasad said that school authorities tried to cover up the incident by maintaining that the injury was caused while the child was playing. The child told the treating doctors that the injury was caused by the pen thrown by the teacher. All witnesses other teachers of the school turned hostile during the trial but the case could be proved with the help of medical records and statements of the boy and his parents. Though the teacher was placed under suspension after the incident, a departmental inquiry gave a clean chit to her. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-teacher-jailed-for-injuring-students-eye-with-a-pen-1036462.html
02-10-2021||South||Party chief's links with fraud case accused fuels infight in Kerala Congress||A section of Kerala Congress leaders is calling for a CBI probe into the dealings of the fake antique merchant Monson Mavunkal recently arrested, as state Congress president K Sudhakaran is on the defensive over his link with him. The demand is being seen as a fallout of the ongoing infight in Congress. While dissident leader V M Sudheeran and Congress's Lok Sabha MP Benny Behnan raised the demand for a probe, leader of opposition V D Satheesan backed the Kerala PCC chief Surendran. Satheesan said that attempts to haunt Sudhakaran just because the fraudster took a picture with him would not be allowed. Sudhakaran already said that he had met Mavunkal several times for consultation as Mavunkal had claimed that he was a cosmetologist. But he denied the allegations that he was witness to Mavunkal accepting money from many. He also said that he would move legally against Mavunkal for cheating him by posing as a cosmetologist. Sudhakaran's links with Mavunkal came out at a time when resentment was brewing against the Sudhakaran-Satheesan leadership of the party. Many prominent leaders already left the party, including a former Kerala PCC secretary Solomon Alex on Thursday. Senior leader Sudheeran had recently quit the political affairs committee and openly flayed the functioning style of the new leadership of the party. Meanwhile, the CPM is yet to launch any major attack against Sudhakaran over his links with Mavunkal. Mavunkal's link with many serving police officers had already cautioned the ruling front and there were concerns whether any CPM leaders may be found in the list. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/party-chiefs-links-with-fraud-case-accused-fuels-infight-in-kerala-congress-1036466.html
02-10-2021||South||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan pays tributes to Mahatma Gandhi||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, her Haryana counterpart Bandaru Dattatreya and other leaders on Saturday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi here on his 152nd birth anniversary. Soundararajan, Dattatreya, several state ministers, including Mohd Mahmood Ali and K T Rama Rao, visited 'Bapu Ghat' at Langar Houz here, a memorial dedicated to the Father of the Nation, and paid floral tributes. Legislative Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, Legislative Council chairman V Bhoopal Reddy paid homage at the Mahatma Gandhi's statue in the state legislature premises. State Congress president and MP A Revanth Reddy, AICC in-charge of party affairs in Telangana Manickam Tagore and other leaders also visited 'Bapu Ghat' and paid tributes. State BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar, whose first phase of state-wide 'padayatra' is concluding on Saturday, paid homage at Husnabad in Karimnagar district. TDP's Telangana unit president Bakkani Narasimhulu and other party leaders paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and also country's second Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on the occasion of the latter's 117th birth anniversary at NTR Bhavan, TDP office in the city. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-governor-tamilisai-soundararajan-pays-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-1036577.html
02-10-2021||South||Gandhi's job creation mantra relevant in 21st century: Karnataka CM||Underscoring the need to imbibe the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi in our lives, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the freedom fighter's mantra on job creation makes it more relevant in the 21st century. "We don't need mass production, but we need production by masses," he said quoting Gandhi. "He wanted jobs for all, which is very relevant in the 21st century. It is my firm belief that if we tread on his philosophy, we have a great future," Bommai said after paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Late Lal Bahadur Shastri. The CM said Mahatma Gandhi brought freedom to India with the weapon of truth and non-violence, which the world is aware of and respects him for it. On Gandhi ji's vision of village development, the Chief Minister said India needs to vouch for materialising Gandhi's dream of 'Gram Rajya, Ram Rajya'. Noting that Gandhi's simple and unblemished personal and public life was the guiding force of India, Bommai pointed out that Gandhi's idea of nationalism was humane, which needs to be strengthened across the nation. He added that Gandhi and Shastri had many similarities as the former believed in truth while the latter treaded on it. Remembering Shastri, Bommai said he was a symbol of simple living, who had set high standards of leading a public life. Shastri's resignation following a railway accident shows us his sensitivity to an accident, he said adding, in the face of war and the resultant food crisis, his slogan 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' remained unforgettable. Recalling Gandhi and Shastri's connection with Karnataka, Bommai said, "We need to celebrate the birthday of these two great humanitarians in a meaningful way. Not just celebration but we need to take oath to imbibe their teachings in our life." Glowing tributes were paid to the Father of the Nation and Shastri in various parts of Karnataka. Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot too paid homage to Gandhi by garlanding his statue at the lawns of Raj Bhavan. The state Congress unit had organised a special programme to pay their respect to both the towering personalities. The JD(S) party leaders too offered their tribute to Gandhi and Shastri.  Check out latest DH vidoes here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gandhis-job-creation-mantra-relevant-in-21st-century-karnataka-cm-1036588.html
02-10-2021||South||Pseudo secularism will destroy India, says Bishop of Pala diocese||Amid the ongoing controversy over his recent "narcotic and love jihad" remarks, Joseph Kallarangatt, Bishop of Pala diocese of Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, said on Saturday while "pseudo secularism will destroy India", there is a need to safeguard the values of true secularism. In an article published in the Church organ Deepika daily on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, the Bishop, without mentioning his controversial "narcotic and love jihad" remarks, came down heavily on those who insist that one should not talk about the evils that befall his own community. Breaking his silence for the first time after his remarks last month generated widespread criticism, the Bishop indirectly justified it, saying those who do not speak out against mistakes are silently encouraging them to flourish. The Bishop opined that instead of ignoring the warnings issued against society's evils, it should discuss and study them to prevent their further occurrences. Talking about secularism in the present day Kerala society, the Bishop said "today's concern is that whether we are heading for a communally polarised Kerala by opting the route of secularism." He said questions are being raised from various quarters on who gets the real benefits of secularism. Noting that secularism is the core of India, the Bishop said, "pseudo secularism will destroy the country". "Our constitution is based on secularism. The religious community and the secular community must learn to live together. The essence of Indian secularism is that all religions should be respected," he said. "We should understand how secularism gives birth to extremism by looking at the growth of conservative racist movements in the West. The situation of India will not be different if we fail to accept Indian secularism in its literal sense," the Bishop wrote. While paying tributes to the life and message of the Father of the Nation, Kallarangatt said Mahatma Gandhi's teachings were essential for the existence of the country and its meaningful secularism. The Bishop's "love and narcotic jihad' remarks had triggered a political row in the state with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan saying that those who hold responsible positions should refrain from making statements causing division in society. While the Congress said the bishop has crossed limits, the BJP had supported him by urging society to discuss the statement.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pseudo-secularism-will-destroy-india-says-bishop-of-pala-diocese-1036615.html
02-10-2021||South||CM Jagan's 'CLAP' for Swachha Andhra Pradesh||On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has launched “Jagananna Swachha Sankalpam - Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP)”, a programme intended to provide better sanitation services in the rural and urban areas. As part of the programme, Reddy flagged off over 4,000 garbage collection vehicles from the Benz Circle in Vijayawada on Saturday. From collection to treatment of waste, CLAP aims to achieve source-level segregation of garbage, and mechanised door-to-door collection, with community participation. It supports on-site waste treatment while encouraging home composting methods. For primary segregation of waste at a household level, a three-bin system is being initiated with Green, Blue, and Red coloured bins for wet, dry, and domestic hazardous waste supplied to every household. About 1.20 crore such bins are being procured at an estimated cost of Rs 72 crore to be offered to 40 lakh households in the state. For the door-to-door collection of waste, 3,097 diesel auto tippers are being deployed in Grade 1 and above category Urban Local Bodies. 1,800 electric auto-rickshaws will be introduced in grade 2/3 category ULBs and Nagar Panchayats, officials said. Both the vehicles would be equipped with wet, dry, and domestic hazardous waste partition bins, a hydraulic lift and a microphone for public awareness announcements. For the intermediate storage of segregated waste, 231 garbage transfer stations, estimated to cost about Rs 220 crore, will be set up in 124 ULBs, where primary waste collected from households is transferred, compacted and is transported to treatment plants. A 20 feet green belt will be developed around every garbage transfer station. For the safe disposal of masks and sanitary napkins, 6,417 incinerators are planned to be distributed at all the gram panchayats. Officials stated that work on 4,171 integrated solid waste management plants is also underway. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-jagans-clap-for-swachha-andhra-pradesh-1036693.html
02-10-2021||South||BJP dubs TRS government in Telangana 'Taliban-Razakar regime'||Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay in a rally asked people to choose between “the Taliban-Razakar regime now and a welfare-oriented Rama-rajya.” Accusing the "family-dictated" TRS of becoming "synonymous with corruption,” Bandi said that “justice can be delivered to the Hindu community and Telangana society, only when the BJP comes to power.” On Saturday, Bandi addressed a public rally at Husnabad — about 140 kilometres north-east of Hyderabad — organised to mark the culmination of the first phase of Praja Sangrama-yatra in the state, launched in preparation for the 2023 Telangana polls. The Karimnagar MP walked for about 430 kilometres in the last 35 days, covering 19 assembly constituencies. “When I talk about the development of Hindus, I am falsely accused of inciting communal tensions. Yes, we will work for the 80 per cent Hindus and the Dharma. We are not able to celebrate our festivals like Ganesh puja properly, while the TRS government sends out gifts during other festivals. What have they done for Hindus? Should I not talk for the deprived?” the state BJP president questioned the crowds. Union minister Smriti Irani, who participated in the rally, charged that the “steering of TRS's car (party's election symbol) is in the hands of AIMIM,” and expressed doubt if the K Chandrasekhar Rao's government is working for welfare of the larger public. Irani also accused that the state government is not officially observing September 17 as Hyderabad liberation day as “Rao is scared of AIMIM.” Irani was referring was to the Indian Union's annexation of the Nizam-ruled Hyderabad on September 17, 1948 — over a year after the nation gained independence — following a “police-action” monitored by the then Union Home Minister Sardar Vallabhai Patel. The annexation was preceded by the famous armed struggle against the Nizam's rule and the atrocities of his militia, the Razakars. Expressing confidence that BJP would attain power in the 2023 assembly elections, Bandi said that “regardless of who becomes the Chief Minister, the first good-governance initiatives would be in the fields of health and education.” “The final war against the TRS regime has begun now. People are vexed with this administration. Despite all the tricks of KCR, our candidate Eatala Rajender would emerge victorious in Huzurabad,” Bandi said. Bye-election to the Huzurabad assembly segment is scheduled for October 30 and results will be declared on November 2. Bandi's padayatra will resume after the polls. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-dubs-trs-government-in-telangana-taliban-razakar-regime-1036698.html
02-10-2021||State||Actress' death: Male friend, PA detained after dad's complaint||A day after 25-year-old Kannada television actress Soujanya reportedly died by suicide in her West Bengaluru apartment, police on Friday detained her personal assistant and male friend for questioning.  Vivek, who works in Kannada and Telugu television shows, came under the police radar after Soujanya's father Prabhu Madappa stated in a police complaint that he had pressured her into marrying him.  Police are questioning Mahesh, the actress' PA, because he had untied her noose. They are also investigating Prabhu's claim that about Rs 6 lakh in cash and jewellery had gone missing from the actress' flat in Doddabele, near Kumbalgodu, where she was found dead on Thursday. Prabhu also named Mahesh in the police complaint, saying "he knows everything in detail".    Soujanya (real name Savi Madappa) hailed from Suntikoppa, Kodagu, and was a busy actress on the small screen. She also worked in films like 'Chowkattu' and 'Fun'.  Police are almost certain that it's a case of suicide, going by the evidence and the oral report of doctors who did the post-mortem. A four-page purported death note found in Soujanya's flat states that only she is responsible to the suicide. The actress also apologised to her family.  The family had expected Soujanya to be in Suntikoppa by 3 pm, Thursday. She had asked her mother to prepare 'Soppina palya' and 'tomato sambar'. Her brother, who lives in Koramangala, was also expected home.  What friend says Speaking to news reporters, Vivek said that he would respond to allegations against him only after the post-mortem report came.  "I am as eager to know why she did this as everyone else. I knew her for a year. We got to know each other through common friends and used to meet occasionally, even when she was disturbed. Who had kept the marriage on hold. Police will find out who was forcing her," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/actress-death-male-friend-pa-detained-after-dads-complaint-1036449.html
02-10-2021||State||Sculptor B S Yogiraj no more||Renowned sculptor B S Yogiraj died Thursday succumbing to injuries caused by a two-wheeler accident. According to sources, Yogiraj was bounding T Narasipur when he fell off the bike and sustained severe injuries in his head. He is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters. Yogiraj was a renowned sculptor. He had carved Yoganarasimha Swamy idol measuring 7.5 foot at Saligrama, Siddalingeshwara Swamy idol at Yediyuru, Shivabalayogi idol in Bengaluru, Venkateshwar idol measuring 8 ft, 7.5 ft statue of Mahatma Gandhi installed at Agriculture varsity in Bengaluru. Yogiraj is also a recepient of 'Amarashilpi Jakanachari ' award. Kannada and Culture department instituted the award on him in 2019-20. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai handed over the award recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sculptor-b-s-yogiraj-no-more-1036484.html
02-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Families committing suicide post Covid-19 a matter of concern, says Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday families committing suicide post Covid was a matter of concern and said suicide was not a solution to any temporary problem. His reaction came as a woman with her two children in the city outskirts ended her life on Friday a year after the death of her husband, who was a state-owned Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation employee, due to coronavirus. A few other instances have also taken place where some family members ended their lives due to financial stress post Covid-19 lockdown. "It (suicide) is a matter of concern for everyone. We need to stop people from committing suicide due to stress and various other reasons.. society and the government should think over it...People have to come together to help each other in difficult times," the Chief Minister said. He added that problems are temporary, for which suicide is not a solution. There will always be a solution to the problem, he opined. "Joy and sorrow are part of our life. We should calm ourselves and we must perceive victory and defeat and joy and sorrow as temporary," Bommai said. According to him, there are many reasons behind suicide including social, economic and personal. He said people take extreme steps in depression and it should be prevented.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/families-committing-suicide-post-covid-19-a-matter-of-concern-says-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1036625.html
02-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's 31st district, Vijayanagara, comes into being||Karnataka's 31st district Vijayanagara, named after the Vijayanagara empire of Raja Krishna Devaraya, officially came into being on Saturday. Carved out of mine rich Ballari district, Vijayanagara will have Hospet, Harapanahalli, Kudligi, Hoovina Hadagali, Hagaribommanahalli and Kotturu Taluks. Hospet will be its administrative capital. The district is already a major tourist destination as all the important sites of the Vijayanagara dynasty are located here. A colourful event with a grand fire works display marked the formation of the new district. Releasing the Government Order announcing the formation of the new district, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the Vijayanagara empire was not formed in a day, but was the outcome of the efforts of Hakka (also known as Harihara Raya) and Bukka Raya, Tungabhadra River and the blessings of saint Vidyaranya. "After many efforts, this new district too has been formed with the blessings of former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa," he said. The Chief Minister lauded Tourism Minister Anand Singh for his struggle to form the new district. He also expressed the hope that the formation of the district will mark a new era of art, music, literature and culture, for which the erstwhile Vijayanagara was famous for. The Chief Minister hoped that the archaeological sites would now be well protected. He also assured financial support to the new district. Bommai laid the foundation for 56 various public works in the newly formed district on the occasion. Yediyurappa and ministers Anand Singh, Govind Karjol, Munirathna and B Sriramulu were present.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-31st-district-vijayanagara-comes-into-being-1036694.html
02-10-2021||West||Gandhiji, Shastri continue to be guiding lights: Maharashtra CM Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries, saying that their lives and works continue to be the guiding light in the present times. He garlanded the portraits of Gandhiji and Shastri in Mumbai on the occasion. Thackeray said, "Gandhiji's life gives a message of self-sufficiency, dignity of labour, cleanliness and rural development. He has been a great ambassador of peace and non-violence." Talking about Shastri, the chief minister said he gave a strong leadership to the nation and his slogan of 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' continues to inspire. On the occasion, Thackeray hailed the 'safai mitras' (sanitation workers) and frontline workers for performing their duty of ensuring cleanliness during the Covid-19 pandemic, and said the union urban development department's decision to honour their work was commendable. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gandhiji-shastri-continue-to-be-guiding-lights-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-1036597.html
02-10-2021||West||Gadkari has shown how power can be used: Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday lauded Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari for using power effectively to carry out development. The two leaders from rival parties shared the dais at a function at Ahmednagar in Maharashtra. "I am attending this function because I was told that Gadkari was going to inaugurate many projects in Ahmednagar which would solve long-pending issues of the city, and he wants me to be present," Pawar said. Very often nothing happens once the stone-laying ceremony takes place for a project, the NCP leader said, adding, "But when it comes to Gadkari's projects, within a few days of the function one sees the work starting. "Gadkari is a great example of how a people's representative can work for the development of the country," Pawar added. "I remember that before Gadkari took over this responsibility (of the ministry of road transport and highways), about 5,000 km of work had been done. But after he took over, the figure has crossed 12,000 km," the NCP chief said. The former Union agriculture minister advised farmers in the region that the use of sugarcane will not remain limited only to sugar production and they should think of it as the raw material for ethanol too. In his speech, Gadkari said while executing road projects in Buldhana district of Maharashtra, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) also de-silted local rivers and streams. "I suggest (Maharashtra Rural Development Minister) Hasan Mushrif to think of focusing on water conservation in Ahmednagar district," he said. Mushrif, an NCP leader who is also the guardian minister of this parched district, was present at the function. Increasing the depth of streams and ponds helps increase the groundwater level, Gadkari said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gadkari-has-shown-how-power-can-be-used-pawar-1036639.html
02-10-2021||West||Man stabbed to death as he tries to stop youth from urinating close by||A man was stabbed to death following an argument with a person who was urinating close to him in Wadala East in Mumbai, police said on Saturday. The incident took place at Bagla garden near the Eastern Express Highway on Friday evening, an official said. "Mohammad Rafique Ansari (41) was having a chat with his friend when accused Mohammad Abdullah Alam Shaikh (24) came there and started urinating close to where they were sitting. Ansari asked Shaikh to move further away, which led to an argument. Shaikh then stabbed Ansari and fled," he said. Ansari was declared dead on arrival at a nearby hospital and Shaikh was arrested some time later, the Wadala Truck Terminal police station official said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-stabbed-to-death-as-he-tries-to-stop-youth-from-urinating-close-by-1036691.html
