03-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police to use test kits to detect ganja consumption||In a first in the city, police have started using test kits to detect if a person has consumed ganja or not. If they test positive, police fines them Rs 10,000 and they may be sentenced to six months imprisonment.  On the first day, Shivamogga police registered two cases in Doddapete police station limits. Superintendent of Police B M Laxmi Prasad said following the rise in ganja cases in the district, police have decided to use test kits. Urine samples will be collected for the test. Based on it, cases would be registered against such persons. The test would also reveal the type of drug taken.  He said police have been informed on utilisation of the kit and doctors in District McGann Teaching General Hospital in the city have conducted demonstration for the benefit of police.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-to-use-test-kits-to-detect-ganja-consumption-1036778.html
03-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Girl from Chitradurga scores 38th rank in NEET PG||A girl from drought-prone Chitradurga district proved that poverty will never become an impediment for success by scoring 38th rank in NEET PG examinations, the results of which were announced recently. N Bhuvana, daughter of V S Nagesh, V Hemalath at Vedavathy lay-out in Hiriyur town of the district, has achieved this rare feat and brought laurels to the state and district. Sharing her thoughts, she said, "When my classmates were sharing their ambitions and future plans, I was not thinking on those lines due to poverty and my father serving as a clerk in a mill, was not in a state to bear education expenses. However, I decided to become a doctor while I was doing first PU (Science) in SDM College at Ujire in Dakshina Kannada district. Teachers' guidance, parents' support inspired me to focus on my studies. After completing MBBS in Kalaburgi, I studied hard for the NEET PG examinations. I am glad that I am rewarded at last. I am planning to pursue PG either in Radiology or Pediatrics." V S Nagesh, her father said mill owner Anand Shetty provided much-needed support to her education. He left his job and his younger son, Nandan, is employed by Airtel. "Her achievement has given immense joy to the family." "She was good in studies since first standard and we were confident that she would reach greater heights in the field of education. She did not let us down," her mother Hemalatha said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/girl-from-chitradurga-scores-38th-rank-in-neet-pg-1036779.html
03-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||17 students test Covid positve in Chikkamagaluru school||As many as 17 students of a residential school in Sarapanahalli, Chikkamagaluru taluk have tested positive for Covid-19. Principal Venu said "a total of 175 students are pursuing their studies in the school. Seventeen have tested positive. Three are admitted to a hospital in Chikkamagaluru. 14 students are isolated in rooms. All the 14 are asymptomatic and are undergoing treatment," he said. According to available statistics from the health department, Chikkamagaluru district has 405 active cases undergoing treatment. The district has recorded a total of 50,896 positive cases so far and 395 people have succumbed to the virus. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/17-students-test-covid-positve-in-chikkamagaluru-school-1036841.html
03-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Road widening of Sirsi-Kumta highway to claim 7,000 trees||Adding another blow to the ecologically sensitive Western Ghats, 7,000 trees are being cleared to make way for the widening of National Highway 766E between Sirsi and Kumta as the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MOEF&CC) gave a green light to the project recently. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) had cited that limited right of way and poor road geometry at several stretches of the highway and "heavy traffic" were leading to accidents. "As per traffic assessment, the existing road warrants two lanes with paved shoulder configuration (as per Indian Road Congress standards) to cater to the traffic for upcoming years," the NHAI said. The NHAI had sought to divert 99 acres of the forest land, most of it classified as pristine forest. The Forest Department's stance, however, helped in reducing it to 54 acres. A forest officer said the project involves clearing of 5,000 trees in Honnavar division and 2,000 trees in Sirsi division. "The Forest Department had red-flagged the project, particularly the work in Honnavar division as the entire stretch will impact precious evergreen forest. However, our concerns have been overruled," an official said. Activists, however, said the road widening project is being taken up to help the vested interests. "Sand mafia, timber mafia and stone crushers are pulling the strings. Anyone who opposes felling of trees is being branded anti-national. Unfortunately, politics have divided the people. The people who fought against felling of any tree in Devimane Ghat during the Congress regime are now silent spectators of the large-scale destruction," an activist from the area told DH. However, for some activists like Akhilesh Chipli who took the project to high court, the fight is not over. ""It's true politics has hit conservation efforts. But for a tree, it doesn't matter which party is in power. Similarly, when trees are gone, people of all parties are bound to suffer. We are planning to approach the Supreme Court," he said. He said officials and the government have failed to learn anything from the disasters in Kodagu, Chikmagalur and Kerala. "Climate change has already brought us to a point of no return. The government's push for linear projects in Western Ghats will exacerbate the matters in the coming days," he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/road-widening-of-sirsi-kumta-highway-to-claim-7000-trees-1036901.html
03-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vintage car, cycle rally held in Mangaluru||As a part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsava, Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) organised various programmes in Mangaluru on Sunday. The vintage car, scooter, cycle rally and walkathon were flagged off by Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V and Mayor Premananda Shetty. The rally which commenced at AB Shetty Circle passed through Clock Tower, Hampankatta signal, Ambedkar Circle, Bunts Hostel, PVS, M G Road, Ballalbagh, Lalbagh, Ladyhill and culminated at Mangala Stadium in Mangaluru. Mayor Premananda Shetty drove a vintage car with Deputy Commissioner accompanying him in the car. As the vintage beauties, be it car and scooter entered the road, onlookers were thrilled to have a look at it. A large number of people including children had taken part in the cycle rally. The tableaus highlighting the freedom struggle was also centre of attraction. Tiger dance, Yakshagana Gombe were also part of the celebrations. Along with cultural programmes, live art exhibitions, street festivals and other programmes were held. Drawing competition was held in two categories viz children below 15 years and those in the age group of 16 to 21 years. The art exhibition was held from Lalbagh to Ladyhill. Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation President Nithin Kumar, MSCL MD Prashanth Kumar Mishra, Chief Whip in the Council of city Corporation Sudheer Shetty, and others were present. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vintage-car-cycle-rally-held-in-mangaluru-1036906.html
03-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||1 dead, 3 youths feared drowned in tank in Bidar district||One of the four youths who went for a swim in a tank near Ismail Khadri Dargah at Ghodavadi village of the taluk has drowned and three others are feared drowned on Sunday.  Of the four youths, the body of Syed Akbhar Syed Usman(17) has been fished out. The search operation is on to trace missing Mahammed Juled Khan(19), Mahammed Fadakhan Saleem Khan(18) and Syed Juned Syed Khaled(15), the residents of Borabanda in Hyderabad.  Humnabad PSI Ravikumar Naikodi visited the spot. The personnel of fire and emergency services and locals have launched the search operation.  A large number of devotees visit Ismail Khadri Dargah at Ghodavadi village every Thursday. The youths are said to have visited the dargah. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1-dead-3-youths-feared-drowned-in-tank-in-bidar-district-1036977.html
03-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress will split in two before Assembly polls: K S Eshwarappa||Minister for Rural Development and Panchaya Raj K S Eshwarappa on Sunday said Karnataka Congress will be divided into two before the next Assembly elections. The Minister was speaking to reporters here during a bicycle rally organised as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday. "Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar want power. The party will be divided because of their prestige," he said. "The leaders are under illusion and they want to come to power at any cost. Shivakumar is making futile efforts to lure BJP workers and leaders and Siddaramaiah is dreaming of becoming Chief Minister again. Both should be admitted to a hospital," he commented. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-will-split-in-two-before-assembly-polls-k-s-eshwarappa-1036857.html
03-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM Bommai confident of BJP's victory in bypolls to Sindagi, Hanagal||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday exuded confidence of the ruling BJP's victory in the Assembly bypolls in Sindagi and Hanagal constituencies on October 30. "Hanagal has been our constituency whereas Sindagi is a JD(S) fort but take it from me that we are 100 per cent sure of winning both the seats," Bommai told reporters. The Chief Minister said the BJP's scope of winning the poll is bright because it is a disciplined party, which has its cadre from booth-level to the national level. He said the candidate fielded by the party would get the support of everyone right from the booth-level worker to the district, state, and national-level leaders. He said the party would decide the candidates, the party-in-charge for the election, and the strategies to win the election in the State BJP core committee meeting on Sunday. "We have summoned the report, which will be discussed in core committee meeting today. We will analyse the report and based on some of the points, we will select the candidate. We will send our recommendation to the BJP central parliamentary board for approval. We hope that the decision will be taken at the earliest," Bommai said. Hanagal in Haveri district and Sindagi in Vijayapura bypolls, which would take place on October 30, were necessitated following the death of sitting MLAs. While M C Managuli of JD(S) who represented Sindagi died in January, BJP legislator C M Udasi died in June. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-bommai-confident-of-bjps-victory-in-bypolls-to-sindagi-hanagal-1036891.html
03-10-2021||National||Dissidence woes mount for Congress||The Congress is under siege on multiple fronts, battling dissidence in three states — Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Meghalaya — in a reflection of the state of affairs in the party. As Congress grappled with the crisis in Punjab, trouble was brewing in Chhattisgarh, with MLAs loyal to Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel camping in Delhi to thwart any attempts at a leadership change. If that wasn't enough, the party in Meghalaya was on the verge of implosion as disgruntled legislators were all set to join the Trinamool Congress. In Punjab, Navjot Singh Sidhu — who recently quit as the party unit chief after succeeding in ousting Amarinder Singh from the chief minister's post — vowed allegiance to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra "post or no post". His remarks came after the party said it would take a decision on Sidhu's resignation soon. “Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji … Post or No Post will stand by Rahul Gandhi & Priyanka Gandhi! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every Punjabi win,” Sidhu tweeted. But the last word hasn't been said on the political drama in the poll-bound state. The Congress is keen to retain Sidhu as the Punjab Congress chief and fight the upcoming Assembly polls with him at the helm despite opposition from a section of the state leaders.  In Chhattisgarh, the Congress is in a fix over the reported power-sharing agreement between Baghel and Health Minister T S Singhdeo. The two leaders met Rahul recently amid indications that the chief minister may have to make way for Singhdeo. While Singhdeo awaited a decision from the leadership quietly, MLAs loyal to the chief minister have been camping in Delhi to ensure there is no leadership change in the state. Amid the developments, Baghel was appointed as AICC's senior observer for the Uttar Pradesh elections early next year. Baghel had played a similar role in the Assam assembly elections, helping the party energise booth level workers. In Meghalaya, former chief minister Mukul Sangma and a group of MLAs were unhappy over the appointment of former Union Minister Vincent Pala as the state Congress chief. Reports had it that Sangma, leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly, had a meeting with Trinamool Congress general secretary in Kolkata recently. Congress President Sonia Gandhi has summoned Sangma to Delhi on Sunday to avert a “Punjab-like crisis” in the north-eastern hill state. Sangma and a few disgruntled MLAs are expected to meet Sonia and decide on their future course of action later. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dissidence-woes-mount-for-congress-1036724.html
03-10-2021||National||PM Modi likely to visit Lucknow on Oct 5: CMO||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Lucknow on October 5 and attend the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' programme here at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan. The 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ programme comprises various events including ‘Inauguration of New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape and a conference and exhibition on the subject, at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in the state capital. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday conducted a site inspection of the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan days ahead of the programme to be attended by the prime minister, the Chief Minister's Office said in a tweet. Chief Minister Adityanath also issued necessary directives to the officials to complete all preparations in a time-bound manner. Urban Development Minister Ashutosh Tandon too was present during the inspection of the institute by the chief minister. A senior official said the programme, to be held by the state’s Urban Development Department on October 5, is to be attended by the prime minister as its chief guest. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-likely-to-visit-lucknow-on-oct-5-cmo-1036731.html
03-10-2021||National||10 Bhim Army activists held for trying to snatch body, do politics over it: SP||Ten activists of the Bhim Army were arrested on Saturday after they tried to snatch the body of a 26-year-old Dalit youth from his relatives to “do politics” over it, police said. The Bhim Army activists “tried to snatch the youth’s body” to further hold demonstration despite the administration having acceded earlier the demands of the youth’s family members after their protest and they had proceeded to cremate the body, Ghaziabad’s (SP (Rural) Iraj Raja said. The youth, Rahul, was earlier battered with lathis and irons rods by three miscreants over two and half months back and he died on Saturday during his treatment, first at a hospital here and then at his home at Sangam Vihar under the Loni Border police station area, Raja said. The police had already arrested the trio – Ankit, Poojan and Monu -- earlier after booking them on various charges, including the attempt to murder and various other offences under the stringent Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Raja said. The police will now add section 302 of the IPC for the offence of murder in the FIR lodged against the trio, who, he said, is presently under judicial custody. After Rahul died on Saturday, his family members sat outside the Indira Puri police outpost with the body, demanding Rs 30 lakh as compensation, a government job for his wife and free education to his children, Raja said. The demonstration led the area revenue officer to visit the protest site and appease family members with the promise of statutory compensation to them, besides a recommendation to the government for payment of an ex gratia to them, said Raja. Satisfied with the government’s promise, Rahul’s family members began preparation to take the body to the cremation ground when some Bhim Army activists reached the site and tried to snatch the body from them to prolong the sit-in and “do politics” over it, said Raja. Seeing the tension in the area, the local shopkeepers downed their shutters while the police too intervened instantly and apprehended 10 Bhim Army activists, who even clashed with policemen, said Raja, They were booked under various penal offences including sections 332 (assault), 353 (use of criminal force against public servant), 504 (breach of peace), 506 (intimidation), 147 (rioting), 148 (armed rioting), 188 (disobedience to duly promulgated government’s order), 269 (doing activities with the potential to spread an infectious disease) and 297 (hurting religious feelings) of the IPC, said Raja. He identified the ten arrested Bhim Army activists as Bhupendra, Aashiq, Kapil, Sushant, Ankit, Amit, Rahul, Pawan, Sunil and Azad, who he said, were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody to Dasna Jail.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-bhim-army-activists-held-for-trying-to-snatch-body-do-politics-over-it-sp-1036732.html
03-10-2021||National||PM Modi may visit Dubai Expo 2020, says Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said that he expects Prime Minister Narendra Modi would accept the invitation to visit the Dubai Expo 2020, a six-month long event which started on October 1. "I do hope the Honorable Prime Minister will accept the invitation to visit Dubai, during this six-month period when the Dubai Expo will be held and take forward the relations between the two countries," he told reporters here. The India Pavilion in Expo 2020 Dubai is showcasing a resurgent India’s march to becoming a $5 trillion economy in the post-Covid world. The pavilion is not only capturing the vibrant Indian culture and its past but also the capabilities and opportunities that it presents as a global economic hub to the domestic as well as the foreign investors. It is witnessing participation from a number of Indian states who will be displaying their culture, tradition and tremendous business opportunities along with the top corporate groups from India, and the public sector companies. It is also exhibiting the country’s cultural diversity, ancient treasures, achievements, and leading opportunities with cutting-edge technologies. One of the largest pavilions at the Expo 2020 Dubai, India Pavilion is featuring an innovative kinetic façade made up of 600 individual colourful blocks. It is developed as a mosaic of rotating panels that will depict different themes as they rotate on their axis. It represents the theme of ‘India on the move’ and is a unique amalgam of the rich heritage and technological advances of the nation. The entire four-storey structure is divided into two parts. The zones are identified based on 11 primary themes - Climate and Biodiversity, Space, Urban and Rural Development, Tolerance and Inclusivity, Golden Jubilee, Knowledge and Learning, Travel and Connectivity, Global Goals, Health and Wellness, Food Agriculture and Livelihoods and Water. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-may-visit-dubai-expo-2020-says-goyal-1036734.html
03-10-2021||National||Counting of votes for Pipili bypoll on Sunday amid tight security, Covid-19 guidelines: CEO||Counting of votes for the by-poll to the Pipili Assembly constituency in Odisha’s Puri district will start from 8 am on Sunday amid tight security and strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols, State Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) S K Lohani said. Three-tier security will be provided at the counting centre, Lohani said. “All officials and agents will have to wear face masks and follow Covid-19 protocols. Thermal scanning has been made mandatory”, Lohani said. To avoid crowding at the counting tables and to check the spread of the infection, a video feed of the counting will be displayed on large screens outside the centre,” he said. The by-election was held on September 30. Postal ballots will be counted in the first 30 minutes while the counting session for the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) will begin from 8.30 am, Lohani said. The results of five Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trails (VVPATs) and EVMs will be randomly matched after the counting is over, he said. While briefing reporters, the CEO said a total of 72 government officials, all fully vaccinated, will participate in the exercise. The vote count will be held at 14 tables in three halls at Penthakota Warehouse. While the EVM vote counting will be held in two halls, postal ballots will be counted in another hall. Three additional AROs (additional returning officers) have been appointed for the counting and the process will be supervised by an Election Observer, the CEO said. Candidates are authorised to engage one counting agent at each table, he said. “Only the ECI authorised media personnel will be allowed to enter the counting centre in batches. They will be escorted by the polling staff. They can visit the counting centre without a camera or any recording device and return after observing it,” he said. Puri Superintendent of Police V K Singh said apart from the counting centre in the pilgrim town, security has been beefed in Piipli and Delang areas as a precautionary measure. Pipili-Delang areas have a history of poll violence, an official at the district police intelligence wing said, adding that the security arrangements have been made accordingly. The by-poll was held following the demise of sitting MLA Pradeep Maharathy in October 2020. Ten candidates including Maharathy's son Rudrapratap (BJD), BJP's Ashrit Pattnaik and Congress nominee Biswokeshan Harichandan Mohapatra, are in the fray. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/counting-of-votes-for-pipili-bypoll-on-sunday-amid-tight-security-covid-19-guidelines-ceo-1036743.html
03-10-2021||National||Meghalaya assistant professor and son of former CM dead as car catches fire||An assistant professor, a son of former Meghalaya chief minister E K Mawlong, was charred to death on Saturday when the car he was travelling in caught fire in Ri-Bhoi district of the state, police said. Ferdinand Banshan Lyngdoh, an assistant professor at a college affiliated to the Imphal-based Central Agriculture University, is the brother of sitting Congress MLA George Lyngdoh. His body was found charred inside his vehicle at Umran, police said. His family confirmed the accident. The vehicle was found by the roadside on the Shillong-Guwahati national highway. By the time the fire tenders arrived, it was completely gutted, a senior police officer of Ri-Bhoi district said. A probe has been launched to ascertain the reason behind the incident. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meghalaya-assistant-professor-and-son-of-former-cm-dead-as-car-catches-fire-1036766.html
03-10-2021||National||World looks up to India for its firm belief in sustainable development: Bhagwat||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday said the world looks up to India for its firm belief in sustainable development and eco-friendly lifestyle. India has had democracy for ages, the RSS chief said at an event. It has a firm belief in sustainable development and eco-friendly lifestyle and the European countries have coined these terms in the recent times, he said. Now, the world looks up to India for this belief and practice in sustainable development, the RSS chief said. "The society has to behave with dignity to strengthen the nation. We together will take India to newer heights. The entire world will follow the life and ideas of our country to make their lives happy and beautiful. They will recast their lives in humanity and balance with nature," Bhagwat said. About abrogation of Article 370 provisions, he said, "The system changed... but has it gone away from the heart? Why do states fight against each other, like the Kaveri river water issue? What good would be achieved just by changing the system? The mentality has to change," he said. The RSS chief said that nevertheless, the joy of seeing the sacrifice of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee bearing fruit in the form of abrogation of Article 370 is fairly visible in the country. Despite religious and cultural diversities, Indians are united, Bhagwat said. "We are one. We may have different systems as per regions, religions and beliefs. We have several regions and states in the country. We have different rituals and beliefs. We also have different gods and goddesses but all these diversities don't change our unity".  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-looks-up-to-india-for-its-firm-belief-in-sustainable-development-bhagwat-1036781.html
03-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Congress crisis worsens in multiple states||There are unmistakable signs that Team Rahul is a shaping; but the slow and silent emergence of a new Congress is going to be tumultuous bringing forth the “old versus the new generation” fight, which had taken a backseat for some years after the massive electoral debacle of the party in the 2014 general elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-congress-crisis-worsens-in-multiple-states-1036783.html
03-10-2021||National||Congress is too busy with internal issues, but TMC cannot sit idle, says Sukhendu Sekhar Ray||Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, a member of the Rajya Sabha and a Trinamool Congress veteran, tells DH's Anirban Bhaumik hat the party led by Mamata Banerjee will continue to fight the BJP, even if other opposition parties cannot unite to take on the Narendra Modi government in 2024. Excerpts from the interview: Why does the Trinamool Congress think that its time has come to play a greater role in national politics?  It is high time that all opposition parties are united to take on the anti-people BJP government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If this regime continues in power, the economic security and social fabric of the country will be threatened further. Our leader Mamata Banerjee visited New Delhi after the West Bengal elections and met Congress president Sonia Gandhi and other opposition leaders. She urged all opposition parties to come under one umbrella. But, unfortunately, so far no progress has been seen towards uniting the opposition parties. We think Congress should take the lead and take some initiatives as it has a presence across India. But the Congress seems to be busy dealing with its internal problems.  The Trinamool Congress has opened its doors for the leaders from the Congress. Is your party gaining strength at the expense of the Congress? Will it not stymie the efforts to bring opposition parties together?  The Trinamool Congress is not gaining at the expense of the Congress. If any leader from any political party expresses the desire to join us and approach us, our party leadership will surely consider it on merit. If the Congress can accept Kanhaiya Kumar from the CPI, why cannot we do the same? When we talk about united opposition, we do so very seriously. If we can forge an alliance within Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and ensure reasonable floor coordination in both the Houses, why cannot we do so outside Parliament? But the Congress does not take the initiative to bring all the opposition parties together. Should we also sit idle instead of moving ahead on our own? No, we are not an NGO, so we are trying to make our own headway.   What will be the Trinamool Congress’s role in the states, where assembly elections will take place in 2022 and 2023?  We will extend our support to the opposition parties to take on the BJP in the states where we have little or no presence. If the Samajwadi Party requests our leader to go and campaign for its candidates in the elections in Uttar Pradesh, Mamata will surely go. But we will fight wherever we have our own presence, like in Tripura or now in Goa. If we cannot have any electoral understanding with other parties before the elections, we will keep on fighting on our own. The options for post-poll alignment and realignment of forces will remain open.  Can the Trinamool Congress have an electoral understanding with the Left Front in Tripura?  We cannot say now. They say politics makes strange bedfellows. We are fighting in our own way to oust the BJP government in Tripura. The Left Front is also fighting in its own way. So, let us see how much headway we can make and how much hold the Left Front or the other political parties can retain in Tripura. It depends on the situation.  How optimistic is Trinamool Congress about the assembly elections in Goa?  People of Goa are disillusioned with the BJP government in the state. There is strong resentment among the BJP legislators, particularly the old loyalists, who have been sidelined after it opened its door for the defectors from the Congress. People have no faith on the Congress. Not only the Trinamool Congress, but the Aam Aadmi Party and the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and many other parties are there. There is no proposal for an opposition alliance to take on the BJP government in Goa, but the situation is fluid. If an opposition alliance comes into existence before the 2024 elections, do you think Mamata Banerjee could be its prime ministerial candidate?  There need not be a prime ministerial candidate of any such opposition alliance. If the elections result in a hung parliament or if the possibility of a government by the parties currently in opposition comes up after the polls, the Trinamool Congress will definitely play a decisive role. The supporters and workers of the party surely like to see our leader Mamata Banerjee taking the Prime Minister’s Office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-is-too-busy-with-internal-issues-but-tmc-cannot-sit-idle-says-sukhendu-sekhar-ray-1036795.html
03-10-2021||National||Foreign Secretary Shringla to visit Jaffna on Sunday||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Sunday will visit the capital of Sri Lanka's northern province, Jaffna dominated by the Tamil minority, and will also travel to the historic Temple of the Tooth, the foremost shrine of the island’s Buddhist majority, officials said. Shringla on Saturday began his four-day visit to Sri Lanka during which he will meet the top leadership, including President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, and review the bilateral ties between India and the island nation. He would travel to the central provincial capital of Kandy where he will be received at the historic Temple of the Tooth, the foremost shrine of the island’s Buddhist majority, they said. He will then proceed to the eastern port district of Trincomalee and the northern capital of Jaffna dominated by the Tamil minority. At all three provincial visits, Shringla would be visiting the Indian-funded projects supervised by the Indian mission in the country. Officials said his high-level engagements in Colombo are scheduled for tomorrow. He would be calling on the three Rajapaksa brothers who are the President, Prime Minister, and the Finance Minister of the country. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who was in the US for the UN General assembly sessions, will return today. In addition to the Rajapaksa trio, Shringla would receive a delegation of the main Tamil party, Tamil National Alliance for discussions. India has been consistently calling upon Sri Lanka to fulfill its commitments to protect the interests of the Tamil community and preserve the island nation's character as a multi-ethnic and multi-religious society. The Tamil community in Sri Lanka has been demanding the implementation of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution that provides for devolution of power to it. The 13th amendment was brought in after the Indo-Sri Lankan agreement of 1987. He would also call on the Foreign Minister GL Peiris. The Indian foreign secretary who is on his first visit to Sri Lanka was received at the airport by his counterpart Jayanath Colombage last night. The visit will contribute towards the long-standing multifaceted relations and enhance bilateral partnership between the two countries, the foreign ministry said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-secretary-shringla-to-visit-jaffna-on-sunday-1036802.html
03-10-2021||National||India sees 22,842 new Covid-19 cases, 244 deaths||India added 22,842 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,38,13,903, while the active cases declined to 2,70,557, the lowest in 199 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,48,817 with 244 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.80 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.87 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,332 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,29,258 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 57,19,94,990. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.80 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 34 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.66 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 100  days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,30,94,529, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 90.51 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 244 new fatalities include 121 from Kerala, and 49 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,48,817 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,39,166 from Maharashtra, 37,811 from Karnataka, 35,627 from Tamil Nadu, 25,303 from Kerala and 25,088 from Delhi, 22,894 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,815 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-22842-new-covid-19-cases-244-deaths-1036807.html
03-10-2021||National||Home-workplace stress, ill-fitting PPEs among issues for women fighting Covid: Study||The stress of handling domestic chores as well as taking care of patients at the workplace, fear of contracting coronavirus infection, ill-fitting PPEs, lack of transportation and sanitation facilities are some of the issues that women 'Covid-19 warriors' faced while discharging their duty during the pandemic, especially during the lockdown, says a study. The study, titled A study of gender-based issues on field of Corona warriors amid lockdown, was conducted by Palghar district Disaster Management Cell chief Vivekanand Kadam and Sarika Kadam. It was recently published in the National Institute of Disaster Management Journal. Although the survey was carried out in Palghar district, those who conducted it feel that these problems were found elsewhere too. The study talks about various problems that women coronavirus warriors faced during the pandemic and also gives suggestions to resolve some of these issues. It says that the women Covid-19 warriors have to juggle between home and the workplace. They have to take care of the children and elderly people in the family and also discharge their duty on the professional front, which gives them mental stress. Manpower crunch at the workplace adds to their woes. The fear of contracting coronavirus infection is always there in mind during the duty. They also have to face issues related to menstruation and the unavailability of sanitary pads at the workplace. These women also found it difficult to have meals on time and to take rest due to irregular work schedule. Ill-fitting PPE kits, lack of proper transportation facilities and financial problems are some more issues they have to face, the study says. The study was conducted under the guidance of research scholar from Sri Lanka, Madhavi Malalgoda Ariyabandu. The study not only states the problems, but tries to find solutions to them. It says sanitary pads should be made available at the workplace to the female health workers during work, especially in villages, and a separate changing or washroom should be set up. Women should be made part of designing the fieldwork for female health workers. They should be given at least two hours in the day for relaxation from work, it says. Making customised PPEs for women warriors is also necessary as many female doctors and nurses have to wear ill-fitting PPEs, which becomes all the more difficult during menstruation, the study says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-workplace-stress-ill-fitting-ppes-among-issues-for-women-fighting-covid-study-1036813.html
03-10-2021||National||Bharat Biotech submits Covid vaccine trial data for ages 2-18 to DCGI: Report||The Hyderabad-based company, the maker of India's first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, completed Phase-2 and Phase-3 trials of Covaxin on children below 18 years of age in September. Covaxin is yet to be given the EUL (emergency use listing) by WHO. So far, only drugmaker Zydus Cadila's DNA Covid-19 vaccine has received emergency use approval in India to be used in adults and children aged 12 years and above. Meanwhile, the country's drug regulator on September 28 allowed Serum Institute to enrol kids between 7 and 11 years for its trial of US drugmaker Novavax's coronavirus 19 vaccine. (With agency inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-submits-covid-vaccine-trial-data-for-ages-2-18-to-dcgi-report-1036826.html
03-10-2021||National||Petrol, diesel at all-time high, moderate hike in oil||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked again on Sunday to send rates soaring to new record highs across the country but top government officials insisted oil companies haven't passed on the entire increase warranted from international oil and gas rising to three-year highs and have ensured a UK-like situation of pumps going dry isn't seen anywhere in India. Petrol price for the third straight day hiked by 25 paise a litre and diesel by 30 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This sent the petrol price in Delhi to its highest ever level of Rs 102.39 a litre and to Rs 108.43 in Mumbai. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 90.77 in Delhi and Rs 98.48 in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Petroleum Secretary Tarun Kapoor said that oil companies are taking their own decision on aligning retail rates with the cost but they are ensuring extreme volatility is avoided. "We are watching the situation and trying to ensure the impact of global volatility is moderated to a large extent," he said. The basket of crude oil India buys has jumped to a near three-year high of $76.71 per barrel. International prices of petrol, against which local rates are benchmarked, have risen from $85.10 per barrel to $87.11 in just one day while diesel has gone up from $85.95 a barrel to $87.27. This sudden spike in international oil prices follows global output disruptions but the entire increase in retail rates necessitated by such an increase is not being affected, another official with direct knowledge of the matter said. "Just look at LPG rates. They have gone up from $665 to $797 in one month but oil companies haven't passed on the increase warranted from that," he said adding state-owned companies were absorbing a lot of volatility. The increases, he said, have been "mild to moderate". "Some people are making a big deal out of the 62 per cent hike in natural gas prices. But if you look at the rates previously at $1.79 per million British thermal units were abnormally low and way below cost. They have now gone up to $2.9. They still are less than the cost of production of $3.5 per mmBtu and are certainly lower than the $4.2 price that was prevalent in India a decade back," the official said. Naturally, the hike in natural gas price will warrant an increase in CNG price but the increase is again being moderated there too, he said adding internationally the price of LNG in the spot market last week soared to an unprecedented $35. "Compare to what is happening worldwide, we have managed the situation well," the official said. "Some of the developed nations such as the UK have seen petrol pumps go dry but you won't have heard of such a situation anywhere in India. Our oil companies are not just moderating retail prices but also ensuring uninterrupted supplies." Officials said India believes the situation internationally is temporary and abnormal and things should stabilise over the next few days and weeks. The fifth increase in its rates in less than a week's time has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 in most major cities of the country. Similarly, the eighth increase in prices in 10 days has shot up diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. State-owned Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) resumed daily price revisions on September 24 after international oil prices neared a three-year high. Global benchmark Brent crude is trading above $78 per barrel. In eight price increases since September 24, diesel rates have gone up by 2.15 paise per litre. Petrol price has increased by Rs 1.25 per litre in five instalments this week. When international oil rates fell in July and August, retail prices of petrol and diesel in the Delhi market were reduced by Rs 0.65 and Rs 1.25 per litre. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. India is dependent on imports to meet nearly 85 per cent of its oil needs and so benchmarks local fuel rates to international oil prices. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-at-all-time-high-moderate-hike-in-oil-1036828.html
03-10-2021||National||Air pollution: Delhi to get 'green' funds under NCAP, 1st time since it began||The national capital will get over Rs 18 crore from the Centre under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) this year to cater to critical gaps in air pollution management, according to officials. This is the first time Delhi will get funds under NCAP, a national-level strategy for a 20 per cent to 30 per cent reduction in PM2.5 and PM10 concentration by 2024, with 2017 as the base year for comparison. "Delhi will get Rs 18.74 crore under NCAP. This is the first time it will be receiving funds under the programme since it started in 2019," an official told PTI. NCAP covers 132 non-attainment cities, which do not meet the prescribed national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS). These cities have been identified based on the ambient air quality data obtained during the 2011-2015 period under the National Air Monitoring Programme. The acceptable annual standard for PM 10 and PM2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre and 40 micrograms per cubic metre, respectively. In 2017, Delhi's annual PM10 average stood at 240 micrograms per cubic metre. The targeted PM10 concentration by 2024 is 168 micrograms per cubic metre. "The national capital did not get any funds under NCAP for two years because it had other resources available -- a green cess levied on diesel vehicles above 2,000 ccs -- which is deposited with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and a pollution tax on commercial vehicles entering Delhi," an official in the Union Environment Ministry said. This time, fund availability under NCAP has improved. "Fifty cities are already getting a good amount (Rs 4,400 in 2020-21 and Rs 2,217 crore in 2021-22) for pollution management from the Finance Commission. Therefore, the availability of funds for the remaining 82 cities under NCAP has improved. So, we decided to give some funds to Delhi, too," the official said. A total of 290 crore is available for these 82 cities this year. The NCAP fund will be utilised to cater to critical gaps -- wherever there is any inadequacy of funds available from other resources. The rest of the funding is to be mobilised through the convergence of schemes, the official explained. Funds for bigger projects such as management of construction and demolition waste are allocated under the Swachh Bharat Urban programme and other schemes of the central government. The Delhi government has prepared a "Winter Action Plan" to tackle air pollution in the capital and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is expected to announce it soon. The plan focuses on 10 key issues, including stubble burning, pollution hotspots, working of smog tower and vehicular and dust pollution. The city government has already imposed a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers till January 1, 2022, and has issued detailed guidelines to control dust pollution. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-pollution-delhi-to-get-green-funds-under-ncap-1st-time-since-it-began-1036832.html
03-10-2021||National||UK govt's Covid norms for Indians lack scientific basis: AIIMS Chief||As the United Kingdom government has been receiving backlash for its "discriminatory" Covid norms for visitors arriving from India, All India Institute of Medical Sciences(AIIMS) Chief Dr Randeep Guleria criticised the UK government for setting different rules for Indians fully vaccinated with Covishield that was invented in the UK itself, and said it lacked scientific basis.  On September 22, the UK government had announced that people who have been vaccinated with Covishield, the Indian-made version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid vaccine, will be considered fully vaccinated by the UK government, however, that does not necessarily include Indians. Despite approving Covishield, fully vaccinated travelers from India will still need to be quarantined and take mandatory tests upon arrival. The UK government had said that it will consider international travelers to be fully vaccinated only if they have taken the approved vaccines in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, or Taiwan. Quaruanting by travellers from these countries will not be required. The exclusion of India from the non-quarantine list had many Indians questioning as to why this move was made, despite India housing the manufacturing unit of Covishield.  Reacting to the same, the British High Commission spokesperson told ANI that it was working on expanding the UK's recognition of vaccine certification by relevant public health bodies.  "The UK is continuing to work on expanding the policy to countries and territories across the globe in a phased approach. We are continuing to engage with the Government of India on technical cooperation to expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India" the spokesperson told ANI.  India retaliates to UK  Retaliating to the UK’s norms for Indian visitors, the Indian government on October 1, stated that it would require visitors from the UK to quarantine themselves regardless of their vaccination status.   The retaliatory measures imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government will require all UK citizens, including the ones already vaccinated, to undergo pre-departure Covid-19 RT-PCR tests within 72 hours before travelling to India.  The visitors will also have to undergo Covid-19 RT-PCR tests immediately after arriving at any airport, as well as on the eighth day after arrival in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-govts-covid-norms-for-indians-lack-scientific-basis-aiims-chief-1036834.html
03-10-2021||National||Shringla prays for well-being of Indian, Sri Lankan people at temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Sunday prayed for the well-being and prosperity of the Indian and Sri Lankan people and for reinforcing their centuries-old bonds, as he visited the historic Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic, the foremost shrine of Sri Lanka's Buddhist majority in Kandy city. Shringla arrived in Sri Lanka on Saturday on a four-day visit during which he will meet the top leadership, including President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, and review the bilateral ties between India and the island nation. "Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla begins his visit by seeking blessings at Sri Dalada Maligawa. He was received warmly by Hon'ble Diyawadana Nilame of the temple," the Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka tweeted. Sri Dalada Maligawa or the Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic in the country's Central Province is a world-renowned place of worship, where the left Canine tooth of Gautama Buddha is enshrined. "Foreign Secretary offered prayers for the well-being & prosperity of the people of India & Sri Lanka and for reinforcing their centuries-old bonds," Assistant High Commission of India in Kandy tweeted. Diyawadana Nilame is the office of the chief lay custodian of the Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic. The temple which is venerated by thousands of local and foreign devotees and tourists daily was named as a world heritage by UNESCO in 1988. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shringla-prays-for-well-being-of-indian-sri-lankan-people-at-temple-of-the-sacred-tooth-relic-1036860.html
03-10-2021||National||India matching Chinese troop build-up on disputed border: Army chief Naravane||India's army chief has said China is sending troops to their disputed border in "considerable numbers", prompting a matching deployment by New Delhi in a development he called a "concern". Tensions have been high between the nuclear-armed neighbours following a deadly border battle in June last year in the strategically important Galwan river valley in India's Ladakh region, near Tibet. The world's two most populous nations poured tens of thousands of extra troops into the high-altitude region in the Himalayas after the clash. General Manoj Mukund Naravane told reporters in Ladakh on Saturday that the Chinese troop presence along the 3,500-kilometre (2,200-mile) border had increased in "considerable numbers" and it was a "matter of concern". Naravane said the Indian military was building up its forces along the border in response. "We have also inducted advanced weaponry. We are strong, quite well-poised to meet any eventuality," the Times of India newspaper quoted him as saying. India and China have been holding high-level military talks since the June clash and Naravane said another meeting was expected next week. His comments came days after Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying accused Indian soldiers of illegally crossing the border into Chinese territory, a charge that New Delhi said had "no basis in facts". Local media reported last week, citing unnamed sources, that nearly 100 Chinese troops had crossed the border into Uttarakhand state for several hours in late August. India and China, which fought a full-scale border war in 1962, have long accused each other of trying to take territory along their unofficial border known as the Line of Actual Control. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-matching-chinese-troop-build-up-on-disputed-border-army-chief-naravane-1036877.html
03-10-2021||National||Navjot Singh Sidhu reiterates demand for removal of Punjab DGP, AG||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu kept the political pot boiling in Punjab with once again strongly airing his demand on Sunday for replacing the state Director General of Police (DGP) and Advocate General, saying if the party will be left with "no face" if it does not do so. His fresh tweet pressing for his demand came three days after he held talks with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi during which both agreed to set up a coordination panel for consultation on all major decisions to be taken by the government. Sidhu had last week resigned from the post of Punjab Congress chief, upset over senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota being given the additional charge of Director General of Police of Punjab and APS Deol appointed as Advocate General. "Demand for justice in sacrilege cases and for arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our government in 2017 and due to his failure, people removed the last Chief Minister. Now, Advocate General/DGP appointments rub salt on wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have no face!!" Sidhu tweeted in the afternoon. Sidhu opposes Sahota on the ground that Sahota had remained the head of a special investigation team (SIT) formed in 2015 by the then Akali government to probe sacrilege incidents and accuses him of helping the Badals. On Deol, his objection is that he was the counsel for former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in 2015 post the sacrilege police firing incidents. Sidhu's surprise resignation from the post of Punjab Congress president had put both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi on the backfoot as they had supported him in his fight against Amarinder Singh. On Saturday, Sidhu said, “will uphold principles of (Mahatma) Gandhi-ji and (Lal Bahadur) Shastri-ji...Post or No Post will stand by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win and every Punjabi win !!." It was speculated that Channi will address some of Sidhu's concerns on appointments through decisions to be taken in a Cabinet meeting scheduled on Monday. The Punjab government is learnt to have already forwarded a list of candidates to the UPSC to make a shortlist for the post of DGP.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-singh-sidhu-reiterates-demand-for-removal-of-punjab-dgp-ag-1036878.html
03-10-2021||National||Hyperloop may become reality in India before in the UAE: DP World CEO||Hyperloop, a high-speed mass transportation system for passengers and freight, is likely to be rolled out first in India or Saudi Arabia before in the UAE, said the CEO of Emirati multinational logistics company, DP World, Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem on Sunday. Speaking at the sideline of the Dubai Expo 2020, a six-month long event which started on October 1, Sulayem said the high-speed transport system will become a reality in many parts of the world within the end of this decade. “I will see it either in India at first, or in Saudi Arabia at the moment. Our hope is that when we achieve economies of scale and you have long routes and it is popular, probably for the speed of an airplane you will pay with the price of a truck,” Sulayem said when asked about the time scales for the Virgin Hyperloop. The system is currently being developed by several companies, including Virgin Hyperloop, in which Dubai-based port operator DP World holds a majority stake. Hyperloop is described as a sealed tube or system of tubes with low air pressure through which a pod may travel substantially free of air resistance or friction. The company tested human travel in a hyperloop pod for the first-time in November last year. “It's not decades, it's years," Sulayem told CNN in an interview at the Expo 2020 site, where the company is exhibiting a full-scale Hyperloop pod. DP World had earlier said that the Hyperloop can shrink inventory movement timescales dramatically, reducing finished goods inventory and cut required warehouse space and cost by 25 per cent. In February 2018, chairman of Virgin Hyperloop One, Richard Branson had announced plans of a hyperloop system between Pune and Navi Mumbai in Maharashtra. Those plans have stalled due to coronavirus outbreak.   Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyperloop-may-become-reality-in-india-before-in-the-uae-dp-world-ceo-1036883.html
03-10-2021||National||Hyperloop may become reality in India before in the UAE: DP World CEO||Hyperloop, a high-speed mass transportation system for passengers and freight, is likely to be rolled out first in India or Saudi Arabia before in the UAE, said the CEO of Emirati multinational logistics company, DP World, Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem on Sunday. Speaking at the sideline of the Dubai Expo 2020, a six-month long event which started on October 1, Sulayem said the high-speed transport system will become a reality in many parts of the world within the end of this decade. “I will see it either in India at first, or in Saudi Arabia at the moment. Our hope is that when we achieve economies of scale and you have long routes and it is popular, probably for the speed of an airplane you will pay with the price of a truck,” Sulayem said when asked about the time scales for the Virgin Hyperloop. The system is currently being developed by several companies, including Virgin Hyperloop, in which Dubai-based port operator DP World holds a majority stake. Hyperloop is described as a sealed tube or system of tubes with low air pressure through which a pod may travel substantially free of air resistance or friction. The company tested human travel in a hyperloop pod for the first-time in November last year. “It's not decades, it's years," Sulayem told CNN in an interview at the Expo 2020 site, where the company is exhibiting a full-scale Hyperloop pod. DP World had earlier said that the Hyperloop can shrink inventory movement timescales dramatically, reducing finished goods inventory and cut required warehouse space and cost by 25 per cent. In February 2018, chairman of Virgin Hyperloop One, Richard Branson had announced plans of a hyperloop system between Pune and Navi Mumbai in Maharashtra. Those plans have stalled due to coronavirus outbreak.   Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyperloop-may-become-reality-in-india-before-in-the-uae-dp-world-ceo-1036884.html
03-10-2021||National||Indra Nooyi says she can't stop watching IPL, KBC||Former PepsiCo boss Indra Nooyi said that she may have departed India 43 years ago but India has never left: she performs puja every day and among other things, can't resist watching IPL cricket, Indian movies and TV shows "Kaun Banega Crorepati" and "Indian Idol". She has come out with her memoir "My Life in Full: Work, Family, and Our Future", in which she recounts the events that shaped her, from her childhood and early education in 1960s India to the Yale School of Management to her rise as a corporate leader. These remarks about her interests find mention in the epilogue written especially for the Indian audience. Published by Hachette India, the book offers a blueprint for 21st-century prosperity, peppered with masterful insights. "I departed India 43 years ago, but India has never left me. I am still a vegetarian; I don't smoke or drink alcohol beyond a few sips of wine; I have a puja alcove in my home where I light my lamp every day - and, as much as I love the New York Yankees and American TV shows, I can't resist watching IPL cricket, Kaun Banega Crorepati, Indian movies and Indian Idol," she writes. "They all bring me home to my wonderful upbringing in Madras, and to the energy and rhythms that are so familiar and precious to me," she adds. Nooyi finds these shows acting as a window into how India has changed since she was a teenager who dared play Nancy Sinatra's "These Boots are Made for Walkin" in a rock 'n' roll band. She writes that today's popular media features characters and performers who are strong, educated and determined women making their way in the world, and these shows help young girls understand how they, too, have a voice and can dream of forging an independent life. She also says that she sees plenty of women playing traditional roles that were the norm many decades ago, both on TV and in real life. "They are deferential, attentive, taking care of everyone, engaged in unpaid labour. I'm reminded that, when it comes to women, India has one foot in the future and one foot in the past," she writes. As Nooyi traced her journey while writing this book, she says, she was in awe of how India has passed so many "intelligent laws to protect its citizens", and how many of these focus on women. But, she adds that she then ran into a few more facts like women accounting for only 20 per cent of the paid labour force in India, a figure that has fallen by 30 per cent in the last 20 years. "Women do almost 10 times more unpaid domestic work than men. Although girls are increasingly outperforming boys in school and women now make almost half of college graduates, they fill far fewer entry-level professional jobs," she writes. Nooyi says she believes that all women deserve the power to earn money, for their own sake, and for the sake of their children, their communities, and the good of the whole society. She, however, rues that statistics reveal the gap between the law and reality. "The needle will only move if leadership at all levels commits to improving the situation for all women, including timely justice for those who have often been left behind in rural India and in unorganised sectors of the economy," the epilogue says. Nooyi is of the opinion that as India emerges from the devastating impact of Covid, it must rethink some of its economic priorities under the umbrella of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. "I hope whole new ecosystems around next-generation industries emerge, and new investments in core infrastructure, including roads, the railways, water and sanitation, and healthcare," she writes. When Nooyi took over as CEO of PepsiCo, one of her pivotal and controversial ideas was to steer the iconic American company toward healthier products and reinvent its environmental profile. The strategy met with immense backlash from some shareholders who wouldn't stand for anything that affected the company's short-term profitability targets. In the book, Nooyi also narrates a particular conversation in the face of tremendous resistance. When she pitched the revolutionary strategy to introduce healthy products, she was asked if she was Mother Teresa. For a dozen years as one of the world's most admired CEOs, Nooyi redefined what it means to be an exceptional leader. She has been consistently ranked in Forbes's 'The World's 100 Most Powerful Women', Fortune's 'Most Powerful Women' and was twice named on TIME magazine's list of the '100 Most Influential People in the World'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indra-nooyi-says-she-cant-stop-watching-ipl-kbc-1036900.html
03-10-2021||National||KRIBHCO, CSC partner to market agri-input products through village level entrepreneurs across India||The Common Services Centres (CSC), a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) under the Ministry of Electronics & IT, has tied up with the Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd. (KRIBHCO) to provide access to fertilisers and agricultural inputs to farmers through a network of around 4 lakh Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs) at the last mile. CSCs will facilitate the sale and distribution of KRIBHCO products which include fertilisers like imported urea, DAP, NPK/NPS, bio-fertilizer, city compost, zinc sulphate, certified seeds, hybrid seeds and potash derived from Molasses. KRIBHCO is engaged in the business of manufacturing, importing and marketing of fertilisers, agri inputs and seeds. Early this year, CSC set up an agri services platform to facilitate agri inputs like seeds, manure, and pesticides, rent and hire of farm machinery and implements, and trading of agri produce etc. through its VLEs and farmer producer organisations (FPOs). Elaborating on the partnership, CSC e-Governance Services India Ltd Managing Director Dr. Dinesh Tyagi said, “ The last mile delivery of fertilizers, seeds and other agri products is an important aspect of our activities at CSCs and the partnership will help us reach out to farmers and citizens in the villages with timely supply of reliable and quality agri inputs.” Rajan Chowdhry, Managing Director, KRIBHCO said that this partnership will usher in a new era where farmers can get cost effective agri inputs at the click of mouse and smartphones, thereby promoting ‘Digital India’. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kribhco-csc-partner-to-market-agri-input-products-through-village-level-entrepreneurs-across-india-1036908.html
03-10-2021||National||MoRTH proposes speed management devices to curb accidents in cities||To curb increasing road accidents, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways is proposing to install speed management devices on urban roads in cities with a population of over four lakh, state highways and national highways. As per the Ministry proposal, the devices will have speed monitoring cameras capable of recording registration plates of the vehicles and occupants facial recognition cameras and machine-learning-based video monitoring. These devices will be installed along important roads, junctions, and all its cameras will be connected to a Command and Control Centre, with few centers that will be mobile. The Ministry is planning to fund states to implement this measure under a new scheme to curb road accidents, as the Government target to reduce the fatality rate by 30 per cent by March 2027. The scheme, which aimed at 'zero road fatalities on Indian roads,' also proposes setting up  Integrated Road Accident Data Base(IRAD) to help law and enforcement authorities to analysing causes of crashes and in devising safety interventions to reduce such accidents, said the official. The scheme also involves development of dedicated lanes for two-wheelers on state highways and urban roads, introduction of a chapter on road safety for classes 6-9 in 2022-23 and up to class-12 subsequently. Deployment of Advanced Traffic Management System, campaigns on vehicle safety and driver training, establishment of a Command and Control (Data) Centre for ambulances, establishment of automated vehicle fitness centres are some of the other initiatives planned under the scheme. Karnataka is one among 14 states, where highest road accidents reported over the years, to get funds under the scheme from the Road Transport Ministry. Other states to get funds are Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Bihar, Telangana, West Bengal, Odisha, Haryana and Assam. The centrally-sponsored six-year programme, which will be started from 2022-23,  will be implemented in 14 states that are now contributing to 85 per cent of the total road fatalities in the country. The Centre is likely to fund  7,270 crore initially where pilot projects will be implemented in select cities. The beneficiary states also have to share some amount to implement this, said the official. In 2019, the country reported a total 1.51 lakh road deaths in 4.49 lakh accidents. Of the total deaths, the 14 identified states accounted for 1,27,379. In India total 1.32 lakh road deaths were recorded in 2020 despite lockdown announced to curb spreading of Covid-19. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/morth-proposes-speed-management-devices-to-curb-accidents-in-cities-1036921.html
03-10-2021||National||Will be better if India also achieves carbon neutrality by 2050: German envoy||It will be better if India also achieves carbon neutrality by 2050 as every country needs to make more efforts to deal with the climate crisis, German Ambassador to India Walter J Lindner said on Sunday. Carbon neutrality refers to the idea of achieving net zero greenhouse gas emissions by balancing those emissions so they are equal (or less than) the emissions that get removed through the planet's natural absorption. More than 110 countries have already pledged to become carbon neutral by 2050. "The United Nations' goal is (achieving carbon neutrality by) 2050. The European Union's 2050. Germany's goal is 2045. The sooner it will also be achieved by India the better," Lindner said at an event held to mark the 31st anniversary of German reunification. "I am not judging what India is saying and doing. If he (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) says he can achieve (carbon neutrality by) 2050 – the goal of the United Nations – that's great. Anything earlier is, of course, even better," Lindner told PTI. Asked if Germany expects India to raise climate ambitions going to COP26 in Glasgow, he said, "I think we all have to do more. We messed up this planet. So we have to do something… all industrial nations and other nations on the way to industrialisation… all have to work together. This is not a finger-pointing issue. It's a matter of global responsibility and India is very aware of that.” India is implementing one of the largest renewable energy expansion programmes with a target of achieving 175 GigaWatt (GW) renewable energy capacity by 2022 and 450 GW by 2030. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has said achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 is a must to keep global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius, to pre-industrial level by the end of 2100. The 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) will be held from October 31 to November 12 in Glasgow, United Kingdom. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-be-better-if-india-also-achieves-carbon-neutrality-by-2050-german-envoy-1036932.html
03-10-2021||National||Proposed ecommerce policy to be robust, balanced, says Goyal||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday assured that every stakeholder's interest will be taken into consideration while framing the ecommerce policy which would be robust and in the interest of every Indian. Goyal, who heads commerce and industry as well as consumer affairs ministries, also said that he welcomes all the feedback on the draft ecommerce rules but comments about inter-departmental issues on the draft rules are totally unwarranted. The minister's comments has come following reports that the Department for Promotion of Internal Industry and Trade (DPIIT), the Corporate Affairs Ministry and the Niti Aayog have objected to some provisions of the draft ecommerce rules. The report citing an RTI reply has claimed that Niti Aayog has expressed apprehensions that the draft rules may harm ease of doing business. Goyal said that the whole purpose of an inter-ministerial consultation was to get views and comments from different quarters. "I do believe that I welcome all the feedback and look forward to a very robust and healthy consultations with all the stakeholders...We are trying to balance everybody's interest and come up with a robust framework in which this (policy) can be implemented in the interest of all Indians," Goyal told PTI. The very purpose of releasing draft rules is to elicit public opinion, ideas from other departments, from stakeholders, encourage feedback, he said, adding the government has always believed in engaging with all the stakeholders before taking a final decision on any policy. Citing example of data privacy law, national education policy and jewellery hallmarking norms, he said the government conducts stakeholders consultation to arrive at a good decision. Domestic jewellers are now appreciating the hallmarking norms, which they were opposing earlier tooth and nail, he said. "The consumer rules around the ecommerce are under public consultation. I warmly welcome feedback from various stakeholders but I have to protect everybody's interest and balance consumers interest, ecommerce interests, retailers interests," he said, adding that "everybody's interest will be taken into consideration and a balanced and a very robust policy will be finalized." When asked if there is any move to link all the policies together, he said every department has to protect its own stakeholders. The DPIIT under the commerce and industry ministry is also framing a national ecommerce policy. "Consumer department has to protect the interest of consumers. Ecommerce policy is a matter for industry department to focus on, because they have to protect the interest of industry and internal trade ...so we have an orderly behaviour in the industry and at the same time ensure that internal trade is also protected," he said. He said that they are trying to balance everybody's interest and come up with a robust framework in which this policy can be implemented in the interest of all Indians. On June 21, the consumer affairs ministry released draft ecommerce rules under which it banned fraudulent flash sale and mis-selling of goods and services on ecommerce platforms. Appointment of chief compliance officer/grievance redressal officer are among other key amendments proposed to the Consumer Protection (ecommerce) Rules, 2020. The government also proposed registration of every ecommerce entity which intends to operate in India with the DPIIT. The proposed amendments also included ecommerce entities requiring to provide information not later than 72 hours of the receipt of an order from a government agency for prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of offences under any law. According to research firm CUTS International, many consumer organisations have felt that draft ecommerce rules should stick to only consumer-facing issues. The Consumer Protection (ecommerce) Rules, 2020 were first notified in July last year. Their violation attracts penal action under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proposed-ecommerce-policy-to-be-robust-balanced-says-goyal-1036939.html
03-10-2021||National||UK wants trade and security pact with India, says minister Truss||The UK wants to strike agreements covering trade and security with India and other democratic nations in the strategic Indo-Pacific region to challenge the influence of authoritarian states, Britain’s new Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Sunday. Truss, who was in charge of talks with India on a future Free Trade Agreement (FTA) as the International Trade Secretary until her recent promotion within the UK Cabinet, said that she is keen to strike more deals along the lines of AUKUS – the trilateral security alliance between Australia, the UK and the US, which is widely seen as a counter-balance to China. “We want to work with our friends and allies to create more economic agreements and security agreements. AUKUS is about protecting trade routes and shipping routes specifically with Australia but I want to look at arrangements with India, with Japan and with Canada to expand that security support in the same types of areas,” Truss told The Sunday Times in her first major interview since taking over her new role at the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO). “Some countries we will be able to enter deeper security arrangements with than others. One thing I know from being Trade Secretary for two years is that the UK is hugely trusted. People know we are reliable and when we say we will do something we do it, we follow the rules,” she said. Truss said that Britain would seek alliances with “freedom-loving” democracies to challenge the influence of “malign actors and authoritarian states” and that security pacts could augment trade deals, pointing to Britain’s request to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). Asked by the newspaper about these moves being directed at containing the influence of China in the region, she said it is about the "advancement of freedom". “It’s a positive strategy to engage other countries who want to see a free enterprise, open, free trading world succeed. It’s a positive strategy to build economic strength,” she said. The interview comes as the ruling Conservative Party began its annual conference on Sunday in Manchester, where all senior Tory leaders will be addressing party delegates over the course of the next three days. She told the newspaper: “The Prime Minister (Boris Johnson) is the great proponent of global Britain. He wants us out there making a positive case for our values on the world stage but also delivering for people across the United Kingdom. “What we did at trade, striking trade deals with 68 countries, was all about bringing opportunities across the UK, whether it’s for our whisky industry, our car industry, our digital industry,” she added.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-wants-trade-and-security-pact-with-india-says-minister-truss-1036946.html
03-10-2021||National||RJD announces candidates for both seats in Bihar bypolls, Cong snubbed||The Rashtriya Janata Dal on Sunday announced its candidates for bye-elections to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly segments of Bihar, in what is being seen as a snub to the Congress, its junior ally, which wants to contest one of the seats. At a press conference addressed jointly by state RJD president Jagadanand Singh, national general secretary Alok Mehta and state spokesmen Mrityunjay, the names of Arun Kumar Sah and Ganesh Bharti were announced for Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan, respectively. Bye-elections to the two seats, which were won by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U), have been necessitated by deaths of the incumbents. Unlike the NDA, which presented a picture of cohesion two days ago when leaders of all the constituents jointly announced the coalition's candidates, the RJD, which helms the five-party Grand Alliance, declared nominees without any of the partners by its side. Kusheshwar Asthan, a reserved seat in Darbhanga district, was contested by the Congress in the assembly polls last year when it lost the seat by a margin of less than 7,000 votes. Although the party has so far not come out with any reaction on the development, Congress sources affirmed there were plans to field Ashok Ram, the candidate in the assembly polls, or some close member of his family. RJD sources said the decision to contest both seats followed the “dismal” performance of the Congress in the assembly seats when it fought 70, won less than 20, and was blamed by all partners for the Grand Alliance falling short of a majority. Meanwhile, the BJP came out with another take on the development which is likely to put some strain on the Congress-RJD ties. “The RJD is jittery over attempts by the Congress to come out of its shadow by inducting people like Kanhaiya Kumar,” BJP spokesman and national general secretary of the party's OBC wing Nikhil Anand said in a statement. “The RJD has, by announcing its candidates for both seats, killed two birds with one stone. It has shown the Congress its place in the state and also obviated any possibility of Tejashwi and Kanhaiya sharing the stage during bypolls,” said Anand. Perceived rivalry between Tejashwi Yadav and Kanhaiya has been a matter of much speculation in political circles of Bihar. It is widely believed that Yadav is not very uncomfortable with the former JNU student leader, who belongs to an upper caste and is known for his crowd-pulling abilities. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when Kanhaiya was fielded by the CPI from his home town Begusarai, the RJD had nominated one of its veteran leaders Tanveer Hasan, which had caused a split in anti-BJP votes and helped Union minister Giriraj Singh to win the seat by a staggering margin of over four lakh votes. It was rumoured that the RJD went for the move since it was wary of Kanhaiya bursting on the national political scene with an electoral victory, which would have helped him wash off the taint of the sedition case that was the first occasion for him to hit headlines. Both the CPI and Congress are junior partners of the RJD in Bihar. However, in the Congress, the fiery young leader is expected to get a much wider exposure than it would have been possible in the moribund Left party. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rjd-announces-candidates-for-both-seats-in-bihar-bypolls-cong-snubbed-1036948.html
03-10-2021||National||Congress at zero in West Bengal as Mamata Banerjee wins big||With the ruling Trinamool Congress winning the West Bengal bypolls, Congress insiders say the biggest loss is of their party which has formally conceded opposition space to the BJP, now the number two in the state. This makes West Bengal the third major state after Uttar Pradesh and Bihar where Congress being is getting wiped out. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee secured 84,709 votes, decisively defeating BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal who secured 26,350 votes in the make or break Bhabanipur bypoll, while CPI-M's Shreejib Biwas managed to get only 4,201 votes. In Jangipur and Samserganj too, the Trinamool have maintained decisive leads. The Congress, which did not contest Bhabanipur, was the second-largest party with 44 MLAs in the assembly after the 2016 polls but now has none and just one Lok Sabha and one Rajya Sabha MP from the state. The party has to start virtually from scratch with more leaders shifting towards Trinamool. Meanwhile, in UP, the party has only one Lok Sabha MP and out of 7 MLAs elected in 2017, two have left the party. In Bihar too, the Congress has one Lok Sabha seat and 19 MLAs. The Congress position is unviable given these states account for 162 Lok Sabha seats (UP 80, West Bengal 42 and Bihar 40). In all these states, the regional parties - the SP/BSP in UP, the RJD in Bihar, and now, Trinamool in West Bengal - have pushed Congress to the periphery, and experts say that the party will have to make a turnaround in these states if it wants to make a mark in the 2024 general elections. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-at-zero-in-west-bengal-as-mamata-banerjee-wins-big-1036950.html
03-10-2021||National||Cruise drugs raid: NCB may summon event organisers, cruise officials||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is likely to summon officials of the cruise company and the event management firm in connection with the seizure of banned drugs onboard a ship near Mumbai coast in which it arrested Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and two others on Sunday, an official said. The official said the NCB may question officials of Delhi-based event management company Namas'cray registered as Caneplus Trading Private Limited and officials of the cruise company, Cordelia Cruises. Based on a tip-off that a party was scheduled on the ship, an NCB team, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, had raided the Goa-bound ship on Saturday evening and recovered drugs from some of the passengers. "During the raid, over 20 officials of the Mumbai NCB boarded the ship posing as customers. There were 1,800 people on the ship but after checking all were asked to go except the eight including Aryan Khan," the official said. Meanwhile, the official said the anti-drugs agency was keeping a close watch on this event on the cruise ship for the last 15-20 days after receiving information that a drug party will be organised. After confirmation, the NCB took the action, the official added. The firm was tasked with the management of the event onboard Cordelia Cruises' Empress ship, which was supposed to take place from October 2 to October 4. All known organisers of the event are now under the scanner of the NCB, he said. The NCB will now determine whether any of the organisers had any knowledge about the drugs being brought and consumed onboard during the three-day cruise in the Arabian Sea. Three additional directors of the event management company are now under the lens of the agency, the official added. These three additional directors were tasked with selling tickets, preparing a guest list, inviting celebrities and helping with the musical events onboard the ship, he added. The cruise company in a statement on Sunday said it had nothing to do with this incident. "Cordelia Cruises is in no way, directly or indirectly, connected to this incident. Cordelia Cruises had chartered its ship for a private event to a Delhi-based event management company,” Jurgen Bailom, Chief Executive Officer and President, Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd said in the statement earlier in the day. It said Cordelia Cruises was extending our full support and cooperating with the authorities. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cruise-drugs-raid-ncb-may-summon-event-organisers-cruise-officials-1036966.html
03-10-2021||National||If you can't live together, better to leave each other, SC to couple for who fought for 26 years ||The Supreme Court has told a couple, whose conjugal relationship lasted for just five-six days since their marriage in 1995, that if you cannot "live" together, it is better to "leave" each other.  "You must be practical, the entire life can not be spent in court fighting each other. You are 50 years of age; he is 55 years," a bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna told the wife who filed an appeal against the Tripura High Court's order granting divorce to the man.  The court asked the man and woman to decide mutually upon permanent alimony and fixed their plea for consideration in December.  A counsel, appearing for the wife, contended that the High Court was wrong on granting the decree of divorce as it also ignored that the settlement was not honoured. Advocate Dushyant Parashar, appearing for the husband, submitted that the life of the man has been ruined since their marriage in 1995, the conjugal relationship lasted for just five-six days. He said the High Court's order was just for allowing divorce on the ground of cruelty and irretrievable breakdown of marriage. The counsel said the husband did not want to stay with the wife and was ready to pay the permanent alimony. He asked the court to invoke its power under Article 142 of the Constitution to grant its seal of approval on the divorce allowed by the court. The man here claimed after their marriage, July 13, 1995, his wife who belonged from a highly educated and affluent family as her father was a nominated IAS officer, pressurised him to leave his aged mother and unemployed brother to stay at her home as "gharjamai" at parental house in Agartala. He tried to pacify her but she left his home in his village.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-you-cant-live-together-better-to-leave-each-other-sc-to-couple-for-who-fought-for-26-years-1036972.html
03-10-2021||National||Drugs on cruise case has Bollywood connection: NCB DG||The NCB is looking at a 'Bollywood connection' and a larger nexus of narcotics after nabbing eight youngsters, including Aryan Khan, the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, from a cruise ship in Mumbai on charges of drugs usage and trafficking, agency chief S N Pradhan said on Sunday. He said the anti-narcotics agency has widened its probe and summoned the organisers and event managers of the night party, which was supposed to be held onboard the cruise ship, the management executives of the ship and the owners for questioning in the case and to find out their involvement in it. Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha have been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), while five others have been detained and are being questioned after raids were conducted by NCB sleuths in the ship on Saturday night as it was docked at the Mumbai coast and ready to sail for Goa. The rest five can also be arrested if incriminating evidence under various provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) is found against them, official sources said. "There is a Bollywood connection and we are investigating all angles of the case. We are looking at the main supplier and the entire cartel behind this drugs case," Pradhan told PTI. He said the agency will "carry out its probe in a professional manner". Pradhan said the agency made "painstaking" efforts and had been working on the leads in this case for some time after which a team of 22 NCB officials "posing as passengers" boarded the Codelia cruise ship and launched the raids, searching for the contraband and carriers. Drugs like MDMA/ecstasy, cocaine, MD (mephedrone) and charas were recovered by the NCB officials after these searches.  Officials said the NCB team lead by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede identified and nabbed the eight and took them along to the agency office in South Mumbai for questioning. The ship had a capacity to carry 1,800 passengers, they said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-on-cruise-case-has-bollywood-connection-ncb-dg-1036980.html
03-10-2021||National||India trying to claw back ground lost to China in Sri Lanka||Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla is on a visit to Colombo and an Indian Army contingent will start a military drill with the Sri Lankan Army on Monday as New Delhi is trying to claw back the ground it lost to China in the neighbouring Indian Ocean island nation. Shringla is likely to call on Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, Foreign Minister G L Peiris during his stay in Colombo, apart from having a meeting with his Sri Lankan counterpart Jayanath Colombage. The exercise will involve tactical level operations at sub unit level in an international Counter Insurgency and Counter Terrorism environment and will go a long way in further strengthening the relationship between both the South Asian Nations and will act as a catalyst in bringing synergy and cooperation at grass root level between both Armies. The Foreign Secretary’s visit comes just days after India’s Adani Ports and Special Economic Zones Limited clinched a $700 million deal with Sri Lanka Ports Authority to develop and operate the West Container Terminal of the Colombo Port. The deal was significant as the Sri Lankan government had a few months back scrapped a trilateral agreement it had signed with the governments of India and Japan for development of the East Container Terminal of the Colombo Port. New Delhi suspects that Sri Lanka scrapped the East Container Terminal deal due to pressure from China, although the government led by Gotabaya and Mahinda Rajapaksa maintained that it was cancelled in view of the protests by the port workers. The government led by the Rajapaksas earlier this year got Sri Lankan Parliament pass the Colombo Port City Economic Commission Bill, which drew flak for allegedly allowing China to set up a colony in Sri Lanka undermining the sovereignty of the country. Shringla’s visit to World-War-II-era oil storage tanks in Trincomalee on Sunday was also significant. The Sri Lankan government had leased out the tanks to the Lanka Indian Oil Corporation (LIOC) – a subsidiary of the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) – in 2003. The LIOC worked on 14 tanks in the “Lower Tank Farm”, but 84 tanks in the “Upper Tank Farm” remained undeveloped and unused. The LIOC officials briefed the Foreign Secretary about “the development undertaken at the Lower Tank Farm and the possibilities for further strengthening India-Sri Lanka energy partnership to enhance SL’s energy security”, according to a tweet by the High Commission of India in Colombo. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-trying-to-claw-back-ground-lost-to-china-in-sri-lanka-1036983.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||Smriti Irani slams ruling TRS over 'unkept promises'||Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday slammed the ruling TRS in Telangana over its 'unkept promises' at a public meeting, organised to mark the conclusion of the first phase of 'padayatra' by state BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar. Irani, who was the chief guest at the meeting held at Husnabad in Siddipet district, recalled that the Telangana agitation was mainly fought for 'water, funds for development and jobs'. But the people of the state were left disappointed now, she alleged. The TRS' promises of monthly financial assistance to unemployed youth, celebration of 'Telangana Liberation Day' on September 17 (the day of merger of erstwhile princely state of Hyderabad with the Indian Union in 1948) have not been implemented, she said. Irani alleged that Liberation Day was not celebrated out of fear of AIMIM, which has said that the steering of the car (TRS poll symbol) is in its hands. TRS could not provide houses to the poor as promised in its manifesto, but the Modi government got houses built for two crore people under the 'PM Awas Yojana', she said. TRS could not provide lands to Dalits, but the Modi government gave 'property cards' to the poor through 'SVAMITVA' scheme, she said. Irani, who highlighted the NDA government's schemes of Ayushman Bharat, Fasal Bima Yojana and others, said that on the one hand, there is Modi and BJP, while on the other, there is such a leadership in the state that demolishes the secretariat building and adds a new house for itself without working for welfare of the poor, youth and women. The BJP in Telangana, led by Sanjay Kumar, would work towards realising the incomplete dreams of the Telangana people, she said. Sanjay Kumar, who started his 'padayatra' on August 28 from the Bhagya Lakshmi temple at the historic Charminar in Hyderabad, hit out at the TRS government over its 'failures' on employment, agriculture, education and other fronts. Saying that he has been accused of inciting communalism though he talked about development, Kumar, known for his strong Hindutva views, asked the crowd whether he should talk about Hindutva or not. Asserting that he and the BJP would work for the 80 per cent of Hindus, he asked the Hindu society watching him to think as to what would be their situation in Telangana if the BJP does not talk about their problems. It was the BJP that spoke out when conditions were imposed in Telangana on Ganesh Chaturthi festivities, he said and alleged that the TRS government indulged in minority appeasement politics. The TRS and Congress are called secular though they are friendly with the AIMIM, but BJP is dubbed as communal when the party opposes it, he said. "That's why... think which rule you want in Telangana.. 'Ram Rajya', 'Taliban Rajya' or 'Razakars Rajya," he said. Kumar said he would resume his 'padayatra' after the Huzurabad bypoll on October 30. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/smriti-irani-slams-ruling-trs-over-unkept-promises-1036754.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Rahul's regards to BJP amid Congress crisis||The Congress is under siege on multiple fronts, battling dissidence in three states — Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Meghalaya — in a reflection of the state of affairs in the party. As Congress grappled with the crisis in Punjab, trouble was brewing in Chhattisgarh, with MLAs loyal to Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel camping in Delhi to thwart any attempts at a leadership change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-rahuls-regards-to-bjp-amid-congress-crisis-1036797.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||Is Prashant Kishor out to damage Congress outside Bengal?||After making his presence felt in Mamata Banerjee's territory, political strategist Prashant Kishor seems to be out to poach leaders from the Congress outside West Bengal. In fact, he has successfully poached two prominent leaders of the grand old party. Both Sushmita Dev from Assam and Luizinho Faleiro from Goa, who joined the Trinamool Congress in recent times, were considered close to the Gandhi family. It was Faleiro who publicly said that he was approached by none other than Kishor and his team to join the Banerjee-led Trinmool Congress. After winning the elections in West Bengal, the Trinamool Congress is also trying to make an impact in the national arena now. "We have to see who has got the power to face the current dispensation which is ruling in Delhi and Goa. Definitely, I will support Mamata because she has fought, she has succeeded... She symbolises women's empowerment which can bring this country back on the track of development and progress," Faleiro said, describing the Congress as a "divided house". Now, the Congress, which was trying to protect the party from poaching by the BJP, needs to keep its guard active against the Trinamool as well. Even former Meghalaya Chief Minister Mukul Sangma has been approached by the Trinamool and he had also held a meeting with the party leaders. Sangma, however, has been approached by the Congress not to leave the party. He is likely to meet Sonia Gandhi soon. Not only this, Abhishek Banerjee, Trinamool's national General Secretary, has said that the Congress should leave arm chair politics while his party is capable of fighting the BJP. Responding to this, Congress secretary-in charge of communications, Pranav Jha, questioned if the change in heart is due to the ED's summons. The Congress has been taking inputs on Prashant Kishor joining the party from the members of the Congress Working Committee (CWC). Even as several Congress leaders are divided over Kishor's role in ticket distribution, none is averse to the idea of the political strategist joining the party. They believe that he should be made in-charge of the election management department without the candidate selection authority. Congress leaders do agree that his inputs should be considered in the party, but suggested that state leaders as well as the former and incumbent Chief Ministers should have a say in the ticket distribution process. The Congress has been consulting the CWC members to revamp the party structure after losing two consecutive general elections. Sources said the CWC members have been asked to give their feedback on the process. Sonia Gandhi's loyalists and two of the party's senior-most leaders -- Ambika Soni and A.K. Antony -- are involved in the process. Congress General Secretary (Organisation), K.C. Venugopal, has also been roped in for the purpose. Kishor has been meeting the Congress leaders informally in the poll-bound states as his induction into the party is still under consideration by Sonia Gandhi. At the same time, he has also met a couple of leaders and gave his personal state-specific inputs to them. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-prashant-kishor-out-to-damage-congress-outside-bengal-1036839.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||Entry of TMC, 2 new regional parties to add spice to Goa Assembly polls||The entry of Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Goa's political arena and the announcement by two regional outfits about fighting the next year’s Assembly elections here are sure to make it a multi-party and keenly-watched affair, where prominent players like the ruling BJP, opposition Congress, Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP and Shiv Sena are eyeing to fight the polls independently. The two regional outfits that will be trying their luck for the first time are Revolutionary Goans and Goencho Avaaz. Besides them, the Goa Forward Party (GFP) and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) are also there in the power game. The BJP, which has been in power in the state since 2012 and is vying to continue to be at the helm for the third consecutive term, feels that the more number of parties there are in the fray, the better for it as it will cause division of opposition’s votes. The TMC, which is currently in power in West Bengal, recently said that it plans to contest all 40 seats in Goa. Former Congress MLA Luizinho Faleiro joined the TMC a few days back. MGP's former legislator Lavu Mamlakar also joined the Mamata Banerjee-led party. But after that, no other influential local leader has done so. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which rules in Delhi, has also thrown its hat in the ring this time again. It had contested the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, but failed to open its account. The opposition Congress, which has been vying to return to power, seems to be averse to start talks on alliance with like-minded parties. "It's not my mandate. It is for the high command to decide," Goa Pradesh Congress Committee chief Girish Chodankar told reporters recently when asked about the alliance. In 2017, the Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House, restricting the BJP to 13. However, surprising the Congress, the saffron party allied with regional parties and formed government under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar. The party currently has only four MLAs. The GFP, which had initiated the talks of joining hands with the Congress, has also announced that the proposal was on hold. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) also has its presence in the state with its lone MLA Churchill Alemao. A few days back, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said his party would contest 22 to 25 seats in Goa, where elections due in February next year. The party had fought the 2017 election in alliance with other political outfits, like the MGP, but failed to win any seat. Some leaders feel that it was necessary for the opposition parties to come together in order to defeat the ruling BJP. "Stitching a coalition of opposition parties is the way ahead to defeat BJP in the state. All the parties announcing to fight 40 seats individually will result in giving edge to BJP," Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte said. The BJP, however, seems to be meticulously preparing itself for the big fight. The party has already announced that its campaign would be led by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. It has been working in all the 40 assembly constituencies. Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has been made the party’s election in-charge and he has held a number of meetings during his recent visit to the state. Although the party is grappling with infighting, the intervention of leaders like Fadnavis seems to be helping it tide over the crisis.  "More entrants will be an advantage to the BJP as opposition’s votes will get divided. But we are not banking on the division of votes as our aim is to strengthen the party in all the 40 constituencies," a party leader said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/entry-of-tmc-2-new-regional-parties-to-add-spice-to-goa-assembly-polls-1036851.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||Helpline for elderly logs over 3.39 lakh calls since May; 37,684 genuine calls||The government's senior citizen helpline, ''Elderline, has received over 3.39 lakh calls since May, with more than 79,000 of them from Uttar Pradesh. The national helpline launched by the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry in collaboration with Tata Trusts aims to reach out to the elderly seeking assistance.  Among states, the highest number of calls were received from Uttar Pradesh at 79,542 followed by Uttarakhand at 54,432, Telangana at 42,610, Tamil Nadu at 27,708 and Karnataka at 22,711. More men than women reached out to Elderline seeking help. According to the data, 23,390 men called the helpline while the number stood at 8,178 for women. The top reasons for reaching out to the helpline included Covid support(13,496), pension (8,952), abuse (1890), health-related support (1202), rescue (423) and queries related to old age homes (632), according to the data. However, out of the 3,39,879 calls received since May 1, as many as 3,02,195 calls were non-serviceable calls which include non-genuine requests like nuisance calls, calls with out of scope requests for non-elderly among others, according to the data shared by the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry. While out of 37,684 genuine calls, 17,933 calls (47.59 per cent) were related to Covid-19 related support, vaccination information and voluntary services among others. About 11,209 calls (29.75 per cent) were looking for guidance in subjects of legal counsel, direction for social security and pension related issues. As many as 5,550 calls (14.73 per cent) were seeking information that includes calls that provide details of old age homes, caregivers, daycare centres, hospitals, doctors among others. While 2,313 calls (6.14 per cent) were for seeking field interventions when the caller was seeking support for the rescue of a homeless elderly or care for an abused elderly. About 679 calls (1.80 per cent) were also received for seeking emotional support where callers were counselled. An official said in some cases these calls were directed to mental health professionals with experience in geriatric therapy and counselling for in-person support. The official said the call pattern in the helpline can help the government in giving it direction for policy decisions for the elderly. On the occasion of International Day for Older Persons, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu had dedicated Elderline to the nation and lauded the help extended by it to senior citizens. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/helpline-for-elderly-logs-over-339-lakh-calls-since-may-37684-genuine-calls-1036858.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||Miffed with 'old, sick' jibe, Kamal Nath challenges MP CM Chouhan to race||Amid a "debate" over his health, Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath, 74, has challenged state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who is 12 years younger than him, to run a race with him to see who is fitter. Nath's fitness challenge comes in the wake of Chouhan, 62, repeatedly targetting him over his age and health, saying that he was resting in Delhi. "There is a lot of debate over my health. Shivrajji is saying that Kamal Nathji is sick and old. Shivraji, I throw a challenge to you, come let us have a race," Nath, who is also the leader of the opposition, said in a media statement. "I did go for my post Covid-19 check up because I had pneumonia - which anyone can have. I got all the tests done. All reports came out good. Covid-19 are of two types - one of short duration and another of a long duration. I faced the long duration one," he added. "I was in Delhi, where I have many responsibilities (of the Congress) to discharge. This does not mean I was in Delhi because I was unwell and resting," the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said. A Congress leader said, Nath reached here on Saturday and is scheduled to leave for Delhi on Sunday along with the list of candidates for the October 30 bypolls to three Assembly seats and one Lok Sabha constituency in MP. Talking to PTI about Nath's challenge, MP Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, "This is an apt reply to CM Chouhan, who was repeatedly needling Nathji that he has grown old, sick and resting in Delhi. Chouhan should keep in mind that he has been defeated in the 2018 MP Assembly poll race by Nathji." State BJP's senior leader Deepak Vijayavargiya said, "The BJP runs races for the development and well being of people. But sitting in drawing rooms, the Congress runs races on Twitter and falls. In the October 30 bypolls, people will decide who is the winner. I pray to God for Nath's good health. He must stay fine after defeating coronavirus." Both - Nath and Chouhan - had contracted coronavirus. Chouhan had got infected last year and was discharged in August (last year) from a private hospital here after recovery. Nath became the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh in December 2018 after the Congress won the Assembly polls that year. However, his government collapsed in March 2020 following the resignation of 22 MLAs of the then ruling Congress. The government helmed by him lasted only 15 months, after which the BJP came back to power and Chouhan returned as the state the chief minister for the fourth time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/miffed-with-old-sick-jibe-kamal-nath-challenges-mp-cm-chouhan-to-race-1036862.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi again targets Modi govt on Chinese incursions||Top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday once again targeted the government over the Chinese "incursions" in Ladakh and Uttarakhand by taking a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his '56-inch' chest remark he made during 2014 Lok Sabha election campaign. "China plus Pakistan plus 'Mr 56 inch' is equal to increasing Chinese occupation of India's land," he said in a tweet in Hindi with hashtags of Ladakh and Uttarakhand.    Around 100 soldiers of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) had transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Barahoti sector in Uttarakhand on August 30. They returned after spending a few hours inside Indian territory. There were no official comments regarding the incident. A vocal critic of the Modi government, Rahul has been targeting the government over the Chinese incursions and has accused the BJP dispensation of not doing enough to protect the territorial integrity of the nation. Last week, he tweeted, "Jumla - Will kill you by entering the house. Truth- China is killing us by entering our country." He has also been attacking the government on a variety of issues, including price rise. On Saturday, he said, "Petrol prices are responsible for record breaking inflation. The central government is responsible for the record breaking petrol prices. One person is responsible for breaking all the wrong records." Check latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-again-targets-modi-govt-on-chinese-incursions-1036870.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||Secularism used for political convenience in country: Naqvi||Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi took a swipe at the opposition on Sunday, alleging that those political parties which held power for the maximum time in the country adopted the path of "divide and rule" by using secularism for their political convenience. Addressing "Social Harmony and Women Empowerment and Pt. Deen Dayal Smriti Samman Programme" organised by a Buddhist body here, the senior BJP leader said despite such "conspiracies", India’s culture, traditions and Constitution have not allowed the thread of unity in diversity to weaken in any circumstances. "Many obstacles came in the way of inclusive development, but our strength of unity in diversity has ensured the country moved forward on the path of prosperity," the Minority Affairs Minister said, according to a statement. While people are celebrating the 75th anniversary of Independence, they must also remember the “horrors of partition”, he said. "We have to remember who was responsible for the horrors of partition. We have to remember who conspired to sacrifice India’s interests for their narrow-minded political self-interests," he said. Naqvi said that Lord Buddha’s purposeful message of spiritual humanism and karma-oriented life is still relevant for the entire humanity. His teachings of spiritual self-confidence continues to show people the path of inner peace and self-capability by erasing all the contradictions, he said, adding that his message of inclusive society has proved to be the most meaningful. Naqvi said that even after having various languages, religions, regions and lifestyles, India is united because of its culture, traditions and strong constitutional values. During the last seven years, the Modi government has worked for inclusive empowerment with commitment to constitutional values. It has ensured “development with dignity” of all the sections including minorities, he said. Union ministers Arjun Ram Meghwal and John Barla, Bhartiya Baudh Sangh president Bhante Sanghpriya Rahul and various other religious leaders and figures from education, social, cultural, health and other sectors were present on the occasion, the statement said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/secularism-used-for-political-convenience-in-country-naqvi-1036889.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||NCB raid on Mumbai cruise ship meant to divert attention from Mundra port drugs haul: Congress||The party also demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the drugs haul at the port. Last month, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) had seized 2,988.21 kg heroin, likely worth Rs 21,000 crore in the global market, from two containers at the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat's Kutch district. They are deflecting attention from the real issue. The real issue is Mundra port, the drug cartels in the country and drugs that is smuggled from Afghanisthan, she alleged. "They (NCB) catch some people here and there so that media will show that case, (that will) divert the attention. But I want you all to write about Mundra port, why it is not investigated? Why it is not investigated? What is happening there? Why is it ignored?" she asked. Had the drugs not come from there (port), there would not have been any party happening (on the cruise ship), she claimed. Seeking an SC-monitored investigation into the drug seizure at Mundra port, the Congress spokesperson said that drugs are smuggled into India from Afghanisthan, which will fund terrorist organisations, separatist groups and eventually create political instability in the country. She also questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the drug seizure at Mundra port, which has happened in their home state. "Gujarat is becoming a hub of drugs smuggling," Mohamed said, and expressed apprehensions that privatisation of ports would lead to such activities. The Maharashtra Congress welcomed the raid on the rave party on board the cruise ship, but expressed doubt if it was done to suppress the Mundra port drugs seizure. "It is good if the government stops peddling of drugs and their consumption in the state. We welcome it. But at the same time, it has to be noted that there has been no action or discussion on the seizure of drugs worth Rs 21,000 crore at the Mundra port in Gujarat. There is room for doubt if such raids are being conducted to shift focus fro the last month's seizure," state Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said. He sought to know what action was being taken in the Mundra port seizure case. "What are the agencies doing to stop drug trafficking from the international borders?" Londhe asked. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said he has learnt from the media about the NCB action in the sea and he would comment on it as further information about the raid is awaited. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ncb-raid-on-mumbai-cruise-ship-meant-to-divert-attention-from-mundra-port-drugs-haul-congress-1036892.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||TMC spent over Rs 154.28 crore for campaigning in West Bengal Assembly polls||The Trinamool Congress, which returned to power in West Bengal in the assembly polls held earlier this year, spent over Rs 154.28 crore for campaigning in the state. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which snatched power from arch-rival AIADMK in Tamil Nadu, spent over Rs 114.14 crore (Rs 1,14,14,08,525) in electioneering in the state as well as in the adjoining union territory of Puducherry, according to its Election Expenditure Statement submitted to the Election Commission. The statements have been put in the public domain by the poll panel. The AIADMK, which ruled Tamil Nadu before the last assembly polls, had spent Rs 57.33 crore (Rs 57,33,86,773) for campaigning in the state and the UT of Puducherry. The Congress spent Rs 84.93 crore (Rs 84,93,69,986) for electioneering in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal during the assembly elections. The CPI spent the least by incurring an expenditure of Rs 13.19 crore (Rs 13,19,47,797) for campaigning in the four states and one UT. While the Trinamool Congress, CPI and Congress are recognised national parties, the DMK and AIADMK are recognised state parties. The expenditure incurred by the BJP is not yet available Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-spent-over-rs-15428-crore-for-campaigning-in-west-bengal-assembly-polls-1036903.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||AAP, TMC backed by BJP to divide secular votes in Goa, alleges Congress||The Congress on Sunday alleged that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Aam Admi Party (AAP) were backed by the BJP in Goa, where these two parties want to contest the upcoming Assembly elections to divide secular votes. All India Congress Committee's Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao also said that his party was open for alliance with the "like-minded parties and people who are secular and have local connect". Addressing a press conference in Panaji along with the party's state unit chief Girish Chodankar and Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, he said, "The parties like TMC and AAP are in the state to divide the votes. They are backed by the BJP." Rao accused these parties of indulging in corrupt practices before the elections, scheduled to be held in February next year. The TMC has recently announced that it plans to contest the Goa Assembly polls on all 40 seats, while AAP, which had contested the election in the state in 2017, is also in the power game. Rao said the phenomenon of dividing the Congress's votes was not limited to Goa alone, but is found across India. Responding to a question, the Congress leader said, "The party is open to alliance with like-minded, secular parties and people with local connect." The Congress looked forward to having a "proper and stable alliance", he said. The Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats in the last Assembly election held in 2017. However, the BJP, which had bagged 13 seats, acted swiftly and came to power with the support of a few regional parties. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-tmc-backed-by-bjp-to-divide-secular-votes-in-goa-alleges-congress-1036904.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||Supreme Court judge must probe Amazon 'bribery' report: Digvijaya Singh||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of promoting multinational companies at the cost of the country's small businesses and demanded a probe by a Supreme Court judge into a report of what he claimed was bribery involving e-commerce giant Amazon. Singh was reacting to a recent report that Amazon spent about Rs 8,546 crore or $1.2 billion in legal and professional expenses in the country between 2018 and 2020. However, in a letter to Union Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, Amazon had called the reports inaccurate that "appears to stem from a misunderstanding" of some filings. "Now, legal fees are either court fees or fees to the advocates. Even the annual budget of the Law Ministry is only Rs 1,100 crore, and advocates' fees cannot be that high. We demand an investigation into the allegations by a judge of the Supreme Court. A probe would reveal as to which political party, officials and politicians accept bribes," Singh told reporters here. He also asked if Amazon paid bribes for a change in the (Union) government's FDI policy that directly benefited e-commerce giants like the former at the cost of India's small and medium retailers. Singh also sought an investigation into the inter-corporate relationship between the sister companies of Amazon, which, as per reports, together with paid the fees. The Modi government allowed 100 per cent FDI in retail, "which was a direct attack on neighbourhood shops, and from then till today, small and medium retailers are the worst affected due to this", he said. BJP leaders, who were against Aadhaar card, GST, MNREGA and FDI in retail (when in the opposition), changed their stand after coming to power to mislead people, he said, adding that "they (BJP) are now totally anti-farmer, anti-consumer, anti-small and medium trader and industry". Due to demonetisation, the ill-conceived GST and the Covid-19 pandemic, four lakh small and medium industries were destroyed, he said. "Modi announced a package of Rs 20 lakh crore, but there was nothing in it for small and medium industries. It was meant to clear the balance sheet of large corporations," Singh claimed. The former Madhya Pradesh chief minister went on to add that the three new farm laws passed by the Centre in September last year were meant to help large corporations in the agriculture sector at the cost of small and medium traders operating in APMCs. He also sought a Supreme Court probe into the Mundra port drug haul case, saying he did not trust the National Investigation Agency because several accused in blast cases were acquitted after the Modi government came to power. "How can one trust if the prosecution starts speaking on behalf of the defendants?," Singh asked. On his recent acknowledgement of Union Home Minister Amit Shah's help to him during the Gujarat leg of Narmada Parikrama undertaken by him in 2017, Singh said he will make arrangements for Shah in Madhya Pradesh if he undertakes the circumambulation of the holy river. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/supreme-court-judge-must-probe-amazon-bribery-report-digvijaya-singh-1036938.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||Political row kicks up over Lakhimpur violence, Khattar's remarks||A massive political row kicked up on Sunday over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which the son of Union Home Minister for state Ajay Mishra was accused of having run his car over protesting farmers. While calling the incident a "conspiracy", the Union Minister said his son was not even present on the spot and his car was being driven by a driver, who was beaten to death. The incident sent political temperature of the state soaring. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav demanded immediate resignation of Chief Minister Yogi Adiyanath, while AICC general secretary in-charge for UP Priyanka Gandhi and RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary are likely to visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday morning. "One who is silent even after seeing this inhuman incident is already dead. But we will not let this sacrifice go in vain. Long live the Kisan Satyagrah," said Rahul Gandhi, tweeting a screenshot of a report on the incident. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asked whether the farmers have no right to live. "How much hatred BJP has for farmers? If they raise their voices, will you shoot them, kill them? This is the country of farmers...Kisan Satyagraha will get more strengthened and the voice of farmers will get louder." "The act of the son of MoS Home in running his car over farmers protesting peacefully is cruel and inhuman. UP will not tolerate the persecution by the arrogant BJP," Akhilesh Yadav tweeted. RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary targeted Mishra, saying "heart rending news is coming from Lakhimpur Kheri. The minister's cavalcade ran over the protesting farmers. Who is the same when the minister is hatching a conspiracy." Meanwhile, Congress also launched a full scale attack Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar after a video surfaced in which Khattar is purportedly advocating a "tit-for-tat" treatment against protesting farmers and asking party workers to organise and retaliate and be ready to even serve short term jail terms for such acts. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the rule of law and Constitution can not be maintained in a state if the Chief Minister CM himself advocates violence. "BJP's anti-farmer conspiracy stands exposed. Time has come for such an anarchist government to go," Surjewala said. In the video, Khattar is seen telling party workers. "Raise 500 to 100 farmers in all Northern, Western districts of Haryana and make them your volunteer and then Shathe Shathyam Samacharet (Tit for Tat). Pick up the baton....  Fear not that. Do not bother about that when you pick up batons. If you stay there (in jail) for a month or six months, you will automatically become big leaders. You will not get so much education in these meetings than what you get there." Surjewala said, "Your Gurumantra of openly asking BJP supporters to attack protesting farmers with lathis, go to jail and emerge as leader from there, will never succeed. Giving such a call to create anarchy after having taken the vow of the Constitution is treason. Seems this also has the backing of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief J P Nadda." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-row-kicks-up-over-lakhimpur-violence-khattars-remarks-1036979.html
03-10-2021||National Politics||'Barbarity won't stop farmers' movement': Left parties slam BJP over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Hitting out at the BJP after eight people were killed in violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri during a farmers' protest, the Left parties on Sunday said such "barbarity" will not stop the movement. The violence broke out after two SUVs allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating at the Tikonia-Banbirpur road. Two SUVs were set on fire by angry farmers. Lakhimpur Kheri District Magistrate Arvind Kumar Chaurasia said four farmers and four others were killed in the incident. An Uttar Pradesh government official in Lucknow said four of the dead were travelling in the vehicles. The farmers had assembled there to oppose UP Deputy Chief Minister Maurya's visit to Banbirpur, the native village of Union Minister of State for Home and MP Ajay Kumar Mishra. "Shocking news from Uttar Pradesh! Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son runs over protesting farmers with his car in Lakhimpur Kheri. Three dead. This is the BJP. This is how they treat our 'annadatas' (food providers). Such barbarity will not cow down the farmers' protests," it tweeted. Union Minister Ajay Mishra, however, has claimed that his son nor he was present at the site when the incident occurred. Three BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death by "some elements" in the protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri after a car in which they were travelling turned turtle following pelting of stones, he claimed. Mishra told PTI over the phone that two farmers had died after coming under the car. CPI(M) Politburo member Brinda Karat said that her party colleagues are going to Lakhimpur Kheri. "Our comrades are going. I strongly condemn the incident. It is a shocking example of arrogance and hatred towards the farmers by BJP leaders. "Farmers are fighting not for themselves but for India and food security. We stand with the farmers. The killing of four farmers is an unforgivable crime by the BJP government," she alleged. CPI MP Binoy Viswam hit out at the BJP and said that people will take revenge for the "bullets" through the "ballot". Bullets for Peasants, garlands for killers! Modi-Yogi raj is blood-thirsty raj. The people will take revenge on them through ballots. Sometimes ballots of the poor are more powerful than the bullets of the oppressors. Nothing can stop the farmers, They will fight, they will win. "Bullets for peasants, garlands for killers! Modi-Yogi raj is blood-thirsty raj. The people will take revenge on them through ballots. Sometimes ballots of the poor are more powerful than the bullets of the oppressors. Nothing can stop the farmers, They will fight, they will win," he tweeted. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/barbarity-wont-stop-farmers-movement-left-parties-slam-bjp-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-1036986.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Civilian injured in militant attack in Jammu and Kashmir succumbs to injuries||A civilian, who was shot at by militants in Batamaloo area of the city here, succumbed to injuries, officials said on Sunday. Militants shot at and injured Mohammad Shafi Dar, resident of Batamaloo at about 8 pm at SD Colony Batamaloo on Saturday. Dar (45) received critical gunshot injuries and was immediately shifted to SMHS hospital for treatment. However, he succumbed to injuries at the hospital during the night, the officials said. Dar was the second person killed by militants in the city here on Saturday. Earlier, on Saturday evening, militants shot dead Majid Ahmad Gojri, a resident of Chattabal Srinagar, at Karan Nagar.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civilian-injured-in-militant-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmir-succumbs-to-injuries-1036812.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Arms consignment dropped by Pakistan drone recovered in Jammu||An arms consignment believed to have been dropped by a drone from Pakistan has been recovered by police near the International Border here, officials said on Sunday. The recovery made from the dropped packet included an AK assault rifle, three magazines, 30 rounds and a telescope, the officials said. They said that the recovery was made from Sounjana village of Phalain Mandal, about six km from the IB, late Saturday night after a villager informed police about a humming sound and dropping of a payload by a suspected drone from Pakistan. Police immediately cordoned off the village and launched a search operation during which a yellow packet tied to strings and a wooden base to carry the payload was found, leading to the recovery of the arms and ammunition, the officials said. A case has been registered and efforts are on to identify the persons who were supposed to receive the consignment on the Indian side. Drone activities from Pakistan have witnessed an alarming increase over the past year, posing a major challenge to security forces guarding the borders. Security forces shot down two drones and recovered a large number of payloads including rifles, Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), sticky bombs and narcotics at different places over the past year. The security grid at the border was also intensified after the dropping of two bombs by drones at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu in June this year.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arms-consignment-dropped-by-pakistan-drone-recovered-in-jammu-1036820.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperature in Delhi settles above normal||Delhiites woke up to a bright Sunday morning with the minimum temperature settling at around 26.6 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, said Meteorological department officials. The relative humidity recorded in the city at 8.30 am was 85 per cent, they said. The weather office has forecast a partly cloudy sky with the maximum temperature likely to settle around 36 degrees Celsius. On Saturday, the maximum temperature settled at 35.7 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperature-in-delhi-settles-above-normal-1036821.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Three hurt as fire breaks out in east Delhi||Three people sustained minor burn injuries after a fire broke out at a guesthouse in east Delhi's Shakarpur area on Sunday morning, Delhi fire service officials said. A call about the blaze was received around 5.00 am, following which four fire tenders were rushed to the spot, they said. An electric meter caught fire, which then spread to the reception, lobby and shaft of the guesthouse. But the blaze was brought under control around 7 am, said a senior fire official. The three people sustained minor burn injuries during the incident but they were given first-aid, he said. The building, which comprised five-floors, was being run without a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department, said Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Service. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-hurt-as-fire-breaks-out-in-east-delhi-1036822.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Cross-LoC trade: NIA raids multiple locations in J&K’s Poonch||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday raided multiple locations in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district in connection with unauthorised trade through Line of Control (LoC), which was purportedly being used to fund terrorism. Officials said the premier probe agency sleuths accompanied by police and CRPF personnel, conducted raids at nine locations in Poonch at the premises of the suspected LoC traders. The case was registered on December 9, 2016 by NIA under Section 17 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967. The cross-LoC trade was started in 2008 as a part of a confidence-building measure between J&K and Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK). It was based on a barter system and third party origin goods were not allowed. “The instant case is related to the large scale transfer of funds from Pakistan to India through the import of California Almonds (badam-giri) and other items via the cross LoC Trade Facilitation Centres (TFCs) located at Salamabad in Uri area of Baramulla district and Chakkan-Da-Bagh in Poonch district,” a spokesperson of the NIA said in a statement. “These funds were purportedly being used for fomenting terrorism and separatism in Jammu and Kashmir. Investigation into the case revealed that some of the traders having excess imports were channelizing the surplus profit generated to terror organisations while others are suspected to have links and connections with proscribed terrorist organisations,” he added. During the searches conducted on Sunday, the NIA recovered documents, digital devices and other incriminating materials from the premises of the suspects. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cross-loc-trade-nia-raids-multiple-locations-in-jk-s-poonch-1036874.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Former Congress MLA joins BJP ahead of Madhya Pradesh bypolls||In a setback to the opposition Congress ahead of the bypolls in Madhya Pradesh scheduled later this month, its former MLA from poll-bound Jobat, Sulochana Rawat, has joined the ruling BJP. Rawat and her son Vishal Rawat joined the BJP late on Saturday night in the presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan as they were influenced by the 'party's ideology and its works for the tribal population', state BJP chief V D Sharma said. The Election Commission has announced bypolls to three Assembly segments and a Lok Sabha seat in the state along with several other seats of the country. The polling is scheduled on October 30. Sulochana Rawat, who had won the elections on a Congress ticket from Jobat (ST) Assembly seat twice - in 1998 and 2008 - was considered that party's potential candidate from this seat. However, State Congress spokesman Syed Zaffar alleged that Rawat has a history of "backstabbing" the party. "Our survey found that she was not liked by the voters as the party's candidate. Surprisingly, the BJP, which claimed to be a cadre-based party, did not find its own leader who can be fielded from there," he said. It is being speculated that the BJP may field Rawat from Jobat, where the bypoll was necessitated due to the death of Congress MLA Kalawati Bhuria. The other two Assembly seats that will see bypolls are Prithvipur in Niwari and Raigaon in Satna district. On Saturday, the Congress nominated Nitendra Singh Rathore from Prithvipur, which fell vacant due to the death of his (Nitendra Singh Rathore's) legislator father Brijendra Singh Rathore. In Raigaon, the death of BJP MLA Jugal Kishore Bagri necessitated the by-election. Meanwhile, Congress leaders hinted that former union minister Arun Yadav is most likely to be fielded from the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, which fell vacant following the death of BJP's Member of Parliament (MP) Nandkumar Singh Chouhan. Senior Congress MLA and former minister Sajjan Singh Verma termed Yadav as the best candidate for the Khandwa LS seat and said, "Our high command too feels so." On the other hand, BJP leaders are saying that Harshvardhan Chauhan, whose father's death necessitated this election, was likely to be the BJP candidate from Khandwa LS seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-congress-mla-joins-bjp-ahead-of-madhya-pradesh-bypolls-1036876.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Drugs worth Rs 25 crore recovered along LoC in Kashmir||The Army on Saturday (October 2) foiled a narcotics smuggling bid and recovered drugs worth Rs 25 crore near the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri sector of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district. A police spokesperson said on October 2 that alert army troops deployed along the LoC in Uri sector observed some suspicious movement. “Upon search of the area, two bags were recovered. The bags contained a large amount of contraband-like material. The scrutiny of the two bags revealed approx 25-30 kilograms of drug-like substance in packages with Pakistani markings. The exact nature of the heroine-like substance is being ascertained through concerned authorities,” he said. The value of the suspected contraband is around Rs 20-25 crore in the black market, he said. The legal proceedings have been initiated after the suspected recovered contraband was handed over to concerned police. The police said the huge drug haul along the LoC showcases the nefarious designs of Pakistan-based narco-terror nexus and its inimical intent to abet terrorism and finance terror in India. “This drug bust is a huge setback to the Pakistan narco-terror nexus. This drug haul in the Uri sector comes just days after one Pakistani origin terrorist was neutralised and another namely Ali Babar, R/o Okara, Pakistan captured alive in this sector in an extended search operation culminating on September 28, 2021,” police added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drugs-worth-rs-25-crore-recovered-along-loc-in-kashmir-1036909.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Wild monkey takes away towel containing Rs 1 lakh from autorickshaw||A wild monkey snatched a towel, in which Rs 1 lakh cash was wrapped, from an autorickshaw that was stuck in a traffic jam on a narrow road in Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur district, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on a narrow road in Katav Ghat on the afternoon of September 30 when the owner of the cash was traveling in an autorickshaw along with two others, Majholi police station in-charge Sachin Singh told PTI. "When the three came out of the vehicle to peer ahead and find out what was causing the traffic jam, a monkey took away a towel in which Rs 1 lakh cash was wrapped. It shook the towel after climbing up a tree, spreading currency notes all around. The owner managed to collect Rs 56,000, while the rest got lost," he explained. He said the people often feed monkeys in the area and many of the animals even enter vehicles. Singrampur police station in-charge Dharmendra Upadhyay said complainant Mohammad Ali, a resident of Katangi, had come there but was directed to Majholi police station. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-wild-monkey-takes-away-towel-containing-rs-1-lakh-from-autorickshaw-1036918.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Eight dead in UP violence; BKU claims four farmers 'crushed to death' by union minister's convoy||Eight persons, including at least four farmers, were killed as violence erupted in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur-Kheri district, about 150 kilometres from here, on Sunday, when hundreds of farmers tried to waive black flags and block Union minister Ajai Mishra and UP deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit to a function at Tikonia in the district. Farmer leaders claimed that four farmers were killed after being knocked down by a vehicle belonging to the union minister's convoy and around a dozen others injured. They also alleged that the vehicle was being driven by Ajai Mishra's son Ashish. Mishra, however, rubbished the charges and said that his son was not even present on the spot and claimed that one of the vehicles carrying some BJP leaders was attacked by ''anti-social'' elements with bricks and overturned, and as a result crushing some of the protesters to death. Police sources here said that eight persons were killed in the violence but they refused to reveal if the deceased included four farmers. Senior police officials have rushed to the spot from Lucknow. A Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) tweet said that the farmers were killed after being knocked down by the vehicle driven by Mishra's son. It also said that BKU leader Rakesh Tikait had rushed to the spot from Ghazipur border, where he and hundreds of other farmers had been holding a protest against the farm laws for the past several months. Enraged over the incident, the farmers torched several vehicles of the convoy and also allegedly assaulted some local BJP leaders, according to sources. Police said that the farmers had announced to hold a protest before the union minister and UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who were scheduled to attend a function at Tikonia in the district. Maurya was initially scheduled to land at a makeshift helipad near the venue but was forced to take the land route after hundreds of farmers barged into the helipad and pitched tents there. The farmers were angry with Mishra after the latter had allegedly threatened them with serious consequences if they tried to show him black flags during his visit. Lakhimpur Kheri is the native district of the minister. Security personnel in strength were deployed at Tikonia and other parts of the district to maintain order, sources said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav condemned the incident and demanded the resignation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-dead-in-up-violence-bku-claims-four-farmers-crushed-to-death-by-union-ministers-convoy-1036928.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||BJP's UP game plan: 200 OBC rallies, SC sammelans; 21-member teams on Muslim dominated booths||Gearing up for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year, the BJP has adopted a multi-pronged strategy of wooing OBCs and SCs by holding caste-specific rallies and forming teams of party workers to reach out to voters on all minority-dominated booths, party leaders said on Sunday. Keeping in mind the caste dynamics of the politically crucial state as it is the largest in terms of Lok Sabha seats, the BJP's central leadership has already announced a team of poll-incharges comprising leaders from all castes led by experienced poll manager Dharmendra Pradhan, who himself hails from the OBC category. The BJP plans to hold a three-phase outreach programme among various castes of OBCs, the party's state OBC unit head Narendra Kumar Kashyap told PTI. "In the first phase, the party will hold 20 'Samajik Samelans' (social seminars) of various sub-categories within OBCs which will be addressed by several leaders, including Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya and Union ministers Pradhan and Bhupender Yadav," Kashyap said. These programmes will be of different castes such as Kashyap, Rajbhar, Pal, Prajapati, Jogi, Teli, Yadav, Gujjar, Saini, Chaurasia and Kurmi, he said, adding that a 'sammelan' of Jaats will also be organised. Jaats, who are mainly farmers do not come under the OBC category in UP. The BJP is trying to win back this crucial votebank which has a significant presence in western Uttar Pradesh, the epicentre of farmers' protest in the state. It will be followed by an outreach programme under which BJP workers will meet prominent OBC personalities and caste leaders and will update them about the developmental work done by the party, Kashyap said. "In the last phase, the party will organise 202 OBC rallies, a rally each in two assembly constituencies. These rallies again will be of one sub-caste and they will be addressed mainly by the party leader from that caste," Kashyap said. Similarly, the party's SC morcha is also exploring the idea of holding 'Ansuchit Jati Sammelans' (seminars of Schedule Castes) in 75 districts across the state, sources in the party said. The party's state unit will also hold a special facilitation ceremony for newly appointed BJP vice-president Baby Rani Maurya across several places in the state. Rani Maurya, who hails from Agra, recently resigned as Uttarakhand governor. She belongs to the Jatav community and is expected to contest upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Similarly, in its bid to secure minority votes, the BJP's Minority Morcha unit of UP has plans to build a team of workers on Muslim booths across the state. "The minority morcha is in the process of building 21-member teams of its booth workers on all minority-dominated booths and is aiming for 20 per cent of the Muslim votes," BJP's minority cell UP unit head Kunwar Basit Ali told PTI. Ali said even if each booth worker is able to manage 10 votes, the party will be able to reach its target of 20 per cent minority votes. He said the party's workers will be stationed in all localities with Muslim-dominated booths at designated places on the day of polling. When contacted, BJP's state vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak said the party is in election mode and all its frontal organisations have been instructed to reach out to people and spread word about the developmental work done by both governments at the Centre and in the state.  The BJP has outdone its rivals in three consecutive polls -- the 2014 general elections, 2017 Uttar Pradesh elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Politically observers are of the opinion that the party has carved a place for itself and it holds sway over non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits. These two sub-castes are traditionally the supporters of SP and BSP, respectively.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-up-game-plan-200-obc-rallies-sc-sammelans-21-member-teams-on-muslim-dominated-booths-1036956.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Those involved in desecration cases won't be spared: Punjab CM Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday said there will not be any laxity in action against those involved in desecration cases. The desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib had taken place in Punjab's Faridkot district in 2015 during the previous SAD-BJP regime. Addressing a public gathering at a state-level function to hand over debt relief certificates to farm labourers and landless farmers, he reiterated his government's firm commitment to ensure clean and transparent administration to people. The CM’s statement came on a day state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu once again sought the replacement of Punjab's police chief and advocate general. IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, who was given the additional charge of the DGP, was the head of the SIT formed in 2015 by the then SAD-BJP government to probe desecration cases. Sidhu had alleged that he wrongly indicted two Sikh men and gave a clean chit to members of the Badal family. Sidhu also objected to the appointment of A S Deol as the state's new advocate general. Deol was the counsel for former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, post the police firing on people protesting the desecration incidents. Touching upon the issue, Channi said, "There is not going to be any laxity against those who indulged in the desecration of the Guru (Granth Sahib). Legs may be severed but will not falter, I can assure you." In an apparent dig at the previous Amarinder Singh-led regime, Channi said, "A revolution will be visible in the coming days. A system has changed. A rule of people has come." He stressed the need for early resolution of genuine concerns of people, especially the poor to repose their trust in the functioning of the government. Channi asserted that civil and police officers will be made responsive and accountable for prompt redress of grievances. The CM thanked people of the Chamkaur Sahib Assembly constituency for reposing confidence in his leadership as a "humble servant" and assured to serve them for the development of the region and their welfare with utmost devotion, sincerity and commitment throughout his life. "You elected me as an MLA and then I became chief minister," he said. He said people could approach him even at midnight for the redress of their problems. Channi also asked the state youth not to accept any wrongdoing or corruption, asserting that there will be an instant action if anything wrong comes into his notice. He further said any person found to be indulging in wrongdoing will not be spared while the innocent and honest will not be harassed by police at any cost. He said instructions to all civil and police officers had already been issued to ensure their accessibility to people besides giving due respect to people's representatives like MLAs, sarpanches and panches. Later talking to reporters, Channi said an employee who has attained the age of 58 will not be allowed to serve anymore so that the youth could be given a chance in government jobs. In a separate event at Mohali, Channi exhorted teachers to become role models in transforming the destiny of students so as to make them ideal citizens of society.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/those-involved-in-desecration-cases-wont-be-spared-punjab-cm-channi-1036968.html
03-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ajay Mishra says 3 BJP workers and driver lynched, stone-pelting led to car accident||Union Minister Ajay Mishra on Sunday said that three BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death by "some elements" in the protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh after a car in which they were travelling turned turtle following pelting of stones. Mishra told PTI over the phone that two farmers had died after coming under the car. The Union minister of state for home said neither his son nor he was present at the site when the incident occurred. He said the incident happened when some BJP workers were going to receive UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya who had come to attend an event at Lakhimpur Kheri. "Some elements in farmers, who were protesting, showed black flags and pelted stones on the car which turned turtle. Two farmers came under the car and died. "Three BJP workers and the driver of the car were beaten to death by some people present there," he said, adding he was on his way to get their postmortem done. Mishra said his son was not present at the spot as alleged by some farmer leaders and he has photographic and video evidence to prove it. "My son was present at the venue of the (deputy chief minister's) event and thousands of people, officers of the administration and police were present there. All through, I was accompanying the deputy chief minister," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-ajay-mishra-says-3-bjp-workers-and-driver-lynched-stone-pelting-led-to-car-accident-1036976.html
03-10-2021||Opinion||All the time in the world…||“No Time to Die,” with Daniel Craig as James Bond for the last time retains the melancholy and relative raw realism of the Craig-era Bond. More importantly, the movie retains the longer and deeper conversations introduced in recent Bond movies. The introductory conversation between Vesper and Bond in Casino Royale is classic; it starts with the quintessential Bond one-liners but goes on into a longer and lingering conversation in a train, marking the beginning of a fiery romance. Skyfall has the long conversation, too, albeit mostly one-sided, between the villain Raoul and Bond, with a homoerotic undercurrent and oedipal references. In No Time to Die, the conversation to highlight is the one between M and Bond, with Bond ending the conversation putting M in his place for a terrible decision, using the boss’ desk to relatively size his capabilities. The future of conversations is very interesting, and maybe Bond reflects what people are looking for in real life – meaningful conversations that connect, nurture, and educate; and sometimes, the one-liners just to flirt, cajole, or irritate! Of course, there is much more to conversations, as they turn into narratives. Narratives can help elect governments, incite violence, help provide justice, or fuel revolutions. Technology has created the ability to turn conversations into narratives faster. Conversations are everywhere, from one-liners to tomes of text; from audio podcasts to short format videos to vlogging; from social media conversations to game platform discussions. Storytelling has become mainstream. Leaders are told that they must be storytellers, much to the chagrin of the old guard. As conversations become narratives, companies are interested in finding out what products to build and where to sell; media is interested in tapping into narratives for news; the government is eager to understand the sentiments of its citizens. Fake news today travels faster and further than real news through social platform conversations. Conversations are going digital with chat bots – both plaintext and photorealistic. Digital assistants are listening-in, to service you and even to have an intelligent conversation. Augmented reality and virtual reality can assist you with conversations. Amongst all these, there are swathes of population who are lonely and hungry for someone who will listen. Just listen…and maybe understand. It is important to leverage technology, but also to keep it in its place as far as conversations go. It is important to get out and in front of each other, physically, as we have evolved to be social creatures. It is important to speak without fear and develop the fine art of conversing. It is important to develop empathy and to listen to understand. It is important to provide our diverse citizens platforms for expression. It is important for leaders to create narratives that matter to the planet and for citizens to feed conversations that inform policy. We must stop running around like squirrels in a race and make time for conversations. For as Craig’s last line as Bond goes, “You have all the time in the world.” (Katragadda is the former CTO of Tata Group and founder of AI company Myelin Foundry. He is driven to peel off known facts to discover unknown layers.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/all-the-time-in-the-world-1036720.html
03-10-2021||Opinion||Smartphone-transmitted diseases, the new STDs||Up until the mid-1980s, the Indian government, which monopolised telecommunications equipment and infrastructure, considered telephones to be luxuries rather than necessities. As a result, few people owned telephones and the rest had to walk miles to find public pay phones to stay in touch with family and friends. In the 15 years that followed, the establishment of public call offices with STD (subscriber trunk dialling) facilities across the country drastically altered the communications landscape. The evolution of computers followed a similar trajectory – mainframe computers followed, in sequence, by minicomputers, personal computers/desktops, and laptops. India’s adoption of various technologies has always been one or two generations behind. Compare this with Myanmar, which went from few telephones and even fewer computers spanning a 50-year period, directly into the smartphone era. With the advent of wireless communication technology and a concomitant increase in internet usage over the past 15 years, we now have over 500 million Indians and 25 million Myanmar citizens in proud possession of smartphones. According to the US networking giant Cisco, smartphone usage in India is slated to double in the next five years. Staying in touch 24/7. You couldn’t ask for more, could you? Which brings me to the main issues that I wish to address in this article. The acronym STD may stand for ‘sexually transmitted diseases’ such as HIV/AIDS, or ‘subscriber trunk dialling.’ The latter usage is, of course, passe and needs to be updated. I would suggest ‘smartphone-transmitted diseases’ as a possible substitute. Before identifying and discussing these new diseases, I present some background information which may be helpful. The wellbeing of a country is often measured in terms of its per capita GDP while its ‘connectedness’ is based on internet usage and social media participation. Using IMF economic data and global internet statistics data, here are some important numbers for select countries: Compared to 95 per cent of the population using the internet in the US and Germany, both high per capita GDP countries, internet usage is only around 40 per cent in India and Myanmar, two countries that rank in the bottom 25 per cent of per capita GDP. However, social media access in India, China and Myanmar is very high, compared to Germany or the US. In Myanmar, it is 100 per cent. Globally, Google is the search engine of choice on smartphones. Likewise, Facebook for social media. Google and Facebook operate the world’s most sophisticated dragnet surveillance system, be it to show ads or as a tool of social control by keeping tabs on entire populations. In countries such as Myanmar and Qatar, the default homepage is Facebook’s website. It is a given that users rarely change the default settings on computing devices – either due to ignorance or indifference. A list, by no means complete, of smartphone-transmitted diseases, is the following – conspicuous consumption, narcissism, nationalism, religious bigotry, ethnic hatred, xenophobia, homophobia, misogyny, misinformation, and fake news. Conspicuous consumption is at top of the list because Google and Facebook make enormous amounts of money promoting products, irrespective of whether people really need these products or not. A good way to boost both the nominal and per capita GDPs of any country, don’t you think? The coronavirus pandemic and the resulting quarantines have only served to increase online shopping even more – be it shopping for groceries, toys or electronics. And fancy clothes and plastic surgery so that you look good while video-conferencing. The remaining items on the list all have to do with social media platforms, especially Facebook and Twitter. In a pathbreaking May 2018 study, “Fanning the Flames of Hate: Social Media and Hate Crime”, authors Karsten Müller and Carlo Schwarz of the University of Warwick analysed over 176,000 posts, 290,000 comments, and 500,000 likes by 93,000 individual Facebook users in Germany before reaching the conclusion that anti-refugee hate crimes increased disproportionally in areas with higher Facebook usage. The fact that volatile, short-lived bursts in sentiment within a given location substantially affects people’s behaviour, which is then propagated across regions and time by social media, is quite worrisome since it can be very damaging to society, irrespective of country. Isn’t it curious that Myanmar, which entered the information age only a decade ago, did not take advantage of the many benefits of computers; instead, it allowed radical Buddhist monks such as Ashin Wirathu to use inflammatory postings on Facebook to egg their followers on to commit numerous acts of violence against the Rohingya minority; similar postings in Sri Lanka have resulted in mob violence directed against Muslims. One can only imagine the after-effects of promoting disinformation on coronavirus vaccines if they become globally available. And affordable. Brand name or generic, your choice. Perhaps you are an anti-vaxxer? Hopefully not. (Roger Marshall is a computer scientist, a newly minted Luddite and a cynic.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/smartphone-transmitted-diseases-the-new-stds-1036721.html
03-10-2021||Opinion||Coal and the City||Less than a month from now, on October 31, the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference – COP26 -- will take place in Glasgow. This is a critical international meeting, bringing world leaders together to control the climate crisis. Cities play an increasingly important role in this conversation. Cities like Bengaluru consume two-thirds of the world’s energy, and a large proportion comes from coal-fired power plants. Many of these coal plants are located within 500 km of a major Indian city. Coal plants contribute to global warming and to local pollution. The toxic smog from these plants moves over long distances, impacting not just the people who live next to the plants, but also the dense populations living in far-flung cities. A new report from C40 cities, a global coalition of mayors from many of the world’s leading cities, describes the impact that coal plants have on cities like Bengaluru. In 2021, the coal plants located within 500 km of Bengaluru have a total capacity of 35,901 MW, generating 173 megatons of CO2 every year. By 2030, this will increase by nearly 30% as new coal plants are commissioned, increasing the total capacity of energy to 46,281 MW, and producing 215 megatons of CO2 each year. The report suggests that air pollution due to coal plants already leads to about 230 premature deaths annually in Bengaluru – this will increase to about 420 by 2030, and 500 by 2050, unless they are quickly phased out and replaced with renewable energy. Coal pollution also leads to chronic asthma and other respiratory diseases amongst children and adults that increase sick days and lead to hospitalisation, severely impacting the earning capacity of households, and increasing the vulnerability of the poor, in particular, who depend on daily wages to run their homes. The Energy Transitions Commission, an international think-tank with an India office based in TERI Delhi, points to the challenges confronting India as we seek to phase out coal. To support economic growth, India seeks to produce five times as much electricity by 2050. When coal already accounts for 60% of India’s total electricity supply, how can we find our way out of the fossil fuel trap? Their reports suggest that subsidies will be important to phase out old coal-fired power plants. But a transition to renewable energy could be very profitable, generating enough money to provide these subsidies. In Bengaluru alone, as many as 1,24,000 new jobs can be created in the renewable energy sector if we adopt this path. But this requires significant support from government and industry -- and the will to make it happen. Thus, there is clear economic logic in shutting down coal plants. The technology is available – already, cities around the world, including Houston, Sydney and Yokohama, run on 100% renewable energy. Yet, cities like Bengaluru seem to be trapped in inertia, not just depending on coal, but commissioning new coal plants to supply the growing city with more electricity. We need to think out of the box, drawing on examples from other cities. The transition to renewable energy can be done innovatively. Quezon City has placed solar rooftop systems on its public schools, Curitiba has taken over an old landfill and converted it into a solar and biomass plant, and cities like Los Angeles have begun to build solar canopies on top of large parking lots, to combat urban heat island effects and generate solar power. Can we generate the will to make this transition happen, and at speed? Time is running out – for Bengaluru, and for the world. (Nagendra, the Azim Premji University Prof, prides herself on barking up all trees, right and wrong.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coal-and-the-city-1036722.html
03-10-2021||Opinion||He Who Must Not Be Named||After Joe Biden’s victory, the American late-night comedian Stephen Colbert decided not to mention Donald Trump’s name for a bit. “Usually, I call him the former president,” said Colbert, “but that gives him dignity, and me flashbacks.” He tried things like ‘Melania’s husband’ and ‘douche nozzle’, and appealed for alternative suggestions. Public enthusiasm catapulted this #HeWhoShallBeNamed competition to top Twitter trend. It was Colbert’s way of shovelling ‘The Floridian Fondler’ (well done, @chummychuck1234) off the front pages and into the footnotes of history. In India, we have a twisted version of this trend. It is not Indian comedians, but Indian journalists who try to avoid mentioning Guy Who Pretends That The Chinese Don’t Keep Coming Over And Breaking Our Stuff; and they do this not to make him less relevant, but to make themselves more relevant in the job market and ensure they don’t feature on any #TheyWhoNameNames hit list. No wonder that Joe Biden called the Indian press “well behaved” when he was meeting Man Who Hasn’t Taken A Single Open Press Conference Question Since He Became Prime Minister Of ‘The Mother Of All Democracies.’ Luckily, our chap needs no help staying front and centre. Everywhere we turn, there Guy Who Totally Understands Radar is -- and I do mean everywhere. Vikas turned out to be almost wholly devoted to the development of a mirrored wonderland, every inch reflecting back at himself the image of Man Who Stayed Silent Through The Second Wave While Everyone Died. The powers that be have, with hilarious earnestness, plastered Chhappan Inchi’s mug on every billboard in sight, put the Philip Kotler Award Winner’s likeness on ration bags, and printed a smirky Guy Who Botched Up The Vaccine Policy on every Covid vaccination certificate. Things are so bad that even a recent full-page ad for poor old Piyush Goyal bore only the photograph of Chap Who Did That Demonetisation Thing. Hilarious, yes -- but the joke is on us, because guess who’s funding this circus? Some will blame these embarrassments on sycophants bent on worshipping Entire Political Science Graduate, despite his disapproval. But face it, we’re talking about Person Who Waves To Empty Air In Tunnels And In Boats. That’s a person firmly in the driving seat of his own promotion, who has decided there is not a thing on earth too stupid to do for a photo-op. I wouldn’t be surprised if pilots begin to report photos pasted on clouds. I want to believe that even Guy Who Seriously Wore A Suit Embroidered With His Own Name would draw the line at his image on a faked New York Times front page with the screaming headline, “Last, Best Hope on Earth” followed by “The world’s most loved and most powerful leader is here to bless us”, and datelined “Setpember 26”, but I’m not entirely sure he didn’t stay up all night admiring the sight. The aim of all this absurd self-promotion is to persuade the country that Kid Who Wrestled Crocodiles personally built every road, grew every grain of rice, and nursed every sick person in the country, and that before he arrived, we were a hopeless wilderness. And indeed, there are many far too many people who believe all this cringe-making fakery. Those people need their heads examined, but if we were to open the skulls of every bhakt in India -- which I want to clarify is illegal so please don’t -- we would only find their brains replaced by a garlanded photo of Reclusive Cave Guy Except For The Camera Team. That’s it from me. And now for the credit line, which gives credit where all credit in New India is due -- I don’t know why, but better safe than sorry. Thanks, Chhappan Inch-ji. (Mitali Saran thinks a good asteriod could solve all our problems)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/he-who-must-not-be-named-1036723.html
03-10-2021||South||Unvaccinated people form 90% Covid deaths in govt hospitals in last two months: TN Health Department||Nearly 90 per cent of people who succumbed to Covid-19 in the state-run hospitals in Tamil Nadu over the last two months, have not received even a single vaccine dose, Principal Secretary of Health and Family Welfare department J Radhakrishnan said on Sunday. After inspecting the fourth mega vaccination camp in the city, he said some western districts in the state, where prevalence of the virus was high, have started witnessing a downward trend in the new cases. Appealing to public to get vaccinated against Covid-19, he said, ".. in government-run hospitals during the last two months, 90 per cent of deaths occurred because the patient did not get vaccinated even partially." "Vaccination has become the prime strategy to combat the virus. People who are in the ICU after being infected by Covid-19, are also those who have not been vaccinated at all..," he told reporters. Radhakrishnan noted that 7.4 per cent Covid deaths reported in the last two months from government hospitals were those who received only a single shot while 3.6 per cent had received both doses. "The severity of the virus was high on people who have not been vaccinated. And those who died after receiving both the shots was not only due to Covid-19 but due to other health complications..," he said. Observing that the population of those above the age of 60 years was comparatively higher than those between the age of 18 and 44 years, he said it has become a challenge to inoculate people above 60 years (due to hesitancy). "Of the total senior citizens population in the state, only 42 per cent has received the vaccinations and people should come forward at least today to get vaccinated." "We appeal to them to make use of the mega vaccination drive being held today by visiting the nearest camp and get vaccinated," he said. Radhakrishnan said till Saturday 4.79 crore people were administered vaccines in the state and for the fourth edition of the vaccination camp. During the first edition of Mega Vaccination camp held last month, as many as 28.91 lakh people were inoculated while in the second such exercise 16.43 people were vaccinated. In the third mega vaccination campaign, 24.85 lakh people were administered the vaccines. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/unvaccinated-people-form-90-covid-deaths-in-govt-hospitals-in-last-two-months-tn-health-department-1036933.html
03-10-2021||South||Mavunkal case, Covid death reporting likely to be raised in third Kerala assembly session||The third session of the 15th Kerala Assembly is scheduled to commence from Monday and controversial issues like Monson Mavunkal's alleged links to police officers, guidelines on reporting of Covid deaths and reopening of schools are expected to be raised during its sitting by the UDF-led opposition. Congress leader and Thrikkakara MLA P T Thomas told PTI that besides these, another matter which may be raised during the assembly sitting was women's safety and a final decision on issues to be taken up will come after discussions with Leader of Opposition V D Satheesan. Some other issues on which the opposition has criticised the Left government include the delay in completion of the Vizhinjam port project undertaken by Adani Group and the alleged impracticality of the ambitious SilverLine project of the state. At the same time, the opposition may have to be prepared to defend the allegations against KPCC president K Sudhakaran in connection with Mavunkal and the internal problems and differences in the Congress party, which could be used by the government to counter the criticism aimed at it. The assembly, which will sit for 24 days from October 4 to November 12, is also expected to take up for discussion the Supplementary Financial Statement for the financial year 2021-22, according to the calendar of sittings, Speaker M B Rajesh said recently. Of the 24 days, 19 days have been allotted for legislative matters, 4 days for non-official matters and one for consideration of supplementary requests. The 3rd session, which is going to be paperless from November 1 as part of the 'E-Assembly project, has been convened primarily for the purpose of making laws as due to the Covid-19 pandemic several bills could not be passed to replace around 45 ordinances, which were issued due to lack of adequate number of sittings. Some of the bills which would be considered during the first two days of the assembly session are - Kerala Employment Guarantee Workers Welfare Fund Bill 2021, Kerala Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Kerala Urban and Rural Planning (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Kerala Municipality (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Kerala State Goods and Services Tax 2021 (Amendment) Bill and Kerala General Sales Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2021, he had said in a release. A bill for ensuring good quality of fodder will also be introduced in the present session, State Animal Husbandry Minister J Chinchu Rani had said. The Speaker, in the release, had also said that allowing public access to the assembly's visitor gallery was also being considered in view of the slight decline in Covid infection numbers.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mavunkal-case-covid-death-reporting-likely-to-be-raised-in-third-kerala-assembly-session-1036934.html
03-10-2021||South||Colleges in Kerala set to reopen on Monday||Colleges in Kerala will reopen for the first time since the devastating Covid-19 second wave on Monday. While classes will begin for final year degree and post-graduate students who have taken both doses of vaccination from Monday, regular classes for all batches will begin from October 18. State Higher Education Minister R Bindhu today, in a video message, welcomed the students to the colleges and reminded them to give up violence while he referred to an incident of a girl murdered by her estranged boyfriend on a college campus at Pala in Kottayam two days ago. Health Minister Veena George urged the students to carefully follow the Covid-19 health protocol while attending the colleges as, the Minister said, the pandemic has not gone. Committees comprising teachers and students are being set up in all institutions to ensure Covid protocol is being followed. Classes will be conducted in batches to ensure social distancing in classrooms. The state Health Department will organise special camps for vaccinating students above the age of 18. The Health Department has also asked the students and staff not to go to the institutions if they have fever, cough or any similar symptoms. The students and staff are also directed to wash their clothes worn to the college as soon as they reach their residence. Meanwhile, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala remained comparatively high with 12,297 cases reported on Sunday. The test positivity rate was at 13.8 per cent. The active cases in the state stood at 1.37 lakh. The number of persons requiring hospitalisation, however, was very few. The state also announced further relaxations on Saturday. Cinema theatres and auditorium will be allowed to function from October 25 with 50 per cent of the total seating capacity. Maximum participation at marriage and funerals was also increased from 20 to 50. Enforcement against flouting of social distancing norms at public places has been eased. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/colleges-in-kerala-set-to-reopen-on-monday-1036959.html
03-10-2021||South||Six-year-old murdered over family dispute in Kerala||A six year old boy was murdered, allegedly by a close relative, owing to family dispute at Idukki district in Kerala. The deceased was identified as Altaf, son of Riyaz of Anchal in Idukki district. The accused, identified as Shan, was held by the police by evening. The accused was Altaf's mother's brother-in-law. He barged into the house during the early hours of Sunday and attacked the family members, including the deceased boy's mother, sister and grandmother. The boy was bludgeoned to death. Family disputes was suspected to be the provocation for the murder, said police sources. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-year-old-murdered-over-family-dispute-in-kerala-1036985.html
03-10-2021||South||Congress on backfoot as Kerala Assembly begins on Monday||As the Kerala Assembly session begins on Monday, the state is curiously awaiting how the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) will take up the row over the fake antique seller’s links with their state chief. The internal rift in the Congress with a section of senior leaders openly flaying Kerala PCC president K Sudarkaran and Opposition leader V D Satheesan’s way of functioning may also weaken the party’s attack against the ruling front. Despite pictures of a minister and top police officers with fake antique merchant Monson Mavunkal going viral, the Congress is yet to unleash an aggressive attack against the Left Front government over the issue due to Sudhakaran’s connection with Mavunkal. Sudhakaran has admitted that he used to consult Mavunkal under the impression that he was a cosmetologist. UDF sources said even as the Opposition would be raising the issue in the Assembly, the party leaders would have to face counter-attacks from the ruling front over Sudhakaran’s links with Mavunkal. Fresh allegation of financial dealing of Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress with Mavunkal, which was raised by an NRI woman having connections with Mavunkal, might be also raised by the ruling front. Women's safety is another issue that might rock the House as the state has been witnessing a rise in crime against women. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-on-backfoot-as-kerala-assembly-begins-on-monday-1036988.html
03-10-2021||South||Heavy rain lashes Kerala; IMD issues orange alert for two districts||Many parts of North Kerala witnessed heavy rains and minor landslides during the early hours of Sunday. Thunderstorms and heavy rains are likely in several parts of state in the next three days Kasaragod, Wayanad and Kozhikode districts received heavy rainfall in the early hours of Sunday. Minor landslides were reported from Maruthom in Kasaragod and Karassery in Kozhikode district. No casualty was reported. Many shops were flooded causing damage to goods in Kozhikode.  An orange alert was issued on Sunday for Pathanamthitta and Idukki districts in Kerala for October 4, indicating heavy rains. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) also issued an Orange alert for Idukki and Malappuram districts on October 5. “A Low Pressure Area is likely to form over East central & adjoining Northeast Arabian Sea during next 48 hours,” the IMD website said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rain-lashes-kerala-imd-issues-orange-alert-for-two-districts-1036989.html
03-10-2021||South||Special team to probe cases of cheating against Kerala fake antique seller||A special police investigation team has been constituted to probe into the cheating cases against Kerala's fake antique merchant Monson Mavunkal. The team will be headed by Crime Branch IG Sparjan Kuma. Present investigation officer, Crime Branch, SP M J Sojan is also a member of the team. State Police Chief Anil Kant constituted the team after a meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. A section in the Congress in Kerala was demanding a CBI probe into the cases against Mavunkal. Meanwhile, there were reports that IG-Traffic G Lakshman, who is facing allegations of a nexus with Monson Mavunkal, was not allowed to participate in the conference of police officers convened by the Chief Minister. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/special-team-to-probe-cases-of-cheating-against-kerala-fake-antique-seller-1036990.html
03-10-2021||State||Power dues: Govt engg colleges, polytechnics hit||Government-run engineering and polytechnic colleges in the state are in the dark with their power supply disconnected for failing to clear electricity dues. This has put students to hardship in the midst of their exams. The principals of some of the colleges have requested the authorities not to disconnect power supply till October 16 in the interest of students who are preparing for their exams. A few principals have also brought this to the notice of the higher education department. According to information available from the colleges, electricity bills have been due since April 2021 and it is not the first time the colleges are facing the problem. The principal of a government engineering college told DH, “The department doesn’t clear dues for more than six months and every time we have to struggle.” “Examinations are going on. How can we conduct practical classes? Some colleges even lack ventilation and are struggling to manage theory examinations as there are no power backups,” said a principal of a polytechnic college. The pending bills range from Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. In Benglauru alone one of the colleges has outstanding dues of Rs 6 lakh, according to sources. The state has 14 government engineering colleges and 85 government polytechnics.  “Despite bringing it to the notice of authorities, there is no relief and we principals have to beg authorities at electricity supply companies to restore power,” said a principal from a college. DH repeatedly tried in vain to reach out to P Pradeep, Commissioner for Higher Education and Technical Education Department. The commissioner did not respond to the calls and messages. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/power-dues-govt-engg-colleges-polytechnics-hit-1036728.html
03-10-2021||State||Youth found dead: Cops suspect murder over affair||A youth was found murdered on railway tracks on the outskirts of Khanapur town with his hands and legs tied and head severed. The incident is said to have taken place on September 28, but came to light late. The youth is believed to have been murdered over a love affair with a girl from another community. Deceased Arbaz Mulla (24) was a resident of Khanapur. He had an affair with a girl from another community and both the families had objected to it, sources said. On September 27, Arbaz had left home to meet his friends, but next morning his decapitated body was found near railway tracks. The Belagavi Railway Police, who have registered a case of unnatural death initially, are expected to transfer the case to Khanapur police after they found injuries and cuts on the body following a post-mortem. The police suspect that the youth was murdered elsewhere and the body was dumped on railway tracks to destroy evidence. The police have detained eight persons for questioning in connection with the murder. However, no arrests have been made in the case. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/youth-found-dead-cops-suspect-murder-over-affair-1036736.html
03-10-2021||State||BJP likely to shortlist candidates for bypolls today||The BJP is likely to shortlist candidates for the upcoming Hangal and Sindagi by-elections in its state core committee meeting on Sunday. Speaking to media persons on Saturday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the party will discuss at length the preparations for the bypolls in its core committee meeting. "We will shortlist candidates and send it to the national leadership," he said expressing optimism about winning both the seats. The party will also discuss the appointment of in charges ahead of the bypolls in the two constituencies, he added.  Meanwhile, Congress leader Siddaramaiah also said his party would nominate candidates for the bypolls on October 7 or 8. "On October 7, we will nominate our candidate for Hangal. On October 8, we will go to Sindagi for nomination," he told media persons here on Saturday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-likely-to-shortlist-candidates-for-bypolls-today-1036739.html
03-10-2021||State||Will be in politics till last breath: Kharge||Veteran Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Saturday said that he would remain in politics till his last breath. Speaking after receiving a rousing welcome given by his supporters and the DCC, Kharge said, “I won’t quit politics. I won’t be able to live without people. I will fight for them, for their rights till my last breath.  A section of people keep speculating that Kharge would quit after next election. Why would anybody enter politics, if they are to retire. There’s no retirement (age) in politics,” he said.  Kharge took a dig at the BJP-led Union government on multiple issues, including taking credit of Congress-led UPA government schemes by renaming them, rampant unemployment and disturbing communal harmony. Kharge said, the Modi-led central government is promoting and propagating intolerance among communities in the country. He alleged that the government, under the influence of RSS, was trying to saffronise the education by implementing the National Education Policy in a hurry. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/will-be-in-politics-till-last-breath-kharge-1036740.html
03-10-2021||State||Life still in the woods for Ramanagar’s tribal families sans land rights||In the thick of the Handi Gundi Forest, about 25 km from Ramanagar town, 16 tribal families are on protest for more than 200 days demanding land rights in the forest under the provisions of the Forest Rights Act, 2006 (FRA). Belonging to the Iruliga tribe, one of the oldest tribes in Karnataka, they were evicted from the forest in 1992. Ever since, the families have been in search of livelihood and shelter. At present, they have makeshift sheds in a government-granted plot in Gollaradoddi village adjoining the forest, with no civic amenities.  The Forest Rights Act ensures forest rights and occupation in forest land to forest dwelling Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest dwellers, “who have been residing in such forests for generations, but whose rights could not be recorded.” The tribal families claim that their applications for land rights have been pending from 2015, in spite of them providing proofs of their residence in the forest. Krishnamurthy, president of the local Forest Rights Committee and a member of the Iruliga Kshemabhivruddhi Sangha, tells DH that they have provided six proofs: A grinding stone in the forest, graves, temples, indicators of land cultivation, elders’ statements and a note by the then tahsildar in the 1990s, attesting their residence in the area. When DH visited the protest site, the families showed these spots. “As per regulations, just two proofs showing that we lived here before 2005 are enough to qualify us. Our applications are being rejected on flimsy grounds by the forest department,” Krishnamurthy alleges.   The families began their protest in February this year. “The revenue officials conducted a survey in February. Even though they did not raise objections, the forest officials rejected our applications. Ever since that we are protesting,” he adds.  The forest officials on their part hold these proofs inadequate. Requesting anonymity, a forest official says: “What is the guarantee that these individuals lived here? We have given land rights to more than 150 tribal families in Ramanagar district, who were able to establish a direct connection to the forest.” In Ramanagar alone, there are more than 1,000 “dubious” applications and the forest department cannot grant land to everyone, the official adds. “Both my parents have been buried here according to our tribal customs,” Krishnamurthy says, showing his parents’ graves, countering the forest department’s claims. Some family elders, Chikkolamma, Alagamma, Eeramma and Mahadevamma tell DH about their youth in the forest. “We cultivated ragi and other millets. We would pound them and make gruel to feed our children.” Their parents and grandparents collected tubers, honey and other herbs in the forest. They made baskets and sold these for a living, they say. Why are they keen on coming back to the forest? “The makeshift homes where we live do not have toilets. We have to use farms of other communities for our ablutions. They abuse us every day. We bear the insults with no other choice,” explains Lakshmamma. According to her, most of them depend on daily wages, struggling to make ends meet.  The forest not only assures them a place to live, but also livelihood. “We want to live with dignity in a place of our own. We want to educate our children,” adds Gowramma, Lakshmamma’s daughter. These families are not alone in their fight. Mahadevaiah, president of the Forest Rights Committee, Bannerghatta, says that many Iruliga families share this fate. “There are Iruligas spread across Kanakapura, Ramanagar, Magadi, Channapatna and Bannerghatta. There are 1,795 applications. Only 400 have been processed so far,” he says. "The government needs to speed up the implementation of Forest Rights Act. As of August 2021, there are 47,722 applications across the state from forest dwelling tribes. Land rights have been given to only 12585. In case of traditional forest dwellers, there are 2.4 lakh applications, of which merely 1986 have been approved. Also, in the case of traditional forest dwellers, the government asks for 75 years' proof of residence, which dates back to the pre-Independence period. This clause needs to be reviewed. Moreover, officials usually consider only biodiversity and wildlife as integral to the forest. I want to emphasise that even tribal families are an equal part of the forest," BJP MLC Shantaram Budna Siddi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/life-still-in-the-woods-for-ramanagar-s-tribal-families-sans-land-rights-1036741.html
03-10-2021||State||JD(S) no parasite, national parties can’t do without us: HDK||It’s not JD(S) that is dependent on other parties, but it’s the two national parties which are dependent on the regional party, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said on Saturday. The JD(S) legislature party leader was responding to criticism on the party’s ambitious ‘Mission 123,’ with a target of winning 123 seats in the next Assembly polls, while addressing mediapersons. While many have criticised it as unrealistic and also while the party has been belittled as one that is dependent on Congress and BJP for power, it is the other way around, he said. “It is BJP and Congress which have knocked on our doors, asking for a coalition. In Kalaburagi municipal polls, we won four seats and both parties are taking turns in reaching out to us,” he said. He said, even at the Centre, by the next General Elections, a consortium of regional parties would emerge strong. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-no-parasite-national-parties-can-t-do-without-us-hdk-1036742.html
03-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka aims to increase forest cover to 30%, says Forest Minister Katti||The state government on Saturday said that it has been aiming to bring 30 per cent of Karnataka’s geographical area under forest cover. Taking part in the 67th Wildlife week celebration in Bengaluru, Forest minister Umesh Katti said that the forest department is taking steps in that regard to increasing the forest cover in the state. “Currently the state has 20.11 per cent of its geographical area under the forest cover. Our (Government) aim is to increase it to 30 per cent in the coming days. To achieve the desired target, the department has been planning a variety of programmes,” Katti said even as the state is witnessing constant legal fights to safeguard the existing forest cover. Batting for more and more awareness about forest and wildlife conservation, Katti pointed, “We need to educate more and more people about the importance of wildlife and forest. If we protect forests, it will protect us in the future. Karnataka is hailed as the land of Sandalwood and it is the responsibility of all of us to take it forward. The department has been contemplating to make Karnataka one of the largest forest cover states in India in the coming days.” On the occasion of Wildlife Week celebrations, a special postal cover on one of the endangered fish species and a walkathon to create awareness on wildlife conservation from Cubbon Park to Lalbagh was flagged off by Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot. Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan Arshad, Bangalore Central Parliamentarian PC Mohan, ACS Forest Department Jawaid Akhtar, PCCF (HoFF) Sanjai Mohan, PCCF(Wildlife) Vijay Kumar Gogi and others were also present during the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-aims-to-increase-forest-cover-to-30-says-forest-minister-katti-1036847.html
03-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Need to open schools to children below 12 years: Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar||Insisting that there is a need to reopen schools to children below 12 years, Health Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said the government will take a call after discussion with parents and experts. "We were to reopen schools for classes 1-5 because medically speaking immunity in children up to 12 years is highest," Sudhakar told reporters here. The state government will take a decision on reopening of schools for classes 1-5 after Dasara festival, he said. He also said that the state government has reopened educational institutions in a phased manner and not in a "hurry." The Minister, who was in the national capital to meet Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, said: "we will make a decision shortly after the festival season. Let the Dussehra vacation get over," he said. Sudhakar said that a final call will be taken after consultation and the Cabinet''s decision. He also said that the government is aware that several children tested Covid-19 positive in a school in Bengaluru. One incident cannot determine whether to reopen schools for classes 1-5, he said. Though it has been more than a month that schools were reopened for classes 6-8 in the state and "we have not received any reports of concerns from schools so far", he added. He said in the state the first dose has been administered to over 80 per cent of the entire eligible population of 4.98 crore in the state, while the second dose to 37 per cent so far. "In September, the state administered the highest single-month vaccine doses of 1.48 crore. The government is planning to complete the entire eligible population by the end of December 31," he said. The government is taking special initiatives to encourage all public to get vaccinations. To end vaccine hesitancy, the government is organising programmes in association with religious leaders. The Minister said the government is taking steps to upgrade 250 primary health centres and is appointing 3 specialist doctors in each hospital. To ensure availability of doctors and nurses, the government will build residential quarters for them in the hospital premises. North Karnataka region has less number of hospitals and the government has taken a number of steps to open new hospitals under National Rural Health Mission. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/need-to-open-schools-to-children-below-12-years-karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-1036954.html
03-10-2021||West||NCB busts rave party in Mumbai, Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, 7 others detained||In a major swoop, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) busted a rave party onboard a cruise ship in Mumbai in an operation that started on Saturday afternoon and still continues. NCB Mumbai Director Sameer Wankhede said that eight persons including Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant are currently being questioned in connection with the raid. Some celebrities, DJs and social media influencers too have been detained. Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker, Gomit Chopra are others who are being quizzed by the anti-drug agency. Eight to 10 persons have been detained and huge quantities of narcotics were seized. The ship, currently at the Mumbai International Cruise Terminal, was to cast off for Goa when NCB sleuths swooped in. Party organisers and cruise line representatives have also been summoned. "It’s a result of a painstaking investigation that went on for two weeks. We acted on specific intelligence inputs, involvement of some Bollywood links has come to light," NCB chief SN Pradhan told ANI. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-busts-rave-party-in-mumbai-shah-rukh-khans-son-aryan-7-others-detained-1036784.html
03-10-2021||West||Thane logs 254 new Covid cases, 3 deaths||With the addition of 254 coronavirus positive cases, the infection count in Thane district of Maharashtra mounted to 5,59,898, while the death of three patients pushed the toll to 11,416, an official said on Sunday. These cases and fatalities were reported on Saturday, he said. The Covid-19 mortality rate of Thane is 2.03 per cent, he added. In neighbouring Palghar district, the caseload has gone up to 1,36,048, while the death toll is 3,277, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-logs-254-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-1036818.html
03-10-2021||West||NCB raid rave party: What we know so far||In a dramatic turn of events, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday detained 8-10 people after busting a rave party aboard a Goa-bound cruise from Mumbai. As the plot thickened, names of celebrities, influencers also emerged in the scandal, the key being the son of Bollywood King Shah Rukh Khan. Among others being questioned were Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker and Gomit Chopra. Here's a breakdown of what we know so far. Why did NCB raid this particular cruise? After a tip-off, the NCB entered Cordelia as regular passengers and waited until reaching midway to conduct searches. Sleuths who raided the cruise were not aware that there were celebrities present on board, according to multiple media reports. The officials waited till those on board reportedly began using drugs and then caught them red-handed. The ship was then rerouted to the international cruise terminal at Ballard Pier in south Mumbai. Who are involved in this case?  The NCB have detained at least eight persons so far including Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan. Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker and Gomit Chopra have also been detained. Reports say that the entrance fee for this party alone was around Rs 1 lakh. While it is not clear how Aryan Khan was involved in the incident, multiple accounts said that he was on the VVIP list and didn't have to pay the entry fees. An India Today report quoted Aryan as saying that organisers of the event had invited others using his name and he came in as a guest. What was found in the raids Meanwhile Cordelia Cruises issued a statement saying it is in no way, directly or indirectly, connected to this incident. "Cordelia Cruises had chartered its ship for a private event to a Delhi-based event management company. We are extending our full support and cooperating with the authorities," the company said. How were drugs brought on board? The organisers and detainees are likely to be arrested soon. The NCB has been in the spotlight for busting high-profile drug cases involving celebrities. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-raid-rave-party-what-we-know-so-far-1036831.html
03-10-2021||West||'Will return to power; nothing will happen to me for next 15-20 years', assures Ashok Gehlot||Speaking about his angioplasty procedure, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said that he would be re-elected to power in the next assembly elections, and he would be around for the next 15-20 years. Gehlot's remark which came after the recent leadership change in Punjab is a possible reply to former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot who has been looking for Rajasthan Cabinet expansion for a long time. Pilot and Gehlot have been locked in a leadership tussle in Rajasthan. The speculations of leadership change and cabinet expansion in Rajasthan started after Pilot’s meetings with Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took pace after the Punjab leadership change. According to Gehlot, the speculations of Rajasthan’s leadership change were to “mislead the country". "The Congress government in Rajasthan will not only complete its five years but will again come back to power in the next assembly elections in the state," he said. Gehlot said that according to feedback from people, there is no anti-incumbency factor against his government. "The public has decided that this tradition of changing governments (will end)…What we are hearing this time is that there is no anti-incumbency… Some of our party’s friends say right-left things…,” said Gehlot. (With agency inputs) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-return-to-power-nothing-will-happen-to-me-for-next-15-20-years-assures-ashok-gehlot-1036833.html
03-10-2021||West||PM Modi's mother casts her vote in Gandhinagar civic polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's nonagenarian mother Hiraba cast her vote in the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) elections being held on Sunday. Hiraba reached a polling booth at a government school at Raysan in the city's ward number 10, where she cast her vote. She lives in Raysan village with the prime minister's younger brother Pankaj Modi. Her daughter-in-law and others accompanied her to the polling booth. Voting is underway for the elections to GMC and three municipalities of Okha, Bhanvad, and Thara. For 44 seats of the GMC, a total of 161 candidates are in the fray, including 44 from BJP and Congress each and 40 from AAP, among others. Votes are also being cast for the by-elections to the seats vacated in some municipal corporations, municipalities, as well as district and taluka panchayats. Polling began at 7 am and will continue till 6 pm. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modis-mother-casts-her-vote-in-gandhinagar-civic-polls-1036882.html
03-10-2021||West||Not connected to incident, says owner of ship on which Mumbai rave party was busted||Amid the biggest crackdown on a rave party onboard a cruise ship off Mumbai, the Cordelia Cruises on Sunday said that they are in no way connected to the party and shifted the blame to the Delhi-based organisers of the event.  “I wish to express that Cordelia Cruises is in no way, directly or indirectly, connected to this incident,” Jurgen Bailom, president and CEO of Cordelia Cruises said. According to him, Cordelia Cruises had chartered its ship for a private event to a Delhi-based event management company. “Cordelia Cruises is extremely mindful of providing wholesome entertainment to families who choose to travel with us. This incident is contrarian and far from the culture that Cordelia Cruises represents,” Bailom said.  He said the Cordelia Cruises condemn all acts such as these and will strictly refrain from letting our ship out for similar events in the future. “Nonetheless, Cordelia Cruises is extending our full support and cooperating with the authorities,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/not-connected-to-incident-says-owner-of-ship-on-which-mumbai-rave-party-was-busted-1036888.html
03-10-2021||West||Cruise ship drugs party: NCB arrests Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday arrested Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, in connection with the seizure of banned drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Aryan Khan would be produced before a metropolitan magistrate's court here shortly. Advocate Satish Maneshinde would be representing Aryan Khan in court. Aryan Khan has been booked under various sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession and consumption of banned substances. He and seven others were detained late Saturday night by NCB sleuths after they raided the cruise ship on its way from Mumbai to Goa. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-ship-drugs-party-ncb-arrests-shah-rukh-khans-son-aryan-1036912.html
03-10-2021||West||In Mumbai rave party bust, NCB carries out first-ever drugs search on cruise liner in high seas||A tip-off from a highly-confidential source, a fortnight of planning and a series of detailed briefings led to the first-of-its-kind of operation in India during which a rave party was busted in the high seas on board a cruise liner. The case may have larger international ramifications. This is one of the biggest operations that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has carried out in recent times.  NCB’s Director-General SN Pradhan was in touch with the federal agency’s Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede on a regular basis when the operation was planned. Pradhan himself confirmed that a lot of planning had gone into the operation and he was happy that it was a success. "It was a cruise ship…we had to ensure that on the high seas, we should not go wrong. And it turned out to be planned to perfection," Pradhan told TV channels in New Delhi. Wankhede, however, was tight-lipped about the operation.  The NCB in the past has carried out several drug busts in hotels, resorts, clubs, and now for the first time, a cruise liner.  The NCB made decoy teams, booked their tickets for the party and boarded the ship to carry out the operation. They immediately mingled with people and gained their confidence, before surprising the organisers with a massive raid after which they brought the ship back ashore. “This is for the first time that a rave party is busted that too in high seas and on a cruise liner,” informed sources said, adding that the details of other cruise ships that dock at the Mumbai International Cruise Terminal need to be checked. The tip-off came from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) which looks after security of the Mumbai Port Trust.  As Mumbai Police started the raids, the Yellow Gate police station that has jurisdiction in the Mumbai port and Arabian Sea was kept in the loop. Check out latest DH video||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-mumbai-rave-party-bust-ncb-carries-out-first-ever-drugs-search-on-cruise-liner-in-high-seas-1036941.html
03-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs case: Mumbai court sends Aryan Khan, two others to NCB custody till October 4||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been sent to a day's custody by a magistrate court following his arrest by the NCB after it busted a rave party onboard a cruise ship in the shores of Mumbai. Aryan, the otherwise shy first-born of SRK and Gauri Khan, was picked up from Cordelia, a cruise liner at the Mumbai International Cruise Terminal when on the way to Goa for a weekend voyage. The NCB produced Aryan before the Esplanade Magistrate Court, which remanded him to a day’s custody till Monday. Aryan’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde would move a bail application. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-case-mumbai-court-sends-aryan-khan-two-others-to-ncb-custody-till-october-4-1036945.html
03-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs party: Union minister Athawale calls for severe punishment||Against the backdrop of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) detaining Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and others after busting a drugs party onboard a cruise ship near Mumbai, Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Sunday said anybody involved in such wrong acts should face severe punishment. Speaking to reporters at Ulhasnagar in the Thane district, Athawale said he would request Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to ensure that the state and Mumbai are rid of drugs. "After the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the cases of drugs in the film industry have come to light. The film industry is plagued with (the misuse of) drugs. We want Maharashtra and Mumbai to be free of drugs. We will raise this demand with the CM," he said. Athawale also took potshots at Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, saying its constituents are involved in "infighting" instead of addressing the issue of pothole-ridden roads. The RPI (A) chief further said his party would ally with BJP in the upcoming elections including the one to the Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC). Athawale said the elections to the Mumbai civic body will be held along with the KDMC. "I am confident that a BJP nominee will be elected as mayor and RPI candidate as deputy mayor," he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-party-union-minister-athawale-calls-for-severe-punishment-1036951.html
