04-10-2021||Comment||Deepening of caste politics in the country||On August 18, the President of India gave his assent to the 127th Constitutional Amendment Bill, popularly known as the Other Backward Classes (OBC) Bill, which has now become the Constitution (One Hundred and Fifth Amendment) Act of 2021. The importance of this Act is the unanimous support it received from almost all political parties, national and regional, in both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Prime Minister Narendra Modi officially tweeted that “the passage of the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 in both Houses is a landmark moment for our nation. This Bill furthers social empowerment. It also reflects our Government’s commitment to ensuring dignity, opportunity and justice to the marginalised sections”. The supporters of this Act argue that (i) it strengthens cooperative federalism by restoring the state governments’ right to have their own OBC list (ii) it is a step towards empowering the OBCs thereby facilitating inclusive governance. On the other side, the counter-arguments are (i) the timing of this Act is with an eye on electoral dividends in poll-bound states of Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka and Punjab (ii) to gather political support to raise the reservation cap beyond 50% by revisiting the Indira Sawhney judgement of 1992. All the above claims and counterclaims seem to appear valid at least in theory. However, beneath these tall claims, there is a larger threat as the Act has the potential to further widen the gap within the OBCs, thereby deepening caste-based politics at the state and national levels. It is imperative to recollect certain facts on how the necessity to pass this Act arose before analysing its dynamics and the larger threat it poses to the real political empowerment of OBCs. The Union government was forced to bring this Amendment Bill in the wake of the Supreme Court judgement on Maratha reservation and the rise in demand for reservation by socially influential communities like Marathas in Maharashtra, Patidars or Patels in Gujarat, Lingayats and Vokkaligas in Karnataka, Yadavs in Uttar Pradesh, Jats in Rajasthan and Haryana and Kapus in Andhra Pradesh. A common element among these demands is that all these communities are raising their voices for their inclusion in OBCs and a sub-quota within the OBCs. Some of these are pushing the vertical movement within the backward classes so as to increase the share of reservation within the OBCs. To illustrate the point, the Panchamasalis of the dominant Veerashaiva-Lingayat community in Karnataka are demanding reservations within the 2A category from the present 3B so as to increase the share of reservations from 5 to 15% in education and employment. The rise in demand for reservation even by some socially influential communities exerts pressure on the elected governments, especially at the state level. This will considerably reduce the reservation space available for genuine communities who are facing caste-based discrimination and exclusion in political governance within the OBCs. With the enactment of the 105th Constitutional Amendment Act, the social divisions among the OBCs will increase, thereby deepening caste politics, especially at the state level.  The reason for this is the lack of data on the OBCs at the state level. In an affidavit submitted before the top court, the Union government has clearly stated that there will not be the enumeration of OBCs in the Census of 2021 as a matter of conscious policy. It also stated that according to the Central list, there are 2,479 OBCs in the country whereas the corresponding number is 3,150 according to the state/UT list. In the wake of the Supreme Court’s judgement in the case of the Maratha reservation and the enactment of the 127th Amendment Bill, most of the parliamentarians argued that this will restore the reservation benefits to the remaining 671 communities in different states/UTs. This stand is contradictory to the goal of social empowerment as envisioned by the Union government. Without such enumeration and scientific data, it will be a daunting task for the state governments to extend reservation benefits to those communities who are seeking it. The deepening caste politics spawned by this kind of Act is evident by looking at Karnataka, the state which conducted a social and educational survey in 2015. The final report of the survey is yet to be submitted to the government and has been pending since April 2016. It needs to be seen how far the state government moves ahead in the face of stiff resistance both within and outside the party with this report. The government has argued that there are certain technical and legal issues (several petitions are pending in the high court) that have to be resolved before the dissemination of the survey report. This has already acquired considerable significance in state politics as is evident by the statements of former chief minister Siddaramaiah about relaunching AHINDA (Minorities, Backward Classes and Dalits) movement across the state ahead of the 2023 Assembly elections.  In this scenario, the enactment of the 105th Amendment Act will not help the empowerment of OBCs, but rather further marginalises them in the socio-political domain. The government’s reluctance in conducting a caste census across the country is an indication of the use of OBCs for electoral gains in state politics. This reluctance at the state and Union government levels is due to the fear and anxiety among the dominant communities about the loss of social and political hegemony and power once such census operations reveal the real number of the creamy and non-creamy layer of OBCs. The Act is a kind of double-edged sword and has large political ramifications. This Amendment Act, by and large, pushes more and more dominant communities into the ambit of OBCs, thereby depriving the benefits to the genuine communities who are at the bottom of the socio-political order. (The writer is PhD Fellow, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/deepening-of-caste-politics-in-the-country-1037122.html
04-10-2021||Comment||O, Captain! My Captain!||The sacking of Capt Amarinder Singh by the Gandhi siblings has triggered an implosion in the Congress. The decision to enlist the tempestuous and temperamental Navjyot Singh Sidhu to unseat the captain from the chair of the Chief Minister of Punjab last week was ill-advised and ill-starred from the beginning. Capt Amarinder is not a sycophant in the mould of typical party members. He is an old soldier, baptised through battle in the Indo-Pak War of 1965. He is dignified and has fidelity to his party, but is a leader in his own right, with an independent mind. There is credence to stories that Priyanka and Rahul were stung to the quick by the streak of independence displayed by the regal Sikh leader, not given to cringing. There are also reports that the Gandhi family was advised by Prashant Kishore, the election strategist, that Rahul and Priyanka must take full charge of the party and emulate Narendra Modi in running the party with an iron fist to rein in those who challenge their authority, to be able to take on the mighty BJP. So, Priyanka recruits Sidhu to lead the charge to topple Amarinder. When Priyanka, under tacit approval from Rahul, foments rebellion and tangoes with Sidhu, party MLAs are quick to sense which way the wind is blowing, and drift in that direction. With Sidhu going on a rampage, the situation was bound to be combustible. It may have assuaged the egos of the siblings to humiliate and bring down Amarinder, but it was akin to cutting off your nose to spite your face. Sidhu, capricious and petulant, resigned from his position of Punjab Congress president soon after the new CM Charanjit Singh Channi was sworn in, taking everyone, including the Gandhis, by surprise, and exposing them to ridicule. And he withdrew the resignation after Priyanka and others reached out to him. Sidhu will continue to be a thorn in their flesh. One can be reasonably certain that the wounded Captain will not fade away into the sunset and can be expected to give sleepless nights to the Gandhis. He lost no time in meeting Amit Shah, and announced that he would leave Congress but wouldn’t join the BJP, keeping his options open. The doughty Captain had led the Congress to victory to become Punjab CM for the second time five years ago, trouncing the Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP alliance. Amarinder was not without faults. He was accused of being imperious and inaccessible. There are charges that he was laid back in going after the drug trade and that he was soft on the Badals, who were alleged to have plundered Punjab and, in general, his record of governance was seen to be poor. Despite all that, the manner of sacking of Amarinder was a shocking irony. An illegitimate Congress high command ousted a legitimately elected Chief Minister by inciting a rebellion against him within the party. The Sidhu stratagem adopted by the Gandhis was copied from the BJP’s playbook. B S Yediyurappa, who was forced to quit as Chief Minister of Karnataka, was not a pushover. He did not do his ‘master’s bidding’ on a dog whistle. The BJP high command bided its moment, and then “let slip the dogs of war” and brought him down. Rahul taking on the redoubtable Capt Amarinder a few months before the state elections seems ill-timed and imprudent. You don’t wage a war with a battle-hardened army veteran and a political warhorse when you are weak and ill-equipped and have a rebellion on many fronts. The self-inflicted Punjab crisis has brought to the fore larger issues that are at stake -- the future of Congress itself, and the fate of democracy in India as there will be no counter to the BJP if Congress disintegrates. What does and what should Congress stand for? Should Rahul emulate Modi, Mamata, Mayawati and other authoritarian leaders or should he take a leaf out of the democratic traditions from the founding days of Congress itself — which held regular elections to choose its president from its founding in 1885 until the Indira Gandhi era began? Should Rahul and Priyanka take inspiration from the Congress of Gandhi, Nehru, Patel, Bose, Kripalani, Maulana Azad and others, who built the Congress that has taken deep roots in the Indian psyche, or take lessons from leaders of other parties? Modi stands for an ideology and an idea of India which is distinct. And his party and its affiliates have a clear mission. Those who do not agree with their vision, their ways and means, have a task cut out to fight them. The BJP and RSS rose to be a countervailing force needed in a democracy to the Congress which lost its way. But today, no one knows what the Congress and the Gandhis precisely stand for. The party and its leaders are not able to articulate its vision and the kind of India they wish to fashion in the tumult of our times. First, Congress must hold elections for the post of party president. A genuine election under secret ballot. Rahul Gandhi must not shy away from battle. He and his sister cannot be extra-constitutional powers, which is an anathema to Congress’ ideals. They must invite and encourage anyone, including the ‘rebel’ 23 Congress leaders who have been humming and hawing for more than a year now without clearly acting boldly, to contest the elections. In all probability, Rahul will win. He is still the most charismatic Congress leader. If he wins, then he must lead courageously and steer the party through a democratic setup down the line. That will give him a good opportunity to weed out all the deadwood, the old guard who he feels are compromised, and who have locked horns with him. If he’s intending to infuse the party with young blood like Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani and induct more leaders from diverse backgrounds and communities, he has to be decisive and cannot continue to dither and grope his way around forever. If he loses the election, it is still good for the party. He must participate in its democratic rejuvenation and be its watchdog and nurture it to give shape to the principles and ideals on which the country, its culture and civilisation must be built. The Gandhis must remember that the Congress party is a national heritage. It does not belong to the Gandhis. Or even to a Nehru or a Patel or a Gandhi or any individual. It is a great legacy. It belongs to all Indians. It has permeated into our blood and sinews and into our very breath. It must be saved at all costs to preserve what it stood for — with or without the Gandhis. (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/o-captain-my-captain-1037334.html
04-10-2021||First Edit||Balm for rare diseases||The National Rare Diseases Policy announced by the government is a step forward in an area that called for much attention from both government and society. It addresses a number of issues and challenges faced by patients of rare diseases and their families and caregivers, but it also has scope for improvement. Rare diseases present unique problems which are not seen in the treatment of common and conventional diseases. There are over 7,000 classified rare diseases in India but less than 5% of them have known and accepted therapies. Even their definitions vary across counties, but it is estimated that 6 out of 10,000 people suffer from some rare disease or another. There is no data about their prevalence in India and so only some known diseases are classified as rare. Most of them are genetic and so treatment is difficult, and even when it is available, it is very costly and beyond the reach of most families.  The policy has recommended the enhancement of government support for the treatment of a rare disease from Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh. The diseases are classified into three groups and there are conditions attached to the treatment. The government would also set up centres of excellence for treatment and create and upgrade infrastructure for screening, testing and treatment. But there are complaints about every aspect of the policy, including funding and financial support, eligibility for treatment, identification of diseases whose treatment would get support and the various conditions and procedures that need to be followed. While the treatment costs should be shared between the Centre and the states, the performance of the states has been uneven. Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have been more supportive and generous in this regard. Organisation for Rare Diseases, an umbrella body representing many organisations in the field, has made many suggestions to improve the policy.  The new policy has occasioned discussions and consultations on rare diseases and issues connected with them. They should lead to greater awareness and the opening of more avenues to help those who are afflicted with such diseases. The policy does not cover all rare diseases, and insurance is not available for most of them. Most diseases need treatment for the long term and sometimes life-long treatment. Private companies are not interested in doing research on such diseases and in developing medicines because there will not be a large market for the medicines. For governments, public health issues that concern large numbers of people are more important. The pandemic has pushed even common diseases into the background. But there is much more that governments can do to facilitate and fund treatment of rare diseases and to bring down the cost of treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/balm-for-rare-diseases-1037123.html
04-10-2021||First Edit||Come clean on PM CARES Fund||The government has persisted with its stonewalling responses to queries about the PM CARES Fund, set up last year purportedly to finance activities related to Covid-19 relief. Last week, it told the Delhi High Court that it was not bound to answer questions about it because it is not a fund controlled by the Government of India and it’s not a public authority, but a charitable trust. The government’s submission, made by P K Srivastava, a PMO official, was in response to a petition that sought declaration of the fund as a ‘State’ fund under the provisions of the Constitution, and a public authority, so that it comes under the purview of the Right to Information (RTI) Act. The government said it is not bound to disclose third-party information under the RTI Act “irrespective of whether the trust is a State or any authority under the Constitution and whether it is a public authority under the RTI.”  The government’s position is wrong on many grounds and is against the norms of transparency and accountability that should guide its functioning. In the first place, the need for constituting such a fund is not clear when the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) and the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) existed and their funds were specifically meant for the purpose claimed for setting up the new fund. Its constitution was announced by the Prime Minister and he appealed for contributions from the public for the fund. The PM is its ex officio chairman and three senior cabinet ministers are ex officio members. The PMO operates the fund, it functions with the official symbols of the nation and uses the Government of India’s website. Government and private sector employees have donated one day’s salary to it. Donations to it have been made eligible for concessions under the Income Tax Act and qualify to be considered as corporate social responsibility expenditure.  When the government is so involved in the creation and working of such a fund, it is a bit rich to contend that it has nothing to do with it and that it is not a public authority. Thousands of crores of rupees of public money have gone into it and its income and expenditure need to be under public scrutiny. The argument that the fund cannot be subjected to audit by the CAG or to public scrutiny under the RTI is wrong in these circumstances. It is functioning virtually as a part of the government, and the PM and the ministers are involved in it, not in their personal capacity. So, it does not make sense to claim that it is not an entity that is answerable to the public under the RTI Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/come-clean-on-pm-cares-fund-1037337.html
04-10-2021||In Perspective||Uniting the world through translation||The United Nations General Assembly on May 24, 2017, adopted a resolution on the role of language professionals in connecting nations and fostering peace, understanding and development, and declared September 30 as the International Translation Day. Each year, the International Federation of Translators chooses a theme for the day. This year’s theme is ‘United in Translation’.   India, being the richest linguistic nation in the world, has always cherished the beauty of multilingualism and cultural diversity. There is growing awareness that languages play a vital role in preserving cultural diversity and strengthening a knowledge society for sustainable development. Similarly, translation plays an important role in developing one’s competence to have a better understanding of religious and cultural diversity through meanings and expressions in any given language. As we all know, language is considered to be very dynamic and complex with ever-evolving characteristics. Translation as a discipline creates genuine interest and engagement with culture and society. Translation always helps to understand popular phrases, underlying sentiments and colloquialisms to establish a true understanding between people speaking different languages.  Language is essential beyond its purposes in communication; it reveals elements that are important for true cultural understanding. Translators usually have to deal with six different problematic areas in their work. These include lexical-semantic problems, grammar, syntax, rhetoric, and pragmatic and cultural issues. Divergent views concerning language and its many functions are reflected in differing approaches to the study of language. At one end, language is considered to be principally instrumental, a skill to use for communicating thoughts and information. At the opposite end, language is understood as an essential element of a human being’s thought process, perceptions, and self-expressions; as such it is considered to be at the core of translingual and transcultural competence. While we use language to communicate our needs to others, it simultaneously reveals us to others and to ourselves. Language is a complex multifunctional phenomenon that links an individual to other individuals, to communities, and to national cultures.  Translation has been described as “a science, an art, and a skill”. It is a science in the sense that it necessitates complete knowledge of the structure and make-up of the two languages concerned. It is an art since it needs artistic talent to rebuild the original text in the form of a product that is presentable to the reader who is not supposed to be familiar with the original. It is also a skill because it reflects the ability to smooth over any difficulty in the translation, and the ability to provide the translation of something that has no equal in the target language. Translation is ultimately a human activity which enables human beings to exchange ideas and thoughts regardless of the different tongues used. Translators and interpreters are playing a great role in society and academia and making sure that all voices are heard and understood by conveying information accurately and sensitively from one language to another. However, translators face problems while translating religious, legal, technical, regional variants, local registers, and feelings and emotions. Problems in translating the text occur due to differences in linguistic systems and languages, mostly resulting from nonequivalence between the source and target languages. There are no universal rules that can be applied to every problem of translation. Translators may approach the same problem in two very different ways and still be able to solve it. The work of a translator would become relatively noble when he or she would translate for the people whose stories do not get heard either because they do not have the voice or they do not have access to opportunities to be heard.  Translation is intended to restate in one language what someone else said or wrote in another language. The translator is under obligation to coordinate his intention with the target reader’s expectations so that the product resembles the original text in terms of style and sense. It should be expressed in such a manner that it yields the intended meaning without putting the target reader into unnecessary processing effort. The translator’s competence to understand and render the message into the target language is born out of cognitive and linguistic knowledge. A good piece of translation must deliver the message that is as closely equivalent as possible to the original text. However, the goal will always be to arrive at the outcome by relating the same meaning and message, if possible, on the same level of generalisation. With the advancement in technology, the translation process has improved in recent years. Translators and experts are now able to use computer-assisted software, which includes terminology, spell-checking and memory tools for better results. India is blessed with a harmony of different languages and cultures. The role of translators will continue to be important to build bridges of understanding between people and cultures. (The writer is Professor and Chairperson, Department of Linguistics, Aligarh Muslim University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/uniting-the-world-through-translation-1037124.html
04-10-2021||In Perspective||Science education in Karnataka needs a revamp||Some time ago, the Karnataka Science and Technology Academy appointed a Committee headed by the former vice-chancellor of Karnatak University, Prof S K Saidapur, along with a few former vice-chancellors like Dr H A Ranganath, Dr B G Mulimani and others to examine the status of science education in the state. The Committee came up, recently, with a policy paper entitled Revamping Science Education in Karnataka, asking the government to implement its recommendations. An attempt is made here to briefly analyse its major recommendations. The policy paper has emerged in the background of the New Education Policy (NEP 2020) with the objective of expanding opportunities for furthering science education. This exercise is worthy of being replicated in other states too. The Chairman of the Committee Prof S K Saidapur says the emphasis in the 21st century is on critical and creative thinking, skill development and innovations necessitating re-purposing science education.  The Committee report, running to 37 pages, has compact chapters dealing with a brief perspective on the growth of science, emerging trends in science and technology education against the background of the impact of the industrial revolution and the need for globally competitive science education. The report also examines the NEP 2020 in brief and comes up with its recommendations with a focus on (a) creating state of the art infrastructure,(b) empowering faculty to take on new roles,(c) curriculum development,(d) teaching-learning processes and assessment, (e) promoting research and innovation and (f) science communication and practice of ethics. Covering these topics was much-needed. First, the report focuses on the need for creating ‘state of the art’ infrastructure emphasising on good infrastructure, academic ambience and educational ecosystem against the background of 21st-century requirements for online and on-demand education. The report cautions that hands-on training in labs cannot be replaced by virtual labs that disable experiential learning. It calls for a cadre of ‘Lab Managers’ for supervising the use of laboratory equipment etc. The Committee’s call for higher budgetary allocation by the Government may not, sadly, be forthcoming in view of the severe economic strains faced by the state, reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Physical infrastructure in state-run universities and colleges are poor to sub-optimal, compared to their private counterparts.  The second important issue raised by the Committee is about empowering the faculty in colleges and universities to take on their new role. The report underlines the need for commitment and passion on the part of teachers as cardinal requirements for promoting science education, both of which seem to be on the decline. State-run HEIs, faced with an acute shortage of teachers, are relying on guest faculty to manage the teaching load. The faculty seem to be over-burdened with examination-related work, with no time for quality research. A lot of them are unable to cope with the task of preparing their teaching material for delivery in the online mode. Many teachers require training to fully adapt themselves to the new modes of teaching. As the report underlines, teachers will need training ‘to shift from memory-based education and assessment to enable students to develop critical thinking and analytical capabilities. Indeed, blended teaching, combing in right proportions online and conventional classroom teaching, with vibrant interactive sessions, is critically needed.  Another closely associated issue dealt with by the Committee is curriculum development. This is significant if viewed in the context of implementing NEP 2020. Doubts are being raised in several quarters about the quality of curriculum finalised for teaching the new programmes being started under the NEP. Exhaustive preparatory in the form of workshops for the senior faculty in charge of curriculum design should have preceded curriculum designing. Faculty in charge of teaching new courses/ programmes should be exposed to refresher courses. The government’s decision seems to be a case of putting the cart before the horse! In this regard, the Committee's recommendation for starting of ‘Centres for Human Sciences’ where disciplines like Anthropology/Sociology, Psychology, Economics and History are integrated with hard sciences for purposes of holistic teaching should be considered. Finally, the Committee’s suggestion for the appointment of experienced faculty as Research Directors in universities, across the board collaborative research by teachers and the setting up of an office of Academic Integrity with branches in universities/ colleges need to be taken up seriously. Is anyone listening? (The writer is former Dean, Faculty of Arts, Bangalore University.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/science-education-in-karnataka-needs-a-revamp-1037333.html
04-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||2 found with minor of different faith arrested in Mangaluru||Two young men, allegedly found with a woman and a minor from different faith at Chilimbi Gudde in Gurpura, were arrested under Pocso Act and NDPS act on Monday. Acting on a tip-off from Hindu activists that the men, the police swung into action. The Bajpe police rushed to the spot and enquired about their whereabouts. The police said that the four had come to the hilly area in a car without a registration number.  Based on the complaint of the parents of the minor girl on the harassment, Pocso case has been registered by the police. Both the men have tested positive for drugs, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-found-with-minor-of-different-faith-arrested-in-mangaluru-1037156.html
04-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sri Rama Sene to file case against illegal allotment of sites in Davangere||Sri Rama Sene chief Pramod Muthalik, on Monday, said that he would file a case against illegal allotment sites in Davangere. "If Davangere-Harihar Urban Development Authority Chairman Devaramani Shivakumar has self-respect or shame, he must step down from the post in ten days. If not, Sri Rama Sene would stage a protest in front of the DHUDA office", warned Muthalik.   Speaking to media persons, here on Monday, he stated that the Sene has decided to file a case in the Special Court for People's Representatives in Bengaluru against illegal allotment of residential plots developed by DHUDA in J H Patel lay-out in Davangere in 2017. "Politicians of various parties, bureaucrats have obtained residential plots by furnishing false information to the authority. Despite having houses, sites, they were allotted at the cost of eligible people by using their influence", he alleged.  Slamming BJP leaders, he said despite knowing his corrupt activities, BJP not only brought Devaramani Shivakumar to the party but also made him head of DHUDA to loot money and properties of the government. They are tarnishing the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who does not support corruption.  Referring to the illegal allotment of sites, he said, DHUDA had invited applications for the allotment of 20,000 residential plots in the JH Patel lay-out. But Shivakumar, his brothers Shivaraj, Murugesh, the then Karnataka State Silk Industries Corporation D Basavaraj,  his brother D Santosh, his relatives D Ningaraju, D Santosh were allotted sites of various dimensions including 60x40, 50x80. The then DHUDA Chairman J H Ramachandrappa, the then district in-charge Minister S S Mallikarjun, the then MLA H S Shivashankar, the then deputy commissioner D S Ramesh and other officials will be made parties in the case.  He urged the court to award judgement in such illegal allotment of sites at the earliest and provide justice to poor people. He also made it clear that he would approach the court seeking a stay order on the proposed residential lay-out on 53 acres of land at Kundawada in Davangere by DHUDA as it may pave the way for allotment of sites against the norms. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sri-rama-sene-to-file-case-against-illegal-allotment-of-sites-in-davangere-1037157.html
04-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||CCTV cameras help Mangaluru corporation check littering in public places||Mangaluru City Corporation has adopted online surveillance to keep an eye on those who litter in public places and thereby help in checking black spots in its jurisdiction. Despite the MCC carrying out a door-to-door waste collection, the dumping of garbage in a few public places continues and black spots had come up in various locations in the city. To keep a tab on miscreant littering, the corporation has procured six cameras to place it in the areas that record the highest littering. Depending on the complaints from the public, the MCC is installing high-resolution solar cameras. Owing to the initiative, a black spot that had heaps of garbage at Akashbhavana ward has now turned into a clean area, MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar told DH. "After the MCC placed portable CCTV cameras, people stopped dumping waste at the black spot in Akashabhavana. The wireless and wi-fi enabled cameras with day and night vision are placed at the black spots, depending on complaints from the public. "The portable camera unit is mounted on a 15-ft high pole and has a solar panel of 40AH battery. It can be shifted anywhere based on the requirement. Each camera has enough storage capacity as well," sources said. The camera unit sends footage from the spot to the Command Control Centre to help the officials identify the miscreants and take necessary action. Even the health inspectors can check the footage through their mobile phones, he said. Sridhar said, "People should develop a civic sense and keep their surroundings clean. These black spots mar the beauty of the city. The MCC has repeatedly created awareness drives on the health hazard and inconvenience caused by littering in public places. "Recently, miscreants in three vehicles were caught disposing of garbage near Nandi Gudda crematorium by the cameras. The vehicle numbers were noted, and a case has been filed against them at Mangaluru South police station." Following complaints from the public on the dumping of waste near Nethravathi bridge, the MCC has filed a complaint in the police station. "Even after installing grills on two parallel bridges across River Nethravathi, several miscreants continue to dump waste into the river by stopping their vehicles near the bridge. The authorities should initiate action against such miscreants," said Prakash, a commuter. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cctv-cameras-help-mangaluru-corporation-check-littering-in-public-places-1037165.html
04-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||High risk heart operation successfully conducted on 15-year-old boy||Indiana Hospital and Heart Institute in Mangaluru successfully conducted an emergency high-risk heart operation on a 15-year-old boy. The boy from Badiadka in Kasaragod district was rushed to Mangaluru with gasping for breath after the injury he sustained on his chest due to the fall of a football goal post on his chest while he was playing. He was restless, confused and with low blood pressure when he reached the hospital. At that time, his heart rate was more than 180 per minute. There was no external injury on the chest but Dr Yusuf Kumble – Chief Interventional Cardiologist and MD of Indiana Hospital suspected an internal injury and possibly to the heart. "His diagnosis was confirmed by emergency echocardiography, which showed a massive amount of blood collected around the heart inside the pericardial cavity-causing comprehension of the heart what is known as “cardiac tamponade” (Emergency lethal condition) which can take away life within minutes if not properly treated", said Dr Moosa Kunhi, Chief Cardio Vascular Surgeon. An emergency arrangement was made to conduct an open heart surgery.  During the operation, the doctor found a massive amount of blood gushing out of the heart through a tear, almost 3cm long in the right chamber of the heart. "This was causing severe compression on the heart and low blood pressure thereby less blood flow to the brain," he said. Dr Moosa Kunhi said that it was a terrific situation to see all the blood escaping out of the heart.  Doctors could control the bleeding and stitch the hole in the heart and his condition stabilized. There was extensive bleeding and damage to the organs like the thymus and lungs. The operation lasted for four hours. Dr Siddarth, a Cardiac surgeon said the patient needs close observation for the next 48 hours.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/high-risk-heart-operation-successfully-conducted-on-15-year-old-boy-1037171.html
04-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Trees, electricity poles uprooted, houses damaged due to rainfall in Mangaluru||Rain coupled with gusty wind lashed various parts of the Dakshina Kannada district late on Saturday night. The downpour has resulted in damages in Kavala Mudoor and Badaga Kajekar in Bantwal taluk. More than 100 areca nut trees and over 25 electricity poles were uprooted following the gusty wind. Over 200 rubber plants, owned by Ravi Salian, were damaged at Badaga Kajekar. The compound wall of a house was also damaged at Nayila. Several houses were damaged in Uli village. The district received an average of 29.7 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. The DK district has received a total of 3,201.3 mm rainfall since January this year. A total of 743 houses have been damaged in the district since April||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/trees-electricity-poles-uprooted-houses-damaged-due-to-rainfall-in-mangaluru-1037174.html
04-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||ACB raids Shivamogga corporation over corruption allegations||A team of Anti Corruption Bureau sleuths led by Dy SP Jayaprakash raided the Shivamogga city corporation and interrogated more than 25 staff members of the revenue section on Monday. The team comprising 50 members from various districts including Chitradurga, Davangere, Shivamogga raided the revenue section of the corporation following complaints from the public that the officials are not discharging their duties promptly and disposing of the applications of those who pay bribes in time and are making others run from pillar to post. The officials are allegedly not issuing a licence for the development of a new residential layout despite submitting all documents. "The menace of middlemen is prominent in the city corporation. So, the team raided the corporation and examined all documents in the revenue section for hours together and quizzed more than ten middlemen." Dy SP J Lokesh, inspectors Vasanth Kumar and others were part of the team. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/acb-raids-shivamogga-corporation-over-corruption-allegations-1037294.html
04-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Devotees' entry to Chamundi Hill banned from October 5-7||The district administration has banned the entry of devotees to Chamundi Hill between October 5 and October 7. Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham has issued orders restricting the entry of devotees as there is a possibility of a large number of people visiting the temple on Mahalaya Amavasya on October 6. However, all religious rituals will be performed by the priests.  The vehicles will not be allowed atop the hill and the devotees will also not be allowed to climb the Chamundi Hill. However, the vehicles of the residents of Chamundi Hill, VIPs attending Dasara inauguration and officials are allowed. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/devotees-entry-to-chamundi-hill-banned-from-october-5-7-1037299.html
04-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP MLAs like lion, won't join Congress: Eshwarappa||Likening BJP MLAs to lion, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa claimed that not even a single MLA will join the Congress which is "dying in the country". Replying to the remarks made by a Congress MLA that about 40 BJP MLAs will join the Congress, he said the MLAs are not for sale. "Leave alone 40, let them woo at least four MLAs. The grand-old party is exterminating across the nation. Does anyone join a dying party?", the minister asked while speaking to media persons in Kalaburagi on Monday. Advising Congress to save its own MLAs and leaders who are switching over to other parties, Eshwarappa alleged the Congress has stooped to a level that the members of G-23 have written to its leader Sonia Gandhi urging her to convene an executive committee meeting of the party which is crumbling across the nation. Saying that Congress is struggling to field its candidates as they have no candidates, he claimed that the election means the victory of the BJP. "The leaders of the grand old party could not digest the announcement of a Muslim candidate by the JD(S) for the bypoll to Sindagi Assembly segment... Had they done good work, the people of the minority community would have supported them," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-mlas-like-lion-wont-join-congress-eshwarappa-1037264.html
04-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||After outrage, BJP makes Vijayendra a poll in-charge||The state BJP unit was forced to include BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra in the list of in-charges for the upcoming bypolls in Sindhgi and Hangal constituencies, following outrage from a section of BJP supporters, on Monday. The list of in-charges released by the BJP unit following the state core committee meeting on Sunday evening, did not feature Vijayendra - the second son of former CM BS Yediyurappa. Supporters and some local BJP leaders had expressed their reservations on social media soon after the list was released, embarassing the party leadership. Vijayendra was quick to clarify his position on the issue. Tagging BJP president JP Nadda and national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, he tweeted, "Some of our Karyakarthas have expressed their anger and anguish about my non-inclusion in the list of in-charge for Sindhgi and Hanagal by-elections. My appeal to them: please refrain from making comments that embarrasses our party, leaders, or me. Any differences among party workers will only help opposition parties, Vijayendra said in another tweet. Vijayendra was appointed in-charge of KR Pet and Sira bypolls when Yediyurappa was CM. BJP had won both the constituencies, elevating the status of Vijayendra in the party. He was also pitted to be among the probables to contest from Hangal constituency.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/after-outrage-bjp-makes-vijayendra-a-poll-in-charge-1037270.html
04-10-2021||National||Supertech twin-tower case: UP govt suspends 3 NOIDA officers, total 26 found involved||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday suspended three Noida Industrial Development Authority (NOIDA) officers over their role in illegal construction of Supertech's two 40-storey towers in Noida, according to an official statement. A special investigation team (SIT) probing the matter has found 26 officials of the NOIDA guilty in the case of which 20 have retired, two have died and four are still serving, the statement read. "Of the four serving officials, one has already been suspended from work. Three other serving officers have been suspended and a departmental inquiry is being initiated against them. Order has been issued for action against retired officials also as per procedure," the statement read. The Supreme Court had on August 31 issued directions for demolition of realty group Supertech's twin 40-storey towers under construction in Noida Sector 93A within three months for violation of building norms in "collusion" with district officials, holding that illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law. After the top court's rapping to NOIDA, an industrial development body under the UP government, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had also ordered an inquiry into the matter and called for strict action against those guilty following which an SIT was formed on September 2. On the basis of the SIT's report, the UP government on Sunday said it has directed that an FIR be lodged with the state vigilance commission against officials of the NOIDA, four directors and two architects of Supretech Limited involved in the case, according to the statement. Instructions have also been given to file a case against officials of NOIDA and the Supertech group involved in the matter for violation of the UP Industrial Development Act 1976 and the UP Apartment (Promotion of Construction, Ownership and Maintenance) in a competent court after obtaining approval from competent authorities, it stated. "Since the SIT has found involvement of two architecture firms also in the case, instructions have been issued that the Council of Archicture be informed about the involvement of these firms without any delay for appropriate action against them," the statement read. The SIT has reported that the Supretech group encroached a "green belt" which was part of the layout plan, measuring 7,000 sq metres as "land plots", for which a departmental inquiry against NOIDA officials is already in progress. Hence, an order has been issued to ensure that action is taken against the officials concerned and the encroachment from the green belt is cleared within the next 15 days, it added. The four-member SIT was formed in September to probe the matter, fix responsibility of officials and it was given a week's time to submit its report. The SIT had sought time extension to complete the probe. The case pertained to Supertech illegally constructing two 40-storey towers, with over 900 flats and 21 shops, in its Emerald Court housing project premises. Residents of the housing project claimed their consent was not taken for the twin towers which were being built in violation of norms, and moved court. The Allahabad High Court had in 2014 ordered demolition of the twin towers with the Supreme Court upholding the verdict in 2021. However, buyers who invested their money in these towers hoped their interest would be protected, even as the Supertech Group filed a modification application in the Supreme Court. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supertech-twin-tower-case-up-govt-suspends-3-noida-officers-total-26-found-involved-1037024.html
04-10-2021||National||Priyanka Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday||Congress general Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be visiting Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday morning to meet the farmers injured in violence there, sources said. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur Kheri by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, officials said. Sources close to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said she will be visiting Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday morning. She has already reached Lucknow, they said. Sources added that Rahul Gandhi may also visit but no confirmation was available. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, who has recently been made the senior observer for Uttar Pradesh, will also be visiting Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday. Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav and RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary would also separately visit the area and meet the injured farmers on Monday.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-on-monday-1037039.html
04-10-2021||National||Pandora Papers: From Sachin Tendulkar to Shakira, financial dealings of the global elite exposed||Millions of leaked documents dubbed the Pandora Papers and a worldwide journalistic partnership on Sunday claims to have uncovered financial secrets of current and former world leaders, politicians and public officials in 91 countries and territories, including India. The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), which involved the BBC and The Guardian newspaper in the UK and ‘The Indian Express’ in India among 150 media outlets in its investigation, claims it obtained the trove of more than 11.9 million confidential files to find secret financial dealings of many super rich. "People linked by the secret documents to offshore assets include India’s cricket superstar Sachin Tendulkar, pop music diva Shakira, supermodel Claudia Schiffer and an Italian mobster known as ‘Lell the Fat One’,” says ICIJ in its report. "Tendulkar’s attorney said the cricket player’s investment is legitimate and has been declared to tax authorities. Shakira’s attorney said the singer declared her companies, which the attorney said do not provide tax advantages. Schiffer’s representatives said the supermodel correctly pays her taxes in the UK, where she lives," it notes. On a world map highlighting the number of politicians linked with offshore dealings, India is shown as having six and Pakistan seven. "ICIJ’s latest investigation, the Pandora Papers, brings renewed attention to the use of offshore companies by Pakistani political players. This time, the offshore holdings of people close to (Prime Minister Imran) Khan are being disclosed, including his finance minister and a top financial backer,” the findings claim. A spokesperson for Khan told a press conference that if any of his ministers or advisors had offshore companies, “they will have to be held accountable”. According to the ICIJ, its secret documents expose offshore dealings of the likes of the King of Jordan, the presidents of Ukraine, Kenya and Ecuador, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and former British Prime Minister Tony Blair. The files also reveal financial activities of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s “unofficial minister of propaganda” and more than 130 billionaires from Russia, the US, Turkey and other nations. The ICIJ says the leaked records come from 14 offshore services firms from around the world that set up shell companies and other offshore nooks for clients often seeking to keep their financial activities in the shadows. It says the global investigation provides an "unequalled perspective" on how the rule of law has been “bent and broken” around the world by a system of financial secrecy enabled by wealthy nations. "The findings by ICIJ and its media partners spotlight how deeply secretive finance has infiltrated global politics – and offer insights into why governments and global organisations have made little headway in ending offshore financial abuses,” it notes. The ICIJ analysis of the secret documents identified 956 companies in offshore havens tied to 336 high-level politicians and public officials, including country leaders, cabinet ministers, ambassadors and others. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandora-papers-from-sachin-tendulkar-to-shakira-financial-dealings-of-the-global-elite-exposed-1037049.html
04-10-2021||National||Pandora Papers: Offshore dealings of Anil Ambani worth $1.3 bn leaked||A year after declaring bankruptcy to a UK court, the Pandora Papers report showed that Reliance ADAG chief Anil Ambani, along with his representatives, has at least 18 offshore companies located in Jersey, Cyprus and other companies, securing wealth in tax havens across the world. Batiste Unlimited and Radium Unlimited, Ambani’s companies in Jersey, were incorporated between December 2007 and January 2008 and are owned by Reliance Innoventures Pvt Ltd. Other Jersey companies Summerhill Ltd and Dulwich Ltd are owned by a “representative of Anil Ambani”. Laurence Mutual; Richard Equity Ltd and German Equity Ltd are also based in Jersey and linked to Ambani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandora-papers-offshore-dealings-of-anil-ambani-worth-13-bn-leaked-1037054.html
04-10-2021||National||Priyanka leaves for Lakhimpur, says police tried to stop her||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra left for Lakhimpur Kheri late on Sunday night and alleged that police tried to stop her from going there. Earlier, the Congress had apprehended that she may have been put under house arrest in Lucknow to prevent her from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri, where violence erupted during a farmers' protest over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit on Sunday. According to officials, eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the incident. Priyanka and party leader Deepinder Singh Hooda arrived in Lucknow on Sunday night. "Priyankaji has left for Lakhimpur Kheri," UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh told PTI. In a video on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, she said if the government uses the force against her, then it shows they have lost morality. "I have not come out of my home to commit any crime. I am only going to meet the aggrieved families and wipe their tears. What wrong thing am I doing? And if I am doing anything wrong, you should have a warrant," she said. "You are stopping me, this vehicle. Why are you stopping it? When I am calling the CO, he is hiding. If he is doing the right thing, then why is he hiding," she said in the video. Priyanka further said, "The way in which farmers are suppressed, no words can explain it. For the past many months, farmers are raising their voice, that wrong is being done to them, but the government is not willing to listen to them." "Today's incident proves that the government is indulging in the politics of suppressing farmers. This is the country of farmers and it is not the fiefdom of the BJP. The land has been irrigated by farmers," she added. Meanwhile, policemen posted outside BSP general secretary S C Misra's home urged him not to leave his home, to which the leader was heard asking in a video to show them any legal notice stopping him from going to Lakhimpur Kheri. Due to the policemen, he could not leave for Lakhimpur late on Sunday night, party sources said. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during the farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers. Two SUVs were set on fire by angry farmers in the clash near Banbirpur in Lakhimpur Kheri. Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently a part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister. They were allegedly thrashed to death. The four others were farmers, officials said. Several people were hospitalised, according to the two sides. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-leaves-for-lakhimpur-says-police-tried-to-stop-her-1037056.html
04-10-2021||National||Lakhimpur violence: BKU to protest across country today||The Bharatiya Kisan Union on Sunday convened an urgent panchayat here to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and decided to stage a protest in every district across the country on Monday. "The decision was taken during the panchayat held at Sisauli village and presided over by BKU's national president Naresh Tikait," the union's media incharge Dharmendra Malik told PTI over the phone. "It has been decided that farmers groups will stage a demonstration outside offices of the district administration in every district," Malik added. During the panchayat, the BKU also resolved to stick to the decision taken by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the anti-farm law protests since November 2020. He said a group of over 200 farmers and BKU supporters led by its leader Rakesh Tikait was headed to Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday night. Malik, who was also travelling to Lakhimpur, alleged that police in parts of western UP like Moradabad, Pilibhit and Rampur had tried to stop them but somehow they managed to continue their journey. "Barriers have been set up on roads at several places and police officers started checking vehicles. We are 200 to 300 people and more are joining us as we move ahead," he told PTI. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, government officials said. Two SUVs were set on fire by angry farmers in the clash near Banbirpur in Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhimpur-violence-bku-to-protest-across-country-today-1037057.html
04-10-2021||National||Pandora Papers: Sachin Tendulkar among those named||Cricketer Sachin Tendulkar is among the wealthy elite and heads of states from across the world whose offshore financial dealings were exposed by the Pandora Papers. The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), which involved the BBC and ‘The Guardian’ newspaper in the UK and ‘The Indian Express’ in India among 150 media outlets in its investigation, claims it obtained the trove of more than 11.9 million confidential files to find secret financial dealings of many super rich. "People linked by the secret documents to offshore assets include India’s cricket superstar Sachin Tendulkar, pop music diva Shakira, supermodel Claudia Schiffer and an Italian mobster known as ‘Lell the Fat One’,” says ICIJ in its report. "Tendulkar’s attorney said the cricket player’s investment is legitimate and has been declared to tax authorities. Shakira’s attorney said the singer declared her companies, which the attorney said do not provide tax advantages. The ICIJ analysis of the secret documents identified 956 companies in offshore havens tied to 336 high-level politicians and public officials, including country leaders, cabinet ministers, ambassadors and others. (With PTI inputs) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandora-papers-sachin-tendulkar-among-those-named-1037062.html
04-10-2021||National||BKU's Rakesh Tikait reaches violence-hit Lakhimpur||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait along with several supporters reached here early Monday in wake of the violence during an anti-farm laws protest that claimed eight lives. “We will first meet the farmers and villagers and discuss the situation with them. The future course of action will be done on the basis of the discussion with the villagers and farmers. Their decision will prevail,” Tikait told reporters at Banbirpur village. Prodded about certain comments made by Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra in purported videos that have surfaced on social media, Tikait demanded his arrest and said the atmosphere in the region was being vitiated over the last 10 days. Tikait said he would speak about it in detail after meeting the villagers. The national spokesperson of the BKU, a non-political farmers' union, had started from western UP on Sunday evening and hoped to reach here by midnight, with his associates blaming the delay on multiple police checks. “En route to Lakhimpur, we were stopped at multiple places by the UP Police. Somehow we have managed to reach here at Banbirpur village and Tikait ji will now be meeting the farmers here,” BKU's media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told PTI over the phone at around 5 am. Meanwhile, mobile internet services were suspended in parts of the violence-hit district, where restrictions under CrPC section 144, which prohibits assembly of four or more people, has also been imposed, according to officials. The UP Police took to Twitter early on Monday to describe the incident as “unfortunate” and said eight casualties have been reported till now as per the district administration. “ADG LO, ACS Agriculture, IG Range & Commissioner are on the spot & situation is under control. Adequate deployment has been done to prevent any untoward incident,” it added. While the BKU members were allowed to go to Banbirpur, a group of Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi, kept waiting outside the village where they reached early Monday braving inclement weather. Congress national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar told PTI at around 4.30 am that they wanted to meet the victims of the violence but have been stopped by police. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bkus-rakesh-tikait-reaches-violence-hit-lakhimpur-1037066.html
04-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Is there anyone like PM Narendra Modi?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that he has tried to live a life walking on a knife’s edge, experiencing every issue concerning the people, which is reflected in policy-making over the 20 years he has been in power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-is-there-anyone-like-pm-narendra-modi-1037147.html
04-10-2021||National||Active Covid-19 cases lowest in 200 days; India logs 20,799 new infections, 180 deaths||Daily cases of coronavirus in the country remained below 30,000 for the tenth straight day with 20,799 fresh infections recorded in a single day, while the active cases declined to 2,64,458, the lowest in 200 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,38,34,702, while the death toll climbed to 4,48,997 with 180 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The active cases comprise 0.78 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.89 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,099 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/active-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-200-days-india-logs-20799-new-infections-180-deaths-1037082.html
04-10-2021||National||New revelations reopen 'Pandora's box' for Nirav Modi||With the Pandora Papers grabbing headlines, information revealed by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) named prominent Indians among the elite list of 'tax evaders' as well. Modi's sister, Purvi, aided his escape from India anticipating the PNB scam blowing up and had made arrangements for when the time came. A month before Nirav's escape from the country in January 2018, Purvi had organised for a firm, Brookton Management Ltd, to be the corporate protector of a trust called The Deposit Trust formed through the Trident Trust Company, Singapore. Purvi and Neeshal Modi, Nirav's brother, are beneficial owners of three BVI firms: Integrated Investing Ltd, Xclusive Consultant Ltd, and Panera Assets Inc, records accessed by The Indian Express report showed. The three firms were used by Nirav for money laundering, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had said. Integrated Investing opened a Dubai-branch called Diagems FZC in 2012 and Xclusive Consultants, in the same year, set up Universal Fine Jewellery FZE, as per records of the Trident Trust company records. Both Diagems FZC and Universal Fine Jewellery FZE were dummy companies using which Nirav diverted funds to his sister. Aditionally, Purvi was settlor and beneficial owner of Monte Cristo Trust that was managed by Trident Trust Singapore. In 2013, a BVI firm by the name of Belvedere Holdings Group Ltd was set up, and in 2017 the ED had said a property under the name of the firm was bought in London for 6.25 million euros. The ED said that this property, owned by Purvi, was used by Nirav Modi to embezzle money during the Punjab National Bank fraud. Before news of the scam was out in they public eye, Nirav escaped to the UK in Januray 2018, but was arrested in March 2019. At present, he is being kept at London's Wandsworth prison. In July this year, Purvi disclosed information to the ED about Nirav opening a bank account for her. The ED said it had recovered Rs 17.25 crore from that account. The agency has seized assests worth Rs 2,400 crore of Nirav until now. Purvi is likely to escape prosecution since she was pardoned on account of full and true disclosure. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-revelations-reopen-pandoras-box-for-nirav-modi-1037111.html
04-10-2021||National||India, Sri Lanka begin 12-day military exercise with focus on counter-terror cooperation||India and Sri Lanka on Monday began a 12-day mega military exercise with a focus on enhancing counter-terror cooperation at the Combat Training School in the island nation’s eastern district of Ampara. The eighth edition of the 'Mitra Shakti' exercise from October 4 to 15 got underway with the participation of an all arms contingent of 120 Indian Army personnel, headed by Colonel Prakash Kumar, the Sri Lanka Army said. The joint military exercise has been designed to enhance understanding of transnational terrorism, inter-operability skills, the conduct of joint tactical operations, sharing of each other’s best practices and experiences, it said. The participating Indian troops -- for the exercise at the Combat Training School in Ampara involving tactical level operations at the sub-unit level in an international counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism environment -- arrived on an Indian Air Force aircraft on Saturday, the Army said. The annual training programme, which has largely contributed to strengthening bilateral military cooperation, understanding and bonds of neighbourly relations between both services, takes place alternately either in India or Sri Lanka every year, it added. On the exercise, India’s Ministry of Defence last week said that the “aim of the exercise is to promote close relations between armies of both countries and enhance inter-operability and sharing best practices in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations". An all arms contingent of 120 personnel of the Indian Army will participate in the drills along with a battalion-strength contingent of the Sri Lanka Army, it said, adding that the exercise will go a long way in further strengthening the relationship between both the South Asian nations and will act as a catalyst in bringing synergy and cooperation at the grass-root level between both armies. Sri Lanka was rocked by a series of deadly bomb blasts in April 2019 in which over 300 people were killed. In the backdrop of the blasts, India and Sri Lanka enhanced their anti-terror cooperation. The seventh edition of the Mitra Shakti exercise was conducted at the Foreign Training Node (FTN) in Pune in 2019. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sri-lanka-begin-12-day-military-exercise-with-focus-on-counter-terror-cooperation-1037113.html
04-10-2021||National||70% of India's adult population administered first Covid jab, says Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday said that 70 per cent of India's adult population has been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. "Strong Nation, Rapid Vaccination: India has administered the first dose of #COVID19 vaccine on 70% of the population. Under PM @NarendraModiji, India is achieving new landmarks in the fight against the pandemic. Keep it up India, let us fight Corona," the minister said in a tweet. With the administration of 23,46,176 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered has exceeded 90.79 crore as per provisional reports till 7 am. This has been achieved through 88,05,668 sessions held across the country, the ministry said. According to officials, 25 per cent of the population has been administered both the doses. More than 5.67 crore (5,67,37,905) balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered.  According to government data, the average daily doses administered in a month has increased from 19.69 lakh in May to 39.89 lakh in June, then further to 43.41 lakh in July and to 59.19 lakh in August. The average daily vaccination in September has been 79.08 lakh per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/70-of-indias-adult-population-administered-first-covid-jab-says-mandaviya-1037128.html
04-10-2021||National||With you, SRK: Industry supports Shah Rukh Khan after son's arrest in drugs case||Bollywood personalities like filmmaker Hansal Mehta, and actors Pooja Bhatt and Suchitra Krishnamoorthi have expressed their solidarity with Shah Rukh Khan after the superstar's son Aryan Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drugs case. The NCB busted a drugs party onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and arrested Aryan and seven others on Sunday. The 23-year-old was remanded to the custody of the NCB till October 4. Hours after Aryan's arrest, close friend and superstar Salman Khan arrived at Shah Rukh's residence, Mannat, to pay him a visit. While so far Salman has been the only one to visit the 55-year-old actor, colleagues of the superstar have rallied behind him on social media. Mehta took to Twitter and wrote that it was "painful" when people arrive at judgements on children, adding he stands with Shah Rukh during the difficult time. "It is painful for a parent having to deal with a child getting into trouble. It gets compounded when people begin to arrive at judgements before the law takes its course. It is disrespectful and unfair to the parent and to the parent-child relationship. With you @iamsrk," the Scam 1992 helmer wrote. Bhatt, who worked with Shah Rukh in the 1996 film Chaahat, took to Twitter late Sunday evening and wrote, "I stand in solidarity with you @iamsrk Not that you need it. But I do. This too, shall pass." Hours before Aryan's arrest, Shah Rukh's Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa co-star Suchitra Krishnamoorthi tweeted that she is praying for the family. "Nothing harder for a parent than seeing their child in distress. Prayers to all," she wrote. Nothing harder for a parent than seeing their child in distress. Prayers to all 🙏 In a subsequent tweet, Krishnamoorthi noted how the Hindi film industry ends up becoming an unfortunate soft target.   "For all those targetting #Bollywood remember all the #NCB raids on film stars? Yes nothing was found and nothing was proved. #Bollywood gawking is a tamasha. It's the price of fame (sic)," she added. During a promotional event in Delhi on Sunday, actor Suniel Shetty also shared his views on the intense media scrutiny on Bollywood. Before Aryan was arrested, Shetty urged people to "give the child a breather". "Whenever something happens in the industry, the media goes all out. Give the child an opportunity. Let the real reports come out. He is a child, taking care of him is our responsibility," the actor told reporters. The NCB team, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, raided the Goa-bound ship on Saturday evening based on a tip-off that a party was scheduled onboard. The sleuths seized 13 grams of cocaine, five grams of MD, 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of Ecstasy and Rs 1.33 lakh.             The NCB on Sunday said it had evidence suggesting a nexus between three persons it had arrested, including Aryan, and suppliers and peddlers of drugs and banned narcotic substances regularly. "Prima facie investigation conducted by the NCB reveals that there is incriminating material in the form of WhatsApp chats and so on that clearly shows the nexus with the arrested accused (Aryan Khan and two others) with suppliers and peddlers on a regular basis," the NCB said in its remand note.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-you-srk-industry-supports-shah-rukh-khan-after-sons-arrest-in-drugs-case-1037150.html
04-10-2021||National||No state should deny Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to kin of those who lost lives to Covid-19: SC||The Supreme Court Monday said no state should deny the ex-gratia compensation of Rs 50,000, as recommended by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), to the kin of persons who died of Covid-19 on the sole ground that death certificate does not mention it as the cause of death. The bench said that the compensation would be disbursed from state disaster relief funds within 30 days of submitting application and cause of death being certified as of Covid-19. It also ordered the states and the Centre to give wide publicity to the scheme in print media and electronic media. Approving the NDMA guidelines, a bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said that in cases of death certificates already issued and a family member being aggrieved it would be open for them to approach appropriate authority. On production of essential documents like RTPCR test, the concerned authorities can modify death certificates, the apex court said, adding that if still aggrieved, the members can approach the Grievance Redressal Committee. "No states shall deny ex gratia on ground that in death certificate cause of death is not mentioned that 'died due to Covid'," the bench said. The top court also ordered that the Grievance Redressal Committee can examine medical records of deceased patients and take a call within 30 days and order the compensation. The NDMA had earlier recommended that Rs 50,000 be given to the kin of those who died of Covid-19. It had said that ex-gratia assistance will also be given to the kin of those who died of the virus due to involvement in Covid-19 relief operations or activities associated with the preparedness for dealing with the pandemic. The government had said that NDMA had issued the guidelines on September 11 in compliance with the directions of the apex court given on June 30 wherein it had directed the authority to recommend guidelines for ex-gratia assistance. In its affidavit filed on a batch of pleas by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and intervenors represented by advocate Sumeer Sodhi seeking ex-gratia assistance to family members of Covid-19 victims, the Centre had said the NDMA has already started discussions/consultations on the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission regarding insurance intervention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-state-should-deny-rs-50000-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-those-who-lost-lives-to-covid-19-sc-1037151.html
04-10-2021||National||No state should deny Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to kin of those who lost lives to Covid-19: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday declared that no State would deny the ex-gratia assistance of Rs 50,000 to the the kin of the Covid-19 victims solely on the ground that the certificate did not mention the viral disease as the cause of death. A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna directed the District Disaster Management Authority and District Administration and others to "to avoid any technicalities and act as a helping hand, so as to wipe off the tears of those who have suffered due to loss of a family member due to Covid-19". The court approved the Union government's proposal of paying Rs 50,000 to the next of kin of those who died Covid-19 here. It said, "No state shall deny the Rs 50,000 benefit on the ground that cause of death in death certificate is not Covid-19. The district authorities will take remedial steps to have the cause of death corrected.”  If the death certificate does not cite the cause of death as Covid-19, then aggrieved parties may approach the concerned officials of the district committee consisting of Additional District Collector, Chief Medical Officer of Health (CMOH), Additional CMOH/Principal or HOD Medicine of a Medical College (if one existing in the district) and a subject expert, who shall take remedial measures, it added. Giving a slew of directions, the top court also said a family member of the person who committed suicide within 30 days from being diagnosed as Covid-19 positive would also be entitled to avail the financial help or ex-gratia assistance of Rs 50,000 as granted under the State Disaster Relief Fund in accordance with the guidelines issued on September 11, 2021 issued under DMA, 2005. The court said that the ex gratia amount determined by the National Disaster Management Authority would be paid within 30 days and the sum would be over and above the other compensation paid by the Centre or States under different schemes. It also directed the details of authority to decide the applications for ex gratia payment should be published in print and electronic media within one week to help the victims families to approach them for the purpose. The court also ordered the National Disaster Management Authority, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, to issue guidelines for States and Union Territories incorporating the "binding" directions issued by it. The top court passed its orders on the guidelines prepared in line with June 30 judgment which came on PILs filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal for payment of Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia amount to the Covid victims' families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-state-should-deny-rs-50000-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-those-who-lost-lives-to-covid-19-sc-1037152.html
04-10-2021||National||14 crore lost jobs but Modi govt launched no scheme for them, says Congress leader||Rajya Sabha member and AICC Spokesperson Dr Amee Yagnik said even though 14 crore persons have lost their jobs in the country in the last one and a half years, the Narendra Modi -led government has failed to bring out any schemes to address their issues. The government and Prime Minister Modi have failed to utter a single word on bringing these workers who lost their jobs back to the employment portal, she told mediapersons here on Monday. Yagnik alleged that the non-action by the Modi-led government has ruined the livelihood of small businesses, MSME sectors, thus resulting in unemployment of a large section of the youth. “Looking at the statistics on unemployment makes one wonder whether the Modi-led government has taken a contract to ensure that the youth are totally ruined in the country. The MSME sector, considered as the backbone of the country, is going to be finished in the hands of the government,” she alleged. She asked whether the government has any vision for the unemployed youth in the country. Aditionally, she sought to know why the prime minister failed to address the topic of unemployment in his Mann ki Baat series. She demanded a sitting Supreme Court judge probe into the alleged bribery case involving ecommerce firm Amazon and demanded a response from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue of national security. The Rajya Sabha member accused PM Modi of promoting multinational companies at the cost of the country's small businesses and sought to know whether the recent report of Amazon spending Rs 8,546 crore as “legal fee” was for a change in the government's policy that directly benefited the ecommerce giant at the cost of India's small retailers. She accused the Union government of being involved in the selling India's assets created in the last 70 years, shutting down the livelihood of small businesses and taking away opportunities of the youth. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-crore-lost-jobs-but-modi-govt-launched-no-scheme-for-them-says-congress-leader-1037155.html
04-10-2021||National||SC dismisses plea seeking cancellation of NEET undergraduate exam||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to entertain a plea for cancellation of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, undergraduate, (NEET UG), held on September 12, this year due to alleged irregularities. "What kind of writs are being filed? Lakhs of people have taken these exams,” a bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao asked a counsel, appearing petitioner Saloni. The counsel submitted that CBI has registered three FIRs and examination papers were leaked on WhatsApp.  Maintaining that the court was not going to interfere with an exam on the basis of few FIRs, the bench pointed out that those cases were related to impersonation of the candidates.  Finding the plea frivolous, the court asked the counsel why a cost of Rs 5 lakh not be imposed on him personally for advising to file such petitions. The court, however, finally decided not to impose the cost on request from the counsel.  “Costs will not be imposed but we will remember you. Next time there is such a case, we will definitely impose costs on you," the bench told advocate Ninad Dogra, appearing for the petitioner.  The petitioner claimed cheating, malpractices and paper leaks in the examinations conducted for admission to MBBS and other undergraduate courses in medical colleges across the country. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-seeking-cancellation-of-neet-undergraduate-exam-1037169.html
04-10-2021||National||FIR against lyricist Javed Akhtar over RSS remark||Mumbai police registered an FIR against lyricist Javed Akhtar on Monday over his alleged remark against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), an official said. The First Information Report (FIR) were registered at the Mulund police station on a complaint filed by city-based lawyer Santosh Dubey. "The FIR has been registered under Indian Penal Code Section 500 (punishment for defamation)," the official from Mulund police station said. The lawyer last month sent a legal notice to Akhtar for allegedly making "false and defamatory" remarks against the RSS in an interview to a news channel, and sought an apology from him over it. Akhtar (76) in a recent interview drew parallels between the Taliban and Hindu extremists. Dubey in his notice had claimed that by making such statements, Akhtar committed an offence under IPC Sections 499 (defamation) and 500 (punishment for defamation). "I had earlier sent a legal notice to Akhtar and asked him to apologise over his remark, but he fail to do so. Now, an FIR has been registered against him on my complaint," the lawyer told PTI.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-lyricist-javed-akhtar-over-rss-remark-1037180.html
04-10-2021||National||Giripremi's women mountaineers team scales Mt Gangotri 1||In yet another successful expedition by Pune-based mountaineering and adventure club Giripremi, two women, Purva Shinde Singh and Sneha Talvatkar, successfully climbed one of the challenging peaks -- Gangotri 1 in the Garhwal Himalayas and unfurled the Indian tricolour. The Gangotri group in the Garhwal Himalayas includes Gangotri 1, 2 and 3 peaks. Gangotri 1 is the highest of them and is considered to be one of the most difficult peaks for climbing. Giripremi's team had set out for the expedition on September 4. The expedition lasted for 25 days in a row, where the team overcame tough challenges -- and they scaled the 6,671-metre peak on September 29. The team was mentored by Shivchhatrapati Award-winning Giripremi senior mountaineer Umesh Zirpe. The team consisted of Sneha Talvatkar, Ritu Chawla, Dr Sunita Kolke and Hemang Tanna, led by Purva Shinde Singh. They are all part of the Gurukul concept of the Giripremi. A total of 15 women mountaineers were trained. "Many women mountaineers from Maharashtra joined Giripremi's Gurukul programme and underwent physical and mental fitness training for two years under the guidance of senior rock climber Samiran Kolhe. This two-year-long dedication led to the success of Kangyatse I&II and Gangotri I,” Zirpe said. After the successful peak expeditions of the women mountaineers team to Kangyatse 1 and 2 in the Leh-Ladakh region in July-August, this second women's team also scaled another challenging mountain - Gangotri I. During the Gangotri expedition, the team had to set up three more camps from the base camp to the summit. The weather was very unfavourable due to continuous snowfall and strong winds. Due to this, the team was slowing down and had to start again with double the strength. Despite this situation, the team made three attempts to reach the final peak from the last summit camp, and in the third attempt, these two women managed to reach the summit with great perseverance and determination. Despite the bad weather -- high up at 6000 m -- the physical and mental preparation over the past year kept the team afloat with the same perseverance even though it was difficult to stay on top and go higher.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/giripremis-women-mountaineers-team-scales-mt-gangotri-1-1037182.html
04-10-2021||National||PM Modi congratulates Japan's new PM Fumio Kishida||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated his new Japanese counterpart Fumio Kishida. “Congratulations and best wishes to the new Prime Minister of Japan, H.E. Kishida Fumio. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the Flag of India-Flag of Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership and advance peace and prosperity in our region and beyond,” the Prime Minister posted on Twitter, tagging the new Japanese Prime Minister. Kishida was officially elected as the 100th Prime Minister of Japan on Monday after winning a majority of votes in both Houses of Parliament. He will succeed Yoshihide Suga, who last month decided to step down less than a year after taking over as the Prime Minister of the country. The Delhi Metro tweeted congratulating the new Japanese Prime Minister. “Delhi Metro Rail Corporation would like to congratulate H.E. Fumio Kishida on taking charge as the new Prime Minister of Japan. His Excellency had visited Delhi Metro several times in various capacities,” it tweeted. Kishida visited New Delhi when he was Foreign Minister of Japan from 2012 to 2017. Modi held a meeting with Suga in Washington on September 23 last where he told him that he would look forward to welcoming the next Prime Minister of Japan to India for the India-Japan annual summit in the near future. The annual summit between India and Japan could not take place in 2019 and 2020. Modi and then Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe were expected to meet in Guwahati in December 2019, but the summit was cancelled in view of widespread agitation in the city as well as the rest of the country against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The summit could not take place in 2020 too due to the Covid-19 pandemic. After Kishida took over as the new Japanese PM, New Delhi and Tokyo are likely to explore possibilities of restarting the tradition of holding annual summits.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-congratulates-japans-new-pm-fumio-kishida-1037186.html
04-10-2021||National||‘Blaze’: The parents, their son and his story of courage in face of leukaemia||“Hope, Determination, and Courage; Are the sturdy boots; That will steer me forward; on this long and bemusing path,” Divyansh Atman wrote at some point in his 10-year arduous journey fighting leukaemia.   Divyansh passed on the same sturdy boots to his parents to help them come to terms with his death in 2019. He was only 22. A little over two years later, Nidhi and Sushil Poddar have put into words the indomitable and inspirational spirit of their son in their book “Blaze: A Son’s Trial by Fire”. “The foundation of this book was laid even before Divyansh left us. While he was alive, I used to coax him to write something about himself as I was convinced the kind of life he had lived with indomitable spirit could be an inspiration for others,” homemaker turned author Nidhi told PTI in an email interaction. Co-written by Nidhi and her husband Sushil, “Blaze” is an attempt to delineate Divyansh’s life journey and how their ‘parenthood’ evolved through the years.   Divyansh, a quiet and thoughtful boy, was 12 when he was diagnosed with leukaemia in 2009. Nidhi and Sushil spent the next 10 years in front of numerous doctors, down several hospital hallways, losing hope over his multiple relapses but eventually finding solace and strength in their son. The book, written largely by Nidhi, chronicles Divyansh’s life from the moment he was born on January 27, 1997 to the time he was laid to rest on May 2, 2019.  Nidhi and Sushil have minutely noted Divyansh’s journey in the extensively detailed 325-page book spread across 26 chapters. They recollect their son’s teen years, punctuated by hospital visits, while he found friends in his teachers and doctors along the way. Recalling the “turbulent phase” of their lives while writing the book only a few months after Divyansh’s passing was not easy, said Sushil, but revisiting those moments did offer them better understanding of their son. The parents also recall how his courage helped them steer their way through their pain.  “We read his poems, blogs, letters, messages etc again by keeping them in their respective time frame when they were written by him but understanding them with a new found wisdom while authoring the book,” said Sushil, a senior government officer. What started as intermittent infections, bouts of fever and severe weight loss towards the latter half of 2009 turned out to be only the precursor to a short and strained life that was full of energy at the same time. Divyansh’s treatment and multiple relapses came with strong psychological impact on the Mumbai-based Poddar couple as they travelled across the length of the country and abroad to see their child hale and hearty. “The pain always came with its brute force entrapping us in the viciousness of it. It always shook us to the core. But don’t know why, maybe because the way Divyansh used to handle his crises better, we always saw brighter days through the engulfing pain,” Nidhi said. However, the husband-wife said, it was always Divyansh’s courage in the face of adversity that put them back on track. His father said Divyansh always gave them “arsenal to handle the brute force of trauma”. “He led us from the front in controlling excruciating times and in the process he would always lend us support, never forget, all the while he was in teens,” Sushil said. As they travelled to Jerusalem and the US for Divyansh’s treatment, his five-year-younger sister Ananya remained home without making a fuss. Nidhi calls her the “silent collaborator” through their tough times. “She would not create a fuss even when the situation warranted a complete neglect to her. She took everything in her stride and tried to do her best.” Divyansh died on May 2, 2019, less than a year after coming from New Jersey, where he had taken admission to study electrical engineering at Fairleigh Dickinson University and to also undergo treatment. Looking back on those 10 years, Nidhi and Sushil regret nothing, saying they "owe their breath" to the lessons they learnt while parenting him. “Having written 'Blaze', I realise now the significance of universal design with which Divyansh blessed our lives. He did what he was destined to do. His 22 years of life had been so meaningful that from hereon I owe my each and every breath to the lessons we learnt while parenting him,” Sushil said. The parents believe Divyansh trained his mind to control his body as he used to say, “I have a problem. I am not a problem. My body is diseased, I am not.” “Blaze”, published by Rupa Publications, is available on online and offline stores for Rs 395.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blaze-the-parents-their-son-and-his-story-of-courage-in-face-of-leukaemia-1037203.html
04-10-2021||National||Congress workers stage protest against Lakhimpur violence||Congress workers on Monday staged a demonstration near the BJP headquarters and outside the Uttar Pradesh Bhawan here to protest against the violent clash in Lakhimpur Kheri that left four farmers dead. The protest was carried out under the leadership of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Anil Choudhary. A senior police officer said some members of the Indian Youth Congress were detained when they tried to enter Uttar Pradesh Bhawan. Security has been beefed up outside the Bhawan in view of protest called by the Indian Youth Congress. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently a part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister. They were allegedly thrashed to death.The four others were farmers, officials said. An FIR has been registered against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son and several other persons in connection with the Lakhimpur violence. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-workers-stage-protest-against-lakhimpur-violence-1037205.html
04-10-2021||National||Covid-19 wrap-up: India vaccinates 70% adults with first dose||Portugal's vaccine story is one for all countries to see. It is now among the world’s leaders in highest vaccinations. About 98 per cent of all of those eligible for vaccines — meaning anyone over 12 — have been fully vaccinated in Portugal. Still, India's achievement comes as a relief as multiple studies have shown that vaccination reduces the chances of hospitalisation. Principal Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department J Radhakrishnan recently pointed out that nearly 90 per cent of people who succumbed to Covid-19 in state-run hospitals in Tamil Nadu over the last two months had not received even a single vaccine dose.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-vaccinates-70-adults-with-first-dose-1037212.html
04-10-2021||National||Lakhimpur Kheri: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on 'hunger strike' following detention||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra sat on a hunger strike on Monday after being detained in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur while she was en route to Lakhimpur Kheri, her party said. Gandhi and other Congress leaders accompanying her, including Deepender Hooda, had reached the Lakhimpur border in the morning but were not allowed to meet the families of the farmers who died in the violence during a protest a day earlier, the party alleged. "Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has been arrested. She is on hunger strike. Congressmen are protesting. Government will have to bow to our demands. Voice for justice will be raised with more strength," the UP Congress said in a tweet. In a video released by the party, Gandhi was seen sweeping the floor of a room where she was apparently kept. Stopping them in such a way is "undemocratic", Congress state president Ajay Kumar Lallu told PTI. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. On their way to the violence-hit district, Congress leaders had to take alternative routes to reach the bordering Hargaon area in Sitapur as heavy security was deployed on the main roads. "We are waiting outside Lakhimpur Kheri. We have been prevented by the police from entering. We have come here to meet the victims of the violence," Congress national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar told PTI over the phone at 4.30 am. Gandhi's convoy was earlier briefly stopped by Uttar Pradesh Police officials in Lucknow, where the Congress general secretary had arrived on Sunday night, within a few hours of violence being reported during an anti-farm laws protest here. Mobile internet services have been suspended in parts of Lakhimpur district, where restrictions under CrPC section 144 -- which prohibits assembly of four or more people -- has also been imposed, according to officials. The UP Police took to Twitter early Monday to describe the incident as "unfortunate" and said eight casualties have been reported so far as per the district administration. "ADG LO, ACS Agriculture, IG Range & Commissioner are on the spot & situation is under control. Adequate deployment has been done to prevent any untoward incident," it added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhimpur-kheri-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-on-hunger-strike-following-detention-1037213.html
04-10-2021||National||Shringla holds 'productive discussion' with Lankan PM Mahinda Rajapaksa||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Monday called on Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and held a "productive discussion" with him on further consolidating the multifaceted bilateral partnership. Shringla arrived in Sri Lanka on Saturday on a four-day visit and is also expected to meet President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and review the bilateral ties between India and the island nation. "Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla called on HE Mahinda Rajapaksa @PresRajapaksa today and had a productive discussion on further consolidating the multifaceted India-Sri Lanka partnership," the Indian High Commission here said in a tweet along with a photo of the meeting. According to a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs, Shringla said, "a short while back, I had a very productive meeting with His Excellency Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, an ardent friend of India and a steady source of support for the deepening of the India-Sri Lanka engagement." In a tweet, Mahinda expressed his pleasure at meeting Shringla. "The Government of Sri Lanka looks forward to working together with the Government of India to strengthen our already strong bilateral relations to mutually benefit both nations," the Sri Lankan prime minister said. Shringla also said that he is looking forward to his meeting with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa. "I look forward to calling on His Excellency President Gotabaya Rajapaksa whose steadfast commitment to the India-Sri Lanka bilateral relationship is well known," he said. Shringla also paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary at Temple Trees, the official residence of the Prime Minister here. "Paying homage to #Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary, which fell on 2nd October, Foreign Minister Prof. GL Peiris, Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla, High Commissioner of India and other dignitaries garlanded the Gandhi bust at Temple trees," the Indian High Commission said in another tweet. On Sunday, Shringla inspected Jaffna's Palaly airport in Sri Lanka’s Tamil-dominated Northern province where he was briefed by officials on the development work undertaken with India's assistance. He also visited the iconic Jaffna Cultural Centre, which is built with Indian grant assistance. Shringla would also meet a delegation of the main Tamil party, Tamil National Alliance (TNA) for discussions. TNA parliamentarian V Radhakrishnan said they would raise issues concerning the Tamils of Indian origin in Sri Lanka’s central tea plantations. India has been consistently calling upon Sri Lanka to fulfill its commitments to protect the interests of the Tamil community and preserve the island nation's character as a multi-ethnic and multi-religious society. The Tamil community in Sri Lanka has been demanding the implementation of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution that provides for devolution of power to it. The 13th Amendment was brought in after the Indo-Sri Lankan agreement of 1987. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shringla-holds-productive-discussion-with-lankan-pm-mahinda-rajapaksa-1037214.html
04-10-2021||National||Abolish tax havens: Oxfam India on Pandora Papers revelations||Oxfam India called for immediately abolishing tax havens after a leak of millions of documents, dubbed the 'Pandora Papers', revealed offshore financial assets of wealthy individuals across 91 countries and territories, including India. The leaked documents and a worldwide journalistic partnership on Sunday claimed to have uncovered financial secrets of current and former world leaders, politicians and public officials.  The 'Pandora Papers' have named 300 Indians, including Sachin Tendulkar, Anil Ambani, Nirav Modi and Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw. Calling for abolishing tax havens, Amitabh Behar, CEO of Oxfam India, said this is another shocking exposé of the oceans of money sloshing around the darkness of the world's tax havens that must prompt immediate action, as has long been promised.  Whenever a politician or business leader claims there is 'no money' to pay for health, education, climate damage, innovation and for a fair post-Covid recovery, they know where to look, he said. "Tax havens cost governments around the world $427 billion each year. Developing countries are being hardest hit, proportionately. Corporations and the wealthiest individuals that use tax havens are outcompeting those who don't. Tax havens also help crime and corruption to flourish," he said. Behar said such tax havens continue to stretch global inequality to the breaking point while the world experiences the largest increase in extreme poverty in decades.  "Abolishing tax havens can go a long way towards ensuring that government actually have the access to tax revenue they need to fund quality public expenditure, however at the same time governments must continue to spend more on social welfare and public services as a larger proportion of existing budget allocations to at least provide the bare minimum of services of health and education for all," he said.  Oxfam demanded ending tax secrecy on individuals, offshores and multinational corporations.  "Set up a public register on the real owners of bank accounts, trusts, shell companies and assets. Require multinational corporations to publicly report their accounts where they do business, country-by-country. Increasing the use of automatic exchange, allowing revenue authorities access to information they need to track the money," the Oxfam said in a statement.  The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), which involved the BBC and 'The Guardian' newspaper in the UK and 'The Indian Express' in India among 150 media outlets in its investigation, claims it obtained the trove of more than 11.9 million confidential files to find secret financial dealings of many super rich. The 'Pandora Papers' are a follow-up to a similar project released in 2016, called the 'Panama Papers' compiled by the same journalistic group.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/abolish-tax-havens-oxfam-india-on-pandora-papers-revelations-1037216.html
04-10-2021||National||Farmers not involved in Lakhimpur violence, people from political parties behind it: BKS||Seeking the harshest punishment for those involved in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, the RSS-affiliated farmer union BKS on Monday said people from various political parties, and not farmers, were behind it.  Describing the incident as "unfortunate", the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) in a statement said, "The people involved in the incident were not farmers, they belonged to various political parties. The incident was carried out using leftist methods. People were mercilessly beaten to death with sticks, something farmers cannot do." The BKS claimed that the way the people took the law into their own hands and committed murders in public shows that they were part of some professional gangs. Seeking the harshest punishment for those involved in such acts, it said that justice should be done to the families of the deceased by conducting an impartial inquiry into this heinous incident at the earliest. Eight people were killed -- four farmers allegedly run over and four people in a convoy of BJP workers who were lynched -- on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-not-involved-in-lakhimpur-violence-people-from-political-parties-behind-it-bks-1037244.html
04-10-2021||National||Health Ministry supplies Covid-19 vaccine by drones in North East||The Union Health Ministry on Monday used drones for the first time to ferry Covid-19 vaccines to a corner of North East India, opening up a new route to close the last mile gap in supplying medical aids to remote areas. An indigenous unmanned aerial vehicle transported the vaccines from Bishnupur district hospital to Karang island, Loktak lake in Manipur, covering an aerial distance of 15 km in about 12-15 minutes. The actual road distance between these locations is 26 km. The vaccines were taken to a primary health centre on the island where 10 beneficiaries received the first dose and eight got the second shot. Nearly 50 per cent of the PHCs at Manipur are located at remote places that are difficult to access. Such drone flights by the Indian Council of Medical Research for vaccine supply have also been permitted for Nagaland and Andaman and Nicobar Islands by the Director General of Civil Aviation. The ICMR’s vaccine drone, however, is not the first example of such flight in India. Last month Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia launched a pilot project named 'Medicines from the Sky' at Vikarabad in Telangana, under which drugs and vaccines were delivered to 16 PHC using drones. "Over the last three weeks, more than 70 UAV flights took off carrying Covid-19 vaccines and medicines to the primary health care centres in Telangana. Every day there are four to five flights,” Suresh Munuswamy, a senior researcher at the Public Health Foundation of India, who is associated with the Telangana project told DH. Before seeking the DCGI nod, the ICMR conducted an initial study in collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur to test the capacity of drones to carry and transfer vaccines safely. The study provided promising results on the basis of which the Ministry of Civil Aviation and DGCA granted permission to fly drones beyond the visual line of sight up to a height of 3,000 metre. “We can use drones in delivering important life-saving medicines and collecting blood samples. This technology may prove a game-changer in addressing the challenges in health care delivery, particularly health supplies in difficult areas,” said Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandiviya. The PHFI team has already proposed an annual drone-based medical supply service to the North Eastern states, Telangana and Gujarat. The plan is not only to send the medicines and vaccines, but also to bring back patients’ blood and other pathological samples from remote areas to the nearest diagnostic centre at the block or district level. Such services are routinely provided by commercial companies in some of the advanced nations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-supplies-covid-19-vaccine-by-drones-in-north-east-1037248.html
04-10-2021||National||Is crushing farmers, stifling Oppn voices new strategy of BJP, asks Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday wondered if crushing farmers and stifling the voice of opposition leaders who stand in their support was the BJP's new strategy, a day after eight people were killed in violence that erupted during a farmers' protest at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Talking to reporters, Raut said when a rape incident took place at Saki Naka in Mumbai (last month), the BJP raised a hue and cry, and "we (state government) did not stop anyone from going to the crime site". "Farmers have been run over allegedly by the car of a minister's son (in Lakhimpur Kheri). Where does such cruelty come from?" asked the Rajya Sabha member, whose party shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra. He said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other leaders were stopped (by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh) from going to Lakhimpur Kheri to show solidarity with the farmers protesting over their demand for a repeal of the Centre's three agri-marketing laws. "Does the BJP have a new strategy of crushing farmers and stifling the voices of opposition leaders who show solidarity with them?" Raut asked. Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaks about farmers' interests, while state governments headed by the BJP "kill farmers" with cars being run over them, the Sena's chief spokesperson claimed. Raut likened the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the case of revolutionary Babu Genu, who was run over by a Britisher's truck while protesting in Mumbai during the independence struggle. Speaking on former Sena MLA Subhash Sabne crossing over to the BJP to fight the upcoming Deglur Assembly bypoll in Maharashtra, Raut wondered if former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis was touring the state's Marathwada region to take stock of farm distress due to recent heavy rains there or to induct a Sena leader into the BJP.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-crushing-farmers-stifling-oppn-voices-new-strategy-of-bjp-asks-sanjay-raut-1037262.html
04-10-2021||National||Multi-agency group to probe 'Pandora Papers' revelations||The Centre on Monday said that relevant investigative agencies will investigate the "offshore secrets of wealthy elites" unravelled in 'Pandora Papers' and the probe will be monitored by a multi-agency group headed by the Chairman of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). Around 300 Indians are part of the 'Pandora Papers', which includes Anil Ambani, Vinod Adani, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Niira Radia, Sachin Tendulkar, Jackie Shroff and Satish Sharma among others. Many of those who are named have denied any wrongdoing. The 'Pandora Papers', obtained by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), is claimed to be a 2.94 TB data trove that exposes the offshore entities owned by the wealthy from over 200 countries. It is a leak of confidential records of 14 offshore service providers that give professional services to wealthy individuals and corporations seeking to incorporate shell companies, trusts, foundations and other entities in low or no-tax jurisdictions. In a statement, the Ministry of Finance said the government has taken "note of these developments" and the relevant investigative agencies would undertake a probe in these cases and appropriate action would be taken in such cases as per law. To ensure effective investigation in these cases, the government would also "proactively engage" with other countries for obtaining information in respect of relevant entities. The Government is also part of an Inter-Governmental Group that ensures collaboration and experience sharing to effectively address tax risks associated with such leaks. "The government has directed today that investigations in cases of Pandora Papers leaks appearing in the media...would be monitored through the Multi Agency Group (MAG) headed by the CBDT Chairman. The MAG will have representatives from CBDT, Enforcement Directorate, Reserve Bank of India and Financial Intelligence Unit," the statement said. Following earlier similar such leaks in the form of ICIJ, HSBC, Panama Papers and Paradise Papers, it said, the government has enacted the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015 with an aim to curb black money, or undisclosed foreign assets and income by imposing suitable tax and penalty on such income. Undisclosed credits of Rs 20,352 crore as on September 15 have been detected in the investigations carried out in the Panama and Paradise Papers. "Tendulkar's attorney said the cricket player's investment is legitimate and has been declared to tax authorities. Shakira's attorney said the singer declared her companies, which the attorney said do not provide tax advantages. Schiffer’s representatives said the supermodel correctly pays her taxes in the UK, where she lives," the ICIJ said.  Abolishing tax havens can go a long way towards ensuring that governments actually have the access to tax revenue they need to fund quality public expenditure, Oxfam India CEO Amitabh Behar said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/multi-agency-group-to-probe-pandora-papers-revelations-1037272.html
04-10-2021||National||Easy to criticise govt, court unless you are in hot seat: SC on probe into oxygen supply||It is very easy to criticise the government or courts unless you are in the hot seat but even some of the most advanced nations of the world faced difficulties in containing the Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court on Monday told a petitioner seeking probe into shortage of oxygen supply during the second wave. At this time when the country is facing a difficult situation, people must be wary of doing anything which may have a demoralising effect on the authorities who are dealing with the crisis, the apex court said. The remarks were made by the court while hearing a PIL seeking setting up of a Commission of Inquiry, headed by a retired judge of the apex court or the high court, or a CBI probe into the alleged non-supply and non-availability of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients during the second wave of the pandemic from March to May this year. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna while dismissing the PIL filed by one Naresh Kumar said, “Allegations with regard to criminal wrongdoing cannot be assumed nor can be levelled lightly without adequate material. In the circumstances for the reasons indicated, we are not inclined to entertain the PIL. Petition is accordingly dismissed”. Advocate Medhanshu Tripathi, appearing for Kumar, said that lakhs of people have died during the second wave due to non-availability of oxygen. “Even in most developed nations in the world, they were not able to contain the pandemic. You see, it is very easy to criticise the government or for that matter courts unless you are in the hot seat,” the bench said. “Now that the second wave is over, should the court do a legal post-mortem of what went wrong or instead we do something positive, so that such mistakes do not happen again or we are well prepared for the future exigencies,” it added. The bench said that earlier this year, this court while exercising its suo motu jurisdiction had constituted a National Task Force consisting of eminent doctors drawn from various institutions of the country.   “The remit of the National Task Force (NTF) is formulated and one of the issues engaging it is with regard to ensuring the availability of supply of oxygen to meet the requirement of patients during the course of pandemic. "In view of the fact that a body of experts has been constituted to specifically look into matters pertaining to the availability and distribution of oxygen, it is neither appropriate nor proper to conduct a parallel proceedings by constituting a Commission of Inquiry as sought”, the bench said. It added that as regards to adopting recourse to jurisdiction under Article 32 for an investigation by an investigating agency or the CBI, ought to be preceded by invocation of the remedy available under CrPC.   “Without doing so, the petitioner has sought to invoke the jurisdiction under Article 32 directly,” it said, adding that like in Covid vaccination this court has done something positive, the petitioner shall endeavour to do something positive and give his suggestions to the National Task Force or the government.   The bench told Tripathi, “At this time, the country is dealing with a difficult situation, people must be wary of doing anything which may have a demoralising effect on people dealing with the crisis”. Justice Chandrachud said that he does not think what a retired judge headed commission of inquiry can do which the National Task Force cannot do. “They are all eminent doctors and well aware of the situation”, the bench said. Tripathi said that it is not any other plea but a pure PIL as the petitioner was himself a victim to the non-availability of oxygen during the second wave and similar was the fate of numerous patients. “We have seen your petition, we know what happened. We should leave it to the government to augment the health infrastructure. We have inherited a 100 years old health infrastructure, which was not sufficient. Now that the National Health Policy is in place, which would take care of many issues”, the bench said. Tripathi said that an expert panel has warned the government about the second wave and the shortcomings in advance, but it has failed to act and did not increase the doctors strength or other infrastructure.   The bench said that it’s also very easy to blame the people, who are in power or the doctors of government hospitals, who are often assaulted when a patient dies. “Often it is the case that when a patient dies in hospital, then it is due to some kind of negligence on part of hospital staff or the doctors and they are assaulted. But actually it is not the case, as sometimes a patient may die despite best efforts put by the doctors,” the bench said. Kumar in his plea has alleged that due to non-availability of medical oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic several Covid patients have lost their lives in various parts of the country. Kumar, a Delhi resident in his plea filed through advocate Rajeev Kumar Dubey said, "This court through its various judgements has logically extended the interpretation of the right to life to include the right to health. Therefore, it is the fundamental duty of the State to care for the health of the public at large”. In May, the apex court, in a suo motu matter on Covid preparedness had constituted a 12-member NTF of top medical experts to formulate a methodology for allocation of oxygen to states and union territories for saving lives of Covid-19 patients and to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/easy-to-criticise-govt-court-unless-you-are-in-hot-seat-sc-on-probe-into-oxygen-supply-1037287.html
04-10-2021||National||'Not a terrorist': Sharjeel Imam tells court; calls prosecution 'whip of monarch'||JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, on Monday told a Delhi court that he is not a terrorist and his prosecution is a “whip of a monarch rather than a government established by law”.   Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat was hearing a case filed against Imam for the alleged speeches given by him at two universities in 2019, where he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. The alleged inflammatory speeches for which he was arrested were allegedly made at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13, 2019, and at Aligarh Muslim University on December 16, 2019. He is in judicial custody since January 2020. He was arrested under the provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). A charge of sedition was also slapped against him.  Seeking bail as well as discharge in the case, advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir, representing Imam, told the court that being critical of the government cannot be the cause of sedition.  “The essence of the entire prosecution is that you talk against us and sedition is on your way,” Mir said, adding that Imam cannot be allowed to be persecuted just because he was critical of CAA or NRC.  “This prosecution of Sharjeel Imam is more of a whip of a monarch rather than a government established by law. This is not how the government or executive has to respond. At the end of the day, a dispensation will change. Nothing is permanent,” the advocate further said. Referring to the recent 'Bharat Bandh' called by the protesting farmers, Imam's counsel asked, “Will we call for sedition in all those cases? Asking for rail roko, blocking of roads, etc, is that a constitutional means of protest or not?” He asked will the sedition charges be attracted if farmers say that they want fair prices for the crops or people demand women's rights. Mir said it is the duty of every citizen to be critical of the government.  Since when does the government need the affection of people, he asked. “It is only the monarchs, kings who need the affection of people. We are not here to bow down before the government,” the lawyer submitted.  "Unless and until we do not have critical elements in the society, the society will die," he submitted.  The lawyer said that there were many prosecutions against Imam just because he had criticized the government's policies. “He is not a terrorist or associated with some terrorist outfit. He has no criminal antecedents, he does not have any political agenda,” he told the court. Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad said that the fundamental right to protest cannot go beyond an extent that causes problems to the public at large. He told the court that violent riots took place pursuant to Imam's speech.   “He tried to create an anarchy by saying that there is no hope left for the Muslim community and that there is no other way left,” Prasad said, opposing his bail and discharge in the case.  Imam is accused of offenses relating to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code, and indulging in unlawful activities under the UAPA. Delhi Police had filed a charge sheet against Imam in the case, in which it alleged that he allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the Central Government and instigated the people which led to the violence in December 2019.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-a-terrorist-sharjeel-imam-tells-court-calls-prosecution-whip-of-monarch-1037295.html
04-10-2021||National||Former bureaucrat and academician Shakti Sinha passes away||Retired bureaucrat Shakti Sinha, who served as private secretary to the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, passed away on Monday. Sinha, a 1979 batch IAS officer, took voluntary retirement in 2013 while serving as Finance Secretary in the Delhi Government and joined the BJP a year later. Sinha was the Director of the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (NMML) from 2016-19 and played a key role in the development of a museum of all former prime ministers at the Teen Murti Bhawan complex. “How fragile the life is! Met Shakti Sinha ji only yesterday and had a long and enriching interaction. Now he’s no more. Deeply distressing,” Ajay Singh, press secretary to President Ram Nath Kovind, tweeted. Sinha also headed the United Nation’s governance and development team in Afghanistan from 2006-09, coordinating donor support to the Afghan government. He also worked as Senior Advisor to Executive Director on the World Bank board from 2000 to 2004. Sinha was a post-graduate in history and international communication and policy from the Delhi University. He also served as Chief Secretary, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and also as Education Secretary of Goa. Leaders and academicians from across the country mourned his death. “He had so much to contribute in the many endeavours he was involved in. We will miss his sharp insights and commitment to the national cause,” Niti Ayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said. Sinha also helped establish two institutions -- Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Policy Research and International Studies at MS University, Vadodara, and Delhi School of Public Policy and Governance, University of Delhi. Sinha authored a memoir of that period when he worked with Atal Bihari Vajpayee titled 'Vajpayee: The Years That Changed India.'   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-bureaucrat-and-academician-shakti-sinha-passes-away-1037303.html
04-10-2021||National||Lakhimpur Kheri violence blot on humanity: Jharkhand CM||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday launched a frontal attack on the BJP governments at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, terming the incident as a "blot on humanity". He alleged that the incident was nothing short of a blatant display of "majoritarian cruelty". Eight people were killed – including farmers and BJP workers -- as violence erupted on Sunday during a farmers’ protest ahead of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit to Lakhimpur. "The heinous incident in Lakhimpur yesterday is a blot on humanity and a blatant display of majoritarian cruelty by the ruling party in UP and at the Centre. "I strongly condemn their undemocratic attempts to detain all opposition leaders from meeting the bereaved families of the victims," Soren tweeted. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday were denied permission to visit Lakhimpur Kheri by the Uttar Pradesh government. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other party leaders were detained in Sitapur, with the party alleging they were not allowed to meet the victims of the violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-blot-on-humanity-jharkhand-cm-1037312.html
04-10-2021||National||Govt imposes export curbs on syringes||The government on Monday announced imposing export curbs on syringes with immediate effect, a move aimed at discouraging outbound shipments of the product in view of the present Covid-19 pandemic situation. The directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) in a notification said it has moved syringes export in the restricted category, under which an exporter has to seek a licence or government permission for the shipments. "The export of syringes with or without needles...has been put under the restricted category with immediate effect," it said. In 2020-21, the export of syringes stood at $45.68 million. It was $17.37 million during April-July this fiscal. The procedure for submission and approval of application for export of syringes will be notified separately, the DGFT said. In a separate public notice, the DGFT said the quantity of 5,841 tonnes of sugar (raw and/or white sugar) to be exported to the European Union (EU) under TRQ scheme from October 1, to September 30, 2022 has been notified. TRQ (Tariff-Rate Quota) is for a volume of exports that enter the UK at relatively low tariffs. After the quota is reached, a higher tariff applies to the exports.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-imposes-export-curbs-on-syringes-1037317.html
04-10-2021||National||WhatsApp chats of SRK's son Aryan Khan in cruise ship drug case showed international drug trafficking: NCB to court||The NCB on Monday claimed before a city court that "shocking and incriminating" material recovered in WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, and two others who were among the nine people arrested in connection with the seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the city coast showed international drug trafficking. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which got the remand of Aryan Khan and the other eight accused from the court till Thursday, also claimed that in the WhatsApp chats he is discussing modes of payment to be done for procurement (of drugs) and that several code names are being used. Aryan Khan's lawyer claimed no drugs were recovered from his client's possession. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R M Nerlikar while extending till October 7 the NCB remand of Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha observed that their further interrogation was required for investigation which is of prime importance. The trio was produced before the court after the end of their one-day custody given to the NCB on Sunday. Aryan Khan (23), Dhamecha and Merchant were arrested on Sunday evening and produced before a special holiday court on Sunday that remanded them to NCB custody till Monday. The NCB had arrested them after raiding the Goa-bound ship. The judge also remanded to the NCB custody till October 7, the six other accused who were arrested in the case late Sunday night and produced in the court on Monday. The court, in its order, noted that the investigation in the case was of prime importance and considering this aspect, the further presence of the accused before the NCB was necessary. “The fact is that the co-accused in the case were found in possession of intermediate drugs and the three accused (Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha) were accompanying them. "Investigation is of prime importance and presence of the accused is needed for detailed investigation. It is useful for both the prosecution and the accused to prove their innocence,” the court said. Six others – Nupur Satija, Ishmeet Chadha, Mohak Jaiswal, Gomit Chopra, Vikrant Chhokar and a drug supplier from suburban Juhu (name not disclosed) - were arrested later. The court, while remanding them to the NCB custody, noted that prima facie, a case has been made out against them and hence their interrogation is required. The NCB on Monday sought further custody of Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha till October 11 on the ground the central agency had to unearth the nexus between drug consumers and suppliers, and confront all the arrested accused with each other and apprehend other suppliers of narcotics substances. However, the court extended their custody only till October 7. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, claimed before the court that incriminating material was found through WhatsApp chats of the arrested accused, including Aryan Khan, with drug peddlers and suppliers. “Raids are going on now. Shocking and incriminating material recovered in WhatsApp chats of the accused shows international drug trafficking,” the NCB counsel argued. “Accused Aryan Khan, in the WhatsApp chats, is discussing modes of payment to be done for procurement (of drugs). Several code names are being used. All the accused persons have to be confronted with each other. The international transactions need to be investigated,” he said. Singh also said the NCB has arrested a supplier from suburban Juhu and found a commercial quantity of drugs from him. Opposing extension of custody sought by the NCB, Aryan Khan's advocate Satish Maneshinde argued that his client had no criminal antecedents. Aryan Khan had shown good conduct by not running away from NCB officers when the raid was being conducted and allowed them to search him, the advocate argued. Maneshinde claimed no drugs were recovered from Aryan Khan's possession. The magistrate on Monday sought to know from the NCB how much drug seizure was made from each of the accused. To this, ASG Anil Singh said six grams of charas was seized from Merchant, while five grams of cannabis was recovered from Dhamecha. All these are considered as "small quantity" under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). “From the other accused, we recovered five grams of MDMA (a stimulant drug). Ten grams of cocaine were recovered from from Vikrant Chhokar, 14 MDMA pills from Ishmeet Singh, four pills of MDMA and 3 grams of cocaine from Gomit Chopra and four MDMA pills from Nupur Satija. No recovery was made from Mohak Jaiswal, but he had provided the MDMA pills to Nupur Satija,” Singh told the court. Singh said while the sections under which the accused have been booked are bailable, the court has to consider the purpose of the NDPS Act which is to remove the drug menace from the society, while hearing remand applications or granting bail. “One cannot say that just because he or she is found with a small quantity, they are entitled to bail. Consuming drugs has nowadays become very common with even college-going kids consuming them. The accused here are high profile persons who are considered as role models by regular persons,” the NCB counsel contended. Maneshinde argued that his client Aryan Khan was invited to the cruise along with his friend Merchant and that he had not paid any money to get on the ship. “Nothing incriminating was recovered from Aryan Khan except his mobile phone. His friend (Merchant) was arrested because he had six grams of charas, but that has nothing to do with my client (Aryan Khan),” Maneshinde submitted. He also refuted the NCB claims that Aryan Khan had consumed drugs even when he was abroad. “During the entire period of his (Aryan) stay abroad, he has not been involved in any trafficking, supply or distribution of drugs,” Maneshinde said. Aryan Khan, Dhamecha and Merchant have been booked under sections 8(c) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell or purchase of drugs), 20(b) (punishment for contravention of cannabis), 27 (punishment for consumption of any narcotics or drugs) read with section 35 of the NDPS. Under the Act, possession of up to one kg is termed as 'small quantity' of cannabis, while a seizure of over 20 kg is considered as 'commercial quantity'. For charas/hashish, the Act says small quantity is up to 100 grams while commercial quantity is one kg or more. As per the arrest memo of the NCB, a seizure of 13 grams of cocaine, five grams of MDMA, 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of ecstasy and Rs 1.33 lakh in cash was made after the raid on the ship. Advocate Taraq Sayed, appearing for accused Merchant, argued there is no clarity of how much quantity of drugs was allegedly recovered from each of the accused and that the NCB was seeking custody only on the basis of some chats recovered from WhatsApp. “The remand note of the NCB is misleading. If only six grams of charas was recovered from Merchant, why is he being charged for the other drugs seized? The two boys (Aryan Khan and Merchant) have been arrested only because they are high-profile persons,” Sayed contended. The NCB, in its remand note against the five others arrested on Sunday night, said it had seized 2.5 grams of ecstasy, 54.3 grams of mephedrone (MD) and two grams of charas from them. The court was informed that five of the arrested accused – Ishmeet Chadha, Mohak Jaiswal, Gomit Chopra and Vikrant Chhokar – were also booked under section 27A of the NDPS Act. This section pertains to punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-chats-of-srks-son-aryan-khan-in-cruise-ship-drug-case-showed-international-drug-trafficking-ncb-to-court-1037327.html
04-10-2021||National||India nudges Sri Lanka on provincial council elections, implementation of 13th amendment||India on Monday nudged Sri Lanka to hold early elections to the provincial councils in the island nation and to implement the 13th amendment to the country’s constitution for devolution of power to the local governments in its Tamil-majority Northern and Eastern Provinces. New Delhi also subtly conveyed to the Government led by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa in Colombo as well as to the leaders of the minority Tamils of Sri Lanka about its concerns over China’s expanding footprints in the Indian Ocean island, particularly its recent move to make inroads into the northern region of the country. After calling on Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla had separate meetings with the leaders of political parties representing the minority Tamils of the Indian Ocean island – Tamil National Alliance (TNA), Tamil Progressive Alliance (TPA) and Ceylon Workers’ Congress (CWC) in Colombo. Shringla emphasized New Delhi’s commitment to protecting the rights of the Tamils through full implementation of the 13th amendment of the Constitution of Sri Lanka as well as for early convening of the Provincial Council elections in the country, the High Commission of India in Colombo posted on Twitter. The Foreign Secretary also stressed on reconciliation among all communities of Sri Lanka, where the decades-long conflict finally ended in 2009 with the government’s forces vanquishing the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). The voices within the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) and some other organizations supporting the party have been opposing holding elections to the provincial councils as well as implementation of the 13th amendment of the country’s Constitution. The SLPP rode on a majoritarian Sinhala-Buddhist nationalist wave to come back to power in Colombo by winning the presidential and parliamentary elections in 2019 and 2020. The 13th amendment to the Constitution of Sri Lanka was an outcome of the July 29, 1987 accord between New Delhi and Colombo. It was passed by Sri Lankan parliament in November 1987 resulting in creation of the provincial councils. The process of devolution of power to the local governments as envisaged by it remained incomplete though. The elections to the provincial councils of Sri Lanka are long overdue. The terms of the elected provincial councils ended in 2018 and 2019. Shringla on Monday conveyed to Rajapaksa that India would remain committed to extending support to the post-Covid-19 economic recovery of Sri Lanka. He stressed on starting works on the stalled projects funded by India in Sri Lanka. He also called on Sri Lankan Foreign Minister G L Peiris and Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa, apart from having a meeting with his counterpart Jayanath Colombage. He will call on President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Tuesday. He also inaugurated four projects funded by India in the housing and educational sectors of Sri Lanka on Monday. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nudges-sri-lanka-on-provincial-council-elections-implementation-of-13th-amendment-1037330.html
04-10-2021||National||ICMR advises 'responsible' travel ahead of festival season||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has advised states to check complete vaccination certificates or a recent Covid negative certificate to allow hotel stay at tourist destinations that are likely to see an increase in footfall during the upcoming festival season. The apex medical research council warned that a rise in population density driven by tourist arrivals or mass congregations due to social, religious or political events could lead to a surge in Covid-19 infections worsening an anticipated third wave scenario in selected states. The states that are particularly at risk are popular tourist destinations like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand in northwest India and Darjeeling district in West Bengal and Assam in the east. Appealing to people to resort to “responsible travel” rather than “revenge travel”, it said individuals with Covid like symptoms such as prolonged dry cough or loss of smell and taste should not travel. While recognising the importance of domestic tourism to boost the local economy shattered by the two Covid-19 waves, the ICMR researchers including its director-general Balram Bhargava underscored the importance of identifying and mitigating the risks involved in reckless tourism as the threat of a third wave looms. Such reckless travel is particularly worrying when it involves Himalayan mountain towns, which not only are less population-dense but also have previously imposed restrictions effectively controlling transmission. They would now see a substantial increase in population density, increasing the risk factor, the team wrote in a research paper published in the Journal of Travel Medicine. In a typical holiday season, Himachal Pradesh witnesses a 40% rise in its population because of the tourists. Responsible travel would have several important elements. Amongst visitors at least, responsible mask use and observing social distancing norms could have important effects in mitigating the risk of transmission. Also mandating such precautions by the local administration will serve as an important and continuing reminder of the risk of Covid-19. Conditions on travel could also play a key role, for example, with potential visitors only being eligible to travel if they can show evidence of a recent Covid-negative test. Vaccine status could also play an important role in eligibility to travel. India has so far administered more than 91 crore doses and covered over 70% of its adult population with a single dose. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-advises-responsible-travel-ahead-of-festival-season-1037332.html
04-10-2021||National||UK's 'simplified' travel rules does not cover vaccinated Indians||Britain's so-called "simplified" international travel system that scraps an amber list of medium Covid-19 risk countries took effect on Monday, but it offers no benefits for vaccinated Indians travelling to the UK. The UK angered India by not recognising fully vaccinated Indian travellers as part of the new rules announced last month, despite India-made Covishield among its listed globally eligible vaccine formulations. India, in retaliation, imposed its reciprocal measures on all British travellers – irrespective of vaccination status – requiring the same level of PCR tests and 10-day quarantine at declared destination, also effective from Monday. "We continue to work with international partners, including India, to roll out our phased approach," a UK government spokesperson said. The UK's new system covers over 50 countries, including the US and European Union (EU) member-nation plus 18 others such as Canada, Japan and the UAE. Travellers from these countries can now travel to England without needing to complete a pre-departure test, a day 8 test or enter a 10-day self-isolation period. They require just a single PCR test on the second day after arrival in the UK. "This builds on the UK government’s successful pilot phase with Europe and the US, and brings the total number of countries in scope of the policy to over 50, with more countries and territories being added in the coming weeks,” the Department for Transport said. India not being on the list of eligible countries means travellers are required to undertake all three tests – pre-departure, day 2 and day 8 – and self-isolate at a declared address, with the option of "test to release" from isolation after a negative PCR test on day 5. This effectively remains unchanged from India’s amber list status already in place. Travellers from countries on the red list, around 54 in all, continue to be required to undertake a mandatory 10-day quarantine at a government-designated hotel, a requirement the UK government is said to be considering scrapping for a majority on the red list later this month. From the middle of this month, the British government also plans to replace PCR tests with a cheaper lateral flow test for vaccinated arrivals. However, the timeframe and details of this change remain unclear. Meanwhile, UK government sources said over the weekend that the extension of vaccine certification to additional countries will be reviewed approximately every three weeks and that it continues to engage with the Indian government on the issue. "The UK is continuing to work on expanding the policy to countries and territories across the globe in a phased approach. We are continuing to engage with the government of India on technical cooperation to expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India,” sources said. "We are working with an array of international partners and look forward to continuing the expansion of the policy to countries and territories across the globe in a phased approach. Extension of vaccine certification will be reviewed approximately every three weeks,” they added. The first three-week review mark since the UK’s updated travel norms were first announced falls later this week. "We are accelerating towards a future where travel continues to reopen safely and remains open for good, and today’s rule changes are good news for families, businesses and the travel sector,” UK Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said on Monday. "Our priority remains to protect public health but, with more than 8 in 10 people now fully vaccinated, we are able to take these steps to lower the cost of testing and help the sector to continue in its recovery,” he said. All arrivals into the UK, from any country, continue to be required to fill in a passenger locator form ahead of travel. Meanwhile, the UK's travel industry has welcomed the government's latest move on easing testing and quarantine restrictions. Tim Alderslade, chief executive of Airlines UK, which represents UK carriers, said: "Things are moving in the right direction and the removal of these restrictions will make it easier and cheaper for people to travel." However, he said the UK remained "an outlier on arrivals testing for vaccinated passengers". Airlines UK hopes to see more countries removed from the red list at the next update and further mutual recognition of vaccine status for those jabbed in other countries, he was quoted as saying by the BBC. Willie Walsh, head of industry body the International Air Transport Association, welcomed the change as a "positive step", saying the government's testing and quarantine restrictions had been both unscientific and costly. "People have been led to believe that the risk is people flying into the country. The risk was inside the country," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uks-simplified-travel-rules-does-not-cover-vaccinated-indians-1037340.html
04-10-2021||National||Defence ministry comes out with new website on Republic Day celebrations next year||The defence ministry came out with a website on Monday to chronicle the events leading up to the Republic Day celebrations in 2022 that will coincide with "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav". The website -- indianrdc.mod.gov.in -- was launched by Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar. "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav" is an initiative of the government to celebrate and commemorate 75 years of the country's Independence. "To showcase the Republic Day celebrations of the year 2022, which will mark the 75th year of Independence -- Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, Ministry of Defence has created a new website: "http://www.indianrdc.mod.gov.in," the ministry said in a statement. "It was formally launched by Defence Secretary Dr Ajay Kumar in New Delhi on October 04, 2021, as a platform that connects Indians all over the world and celebrates India's Republic Day," it added. Speaking on the occasion, Kumar said various activities related to the Republic Day celebrations are happening throughout the country and the website will be very useful in hosting these build-up events. The ministry said the website will be a single-point official source for all the content related to the Republic Day celebrations. The website has features like a special e-book, blogs on the Indian freedom movement and war memorials, it said. "Moreover, the website shall contain all the information related to the event viz. minute to minute programme, route map, parking details, RSVP, details of additional activities undertaken by various constituents of the Ministry of Defence, live streaming of the events etc.," it added.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-comes-out-with-new-website-on-republic-day-celebrations-next-year-1037343.html
04-10-2021||National||Modi government committed to modernise the armed forces: Rajnath Singh||Noting that global security concerns and border disputes renewed focus on military modernisation around the world, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government too was committed to modernise the armed forces of India. He said that the government was committed to equip the armed forces with the latest military hardware. The Defence Minister felicitated the winners of ‘Dare to Dream 2.0’ Contest of Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) in New Delhi. He gave away awards to 40 winners – 22 in Individual category and 18 in Startup category. He also launched the ‘Dare to Dream 3.0’ to promote innovators and startups and provide a platform for the young ignited minds in the country, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of Defence. The Dare to Dream is the DRDO's pan-India contest to promote Indian academicians, individuals and startups to develop emerging defence and aerospace technologies and systems. The DRDO provides technical and financial support to the winners for realisation of their ideas under the Technology Development Fund (TDF) scheme. Singh on Monday also gave away DRDO Young Scientists awards for the year 2019. Sixteen DRDO scientists, under the age of 35 years, were awarded for their outstanding contribution in areas of their expertise. Three products and systems indigenously developed by the DRDO were handed over to the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force on Monday. The ARINC818 Video Processing and Switching Module with high bandwidth, low latency, channel bonding, and easy networking will cater to the fifth generation aircraft development programmes.  The Sonar Performance Modelling System developed for the Indian Navy for use in warships, submarines and underwater surveillance stations. The Bund Blasting Device Mk-II device, developed for the Indian Army, is used to reduce the height of Ditch-cum-Bund obstacles to enhance mobility of mechanised infantry during wartime. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-government-committed-to-modernise-the-armed-forces-rajnath-singh-1037355.html
04-10-2021||National Politics||Congress seeks sacking of Haryana CM over 'tit-for-tat' remark||The Congress on Sunday demanded the sacking of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar after a purported video of his surfaced on social media, in which he is allegedly heard telling BJP workers for a "tit for tat" reply to farmers. During a meeting of the BJP's Kisan Morcha on Sunday, Khattar allegedly told the gathering to give a "tit-for-tat" reply to farmers protesting against the farm laws, form groups of 500 to 1,000 and be prepared to even go to jail. "We demand that Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar should be sacked immediately. Such a chief minister who despite holding a constitutional post is instigating BJP workers against farmers, does not deserve to occupy the post," Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh told reporters. He also said the Supreme Court should also give its comments on such a chief minister, who is giving directions to party workers to beat up farmers. "We are looking forward to the Supreme Court taking note of these comments and awaiting your action," he said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala hit out at the Haryana chief minister over his remarks, saying, "Your guru mantra asking BJP supporters to attack the agitating farmers with sticks, to go to jail and become leaders from there will never be successful." "This call to spread anarchy at an open programme after taking oath of the Constitution is treason. Seems you also have the nod of Modi-Naddaji in this," Surjewala tweeted in Hindi. "If the chief minister of the state talks about spreading violence, breaking society and destroying law and order, then the rule of law and the Constitution cannot run in the state. Today, the BJP's anti-farmer conspiracy got busted. The time has come for showing the door to such an anarchic government," he said. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar talked about "tit for tat" during a meeting of the BJP's Kisan Morcha here on Sunday when he told the gathering to form groups of 500 to 1,000 and be prepared to even go to jail, with the Opposition and farm unions alleging that he was asking the supporters of his party to attack the farmers protesting against three agriculture laws of the Centre. At the event, while apparently referring to the impact of the ongoing farmers' agitation, Khattar said the problem is not much in south Haryana and it is limited to the northern and western districts of the state. "Form groups of 500, 700, 1,000 farmers and make them volunteers. And then at every place, 'sathe sathyam samacharet'. What does it mean -- it means tit for tat (jaisa ko taisa). Do not worry...when you remain there (in jail) for a month, three months or six months, you will become big leaders, your names will be etched in history," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-seeks-sacking-of-haryana-cm-over-tit-for-tat-remark-1037029.html
04-10-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi meets Mukul Sangma, Vincent Pala to end 'rift' in Meghalaya Congress||The Congress appears to have averted a crisis in its Meghalaya unit ahead of bypolls in three Assembly seats after Rahul Gandhi met former chief minister Mukul Sangma and the party's state president Vincent H Pala on Sunday. The former chief minister and Congress Legislature Party leader Mukul M Sangma and Pradesh Congress Committee chief Vincent H Pala had not been getting along well ever since the latter was appointed the new Meghalaya unit chief. Sangma had also stated that the party leadership did not consult him on Pala's appointment. There was speculation that Sangma may defect to the Trinamool Congress. The two leaders however came together on Saturday and decided to work together for the upcoming bye-elections. "Rahul Gandhi met Meghalaya Congress president Vincent Pala and CLP leader Mukul Sangma, along with Meghalaya in-charge Manish Chatrath and AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal at his residence," the Congress said. They also shared pictures of the leaders together after the meeting. Meanwhile, the Congress finalised its candidates for the upcoming bypolls in Meghalaya. While Highlander Kharmalki will contest from the Mawryngkneng-ST seat, Kennedy C Khriem will contest from the Mawphlang-ST constituency and Hashina Yasmin Mondal from the Rajbala constituency.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-meets-mukul-sangma-vincent-pala-to-end-rift-in-meghalaya-congress-1037044.html
04-10-2021||National Politics||Opposition leaders congratulate Mamata Banerjee for her landslide victory in Bhabanipur bypoll||A host of opposition leaders on Sunday congratulated Mamata Banerjee on her landslide victory in the Bhabanipur bypoll with a record margin of 58,835 votes. Top Congress leaders were, however, silent on her victory. The party had not put up its candidate against her in the bypoll. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar tweeted, "Sincere congratulations to the Chief Minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee on her victory in the Bhabanipur bypoll." Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin also congratulated Banerjee for her "resounding victory". "The massive mandate reconfirms the unassailable confidence that the people of West Bengal have reposed on you," he said. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren also congratulated the Trinamool Congress supremo and said that her resounding victory is a statement of will and resolve to protect democratic interests. Congress leader Anand Sharma was the only one in the party who congratulated Banerjee. "Heartiest congratulations to Mamata Banerjee for the emphatic victory. A vindication again of her popular support and people's trust in her leadership," he said on Twitter. Five months after spearheading TMC to a landslide win in the assembly election, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee scored a personal point with a massive victory on Sunday in the Bhabanipur by-poll. Her victory, which came after her defeat in Nandigram in assembly elections held earlier this year, was expected by most analysts. Banerjee secured 85,263 votes. Her nearest rival, BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal, garnered 26,428 votes, while CPI(M)'s Srijib Biswas polled 4,226 votes, the Election Commission said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-leaders-congratulate-mamata-banerjee-for-her-landslide-victory-in-bhabanipur-bypoll-1037059.html
04-10-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi, other Congress leaders reach Lakhimpur Kheri border||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other party leaders reached the Lakhimpur border early Monday but alleged they were not allowed to meet the victims of the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest and claimed eight lives a day earlier. Priyanka Gandhi, who is accompanied by party leader Deepender Singh Hooda among others, had to take alternative routes to reach the bordering Hargaon area in Saitapur as heavy security was deployed on the main roads amid tension in the violence-hit region of Lakhimpur. “We are waiting outside Lakhimpur Kheri. We have been prevented by the police from entering. We have come here to meet the victims of the violence,” Congress national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar told PTI over the phone at 4.30 am. Priyanka Gandhi's convoy was earlier briefly stopped by the Uttar Pradesh Police officials in Lucknow, where the Congress general secretary had arrived on Sunday night, within a few hours of violence being reported during an anti-farm laws protest here. Meanwhile, mobile internet services were suspended in parts of the violence-hit district, where restrictions under CrPC section 144 -- which prohibits assembly of four or more people -- have also been imposed, according to officials. The UP police took to Twitter early Monday to describe the incident as “unfortunate” and said eight casualties have been reported so far as per the district administration. “ADG LO, ACS Agriculture, IG Range & Commissioner are on the spot & situation is under control. Adequate deployment has been done to prevent any untoward incident,” it added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-other-congress-leaders-reach-lakhimpur-kheri-border-1037061.html
04-10-2021||National Politics||Lakhimpur Kheri: Congress demands dismissal of MoS Ajay Mishra||The Congress on Monday demanded the immediate dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra and the arrest of his son who has been named in the FIR by Uttar Pradesh Police after the death of eight persons including four farmers in violent clashes in Lakhimpur Kheri. The party also demanded the immediate release of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who they alleged has been illegally detained by the Uttar Pradesh Police. The Congress said it would hold protests outside the offices of district magistrates in all districts of the country on Tuesday to protest against incident. "We demand that union minister Ajay Mishra should be dismissed immediately and his son be arrested forthwith. We also demand the immediate release of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who has been illegally detained. We also demand action against the policemen who misbehaved with her," Congress leader Rajiv Shukla told reporters.  There should be a probe on how other people died in the violence and farmers should not held responsible, he said. The Congress leader claimed that Priyanka Gandhi has been detained illegally and she should be released immediately and allowed to go to Lakhimpur Kheri and meet the affected farmers. Shukla said Priyanka Gandhi wanted to meet the affected families and should have been allowed as we never stopped anyone when our government was in power. It is wrong to stop politicians from visiting the affected families, he said. "Chief Minister of Punjab Charanjit Singh Channi and Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel should also be allowed to visit the affected families," Shukla said. Priyanka Gandhi was earlier stopped in Lucknow and then at Sitapur and detained illegally, he alleged, adding that the police did not relent and misbehaved and took her away. Her husband Robert Vadra also said that Priyanka Gandhi would not return till she met the victims and their families and they get justice. He said there is no warrant or documentary evidence to stop Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. They will meet the families of the victims and she will not relent, he claimed. Baghel, who has not been allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh by the state government, said, "This is the real face of BJP that they want to crush the farmers and kill them. The BJP now stands fully exposed as they are anti-farmers." Shukla said, "We demand from prime minister and chief minister of Uttar Pradesh very strict action against the culprits in Lakhimpur Kheri. A strong message should go that the government is not against the farmers of the country. " "The farmers are being suppressed, harassed, tortured and are being killed. They are not allowed to speaking and their voice is being suppressed, which is very unfortunate in a democracy," he said. Those farmers who died should be given compensation by the government of India and a thorough probe be initiated to find out who killed the other four in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, the Congress leader said. Announcing a country-wide agitation, he said the Congress will also gherao the offices of district magistrates in every district of the country on Tuesday.  "Now the entire Congress is standing in support of farmers," Shukla said. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently a part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister. They were allegedly thrashed to death. The four others were farmers, officials said. Farmer leaders had claimed that the minister's son Ashsish Mishra was in one of the cars which they alleged knocked down some protesters who were opposing the deputy CM's visit. However, Ajay Mishra said he and his son were not present at the spot as alleged by some farmer leaders and he has photo and video evidence to prove it. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lakhimpur-kheri-congress-demands-dismissal-of-mos-ajay-mishra-1037175.html
04-10-2021||National Politics||BKU chief asks BJP workers not to visit UP's rural areas as farmers angry over Lakhimpur violence||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) national president Naresh Tikait has asked BJP workers not to visit the rural areas of Uttar Pradesh, saying farmers are angry over the violence that broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. Addressing a kisan panchayat at the BKU headquarters in Sisoli on Sunday night, he alleged that the BJP was trying to defame the farmers' agitation by provoking violence. He asked the BJP workers not to visit the rural areas to avoid any untoward incident. The remarks came after eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently a part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister. They were allegedly thrashed to death. The four others were farmers, officials said. Farmer leaders had claimed that the minister's son Ashsish Mishra was in one of the cars which they alleged knocked down some protesters who were opposing the deputy CM's visit. However, Ajay Mishra said he and his son were not present at the spot as alleged by some farmer leaders and he has photo and video evidence to prove it. Meanwhile, irate BKU workers staged a dharna against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on Sunday night and blocked a road in Shamli district. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the Shamli district magistrate demanding action against Ashsish Mishra. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bku-chief-asks-bjp-workers-not-to-visit-ups-rural-areas-as-farmers-angry-over-lakhimpur-violence-1037179.html
04-10-2021||National Politics||Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress leaders protest against Lakhimpur Kheri incident||After triggering a crisis in Punjab Congress, its chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday led a group of MLAs and party leaders on Monday protesting outside the Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh. Sidhu, MLAs, including Madan Lal Jalalpur and Gurpreet Singh and several members of the Punjab Youth Congress sat outside the residence of Governor Banwarilal Purohit, raising slogans against the BJP. Demanding the arrest of the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra for his alleged involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Sidhu and other leaders also protested against the detention of Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi while on way to Lakhimpur Kheri. Posting a video of Priyanka speaking to police officers on her "illegal detention", Sidhu tweeted, "Courage, thy name is @PriyankaGandhi !!" On Sunday, he tweeted, "No one is above the law … FIR under sec 302 IPC must be registered against Union Minister’s son for murder of innocent farmers, he should be immediately arrested and put behind the bars for this barbaric act !!" No one is above the law … FIR under sec 302 IPC must be registered against Union Minister’s son for murder of innocent farmers, he should be immediately arrested and put behind the bars for this barbaric act !! Sidhu had put in his papers last Tuesday unhappy over certain administrative appointments and choice of ministers by Charanjit Singh Channi. His resignation was not accepted while last Thursday, Channi held talks with Sidhu during which issues were "resolved" with the setting up of a coordination panel. There was, however, no official word on the 'compromise' even as Sidhu once again reiterated his demand for the removal of the DGP in-charge and Advocate General. Channi said on Sunday that the names of 10 police officers have already been sent to the UPSC while asserting that a "good" officer will be appointed as the DGP after consulting Sidhu, ministers and MLAs once the state government receives three shortlisted names from the Centre. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/navjot-singh-sidhu-congress-leaders-protest-against-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-1037207.html
04-10-2021||National Politics||Centre uses iron fist against own people but welcomes Chinese troops: Mehbooba||In an apparent reference to the violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti alleged on Monday that imposing Section 144 wherever human rights and dignity have trampled upon has emerged as the Centre's preferred approach. She claimed that the government uses an iron fist against its own people but welcomes Chinese troops with open arms. Her remarks came after at least eight people were killed as violence erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. Multiple opposition leaders tried to make their way to the Uttar Pradesh district through the night but were prevented from doing so. "Applying Section 144 wherever human rights & dignity is trampled has emerged as GOIs preferred approach. This government shows no hesitation in using an iron fist with its own people but welcomes Chinese troops with open arms," the PDP chief wrote on Twitter. "One can't even compare the oppression unleashed in J&K since 2019 but the common denominators are obvious. What started in J&K was sadly met with an air of indifference & has now engulfed the entire country. When will we speak up?" she asked. One can’t even compare the oppression unleashed in J&K since 2019 but the common denominators are obvious. What started in J&K was sadly met with an air of indifference & has now engulfed the entire country. When will we speak up? Commenting on the situation in Lakhimpur Kheri, National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah said Uttar Pradesh has become the new Jammu and Kashmir. "Uttar Pradesh is the 'naya J&K'," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-uses-iron-fist-against-own-people-but-welcomes-chinese-troops-mehbooba-1037211.html
04-10-2021||National Politics||Union Minister Ajay Mishra allegedly threatened farmers before Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Popularly known as 'Maharaj', Union Minister Ajay Mishra, who had been embroiled in criminal cases in the past, appeared to have emerged as the 'provocateur' of Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh which left eight persons, including four farmers, dead. Mishra, who represented Lakhimpur Kheri seat in the Lok Sabha and had been inducted in the Modi government as minister of State for Home recently, had faced the wrath of the farmers in the district after he had reportedly threatened them with dire consequences if they continued to protest against the farm laws. ''Agar main apne par utar aya to inhe (farmers) gaon hi nahi jila bhi chorna par jayega'' (If I decide to show them my true power, they will have to not only leave their village but also the district), Mishra had allegedly said at a public meeting in the district a few days ago. ''If I had alighted from my vehicle, they (farmers) would not have been able to even flee... people here are familiar with my history,'' he had said. Mishra's alleged remarks came after the farmers showed him black flags during his visit last month. Enraged over his alleged remarks, the farmers had declared to hold protests if he visited the district again. According to the sources, Mishra's name had cropped up in a case of murder in 2003. He got a clean chit in the case later. The two time MP from Lakhimpur Kheri enjoyed the image of a 'muscleman' in the district. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-minister-ajay-mishra-allegedly-threatened-farmers-before-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-1037232.html
04-10-2021||National Politics||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: 'Killing Raj' going on in UP, not 'Ram Rajya', claims Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday attacked BJP governments at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh over the death of farmers during a protest, claiming that "autocracy" prevails in the country and "killing Raj" is going on in that state. The saffron party in West Bengal hit back claiming that Banerjee should be the last person to comment on political violence as the state had witnessed brutality after the assembly elections held earlier this year. Eight people were killed - four farmers were allegedly run over and four people in a convoy of BJP workers who were lynched - on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh. "This is an unfortunate incident. The BJP government does not believe in democracy. What is going on in the country is not democracy but autocracy. Farmers were brutally butchered, and they (BJP) didn't want the truth to come out. That is why they have imposed Section 144 (CrPC) there. "People will impose Section 144 on them in the days to come. They are stopping delegations from visiting the locals there," she told reporters after visiting a Gurudwara in Bhabanipur, her assembly constituency. As opposition leaders headed to Tikonia village, about 225 km from Lucknow, the Uttar Pradesh authorities clamped section 144 of the CrPC, which bans the assembly of more than four people, in the district. Mobile internet services are also restricted. When asked if she feels that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath should resign over the law and order situation, Banerjee said, "Is this Ram Rajya? No, this is Killing Rajya. Killing Raj is going on there, instead of what they said about establishing Ram Rajya." To a question on delegation of various political parties being stopped from entering the area, Banerjee claimed this had been an old practice of the saffron camp, wherever they are in power. "I can't comment on other parties. But the BJP has been doing this for a long time. Earlier, our delegation was not allowed to visit Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. We were not allowed to enter Assam during NRC agitation. They don't follow any democratic norms," she said. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi, the BSP’s S C Mishra and the AAP’s Sanjay Singh were among those prevented by the state authorities from reaching Lakhimpur. Reacting to Banerjee's allegations, BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said she should not talk about political violence. "She should be the last person to comment on violence. We have seen how Bengal was turned into killing fields after the assembly election results were announced. The UP government has taken all necessary action," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-killing-raj-going-on-in-up-not-ram-rajya-claims-mamata-banerjee-1037255.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Protesters 'run over' in UP: Farmers to stage stir outside DM offices across India today||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has called for a protest outside the offices of district magistrates and divisional commissioners across the country on Monday over two SUVs allegedly running over protesters in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, farmer leaders Yogendra Yadav and Darshan Pal Singh said on Sunday. They also demanded a probe into the "gory" incident by a Supreme Court judge and not by the Uttar Pradesh administration. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, officials said. "To express our agitation against Sunday's incident, the SKM calls for a protest outside the offices of district magistrates and divisional commissioners across the country between 10 am and 1 pm," Singh said. The farmer leaders alleged that Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra's son was travelling in one of the sports utility vehicles (SUVs) involved in the incident. "We demand that Union Minister of State for Home and Kheri MP Ajay Kumar Mishra be immediately dismissed from his post. A case under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC should be registered against the minister's son and the other goons," Singh and Yadav said at a virtual press conference. The SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, is spearheading a protest at Delhi's borders against three agriculture laws of the Centre. The SKM claimed that at least four farmers were killed in the incident and appealed to the protesters to maintain calm. "The Samyukta Kisan Morcha is able to confirm the deaths of four farmers at this point of time -- Lovepreet Singh (20), Daljeet Singh (35), Nachattar Singh (60) and Gurvinder Singh (19). There are around 12 to 15 persons injured and hospitalised. The SKM pays respectful homage to all these martyrs," it said in a statement after the press conference. Yadav and Singh alleged that BJP MP Mishra issued a "brazen threat" against the protesting farmers only a few days ago. They pointed out that the "gory episode" targeting farmers took place just a few days after the threat issued by the Union minister. The violence broke out after the two SUVs allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against Maurya's visit at the Tikonia-Banbirpur road on Sunday. The two vehicles were set ablaze by the angry farmers, reports said. They also allegedly thrashed some passengers of the vehicles. "It is confirmed that Ashish Mishra Teni (son of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra Teni) came with three vehicles around the time when farmers were dispersing from their protest site at the helipad, mowed down farmers and towards the end, also attacked SKM leader Tajinder Singh Virk directly by trying to run a vehicle over him," the SKM alleged in its statement. The farmers' body also alleged that gunshots were fired on the spot where the violence took place. "There were shots fired and one of the deaths was due to the shooting by Ashish Mishra Teni (minister's son) and his team," it said. Yadav claimed such incidents are a "conspiracy" to "break" the movement. "It is a conspiracy to break the movement. We will keep protesting peacefully. We will soon hold a meeting to chalk out further strategy on the development," he said. The SKM also condemned Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's remarks against farmers. "Reacting to the Haryana chief minister's statements abetting violence against peacefully protesting farmers, Samyukta Kisan Morcha demands an immediate apology from him and a resignation from the constitutional post that he holds," it said. Khattar talked about "tit for tat" during a meeting of the BJP's Kisan Morcha in Chandigarh on Sunday when he told the gathering to form groups of 500 to 1,000 and be prepared to even go to jail, with the Opposition and farm unions alleging that he was asking the supporters of the saffron party to attack the anti-farm law protesters. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesters-run-over-in-up-farmers-to-stage-stir-outside-dm-offices-across-india-today-1037018.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||UP violence: Punjab CM, parties seeks action against those behind farmers' death||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday condemned the UP's Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which two SUVs allegedly ran over a group of farmers, leading to a violence that claimed eight lives. Other political parties in Punjab too demanded the registration of a case against those who "crushed farmers to death". Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said he will visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday, along with a team of officials to have on the spot assessment of the situation there. Expressing deep anguish at the tragic incident, Channi said the "ghastly and inhuman act" must be condemned by all in strongest possible words, according to a statement. Channi urged his counterpart in Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, to bring the culprits to book so as to ensure justice to the victim families. Eight people were killed on Saturday as violence erupted in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri during a farmers' protest over Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit. Four of the dead were travelling in the vehicles and the remaining four were farmers. The farmers had assembled there to oppose Maurya's visit to Banbirpur, the native village of Union Minister of State for Home and MP Ajay Kumar Mishra. The violence broke out after two SUVs allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters. Farmers alleged that the Union minister's son was in one of the vehicles, a charge denied by Mishra. Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also sought a probe into the incident. “Thorough probe needed into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Justice must be ensured for the victims of the violence. Violence or provocation of violence is no solution to any problem.': @capt_amarinder,” tweeted Amarinder's media adviser. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party MLA and Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly, Harpal Singh, Cheema condemned the incident and said the culprits should be immediately put behind bars. He demanded that the farm laws should be repealed immediately. Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal demanded immediate registration of a murder case against the son of the Union minister for allegedly crushing farmers to death. "It seems the government is trying to protect the son of a Union minister of state, which is shocking and condemnable," said Badal in a statement. The Union Home Ministry should direct the Uttar Pradesh government to provide justice to the families of dead farmers immediately, he said. Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu also sought registration of a case against the Union minister's son. "No one is above the law … FIR under sec 302 IPC must be registered against Union Minister's son for murder of innocent farmers, he should be immediately arrested and put behind the bars for this barbaric act !!," tweeted Sidhu. Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa also demanded the registration of a case against the son of the Union minister. "All perpetrators including the MoS Home's son should be booked for murder, for crushing the protesting farmers. Anything less than that would be a gross miscarriage of justice," said Bajwa in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-violence-punjab-cm-parties-seeks-action-against-those-behind-farmers-death-1037023.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Air India plane gets trapped under foot overbridge near Delhi airport||It is not every day that one gets to see an aircraft stuck under a foot overbridge. A scrapped Air India plane stuck under a foot overbridge left people around the Delhi-Gurugram highway baffled on Sunday morning with just that.  So, how did it end up there?  A video of the incident was posted on social media and it showed the mammoth vehicle, looking like a fish out of the water, blocking a part of the highway and people passing by on the other side. “The aircraft certainly does not belong to the Delhi airport’s fleet and in the video, it is being transported without any wings. It appears to be a scrapped plane and the driver may have made a judgement of error while transporting it,” an Air India spokesperson told the publication. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-india-plane-gets-trapped-under-foot-overbridge-near-delhi-airport-1037073.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Priyanka detained, case filed against minister's son, 14 others||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other party leaders were detained in Sitapur on Monday, with the party alleging they were not allowed to meet the victims of the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri a day earlier. Stopping them in such a way is "undemocratic", Congress state President Ajay Kumar Lallu told PTI. The Congress leaders had to take alternative routes to reach the bordering Hargaon area in Sitapur as heavy security was deployed on the main roads amid tension in the violence-hit region of Lakhimpur. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, officials said. "We are waiting outside Lakhimpur Kheri. We have been prevented by the police from entering. We have come here to meet the victims of the violence," Congress national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar told PTI over the phone at 4.30 am. The security outside former Chief Minister and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav's residence at Vikramaditya Marg has been beefed up ahead of his scheduled visit to Lakhimpur Kheri.  Demanding a judicial probe in the violence, BSP supremo Mayawati said her party's national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra was stopped in Lucknow to prevent him from reaching Lakhimpur. "BSP's national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP S C Mishra was placed under house arrest late last night at his residence in Lucknow. It is continuing so that the party delegation under his leadership cannot reach Lakhimpur Kheri to get the correct report of the violence. This is very sad and deplorable," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "Due to the involvement of two BJP ministers in the Kheri case, a proper government investigation of this incident, justice to the victims and strict punishment to the guilty does not seem possible. Therefore, this incident in which eight people have been confirmed dead so far requires a judicial inquiry. This is the demand of the BSP," she said. Reports said that the violence broke out after two SUVs allegedly ran over four anti-farm law protesters over a statement made by Minister of State Ajay Mishra Teni, who was on his way to his village after a programme for UP Deputy CM Keshav Maurya in Lakhimpur city. After the incident, angry farmers who were present at the spot allegedly torched a vehicle belonging to the minister’s convoy. Mobile internet services have been suspended in parts of the violence-hit Lakhimpur district, where restrictions under CrPC section 144 -- which prohibits assembly of four or more people -- has also been imposed, according to officials. UP DGP Mukul Goel said a total of eight persons died in the incident. “Out of the eight, four were farmers and the remaining four were others who were in the vehicles,” he said, assuring that action would be taken against the culprits.  (With PTI inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-priyanka-detained-case-filed-against-ministers-son-14-others-1037080.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt asks Lucknow airport not to allow arrival of Chhattisgarh CM, Punjab Deputy CM||The Uttar Pradesh government has requested the Lucknow airport authority not to allow the arrival of the Chhattisgarh chief minister and the Punjab deputy CM, who announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, in view of the violence that erupted there. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. "After the incident in Lakhimpur, the district magistrate has imposed prohibitory orders there to maintain law and order. It is requested that you should not allow Chhattisgarh CM and Punjab deputy CM at the CCS Airport in Lucknow," Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said in a letter dated October 3 to the Airport Authority of India (AAI). Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government, asking if civil rights had been suspended in the state. "Uttar Pradesh government is issuing 'farmaan (diktat)' to me for not coming to the state. Have civil rights been suspended in UP? If section 144 is imposed in Lakhimpur, then why is the dictatorial government stopping me from landing in Lucknow," Baghel asked in a tweet in Hindi. He also attached Awasthi's letter to the AAI. Baghel and Punjab Deputy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa had announced that they would visit Lakhimpur on Monday.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-asks-lucknow-airport-not-to-allow-arrival-of-chhattisgarh-cm-punjab-deputy-cm-1037088.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 57-year-old elephant gives birth to calf in Bandhavgarh National Park||A 57-year-old elephant has given birth to a female calf at the Bandhavgarh National Park in Madhya Pradesh's Umaria district, a forest official said on Monday. The aged tusker, named Anarkali, who was brought to the Bandhavgarh National Park in 1978-79 from Sonepur cattle fair (in Bihar), has so far in its lifetime given birth to eight calves, Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Alok Kumar said, adding that the latest one was born on Saturday. The average life span of an elephant may vary from 40 to 65 years, as per experts. “The newborn female calf is named Gayatri and it will surely be a centre of attraction for tourists in the coming days,” Kumar said in a statement. Out of the eight calves born to Anarkali, four have survived and are healthy, he said. Currently, there are 14 elephants in the Bandhavgarh National Park. They are deployed for patrolling, tiger tracking, and other tasks in the park throughout the year, the official added. Last month, these jumbos were given a break from their routines to enjoy a week-long vacation. During the period, these elephants were daily washed, groomed, decorated with sandalwood powder, and offered their favourite food, including bananas, apples, sugarcane, and jaggery, an official earlier said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-57-year-old-elephant-gives-birth-to-calf-in-bandhavgarh-national-park-1037098.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Akhilesh Yadav taken into custody over sit-in protest||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav was detained on Monday as he sat on a dharna outside his Vikramaditya Marg residence in Lucknow after he was not allowed to go to Lakhimpur. The SP chief had announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest ahead of a visit by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. On Monday morning, security was beefed up outside his home and police trucks placed to block the road and restrict any movement, following which he sat on the dharna with party leaders Ram Gopal Yadav, MLC Anand Bhadauria and others. Hundreds of party workers also gathered outside the house, and a heavy police force was deployed in the area. "Vehicles are being run over those who raise their voices. We want the arrest of the minister and his son in the Lakhimpur incident," Akhilesh Yadav told reporters here. A police jeep parked in front of the Gautam Palli police station near the place where Akhilesh Yadav sat on a dharna was set on fire allegedly by party workers. SP leaders, however, claimed that the police torched their own vehicle.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-akhilesh-yadav-taken-into-custody-over-sit-in-protest-1037100.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: FIR against MoS Ajay Mishra's son, others||An FIR has been registered against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son and several other persons in connection with the Lakhimpur violence that left eight persons dead. Two FIRs have been registered but details of the sections under which the cases have been registered were not immediately known. Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, told PTI that "FIR has been lodged against several persons including Minister of State for Home, Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra". He said as copy of the FIR was not available yet, details of the sections on which it was registered were not known. ADG, Law and Order, Prashant Kumar, who is camping in Lakhimpur told PTI, "I am on the spot. Two FIRs from both sides have been registered in the matter. Detailed information in not available yet as the internet is not working here." "We will let the media know about it soon," he said. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently a part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister. They were allegedly thrashed to death.The four others were farmers, officials said. Farmer leaders had claimed that the minister's son Ashsish Mishra was in one of the cars which they alleged knocked down some protesters who were opposing the deputy CM's visit. However, Ajay Mishra said he and his son were not present at the spot as alleged by some farmer leaders and he has photo and video evidence to prove it. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-fir-against-mos-ajay-mishras-son-others-1037101.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: All you need to know||Violence erupted during a farmers’ protest on Sunday, claiming the lives of eight people, including both farmers and BJP workers, at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. The incident occurred ahead of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Lakhimpur.  The violence erupted after the protesting farmers tried to block roads, stopping the Deputy CM from entering Lakhimpur. This turned out to be one of the most violent incidents since the protest over the farm laws began last year. While there is still no clarification as to what led to the death of the eight people, farmer leaders claimed that Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, was in one of the cars which they said knocked down some protesters who were opposing the Deputy CM's visit. However, Union Minister Ajay Mishra claimed that three BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death by "some elements" in the protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh after a car in which they were travelling turned turtle. "Some elements of farmers, who were protesting, showed black flags and pelted stones on the car which turned turtle. Two farmers came under the car and died. Three BJP workers and the driver of the car were beaten to death by some people present there,” Mishra told PTI.  Priyanka Gandhi Vadra detained Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other party leaders reached the Lakhimpur border early Monday to meet those injured in the violence, and the families of the deceased. However, the Congress leaders alleged that they were not allowed to meet the victims of the violence.  “We are waiting outside Lakhimpur Kheri. We have been prevented by the police from entering. We have come here to meet the victims of the violence,” Congress national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar told PTI. "Priyanka Gandhi, Deepender Singh Hooda and other leaders were detained in Sitapur around 5 am. Stopping them in such a way is undemocratic," said Congress state president Ajay Kumar Lallu.  Akhilesh Yadav detained:  Security had been beefed up outside the residence at Vikramaditya Marg of Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav, who had announced that he would visit Lakhimpur.  A large police force had been deployed on Vikramaditya Marg, and police trucks had been placed to block the entire road and restrict any possible movement, not allowing the Samajwadi Party leader to visit Lakhimpur.   Stopped from going to Lakhimpur, Akhilesh Yadav staged a sit-in protest outside his residence before being detained by the police. Lucknow: Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav stage a sit-in protest outside his residence after police stopped him from going to Lakhimpur Kheri Speaking to the media while protesting outside his residence in Lucknow, Yadav demanded the resignation of Ajay Mishra and Keshav Prasad Maurya. FIR against Minister and his son An FIR has been registered against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son and several other persons in connection with the Lakhimpur violence.  Restrictions imposed by the UP government Like Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Akhilesh Yadav, several opposition leaders from across the state and the country have been trying to reach out to the victims of the violence and meet their families in Lakhimpur. However, the UP government is taking stringent measures to not allow opposition leaders come anywhere close to Lakhimpur.  The Uttar Pradesh government has requested the Lucknow airport authority to not allow the arrival of Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and the Punjab Deputy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa, who announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, in view of the violence that erupted there. Meanwhile, mobile internet services have been suspended in parts of the violence-hit Lakhimpur district, where restrictions under CrPC section 144 -- which prohibits gathering of four or more people -- has also been imposed.  SC's reaction to the incident Meanwhile, referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri violence incident, the Supreme Court on Monday said that nobody takes responsibility when such unfortunate incidents take place.  (With PTI inputs) Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-all-you-need-to-know-1037102.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Rakesh Tikait demands sacking of MoS Ajay Mishra, arrest of his son||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday demanded that Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra be sacked and that his son be arrested in connection with the death of farmers during a protest here. He also demanded Rs one crore compensation and a government job for the family members of the deceased farmers. "After our demands were met, then only will we cremate the (farmers)," he said at a press conference here. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently a part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister. They were allegedly thrashed to death.The four others were farmers, officials said. Farmer leaders had claimed that the minister's son Ashsish Mishra was in one of the cars which they alleged knocked down some protesters who were opposing the deputy CM's visit. However, Ajay Mishra said he and his son were not present at the spot as alleged by some farmer leaders and he has photo and video evidence to prove it. During the press conference here, farmers also alleged that Ashish Mishra opened fire on farmers. Asked about certain comments made by Ajay Mishra in purported videos that have surfaced on social media, Tikait said the atmosphere in the region was being vitiated over the last 10 days. Mobile internet services have been suspended in parts of the violence-hit district, where restrictions under CrPC section 144, which prohibits assembly of four or more people, has also been imposed, according to officials. The UP Police took to Twitter early on Monday to describe the incident as “unfortunate” and said eight casualties have been reported till now as per the district administration. “ADG LO, ACS Agriculture, IG Range & Commissioner are on the spot & situation is under control. Adequate deployment has been done to prevent any untoward incident,” it added. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-rakesh-tikait-demands-sacking-of-mos-ajay-mishra-arrest-of-his-son-1037103.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Congress's former Union minister Arun Yadav to not contest Khandwa LS bypoll||Former Union minister Arun Yadav, who was being seen as the front-runner from the Congress for the upcoming by-election to Khandwa Lok Sabha seat in Madhya Pradesh, has said he will not contest the poll due to family reasons. Yadav, the former state Congress chief, informed about his decision in a tweet on Sunday night. Earlier, Congress leaders hinted that Yadav was most likely to be fielded from the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, which fell vacant following the death of sitting BJP MP Nandkumar Singh Chauhan. Senior state Congress MLA and former minister Sajjan Singh Verma had termed Yadav as the best candidate for the Khandwa LS seat and said, "Our high command too feels so." However, Yadav in a tweet on Sunday said, “After meeting Kamal Nath (state Congress president) and Mukul Wasnik (AICC general secretary in-charge of MP) personally in Delhi today (Sunday), I have conveyed to the party in writing about not being able to contest from the Khandwa parliamentary seat due to family reasons. I will fully cooperate and support the party's official candidate." Meanwhile, sources in the BJP said Harshvardhan Chauhan, the son of Nandkumar Singh Chauhan, was the front-runner for the party's ticket for the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat and added that the name of former state minister Archana Chitnis was also doing the rounds. Bypolls to the Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency and three state Assembly seats - Jobat (ST), Prithvipur, and Raigaon (SC) - are scheduled on October 30, and counting of votes will take place on November 2. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congresss-former-union-minister-arun-yadav-to-not-contest-khandwa-ls-bypoll-1037107.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||'Murder' of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri unpardonable: Varun Gandhi||BJP Lok Sabha member Varun Gandhi on Monday termed the “murder of farmers” in Lakhimpur Kheri “unpardonable” and asked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to order a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the incident. “The turn of events in Lakhimpur Kheri that led to the murder of our farmers is unpardonable for any civilised society,” Gandhi, a Lok Sabha member from Pilibhit, said in a letter to Adiytanath. Gandhi, a three-term Lok Sabha member, demanded immediate arrest of those associated with the incident and registration of charges under Sec 302 of the IPC for "murder" of the farmers. He also demanded a Supreme Court-monitored CBI inquiry in the case in a time-bound manner and Rs 1 crore compensation to the family members of the deceased farmers. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers. Gandhi described the incident as “heart-wrenching” and said it had caused anguish and anger among the people of the country. He said the “agitating farmer brothers are our own citizens” and they were suffering due to some issues and protesting under their democratic rights. “We should deal with them with great restraint and patience. In any case, we should treat our farmers with sensitivity and only in a Gandhian and democratic way within the ambit of law,” he said. Gandhi has been writing to the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister on farmers issues, seeking various relief measures for them. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/murder-of-farmers-at-lakhimpur-kheri-unpardonable-varun-gandhi-1037110.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers will win fight for justice: Rahul Gandhi on Lakhimpur violence||A day after a violent clash in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri left four farmers dead, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said farmers will win this fight for justice. On Priyanka Gandhi Vadra being allegedly stopped from meeting victims of the violence in Uttar Pradesh, the former Congress chief said those in power fear her courage. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and other party leaders were detained in Sitapur on Monday, with the party alleging they were not allowed to meet the victims of the violence. "Priyanka, I know that you will not retreat. They fear your courage. We will ensure that the country's 'annadatas' win this non-violent fight for justice," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "NoFear", he said. प्रियंका, मैं जानता हूँ तुम पीछे नहीं हटोगी- तुम्हारी हिम्मत से वे डर गए हैं। Priyanka Gandhi also alleged that the BJP is doing the politics of crushing the farmers in the country. "The BJP government is doing the politics of crushing the farmers and finishing them," she said on Twitter. She also put out a video message alleging that this country belongs to the farmers and not to the BJP. She said she was going to Lakhimpur to share the pain of the farmers injured in the violent clashes and it was no crime or wrongdoing.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-will-win-fight-for-justice-rahul-gandhi-on-lakhimpur-violence-1037116.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Unlawful detention of Opposition leaders against democratic values: Ashok Gehlot||Stating that the unlawful detention of opposition leaders is against democratic values, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday condemned the move to stop Congress' Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and others from going to meet the families of farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh.  Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Punjab Deputy Chief Minister S S Randhawa were among those prevented from going to the state by the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government, Gehlot said, a day after violence during a farmers'' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri claimed eight lives, including four farmers. "Only a dictator government can do this. Does the ruling BJP in UP want to end democracy? In this way, the violation of civil rights is also against the spirit of the Constitution," he said. प्रियंका जी उन परिवारों के साथ खड़े होने के लिये जा रहीं थीं जिन्होंने अपने प्रियजनों को कल की हिंसा में खोया है। इस कर्तव्य निर्वहन के लिये उनको रोकना पूर्णतया अनुचित है। "I strongly condemn the detention of AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi ji and other leaders by the Uttar Pradesh Police. She is a prominent opposition leader and was on her way to meet the families of farmers who were killed yesterday in Lakhimpur Kheri district... The unlawful detention of opposition leaders is against democratic values," Gehlot said in a tweet. Priyanka Gandhi's convoy was briefly stopped by Uttar Pradesh Police in Lucknow where she reached Sunday night, a few hours after violence during the anti-farm laws protest. "Priyanka ji was going to stand with the families who lost their loved ones in yesterday's violence. It is totally unfair to stop them for discharging duty," Gehlot said. An FIR has been registered against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and several others persons in connection with the violence. Farmer leaders claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down some protesters opposing Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit. The eight people killed included four farmers and four people in the convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister. They were allegedly thrashed to death. The Rajasthan chief minister said farmers protesting peacefully were killed by BJP leader's convoy and then opposition leaders were stopped from meeting the families of the victims. This, he said, is absolutely wrong. Gehlot added that the BJP government’s inhuman face has come to the fore. It is undemocratic to ignore the demands of the farmers, stalling the farmers movement, oppressing them and then not allowing any opposition party to stand with them, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unlawful-detention-of-opposition-leaders-against-democratic-values-ashok-gehlot-1037117.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel slams UP govt for not allowing him to land at Lucknow airport||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday slammed the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government for not allowing him to land at the Lucknow airport and asked whether civil rights have been abolished in the northern state. Baghel was scheduled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri in UP where eight people were killed after violence erupted during a farmers' protest on Sunday. The Uttar Pradesh government has requested the Lucknow airport authority not to allow the arrival of Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Baghel and Punjab's Deputy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa, who had announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri in view of the violence there. Baghel, who has been made senior observer by the Congress for the UP Assembly elections due next year, claimed the Lakhimpur incident shows the BJP's mentality that those who will raise voice against them will be crushed. “On Sunday night, Priyanka Gandhi Ji, who was heading for Lakhimpur, was detained in Sitapur. I was also scheduled to go there (on Monday morning) and my plane is ready, but the UP government has denied landing permission (at Lucknow airport)," the CM told reporters here. When Section 144 (of CrPC) is in force in Lakhimpur, then why landing at Lucknow is not being allowed? he asked. “Have the civil rights been abolished in Uttar Pradesh? Is a separate visa is required for going to UP? Why are people being stopped? It is very unfortunate as it is a question of civil rights. Can't people go to express their condolences and take stock of the incident? If they (BJP government) are stopping, then what is their mindset?" he further asked. The way farmers were mowed down (in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday), shows their (UP BJP government's) mentality that those who will raise voices against them will be crushed and trampled, he claimed. "This mentality is very dangerous and the whole country is agitated and everyone wants to go to Lakhimpur," he said adding that the incident has "exposed the real face of the BJP". When reporters pointed out that UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has assured to take stern action into the incident, Baghel said, “He used to say like this always after every incident…they were elected to power over the issue of law and order and now the entire country is watching how the law and order were violated there. There is nothing left in control of Yogi Adityanath, and his own people are doing such things.” Baghel further said he will leave for Delhi at 11.30 am and further strategy (about going to UP) will be decided after discussion with senior leaders there. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel-slams-up-govt-for-not-allowing-him-to-land-at-lucknow-airport-1037127.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers asks President Ram Nath Kovind to sack MoS Home Ajay Mishra||Farmers' organisations stepped up protests across parts of northern India against the Lakhimpur Kheri killings and petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind to order a court-monitored probe into the incident and sack Union Minister Ajay Mishra. Farmers' organisations, under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), staged protests at the borders of the national capital, where they have been camping for the past 10 months demanding repeal of the three farm laws. The SKM had appealed to farmers' organisations across the country to register their protest against the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and demand sacking of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra. “Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni should be immediately dismissed from his post, and a case should be filed against him for inciting violence and spreading communal hatred. The Union minister's son, Ashish Mishra 'Monu', and his fellow goons should be immediately booked under IPC Section 302 (murder) and arrested immediately,” said the letter sent by SKM to the President. The SKM had circulated a draft of the letter among farmers' groups asking them to send it to the President through the respective district magistrates after staging a protest in front of their offices between 10 am and 1:00 pm. “Reports have come in from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal and other states about these protests,” the SKM said in a statement. Farmers held protests and burned effigies of the Centre and the UP government at various places in Punjab and Haryana and raised slogans against the BJP. Demonstrations were held outside the offices of deputy commissioners at Patiala, Mohali, Ferozepur, Amritsar, Rupnagar, Moga, Muktsar in Punjab, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad in Haryana and Chandigarh. The umbrella body of farmer unions also demanded an investigation of the incident by an SIT under the supervision of the Supreme Court. They also demanded the sacking of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his reported remarks against farmers. Addressing a meeting of the BJP's farmers' wing on Sunday, Khattar called for a “tit-for-tat” response to the "violent" protests by farmers. He had asked the BJP cadres to form groups of 500 to 1,000 to counter the farmers and be prepared to even go to jail. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-asks-president-ram-nath-kovind-to-sack-mos-home-ajay-mishra-1037129.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Model builder-buyer agreement required to protect interest of flat buyers: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine an important issue of framing a “model builder-buyer agreement” to avoid deliberate delay and exploitation of flat buyers by real estate developers. "Uniform builder-buyer agreement is required to be framed by the Centre to protect interests of lakhs of home buyers. This is an important issue on protection of buyers, often put on backfoot by clauses in agreements made by builders," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna said. The top court issued notice to the Centre on a batch of PILs filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay and others. The petitioners, led by senior advocate Vikas Singh and Menaka Guruswamy, contended under the Real Estate and Regulatory Authority Act, 2016, that there should be a model agreement for states to adopt and the Centre was enjoined to frame such a policy on the subject. Agreeing to the submission, the bench said, "It is an important issue of consumer protection and builders can't get away by putting any clause". The court sought a reply from the Union government in the matter. The petitioners submitted that a model agreement was required to ensure transparency, and fairness and to restrain builders and agents from indulging in unfair and restrictive trade practices. Passing the order, the bench said the plea raised the grievance that in the absence of model agreement, flat purchasers are left at the mercy of developers, regarding the terms and conditions.   The bench said once the model buyer-builder agreement is framed by the Centre, then it may direct the state governments to follow it.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/model-builder-buyer-agreement-required-to-protect-interest-of-flat-buyers-sc-1037132.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court to examine if right to protest is an absolute right||The Supreme Court on Monday said that it will examine whether the right to protest is an absolute right.  The remark came while the apex court was hearing a plea of Kisan Mahapanchayat to allow it to hold 'Satyagraha' at Jantar Mantar.  More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-to-examine-if-right-to-protest-is-an-absolute-right-1037136.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Nobody takes responsibility of unfortunate incidents: Supreme Court on Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri violence incident where eight persons were killed, the Supreme Court on Monday said that nobody takes responsibility when such unfortunate incidents take place.  Meanwhile, Attorney General K K Venugopal said that there should be no further protests to prevent incidents like in Lakhimpur Kheri.  "Nobody takes responsibility when such unfortunate incidents take place," Supreme Court says while referring to Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Attorney General KK Venugopal, for the Centre, says there should be no further protests to prevent incidents like in Lakhimpur Kheri More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nobody-takes-responsibility-of-unfortunate-incidents-supreme-court-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-1037139.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court rejects Supertech's plea to demolish only one of the two towers||The Supreme Court on Monday rejected a plea by Supertech Ltd for modification in the top court's direction to demolish its twin 40-storey towers in Noida for dilution of safety standards, and other guidelines, affecting the quality of life of flat buyers. Supertech had moved the court seeking direction to allow it to only partially demolish 224 flats of one tower, along with its community area on the ground floor to conform to the building norms.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna said that granting such relief was in the nature of a review of the judgement passed by the top court. "This application styled as miscellaneous applications or applications for clarifications in the guise for review cannot be countenanced," the court said, after hearing senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi for the developer. The bench noted that the August 31 judgment directing the demolition of twin towers had specifically affirmed the directions issued by the Allahabad High Court.   "In essence, what the applicant seeks is the direction for the demolition of T 16 and T 17 should be substituted by a retention of T 16 in its entirety and a slicing of a portion of T 17. Clearly, a grant of such a relief is in the nature of a review of the judgement of this court," the bench said.  Supertech Ltd, in its plea, claimed due to the proximity of Tower-17 (Ceyane) with the other residential towers in its Emerald Court project, the process of demolition by blowing through explosives cannot be carried out, rather it would have to be done brick by brick.  The real estate firm said the proposed modifications, if allowed, would save crores of resources from going to waste in the construction of the Towers T-16 (Apex) and T-17 (Ceyane).   In its August 31 judgment, the Supreme Court had also directed for a refund to the flat purchasers. It had ordered prosecution of errant NOIDA and real estate company officials for their “nefarious complicity” in the construction of towers.    Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-rejects-supertechs-plea-to-demolish-only-one-of-the-two-towers-1037144.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||What are you protesting for when farm laws not in force? Supreme Court asks farmers’ body||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine a larger constitutional issue if there can be an absolute right to protest by the farmers against the three agriculture laws, when the statutes have already been stayed by the top court. Attorney General K K Venugopal submitted the court should make it clear that the farmers cannot continue the protests so that unfortunate incidents like one happened on Sunday at Lakhimpur Kheri can be avoided. As many as eight people, including four farmers, died in the violence at Lakhimpur Kheri. "Nobody takes any responsibility when loss of lives and properties take place," a bench presided over by Justice A K Khanwilkar said. Taking up a plea by 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' for permission to hold 'Satyagrah', the bench asked, "There is nothing to be implemented. What are the farmers' protesting about?" "No one other than the court can decide the validity of the farm laws. When that is so, and when farmers are in court challenging the laws, why protest on street?" the bench asked. The top court put these questions to advocate Ajay Choudhary, appearing for the farmers body, seeking permission to hold 'Satyagrah' at Jantar Mantar against the three farm laws. "When you have already filed a petition before a court challenging the Act or action of the executive, how can you then protest? Who are you protesting against? How can the executive allow these protests? What is the validity of these protests?" the bench further asked him. The counsel, for his part, said debate, dialogue and protest can simultaneously go on in such matters. "We are on principle, once you go to court and challenge executive action, how can the same party say, that matter is before court, nevertheless I will still protest," the bench said. "Why protest when the law is not in force at all? And the court has kept the laws in abeyance. Law is made by Parliament, not government," the bench further said. The counsel said a petition has already been filed before the Rajasthan High Court against the laws. "It is still intriguing, there is no Act in place at the moment. The act has been stayed by the court. The government has assured they won’t give effect to it, protest is for what?" the bench asked again. The bench said it would transfer the pending matter from Rajasthan High Court to the top court and decide the validity of the protest. It asked the Centre to file its response and put the matter for consideration on October 21. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/what-are-you-protesting-for-when-farm-laws-not-in-force-supreme-court-asks-farmers-body-1037148.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri: Opposition slams UP govt for 'throttling democracy,' not allowing leaders to visit aggrieved families||The Congress on Monday vowed to ensure that farmers win the "non-violent fight for justice", announcing a country-wide agitation and demanding the ouster of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, and joined other parties to protest against the Uttar Pradesh government not allowing Opposition leaders to go to Lakhimpur Kheri where farmers were killed during a protest. While Priyanka Gandhi was taken into custody along with Deepender Hooda among others, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, BSP General Secretary Satish Chandra Mishra and AAP's Rajya Sabha leader Sanjay Singh were also not allowed to go to the location. The planes of Congress Chief Ministers Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab) were not allowed to land in Lucknow, Congress alleged. The UP government had urged the Lucknow airport authority not to allow the arrival of Baghel, Channi and Punjab's Deputy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa. Four farmers and four persons in the convoy of BJP workers were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday during violence. Farmer leaders claimed that Minister of State for Home Mishra's son Ashish was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down some protesters opposing Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted with a hashtag 'No Fear', “Priyanka, I know that you will not retreat. They fear your courage. We will ensure that the country's 'annadatas' win this non-violent fight for justice." The BJP government is doing the “politics of crushing the farmers and finishing” them, Priyanka, who was detained in Sitapur, said.   प्रियंका, मैं जानता हूँ तुम पीछे नहीं हटोगी- तुम्हारी हिम्मत से वे डर गए हैं। In a statement, Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal said that Minister Mishra had threatened the peacefully protesting farmers with violence and alleged that it was no coincidence that his son "led the gruesome murder", as the party demanded his immediate sacking from the Union Council of Ministers and arrest of culprits. Addressing a press conference at the Congress headquarters, senior Congress leader Rajiv Shukla said the Congress will organise country-wide agitation against the Lakhimpur incident and demanded the immediate release of Priyanka. Criticising the UP government, "when Section 144 is in force in Lakhimpur, then why landing at Lucknow is not being allowed? Have civil rights been abolished in UP? Is a separate visa required for going to UP? Why are people being stopped? It is very unfortunate as it is a question of civil rights. Can't people go to express their condolences and to take stock of the incident. If they (BJP government) are stopping, then what is their mindset?" he was quoted by PTI as saying. Condemning the government for not allowing BSP General Secretary Satish Chandra Mishra to go to Lakhimpur Kheri, BSP chief Mayawati said he was placed under house arrest late Sunday night at his residence in Lucknow. "Due to the involvement of two BJP ministers, a proper government investigation, justice to the victims and strict punishment to the guilty does not seem possible. Therefore, this incident...requires a judicial inquiry," she said. Condemning the “draconian throttling of democracy”, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said the BJP and Modi government have “no business to not allow political parties to reach victims of the barbarism inflicted on farmers yesterday”.   Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said Singh, who was on his way to Lakhimpur Kheri, has been kept "halted on the roadside since late Monday night".   किसानों की हत्या कर दी गई और अब उनके परिवार से संवेदना व्यक्त करने जा रहे सांसद संजय सिंह जी को रात भर पुलिस और प्रशासन के आला अधिकारी सड़क पर रोक कर खड़े हैं. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said, "only a dictator government can do this. Does the ruling BJP in UP want to end democracy? In this way, the violation of civil rights is also against the spirit of the Constitution.” भाजपा सरकार का अमानवीय चेहरा पूरी तरह सामने आ चुका है। किसानों की मांगों को अनसुनी करना, किसान आंदोलन को तोड़ना, उन पर अत्याचार करना और फिर किसी विपक्षी दल को उनके साथ न खड़े होने देना, यह सत्ताधारी दल का लोकतंत्र विरोधी रूप है जिसकी जितनी भर्त्सना की जाए कम है।2/2 “I strongly condemn the detention of AICC general secretary Priyanka-ji and other leaders by the Uttar Pradesh Police. She is a prominent opposition leader and was on her way to meet the families of farmers who were killed yesterday in Lakhimpur Kheri district... The unlawful detention of opposition leaders is against democratic values,” he added. विपक्षी नेताओं को गैरकानूनी तरीके से रोका जाना लोकतांत्रिक मानदंडों के खिलाफ है। पहले शांतिपूर्ण विरोध प्रदर्शन कर रहे किसानों पर भाजपा नेताओं के काफिले की गाड़ियां चढ़ाकर उनको बर्बरता से मार दिया गया, फिर विपक्षी नेताओं को वहां जाने से रोका जा रहा है, जो बिल्कुल गलत है। Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-opposition-slams-up-govt-for-throttling-democracy-not-allowing-leaders-to-visit-aggrieved-families-1037163.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Former BSP MLA Noor Saleem Rana joins RLD||Former BSP MLA Noor Saleem Rana has joined the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. He had announced his decision to join the RLD on Sunday. Rana is the second leader to resign from the Bahujan Samaj Party in recent times. Former Rajya Sabha MP Rajpal Saini had also left the BSP and joined the Samajwadi Party a few days ago. Rana was elected from the Charthawal assembly constituency in the district in 2012. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-bsp-mla-noor-saleem-rana-joins-rld-1037166.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi pays tributes to freedom fighter Shyamji Varma||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to revolutionary freedom fighter Shyamji Krishna Varma on his birth anniversary and said it is important that young India knows more about his courage and greatness.  Modi said Varma, who was born in 1857 in Gujarat, devoted his life to end India's slavery. A grateful nation will never forget his contribution to the independence struggle, he added.  "I consider myself blessed to have got the opportunity to bring the ashes of Shyamji Krishna Varma back from Switzerland in 2003 and receive his reinstatement certificate during my UK visit in 2015. It is important that young India knows more about his courage and greatness," the prime minister tweeted. महान क्रांतिकारी और स्वतंत्रता सेनानी श्यामजी कृष्ण वर्मा को उनकी जयंती पर श्रद्धांजलि। देश को गुलामी से मुक्त कराने के लिए उन्होंने अपना जीवन समर्पित कर दिया। कृतज्ञ राष्ट्र आजादी की लड़ाई में उनके योगदान को कभी भुला नहीं पाएगा। Tributes to Shyamji Krishna Varma on his Jayanti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-freedom-fighter-shyamji-varma-1037168.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Retired HC judge to probe Lakhimpur Kheri violence: UP government||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday announced that a retired High Court judge will probe the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and that it will give Rs 45 lakh compensation to the families of the four farmers killed in the incident. The government will also give Rs 10 lakh to those injured in the violence, said Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi. "An agreement has been reached with the farmers. The government will give Rs 45 lakh to the family members of the four farmers who were killed in the violence on Sunday. Besides, one member from their families will be given a government job at the local level," he said. "The government will give Rs 10 lakh to the injured and get the incident probed by a retired High Court judge," he said. Eight people were killed on Sunday in the violence that erupted during a farmers' protest in Lakhimpur Kheri ahead of a visit by Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Farmers and BJP workers were among those killed. Two SUVs were set on fire by angry farmers in the clash near Banbirpur. Two FIRs have been registered in connection with the incident.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/retired-hc-judge-to-probe-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-up-government-1037172.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Why is Punjab's farm income growth slowing?||In the span of six years, from 2013-14 to 2018-19, Punjab's farm income grew at 6.73 per cent annually. Meanwhile, states like Bihar and Uttarakhand saw a growth of 13.3 per cent and 19.3 per cent, respectively. About five decades ago, Punjab came out as the only region that was able to capitalise on the initiatives to fulfil India’s food shortage and drive the Green Revolution. So, what happened to Punjab’s agriculture recently? Experts have linked the income slowdown of Punjab agriculture to overdependence on crops such as wheat and rice. Over the decades, the trend of ‘mono-cropping’ gained popularity in Punjab. Mono-cropping is the practice of growing a single crop on the same land for years and years. Punjab farmers’ cultivation swung between rice in summer and wheat in winter. Mono-cropping gained popularity in Punjab due to due to cheap fertilisers, assured minimum support price (MSP) for cereals, free electricity for drawing water, and high-yielding seeds. MSP or floor prices are set by the government for wheat and paddy to help the income of the farmers. However, the government's procurement of wheat and paddy in large quantities has encouraged the farmers’ dependency on cereal cultivation. This ultimately affects the farm income in the long run. In 2020, the government procured 60.06 million tonne rice -- the highest ever -- which was grown in the summer-sown Kharif season. The farmers' protest against the three farm laws has prompted the government to increase the procurement of cereals in the upcoming days. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-is-punjabs-farm-income-growth-slowing-1037178.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||CM Channi wants to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, Punjab govt writes to UP||The Punjab civil aviation department on Monday urged the Uttar Pradesh government to allow Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's chopper to land so that he can visit Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed as violence erupted during a farmers' protest a day earlier. The violence took place on Sunday, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. "As you are aware that due to the situation arising out of the incident and deaths of peacefully protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri of Uttar Pradesh, the chief minister wants to visit the families concerned to be with them in this hour of grief," the director of the Department of Civil Aviation, Punjab, wrote to UP Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi. "It is requested that permission may be granted for landing and taking off (of) the chopper of CM. It is also requested that adequate arrangements may be made so that the chief minister may meet with concerned families," it added. Earlier, Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had also said that he would visit Lakhimpur Kheri for an assessment of the situation there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-channi-wants-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-punjab-govt-writes-to-up-1037183.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers' Protest: SC issues notice to 43 farm leaders on plea against road blockade ||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to 43 leaders of various farmer organisations, including Rakesh Tikait, and Yogendra Yadav, who have been protesting the three farm laws, at Delhi-NCR border since November, 2020. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh sought a response from the leaders on an application by the Haryana government in a pending plea filed by a Noida resident against the road blockade.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Haryana government, contended that the State has constituted a committee to hold talks, but the protesting leaders had refused to come for the meeting. "Let notice be issued so that leaders don't say that they had no reason to come," he said.  Agreeing to the submission, the bench sought a response from the farmer leaders like Tikait, Yadav, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh and others. The court put the matter for hearing on October 20.  On September 30, the court specifically sought to know as to what the governments were doing to remove the road blockade by the farmers, while voicing its concern once again that the roads can't remain occupied perpetually as per its October 7, 2020 judgement with regard to Shaheen Bagh sit-in against the Citizenship Amendment Act.  Mehta, for his part, had then submitted that a very high-level, three-member committee was constituted. We invited them (the agitating farmers) to attend the meeting. However they did not join the meeting, he said.  He had then sought the court's permission to make the agitating farmers groups as parties to the plea filed by Monicca Agarwaal for removing road blockades, affecting the free movement of traffic between Delhi and Noida. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-sc-issues-notice-to-43-farm-leaders-on-plea-against-road-blockade-1037185.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Charanjit Singh Channi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri; AAP, SAD to send delegations||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday said he would visit Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh to stand in solidarity with the families of farmers who lost their lives in the violence during a protest a day earlier. Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and a few party legislators, including Kulbir Singh Zira, Barindermeet Singh Pahra and Gurpreet Singh GP, were supposed go to Uttar Pradesh by road. Punjab opposition parties, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal, also announced that they would be sending delegations to UP. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently a part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister. They were allegedly thrashed to death. The four others were farmers, officials have said. Farmer leaders have claimed that the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra was in one of the cars which they said knocked down some protesters who were opposing the deputy CM's visit. Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu and some legislators of his party held a protest outside the Punjab governor's residence in Chandigarh, and demanded the arrest of the Union minister's son. Raising slogans against the BJP, they also condemned the detention of AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in UP. Gandhi and some party leaders were detained in Sitapur on Monday when they were enroute to Lakhimpur Kheri. Punjab CM Channi took to Twitter to announce that he would go to Lakhimpur Kheri and that he has sought permission from the UP government for the visit. "Expressing solidarity with bereaved families of farmers, I'm leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri to be with my brothers and sisters in this hour of grief. I've also sought permission from UP government to allow landing/taking off of chopper at the site," he tweeted. Expressing solidarity with bereaved families of farmers, I'm leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri to be with my brothers and sisters in this hour of grief. I've also sought permission from UP government to allow landing/taking off of chopper at the site. The Punjab civil aviation department on Monday urged the Uttar Pradesh government to allow Channi's chopper to land so that he can go on the visit. "As you are aware that due to the situation arising out of the incident and deaths of peacefully protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri of Uttar Pradesh, the chief minister wants to visit the families concerned to be with them in this hour of grief," the director of the Department of Civil Aviation, Punjab, wrote to UP Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi. "It is requested that permission may be granted for landing and taking off (of) the chopper of CM. It is also requested that adequate arrangements may be made so that the chief minister may meet with concerned families," it added. Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government has requested the Lucknow airport authority not to allow the arrival of the Punjab deputy CM, who announced plans to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, in view of the violence that erupted there. Strongly condemning the Uttar Pradesh administration for this, Randhawa said he would go by road along with a few party legislators. "If they (UP authorities) want us to arrest us, then they can do so," he added. The deputy CM dubbed the incident a “massacre” of farmers and likened it to the 1999 Jallianwala Bagh tragedy. Farmers were crushed to death under a vehicle, he alleged, demanding the arrest of the Union minister Ajay Mishra's son. The AAP's Punjab unit said it will send a delegation led by MLA Harpal Singh Cheema to Lakhimpur Kheri. The delegation will comprise the party's Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha, state legislators Kultar Sandhwan and Baljinder Kaur. AAP Punjab unit chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann said, "Whatever has happened at Lakhimpur Kheri is the limit of oppression." Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said his party will also send a delegation led by Prem Singh Chandumajra to UP. The party has also convened its emergency core committee meeting on October 5 in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Badal has postponed his programmes in Jalandhar as well, said party leader Daljit Singh Cheema. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/charanjit-singh-channi-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-aap-sad-to-send-delegations-1037190.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: AAP MP Sanjay Singh demands removal of MoS Ajay Mishra||AAP MP Sanjay Singh on Monday demanded that Ajay Kumar Mishra should immediately be removed as the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs to ensure that an impartial probe is conducted into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.  The AAP leader also said that he was stopped by police in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur when he was en route to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the family members of farmers killed in the district on Sunday. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest, claiming the lives of both farmers and BJP workers ahead of a visit to Lakhimpur by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Four of the dead were people in the cars, apparently a part of a convoy of BJP workers who had come to welcome the UP minister. They were allegedly thrashed to death.The four others were farmers, officials said. Farmer leaders had claimed that the minister's son Ashsish Mishra was in one of the cars which they alleged knocked down some protesters who were opposing the deputy CM's visit. However, Ajay Mishra said he and his son were not present at the spot as alleged by some farmer leaders and he has photo and video evidence to prove it Singh also demanded that a court-monitored probe by a special investigation team (SIT) should be conducted into the incident of violence. The dependents of each of the farmers, killed in the violence, should be given a compensation of Rs one crore and those injured in the incident should also be given “a fair compensation”, he told PTI. Singh also demanded that the Union government must withdraw the three “black farm laws” against which farmers have been protesting for the last 10 months. How can an impartial probe be conducted in the matter when the accused's father, under whom the CBI and the police come, continues to remain in his post. "Ajay Kumar Mishra should immediately be removed as Union Minister of State for Home Affairs to ensure an impartial probe into the case,” Singh said. “Besides, there should be a court-monitored SIT probe into the entire episode,” he added, The AAP leader said he was stopped by the police and the local administration at Biswan in Sitapur around 2.30 am while he was going to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the family members of the farmers killed in the violence and pay his condolences. Singh is still at the spot and has refused to step back. “This is a dictatorship. How unfortunate it is that a parliamentarian cannot meet the family members of the farmers who died in the violence and pay condolences. I am not going to move from here. I will stay here,” Singh said. Senior AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia trained guns at Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath after police stopped Singh while he was en route to Lakhimpur Kheri, saying tears of the family members of the farmers killed in the Lakhimpur violence will weigh heavy on him. "Farmers were killed, and MP Sanjay Singh, who was on his way to meet the family members of those farmers and pay his condolences, has been kept halted on the roadside since late last night," Sisodia said in a tweet in Hindi. "Yogiji, tears of the family members of the farmers will weigh heavy on you," he added. Singh had earlier shared a couple of video clips in which he is seen asking the cops why he was being prevented from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri. "Why have you stopped me? Show me the arrest order, I will come to the police station. I am going to pay my condolences. Under which law is it a crime? Just tell me why have you stopped a parliamentarian? Do you have any orders," Singh can be heard asking police officials in one of the videos that he shared on Twitter. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-demands-removal-of-mos-ajay-mishra-1037193.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Traffic headed from Delhi to Ghaziabad diverted briefly due to Ghazipur border closure||The Delhi Traffic Police on Monday briefly diverted traffic headed towards the Ghazipur border due to the closure of National Highways 9 and 24 by the Ghaziabad police in view of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The traffic police took to Twitter to inform commuters about the diversion. Traffic coming from Delhi to Ghaziabad has been diverted from Akshardham Setu towards Noida and Vikas Marg for Ghaziabad. Traffic on road no 57A has been diverted to Hasanpur Karkari Mod for Shahdara, Anand Vihar, and Ghaziabad it said in a tweet. Traffic has been diverted from Ghazipur roundabout to Anand Vihar, Bhopura Border Ghaziabad via road no 56, from Murga Mandi roundabout to Dr Hadgewar Marg then Nala Road up to UP Gate Ghaziabad for Vaishali, Vasundhara, Ghaziabad via Paper Market, Ghazipur, it said. In another tweet about 45 minutes later, the traffic police informed commuters that NH-24 has been reopened and normal traffic movement on the stretch has been restored. Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri ahead of a visit by Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Farmers and BJP workers were among those killed. Two SUVs were set on fire by angry farmers in the clash near Banbirpur. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-traffic-headed-from-delhi-to-ghaziabad-diverted-briefly-due-to-ghazipur-border-closure-1037201.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Govt, farmers reach compromise, minister's son booked for murder||As a host of senior opposition leaders were detained while trying to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight persons, including four farmers, were killed in violence during a protest by the farmers, the administration and the farmer leaders reached a compromise after the state government announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to the next of the kin of the deceased, ordered a probe by a retired High Court judge and lodged a case of murder against union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who was accused of running over four farmers. Additional director general (ADG) law and order, Prashant Kumar said in Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday that the farmer leaders had agreed to cremate the bodies of the four farmers and call off their agitation. Kumar, who addressed a joint press conference with BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, said that one member, each from the families of the deceased, would be given a government job and the accused persons would be arrested within eight days. He said that no untoward incident was reported from anywhere in the district since Monday night and that security personnel were patrolling the violence torn Tikonia town, where the incident had happened. Seven persons have so far been arrested in connection with the violence. Ajay Mishra, however, demanded registration of cases against the farmers also claiming that they had killed three BJP workers and the driver of the vehicle carrying them during the violence. ''I suspect that there were some militants and terrorists in the mob....BJP workers were attacked with lathis and swords...they were lynched to death,'' Mishra alleged. ''Though my son was not present on the spot...he too would have been killed had he been there,'' he remarked. Earlier several opposition leaders, including Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, BSP general secretary S.C.Mishra and others, were either arrested on the way to Lakhimpur Kheri or kept under house arrest to prevent them from going there. Priyanka, who was arrested late on Sunday night near Hargaon and kept at a PAC guest house, alleged that she was 'pushed' and 'manhandled' by the security personnel. The state government also denied permission for aircrafts carrying Chattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Punjab deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Randhawa to land at Lucknow airport. Farmers, however, blocked several highways in Pilibhit, Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar and other places and damaged some vehicles in Lucknow. Eight persons, including at least four farmers, were killed at Tikonia in the district after hundreds of farmers tried to waive black flag and block the visit of Ajai Mishra and UP deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya to attend a function on Monday. The farmer leaders claimed that four farmers were killed after being run over by a vehicle from the union minister's convoy and around a dozen others injured. They also alleged that the vehicle was being driven by Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-govt-farmers-reach-compromise-ministers-son-booked-for-murder-1037219.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi unveils 10-point action plan to combat air pollution in winter||To combat air pollution in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a 10-point "winter action plan" that focuses on dust control, using the Pusa bio-decomposer, installing smog towers and checking waste burning and vehicular emissions. He also urged the neighbouring states to retrofit thermal power plants in NCR areas with new technology and ensure the use of CNG-operated vehicles and cleaner fuel in industries in the region. Kejriwal claimed that the Centre and neighbouring states have not done anything to check stubble burning, which will lead to a rise in air pollution in the winter season. He appealed to the governments of neighbouring states to work together to make the air clean. He also urged the Centre and states to ensure free spraying of the bio-decomposer for in-situ management of crop residue, as his government has been doing in Delhi. "The Delhi government has provided a solution to the problem of stubble burning – the Pusa bio-decomposer. We hope it will be used as much as possible," he said. Kejriwal said the Delhi government has formed 75 teams for the inspection of construction sites to control dust pollution and 250 teams to keep a check on waste burning. "We have imposed a complete ban on the sale and purchase of firecrackers. The smog tower (at Connaught Place) has yielded good results so far. We will continue to monitor its performance and then take a call on constructing more such towers in Delhi," the CM said. Special teams have been formed to monitor pollution hotspots. Steps will also be taken to address traffic jams on 64 identified roads to reduce vehicular pollution. As many as 500 teams have been constituted to check Pollution Under Control certificates, he said. Kejriwal said strengthening of green war rooms and a public campaign will also be part of the "winter action plan". "A programme management unit has been set up in the green war room with the help of the University of Chicago and GDI Partners and 50 environmental engineers have been inducted into it," he said. The country's first eco-park to manage e-waste is being set up in Delhi, he added. The chief minister said following in the footsteps of Delhi, the NCR areas should also ensure the use of clean fuel in thermal power plants and other industries, CNG-operated vehicles, hotspot monitoring and round-the-clock power supply to prevent the use of diesel generators. Currently, air pollution is under control in Delhi but it will start rising with stubble burning in the neighbouring states in winters, he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-unveils-10-point-action-plan-to-combat-air-pollution-in-winter-1037222.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||NASA images show polluted skies set to engulf north India soon||The clear blue skies over the national capital may go dark soon with dust and smoke as the stubble burning season nears. The satellite images by US space agency NASA have shown that crop residue burning has already started in several fields in Haryana and Punjab, according to media reports. Punjab annually generates 20 million tonnes of paddy straw, which is normally set on fire to quickly clear the fields for the next crop, resulting in choking of the National Capital Region (NCR) in October and November, and causing major health effects. The latest NASA satellite data shows that more than 200 farm fires have been recorded in the Majha region of Punjab since September 1, according to media reports. By September 29, the count of fires was 66 in Punjab and 23 in Haryana. During October and November, stubble burning usually contributes between 20 per cent to 70 per cent of Delhi's air pollution. Last year, a report from the Environment Ministry showed that the average contribution of stubble burning to Delhi's air pollution increased from 10 per cent in 2019 to over 15 per cent in 2020. A study by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), estimates that crop residue burning releases 149.24 million tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2), over 9 million tonnes of carbon monoxide (CO), 0.25 million tonnes of oxides of sulphur (SOX), 1.28 million tonnes of particulate matter, and 0.07 million tonnes of black carbon. These directly contribute to environmental pollution: the heat from burning paddy straw penetrates 1 centimetre into the soil, increasing the temperature to 33.8 to 42.2 degree Celsius, which kills the bacterial and fungal populations critical for a fertile soil. Moreover, air pollution is considered as the greatest environmental threat to health, and it disproportionately affects vulnerable populations: 91 per cent of deaths from ambient air pollution occur in low-income and middle-income countries. In India, 1,16,000 infant deaths in 2019 were attributable to air pollution, coal combustion was attributable for 1,00,000 deaths while ambient air pollution killed 16.7 lakh Indians, data released by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) showed. Meanwhile, state governments of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi and even the Centre have taken multiple measures to incentivise farmers and prevent them from setting their fields on fire.The Delhi government on Monday announced a set of 10 points formulated under its Winter Action Plan. It is also providing the Pusa- bio-decomposer, developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, free of cost to its farmers to prevent stubble burning. The Punjab government is focusing on increasing use of paddy stubble in power generation. The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has asked the state's three thermal power plants to use paddy stubble as fuel to the extent of 10 per cent of total annual coal use. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nasa-images-show-polluted-skies-set-to-engulf-north-india-soon-1037290.html
04-10-2021||North and Central||24 IAS, 12 PCS officers shifted in Punjab||In a major reshuffle, the Punjab government has shifted 24 IAS and 12 PCS officers, according to an order. Senior IAS officer Anurag Agarwal has been posted as the additional chief secretary-cum-financial commissioner (taxation), replacing A Venu Prasad. Prasad is now the chairman and managing director of Punjab State Power Corporation and will hold the additional charge of CMD, Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited, the order said. KAP Sinha, who is the principal secretary, finance, has been given the additional charge of the principal secretary, power. Krishan Kumar, who was the school education secretary, has been shifted as secretary, higher education and languages, secretary, NRI affairs and MD, Punjab Infrastructure Development Board. Ajoy Sharma will be the new school education secretary. Tanu Kashyap has been posted as the director, technical education and industrial training, while Dilraj Singh has been given the post of the secretary, agriculture. Babita has been posted as the Fazilka deputy commissioner while Arvind Pal Singh Sandu will be the DC, Bathinda. Harish Nayar has been posted as the DC, Moga, while Sandeep Hans will be the new DC of Patiala. Kumar Saurabh Raj will hold the charge of the DC, Barnala, and HS Sudan will be the DC, Muktsar, while Vishesh Sarangal has been posted as the DC, SBS Nagar. Kumar Amit has been given the posting of special secretary, personnel, and Puneet Goyal will be the director, local government. MK Aravind Kumar has been placed as the director general, employment generation and training. Among PCS (Punjab Civil Services) officers who have been shifted are Rajesh Tripathi, Jyoti Bala, Geetika Singh and Amit. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/24-ias-12-pcs-officers-shifted-in-punjab-1037315.html
04-10-2021||Oasis||Win, don't whine!||One has to only get beyond self and one’s miseries to find a world full of opportunities for outreach. Maybe not the exciting glittering kind you imagined as being a mark of success, but from personal experience, I declare that this is far beyond what the world at large regards as successful. Yet, one need not fade into oblivion but rather become an inspiration and icon. At age 37, severe Rheumatoid Arthritis struck me. Initially, I would ponder within, “What’s the use of living like this? You cannot even pick up a glass of water sometimes, or bathe, dress and groom yourself”. Fortunately, there is the other side of me which counters, “Nothing doing, you’re a fighter, you’re a brave person. You still have a lot of talent you can use, not only for yourself but for others too!” My mother sparked this attitude. With 35 years of RA behind her, and 25 of them mostly housebound, she kept herself busy as best she could, passing on at 86. ‘Armchair Ministry’ is what I classified as her special talent. She attracted visitors, making them feel welcome, whatever be the inconvenience or the pain she was suffering. She loved the garden, music and all that went on in our lives. She touched others with her special letters, written with struggling, stiff, gnarled fingers. If she could do so much sitting in one place, how much more can I, with still a fair degree of mobility and a computer to boot? When at times my pain is worse, I reach out to God. This has come out very strong in me — a kind of total surrender to the power of God as I know that there is nothing we can do without his help. And help he does! It is not that the pain suddenly vanishes or the problem goes away, but I’d find later that someone had touched my life in some way that day, which would have made my burden easier to bear. It might have been a surprise visitor or gift package, a phone call, or email to say hello or a compliment on an article I wrote. At times, of course, these do not happen and everything seems to go wrong. I do fret and fume initially, then realise it’s not solving my problem, and all will pass if I remain quiet. Perhaps a forced ‘cooling off’ from overdoing things was actually a sign of another miracle, albeit in its own way. Win, don’t whine, is my mantra…||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/win-dont-whine-1037342.html
04-10-2021||Opinion||India’s chip dreams aren’t crazy, they’re just misguided||By Tim Culpan For more than two decades, India has maintained the fantasy that a major semiconductor manufacturer will set up shop on its shores, kicking off the nation’s journey along an inevitable path toward chip glory. It never happened, but there’s now a very clear script for how it might be done, if only government and industry leaders would take a more pragmatic approach. In the latest incarnation of the dream, officials in India and Taiwan are apparently in talks to lure a new factory worth up to $7.5 billion. The local government is likely to foot half the bill to build and kit out such a project, Bloomberg News reported. While Taipei is eager to build closer ties with New Delhi, facilitating the construction of a chip fab in South Asia is not high on its priority list. That’s not due to Taiwan being particularly protectionist, but because it can’t see much point in the exercise given India's lack of expertise in the field. Nevertheless, eager to continue the dialogue with an increasingly important partner, Taiwan may take the bait and start scouting for candidates. What it’s likely to find is that the challenges facing the establishment of an Indian chip-making industry today are the same ones as the turn of the century. A reliable and stable electricity supply is the most crucial component of semiconductor manufacturing, but one which the nation struggles to provide. The process is so delicate that even the briefest blackout or power surge can trigger a halt that takes hours or days to reset. Abundant water supply, transport infrastructure, and experienced staff are among the other stumbling blocks.Gone are the days when designing a component means actually building it. The rise of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and Qualcomm Inc. is proof of this. The latter designs the most-advanced smartphone chips in the world, using sophisticated software and the best engineers, but only a handful of its workforce would have the skillset to run a factory. TSMC, meanwhile, has stayed out of the design business and left that to clients. Today, India has a large talent pool of chip designers, but the roster of process engineers is much shorter and certainly not long enough to run a Taiwanese front-end chip factory — where microscopic transistors are etched onto silicon. Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Make in India campaign, scores of new factories have opened or expanded across the country — many run by Taiwanese electronics giants. This trend bolstered the belief that local production is a path to selling more goods there. But it turns out that slapping a big tariff on imported smartphones is a greater incentive to build locally, with even Apple Inc.’s iPhones getting assembled on shore. Companies like Foxconn Technology Group and Wistron Corp. ramped up in India because the nation already had an established electronics assembly business — where margins are thin and labor costs matter — and the requisite workforce was in place. Tariffs moved the economic needle enough to justify the expansion. The same cannot be said for chips. There is no local history of production, so tariffs would just drive up prices, not spur a rash of onshoring. It’s also apparent that India’s renewed push into chips comes amid growing rivalry with China, a country that’s already committed tens of billions of dollars to become a semiconductor powerhouse. Yet New Delhi should be learning from Beijing’s mistakes and rethink its eagerness to follow suit. The world’s largest nation, and number-two economy, is mostly churning out commodity memory chips and a small amount of processors using technology that’s more than a decade old. When it comes to semiconductors, India most certainly doesn’t want to replicate China. Instead, it hopes to be the next Taiwan. And that’s not going to happen either. In fact, it’s already failed several times before on deals worth around $5 billion apiece.Now, for at least the third time in two decades, India is reviving dreams of being a player in the chip space as a way for the nation to move its economy up the value chain from simple labor-intensive assembly to high-tech manufacturing. One imagines TSMC being high among the targets given it’s the global leader and boasts a client list that includes Apple, Qualcomm, Nvidia Corp. and even Intel Corp. The Hsinchu-based company might politely decline, though, as it’s already expanding at home, has broken new ground in the US and is considering opening a new factory in Germany. Smaller rival United Microelectronics Corp., however, might be curious to consider what New Delhi has to offer. Its spending budget is lower, margins thinner, and technology older, so it has a far bigger appetite to consider what sweeteners might be available. But India should also be wary of any entity that sets up solely because of the largesse that’s being doled out.But India may be chasing the wrong types of companies. Keen to get their name in a press release alongside blue-ribbon names, generations of Indian leaders seem to have forgotten a far more suitable match: chip packaging and testing. To the semiconductor snobs, outsourced assembly and test (OSAT) is considered the low-end part of the process compared to the high-cost lithographic steps that create the underlying component. It’s the leading-edge, multi-billion dollar factories that handle front-end wafer fabrication, while the more low-key plants test for flaws, attach wires, and then wrap them in a protective packaging. This may not sound sexy, but it’s still a highly technical and crucial aspect of manufacturing.  Fortunately for Taipei and New Delhi, the global leaders in packaging and testing are based in Taiwan. After merging with local rivals, Kaohsiung-based ASE Technology Holding Co. is number one with Hsinchu-based Powertech Technology Inc. fourth. And ASE may be looking for an excuse to diversify further. The recent power crisis in China forced the Taiwan company to shut its Kunshan factory outside Shanghai for almost five days. Such outrages are rare, but with labor costs rising and power and pollution concerns in China escalating, the time is ripe for ASE to consider breaking ground in India. New Delhi might think it wants a chip manufacturing facility to realize a long-held dream, but the government would be better off saving its money and luring more suitable partners in testing and assembly. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-s-chip-dreams-aren-t-crazy-they-re-just-misguided-1037085.html
04-10-2021||Opinion||Mundra Port drug haul and the US link to Afghan heroin||The story so far. On September 16, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized a gargantuan consignment of three tonnes of refined heroin from an Ahmedabad warehouse. This is the biggest catch ever in the documented history of opiate smuggling and left drug enforcement agencies searching for many answers to a plethora of questions. Former finance minister P Chidambaram's views expressed in his weekly column that this large consignment to India could not have come to Mundra Port without the involvement of people in high places suggests the enormity of the crime or should we call it a scandal.  A lower court in Bhuj, Gujarat, has asked some pointed questions from the DRI. They follow an interesting trajectory and have disturbing implications for the port owners, too: How will the Mundra Adani Port benefit from the consignment landing there? How did such a big heroin haul land at the Adani-owned Mundra Port when the final destination was Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh? Were the systems of Mundra Port lax that encouraged the opium smugglers to direct their precious booty to this western Gujarat port?  Interestingly, this container ostensibly carrying talcum rocks left Afghanistan much before Kabul fell to the Taliban on August 15? The big question remains: who in India had the financial depth to pay off millions of dollars or thereabouts to the suppliers of this high-quality three-tonnes of heroin? Usually, drug seizures by enforcement agencies are a fraction of the total amount that gets smuggled into India, which has claimed itself to be a transit country despite being the only licit producer of opium.  Afghan drugs - a background Going by this understanding of how much opium and its derivatives have already entered the country? Was the drug cartel populated by warlords aware of the coming of the Taliban and wanted to clean up the fields before the religious extremists that had banned opium cultivation in the past, take over the country? Even Afghanistan's neighbour Iran, which the UNODC considers a major interceptor of opium and its derivatives, has seen a spike in its seizures. Understandably, the Mundra Port shipload of heroin originated from Kandahar and was loaded into two containers at Iran's Bandar Abbas port. An earlier seizure in Mumbai had originated from Iran's Chabahar port, which an Indian company manages. The Iranians have blamed the rise of smuggling on the US occupation of Afghanistan. There may be some truth in this allegation. The opium cultivation in the country spiked only after the US-led western forces took over Afghanistan in 2001. Strangely, what never gets traction is the complicity of Western powers in the enlargement of poppy plantations in the war-ravaged country. The western media, which monopolised the coverage of Afghanistan, never seriously blamed the occupiers as they went about perpetuating a myth of the country being a "graveyard of empires" when it was, in fact, the graveyard of hope and turned ordinary Afghan farmers as poppy planters and smugglers - all on the wrong side of the law.  The United Kingdom, for instance, policed the opium-growing area of Helmand for more than a decade, but the production zoomed. There are allegations that techniques to boost poppy production were introduced during these years. Similarly, a method to produce methamphetamine, a powerful stimulant, has been introduced in Afghanistan. After the Taliban were ousted in 2001, poppy cultivation in Afghanistan jumped to 3,400 tonnes in just a space of two years from the low of 180 tonnes. The Taliban had banned opium cultivation, and since then, there has been no looking back. The UNODC reckoned that by 2003 the Afghan drugs were raking in $2.3 billion from growing poppies to trafficking its derivatives. When the time came for the US and international forces to leave Afghanistan this year, the production had reached astronomical levels of 9000+ tonnes.  So desperate were the drug cartels and their western mentors to earn a fast buck before they bid goodbye to Afghanistan that in 2020 the UNODC found that there was a 37 per cent jump in the area under poppy cultivation to 24,400 hectares, with each hectare giving 28 kg of dry opium. The drug mafia is rescuing this bountiful crop of 2020-21 from the Taliban, who ironically are being accused by the West for living off drug proceeds. It's a different matter that there is no evidence to suggest that, and the UNODC reports, over the years, make light of these allegations. In 2007-08, an international consultant embedded with the Afghan palace shared with this writer the information that unmarked flights routinely left from Kandahar airport carrying poppies or dry opium to undisclosed destinations. There's nothing to suggest that these flights ever discontinued as long as the US was in occupation. The truth that has emerged many times in various US Congressional hearings is that though Washington spent $8 billion to help eradicate opium cultivation in Afghanistan, the US army men were routinely asked to look the other way when they encountered opium farmers or drug lords.  Post-2001 US occupation, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld refused to make drug eradication a cornerstone of US policy on Afghanistan. The country was used by US covert agencies laundering drug money and financing their operations around the world. In the words of an academic, they ran a "Ponzi" scheme in Afghanistan. US government admittedly spent $2 trillion in this landlocked country in the name of stabilizing the country. As stated above, $8 billion in fighting poppy cultivation only helped increase drug production in the country and generated a lot of unaccounted cash to support the many US misadventures. In 2008, UNODC Executive Director Antonio Maria Costa claimed that after the collapse of the Lehman Brothers that led to the global meltdown, drug money was used for opening up cash strapped investment banks. Costa said: "In many instances, drug money is currently the only liquid investment capital." In the backdrop of this understanding, where was the heroin from Mundra destined? And who was putting up the money to pay for the huge consignment? The country may need urgent answers to these questions.  (The writer is Editor of the Delhi-based magazine, Hardnews) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mundra-port-drug-haul-and-the-us-link-to-afghan-heroin-1037108.html
04-10-2021||Opinion||Lakhimpur Kheri incident and BJP's election prospects||As Assembly elections to five crucial states, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, are drawing close, there is a subtle shift in the Centre's handling of the farmers' agitation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently spoke on the issue by training his guns on the opposition parties, mainly the Congress. Without naming anyone, he accused the opposition of "intellectual dishonesty" in not backing the government on reforms in the agriculture sector. These parties wanted farm reforms as much but did not dare to go through with it, he charged, indicating that the government is in no mood to repeal the three laws that farmers say will hit their livelihoods. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in opposition is different from the BJP in power. The party resisted nearly every socio-economic rights-based reform from the opposition benches, the Food Security Act, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA), the Goods and Services Tax (GST), or Aadhar digital identification. In power, the party not only adopted the measures but went overboard with them. For every wrong, the party blames previous Congress-led regimes, and for every right, it covers itself with glory. For a sector reeling under the impact of economic liberalisation of the 1990s, agriculture reforms should have been gradual and after due diligence. But the intention to bring the three reform-oriented laws was abruptly announced when the country was reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic and then introduced through ordinances, which was questionable. Much has been written about the manner in which the Bills were rushed through in Parliament without the scrutiny of the concerned committees, which is the norm.  When farmers decided to take matters into their hands and announced an indefinite agitation seeking repeal of the three farm laws which they say will hit their livelihoods, the government initially engaged with them. Meetings were held at the level of Union ministers without yielding results. Farmers wanted the laws to be scrapped, which the government was not willing to do. They sought a meeting with the PM, but government sources said that he could not have intervened unless there was a meeting ground. In the meantime, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Acts. The BJP's long-time alliance partner, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), came out of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), and its lone minister in the Union cabinet resigned. Farmers are a constituency no political party can afford to lose, and with the then Punjab CM Amarinder Singh backing the agitation, the SAD could not have been far behind. Remember, farmers gave a beleaguered United Progressive Alliance a second consecutive term in 2009 after the Manmohan Singh government came up with a debt waiver package for them. Why go far? Even in the previous Assembly elections in 2017, the BJP, following the footsteps of the then ruling Congress party in Punjab, announced a last-minute Rs 36,000 crore loan waiver scheme for UP farmers to win the election. Official data shows that almost 50 per cent of farmers in the country have unpaid loans against them. By its actions, the BJP seems to be making the going tough for itself this time around as well as it faces Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur early next year. Apart from the anti-incumbency factor, the party will have to contend with farmers' ire at the hustings. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an amalgamation of several farmers organisations, has committed itself to non-violence and resisted retaliation in the face of repression, be it the lathi charge at Karnal in Haryana last year month or the recent mowing down of four farmers at a protest in Lakhimpur Kheri. It has stood firm and united against all odds. The BJP is worried now and forced to rethink its strategy is the massive mobilisation of people at the last month's Mahapanchayat (assembly of village panchayats) in UP's Muzaffarnagar, the bastion of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), a major component of the Morcha. This was followed by the very public anointing of Jayant Chaudhary as the successor to his father, union minister Ajit Singh. The latter held considerable sway in the sugarcane belt of western UP. This will be the first election that Jayant will face without his father. He has the support of farmers and is likely to form an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) for the forthcoming elections. It may be recalled that the BKU co-founder Mahendra Singh Tikait enjoyed a rapport with Ajit Singh's father, Chaudhary Charan Singh, the former prime minister and a towering farm leader. In 2014, Rakesh Tikait had unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha election from Amroha on Ajit Singh's Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) ticket. There is a symbiotic relationship between the two, which the BJP managed to breach in the 2014 Modi wave.   However, this time, the BJP will have much to worry about as agitating farmers have declared that they will align against it in the upcoming elections. Whether farmer leaders will themselves enter the electoral fray and put up candidates for direct contests is unclear. Still, there are indications that they will back non-BJP like-minded contestants. In UP, for instance, if Muslims and Jats can bury the hatchet over the 2013 communal riots in Muzaffarnagar and rise as a farming community, it will add to the BJP's woes. The Lakhimpur Kheri incident has arrayed opposition parties against the ruling party. Leaders from across the political spectrum have condemned the incident leading to the arrest of the main accused. The general opinion is that the PM must rein in political entities indulging in provocative speeches and acts against farmers whose contribution kept the economy going through the devastating Covid-19 lockdown months. Signals from the recent events—Mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar, Bharat bandh and black flag protests in Haryana and UP—indicate that farmers are gearing up for a major confrontation with the central government over their demands. If the government does not take timely steps for damage control, the Lakhimpur Kheri incident can fan unrest. Considering that the farming households comprise more than 50 per cent of the rural population in the major states slated for polls, the Centre needs to evaluate the situation afresh and come up with solutions urgently. A possible hike in the direct income support under Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi may not be enough. The decision will primarily have to be on the three new farm laws and assured payment of support price for agriculture produce. The way BJP-opposed parties are openly warming up to the peasants' cause - the RLD and the SP in UP, Indian National Lok Dal in Haryana, SAD and Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab and the Congress and its allies - will hit the BJP's prospects in the forthcoming elections. Farm laws are bound to become the central issue and farmers the talking point. (The writer is a Delhi-based senior journalist.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-and-bjps-election-prospects-1037271.html
04-10-2021||Opinion||Lakhimpur violence: Echoes of Mandsaur June 2017||On June 6, 2017, police opened fire on protesting farmers in Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh, killing six farmers. The incident triggered nationwide protests lasting over a year and a half. Farm distress - issues of negligible increase in minimum support price, collapsing farm prices and poor procurement - found articulation in the protests. The protests significantly contributed to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) losing its governments in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan in the Assembly polls of December 2018. Of the 424 rural seats in these three states, the BJP could win only 153 in 2018, a sharp drop from the 294 it bagged in the 2013 edition of the Assembly polls. Thousands of farmers marched to Parliament in November 2018. Images of 40,000 marginal farmers on a 180-km Mumbai to Nashik "Kisan long march", many barefoot, on February 21-21, 2019, caught the country's imagination. Farm distress was expected to remain the predominant political narrative in the months leading up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. But the Modi government moved swiftly. In the Union Budget that year, a nervous Narendra Modi government hiked the agriculture ministry's allocation by 78 per cent. It also proposed PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, with the objective to annually provide Rs 6,000 each to 12.6 crore small and marginal farmers. While the government proposal assuaged farmers, the national mood changed with the Pulwama terror incident in mid-February and the Balakot airstrikes on February 26. The BJP comfortably won a handsome majority in the Lok Sabha polls, with overwhelming dominance in the states that had seen the most strident farm protests. According to a Lokniti-CSDS post-poll survey, 68 per cent farmers in the country said they were satisfied with the performance of the Modi government. The survey findings suggested the Centre's PM Kisan scheme helped dissipate farmers' anger, many of whom received its Rs 2000 first instalment in their bank accounts before the polling day. The survey also found that 42 per cent of farmers who had heard of India's airstrikes in Balakot voted for the BJP, and only 17 per cent voted for the Congress party. Interestingly, of those who had not heard of the airstrikes, 31 per cent voted for the BJP while 28 per cent for the Congress. The story of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, if not for the BJP heeding the warning bells of Mandsaur and the Assembly poll results, could have been different. Therefore, the recent past has lessons both for the BJP and the opposition. If Mandsaur 2017 triggered farm protests, the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, where eight including four farmers were killed in violence during a protest on Sunday, could further consolidate the ongoing farm protests.  It could mar Yogi Adityanath's plans to retain power by winning the Assembly polls four months away. Adityanath, fighting a battle of his own within his party, has been quick to ensure a compromise is struck with the farmers. The state government has committed Rs 50 lakh compensation to families of the victims, promised government jobs to one family member of those killed, ordered a probe, and asked the police to book Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish. On September 26, the Adityanath government hiked sugarcane purchase price by Rs 25 per quintal. However, his government's record is quite abysmal as this was the first such increase in four years. The state government will need to do much more to mollify irate farmers of western UP. The BJP governments in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan couldn't respond suitably to the Mandsaur incident of 2017. Its chief ministers - Raman Singh, Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Vasundhara Raje - lost their respective governments. However, Chouhan returned through some backdoor manoeuvring a year and a half later. We shall soon know if the Modi government at the Centre will move as swiftly as it did in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls to prevent the Lakhimpur Kheri incident from becoming a rallying cry for the farmers and just as the Mandsaur incident did in 2017-18. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/lakhimpur-violence-echoes-of-mandsaur-june-2017-1037365.html
04-10-2021||Panorama||The absurd idea to set up exclusive teaching universities||Karnataka has about 32 state universities, 14 deemed-to-be universities, 19 state private universities, one open university and another central university. In addition, there are 10 other central institutions such as the Indian Institute of Science and the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences. Some months ago, the state legislature approved the establishment of four more universities, one each in Mandya and Raichur and two in Bengaluru. In March, it was reported that six more private universities, namely Vidyashilpa, Sri Jagadguru Murugarajendra, St Joseph’s, Atria New Horizon and Acharya Universities, are on the anvil. Because of the multiplicity of higher education institutions, Bengaluru is often named an education hub. The National Education Policy-2020 (NEP-20), while dealing with restructuring and consolidation of higher education in the country, has recommended two types of universities for the future — one with equal focus on teaching and research (research universities) and the other with greater importance to teaching (teaching universities). Notwithstanding the rationale and justification for the dichotomy of universities, is there any wisdom in ascribing the nomenclature ‘teaching universities’? Traditionally, universities all over the world are envisaged as centres of higher learning and research. It appears these hallmarks were manifested even in our prehistoric universities of Takshashila (700-400 BCE) and Nalanda (500-1200 CE). For a long period now, the twin core activities of teaching and research have been the distinguishing features of many top-ranking global universities. In India, university research goes back to the beginning of the 20th century, with the first doctorate (a D.Sc.) of the country being awarded by the University of Allahabad in 1904. This university was founded in 1887 as the fourth oldest after the establishment of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras universities in 1857. The University of Calcutta awarded its first doctorate degree in 1909. Until 1920, there were only 13 doctorates in India — one from the University of Allahabad and 12 from the University of Calcutta. University research progressed well in the pre-independence era with the pioneering research of C V Raman, Magnadh Saha, Vikram Sarabhai, J C Bose and Homi Bhabha among others. It was reported that in the 1930s, some of the top-ranking Indian scientists were treated on par with their best global counterparts. However, the scenario changed drastically after independence in view of the establishment of research conglomerates such as the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, the Indian Council of Medical Research, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and other domain-specific Statutory Apex Bodies. Consequently, there was a major shift in preferential funding of research to the National Institutes of Importance/Excellence. Perhaps, it is relevant to mention that Prof S Chandrashekar, Nobel Laureate in Physics and nephew of Nobel Laureate Prof C V Raman, during one of his visits to India had opined that it was amazing that Indian universities with bright young minds were getting lesser research funds than those organisations run by the government. He lamented that the situation was the other way round in the US. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the University Grants Commission (UGC) introduced a proposal to start Postgraduate Centres (PGs) as a prelude to establishing new universities. For instance, in consonance with this suggestion, such centres in Mangalore, Gulbarga and Tumkur were opened respectively by Mysore, Karnataka and Bangalore universities and were elevated later as universities on substantial consolidation of academic programmes for more than a decade. Secondly, in the 1990s, the UGC introduced the concept of autonomous degree colleges, some of which are now considered by the NEP-20 as potential institutions for upgrade as universities. It must be conceded that in the absence of a milieu with many faculty and students from other states and countries, the majority of our universities have lost their university character. Virtually, they are local/regional teaching institutions erroneously called ‘universities’. Second, if the objective of the state government, regardless of the political party that runs it, is to provide greater opportunities to our people for postgraduation and as recommended by the UGC, one could think of starting postgraduate centres and autonomous PG colleges.  Under a situation of severe financial crunch that the state is suffering from, such steps are certainly wiser and viable substitutes to starting ordinary teaching universities. Institutions with only teaching as the major activity do not deserve the nomenclature of ‘universities’. It is rather absurd and ironical, if not whimsical and farcical, that establishments bereft of basic facilities even for quality teaching are glorified as universities. We certainly need to provide opportunities to our students for PG studies, but then such teaching regional ‘shops’ need not be named universities. Ideally, a university should have a composite character in having faculties of Arts, Humanities, Law, Engineering, Medicine, etc. It is the interaction of these academic bodies that brings in vibrancy, diversity and novelty to various programmes of studies and research. Mono-faculty institutions, even with state-of-the-art infrastructure and competent faculty, do not literally qualify to be called universities. It is for this very reason that the NEP-20 is not in favour of continuing deemed-to-be universities in the country. Karnataka presently has 65 institutions functioning in the guise of universities. Many of these, both young and old, are floundering because of inadequate infrastructure, faculty and finances for academic as well as co-scholastic activities. Recently established institutions like Janapada, Music and Sanskrit universities have not been able to fledge due to lack of funds, faculty and physical facilities. Our enlightened public, by and large, are a kind of silent spectators to political but totally illogical decisions to add new universities while the existing ones are languishing and dysfunctional. Swami Vivekananda once said, “Society does not go down because of the activity of a few criminals but goes down because of the inactivity of intellectuals.” The way multiple bills providing for new universities are passed in the Legislative Assembly and Council with hardly any meaningful discussion reflects the apathy and non-involvement of our elected representatives. It is time that our state government recognised developed PG centres and autonomous colleges for the purpose of offering postgraduation. There is no necessity or justification for starting new universities only for teaching, and that too, on truncated subjects like hospitality, tourism, cyber security, criminology, sports, organic agriculture, etc. The issue involved cannot, and shall not, be entirely political. Notwithstanding what is stated in the acts of various universities, there is little or no justification for the existence of ‘exclusive teaching universities’. (The write is former Vice-Chancellor, University of Mysore, and President, Forum of Former Vice-Chancellors of Karnataka, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-absurd-idea-to-set-up-exclusive-teaching-universities-1037121.html
04-10-2021||Panorama||'Hospitals should only be for the acutely ill, rest should be managed at home'||Post-Covid, healthcare should take a different turn based on the old wisdom that prevention is better than cure, Manipal Hospitals Chairman Dr H Sudarshan Ballal tells DH’s S Raghotham, arguing that today, technology allows for monitoring of health parameters at home and telemedicine allows for remote consultation and treatment, so hospitals must be for only for those who are really sick or need surgical intervention. Are you expecting a third wave of Covid this month? How do you think it will turn out? The third wave is predicted to hit in October. It could be a third wave or it might just be the tail of the second wave continuing for a longer period. Unlike the first wave, the second wave is tapering down slowly. But I do believe that even if a third wave does hit, the numbers will be small, the disease will be less severe and, overall, easier to manage. Fortunately for us, many things have happened which, I believe, are going to protect us from a severe third wave. The serosurvey after the second wave showed that 70% of the population has already been exposed to the virus, which means a large number of us have some kind of antibodies and immunity. Secondly, most of the vulnerable population — those aged above 60, people with comorbidities, frontline workers, etc — has been vaccinated. Now, the only people left behind are the younger population — children. By and large, the disease is milder in them. Thirdly, we are still predominantly with the Delta variant of the virus, which made the second wave so severe (though there are new mutants like the Mu), to which most of us have been exposed. Unless that changes, we will be on the safer ground during the expected third wave. And, of course, we have come a long way in our understanding of Covid. Supportive care, good facilities for oxygen delivery, ICU care and steroids at the appropriate time and in the right dose, are the only things that are useful. Now, we also have a cocktail of monoclonal antibodies. Given early in the disease, it prevents it from becoming serious. That’s one more tool available in dealing with Covid now. So, for all these reasons, even if the third wave comes, it will not be as serious as the second wave. However, we really shouldn’t let our guard down at any cost. What became of people with other diseases during the pandemic? There has been a significant delay in, or absence of, treatment for other diseases, especially lifestyle or non-communicable diseases (NCDs) like heart disease; many cancers have progressed, from an operable stage to inoperable stage; kidney and liver transplants had to be put on hold for fear of infection and due to the restrictions that were there; it has significantly affected diabetics as they couldn’t go to hospitals and seek medical attention; hypertension and heart patients did not seek medical attention. Many of them might have died of heart attacks at home. For people with kidney disease, dialysis is a lifeline, but many could not go, and it may have been fatal in many cases. Things are coming back to normal slowly. As Covid has tapered down, hospitals are doing more transplants, many more house procedures, surgeries. So, some of the backlogs will get cleared, but whoever has suffered during that time has suffered. If their cancer was stage two, now it may be stage four, which we cannot reverse. But at least from now on, I think there’ll be a steady state of treatment for non-Covid patients. You are making a pitch for preventive healthcare. It seems counterintuitive, coming from a corporate hospital chain boss… A lot of people ask me that question. But I honestly believe that prevention is better than cure. We need, so to speak, preventive maintenance. Your heart — which has to continuously pump 70-80 times a minute for your entire lifetime — needs maintenance. So also, the other organs that function tirelessly. Unless there is some preventive maintenance, they will get damaged, but go unnoticed. Indeed, many lifestyle diseases are silent diseases. Unless you look for signs of them, you may not find them until the damage is done. A typical example is diabetes. So also, kidney or heart disease. Most people have no symptoms of these early on. But they can be detected early and easily with a simple blood test and urine test for sugar, creatinine, protein and lipid levels. You must keep track of four important numbers — sugar, BP, cholesterol, creatinine. If these four numbers are under control, you may not need to see a doctor. I also talk of 7Ss to take care of — sugar, salt, smoking, spirits, sedentary lifestyle, stress and sleep. All of these factors come under preventive care. If you take care of these seven things, many of the NCDs can be controlled. How do you see hospital care evolving post-Covid, given what we experienced during the pandemic? There will be a move away from inpatient care to home care, outpatient care. Most things should be managed as outpatient care or by home care or, at most, daycare. Hospital admissions should only be for the really sick or those who require intervention. There is technology today that is enabling this in a big way. Medical devices or wearable technology help you keep track of BP, sugar, oxygen levels, even record your EKG to detect heart rhythm disturbances. All these tools are available to constantly monitor conditions related to lifestyle diseases. They aid preventive healthcare. We have done some work with old-age homes, where people are very prone to develop many such conditions. By keeping a wearable device on them, which is monitored by a doctor or nurse at the old-age home, we have observed a significant reduction in serious illnesses and visits to the hospital, just by constantly monitoring patients in their own settings. Yes, and telemedicine seems to have taken off. Is this all sort of learning forced on us by Covid? Digital health or telemedicine got a huge boost because of Covid. We had been fighting a battle for telemedicine, on both legal and regulatory issues. We just couldn’t get telemedicine approved until Covid struck. But within a few days, in March 2020, the rules were changed and telemedicine was allowed. We were fortunate that we participated in a PPP with the Government of Karnataka, along with many other hospitals. We appointed a team of specialists in intensive care, emergency room medicine, anaesthesia, etc., who would have daily meetings with doctors in the district hospitals to guide them on Covid care. We saw over 10,000 cases in a few months. Without any other change (in district hospitals), just through these telemedicine discussions, we were able to reduce the mortality of those patients by 50%. All that happened was that the district hospital doctors were able to discuss the cases with the team of experts in Bengaluru. That made a significant difference at very little cost. So, I hope this will continue even after Covid. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/hospitals-should-only-be-for-the-acutely-ill-rest-should-be-managed-at-home-1037339.html
04-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Growing up||I still vividly remember my childhood tantrums. “No, I don’t want to go to that function with you”. “I don’t like the colour of that shirt”. “I don’t want curd rice again — I want chapathi”. “I want a new bicycle for school”. My endless demands, denials and stubborn acts must have driven my parents nuts as they tried desperately to balance their love and affection for their child with instilling values and character in me, while taking care of the challenges of their, and my, day-to-day life. The passage of time is said to soothe and heal a number of difficult events and circumstances — a failed exam, a lost job, loss of property and even break up in cherished relationships. But apparently not the insolence of a son (and perhaps daughters too) towards parents. After I settled abroad with my own family, we would eagerly wait for the few occasions when my dad and mom managed to visit us to spend quality time with their grandchildren. The busy, important business executive that I imagined myself to be had no time for the silliness of my dad’s suggestions or my mom’s incessant cooking of my childhood favourite dishes. “Dad, why do you want to go to that discount electronics shop to pick up junk items?” “Can we go and do something other than visiting the same temple again this weekend?” “My god, for how many more people back home do you want to take those two-dollar watches?” I was always the know-all whiz kid, superior to those ignorant, old-fashioned parents. I assumed that I knew what they needed (or should need) better than they themselves did. I had neither the ability nor the desire to understand what they preferred. “Dad, you don’t know anything!” A familiar scene with changed actors in the drama of life. My dad is no longer around to witness what was happening to his brilliant son who had by now been promoted to do the honours in dealing with smarter-than-thou children. “Don’t keep calling me when I am out with my friends – it is rude!” “I am now 13. Please don’t include me in your vacation trips — it is embarrassing.” “Please don’t play those old Hindi songs in the car when you are dropping me and David at school.” The list goes on.  "Dad, what have I done?" I hear myself saying, lifting my head up, wiping a tear away. The one person who might have understood my plight was not available! The greatest lesson that my parents taught me — staying calm in the face of impertinent behaviour of your children — took me six decades to understand!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/growing-up-1037120.html
04-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Covid-induced untouchability amid the pandemic||I am a Covid survivor. By God’s grace and with the help of angels disguised as friends, family and healthcare professionals, I am alive to tell this story. I had to be hospitalised and spent 17 days in two different hospitals getting well. In the first hospital, though my CT scan showed a lung infection, the doctors never bothered to listen to my chest sounds – something we took for granted whenever we visited the doctor. When I asked one of the doctors, he replied, “We don’t do that with Covid patients.” He was in a PPE suit, masked and gloved. I felt like an outcast. But in the second hospital, where I moved after three days when I needed critical care, it was a different story. One of the doctors patted me on the back while on his rounds. Another doctor would sit beside me on my hospital bed as he spoke to me. An elderly ward boy patted me on the back and wished me good health. The nurses were friendly. This human touch made a lot of difference to me. After being discharged from the hospital and recuperating at home, I returned to work. I always greet and smile at everyone I meet. I was warmly greeted by the security personnel and the receptionist. They inquired about my health. It felt good to be back. As I was entering my department, a colleague from another department who was standing there, took a few steps back to avoid me. I understood her apprehension of not wanting to contract the deadly disease. Social distancing is good. So I did not mind. At the cafeteria, to ensure social distancing, there are only two chairs at every table which normally accommodates four people. Here too, no one came to sit at my table. I did not mind that either. But I could not help thinking that I was an outcast once again.  I remembered with a smile that the canteen boys, who waved enthusiastically to me, the encouraging WhatsApp wishes from the head of my organisation and the head of Human Resources wishing me a speedy recovery. I remembered the colleagues who called me to check if I was feeling well. It’s human to want the warmth of social contact. Please don’t lose the human touch. You can show your concern in many ways, but please don’t make anyone feel like an outcast. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/covid-induced-untouchability-amid-the-pandemic-1037338.html
04-10-2021||Second Edit||Ensure KTPP is not misused||Close on the heels of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) rapping the Karnataka government for acute fiscal indiscipline particularly in the last three years over excessive borrowing and poor budgetary control, it has now come to light that the state has procured goods and services with Rs 4,000 crore since 2018 without floating tenders. The government has got around the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement (KTPP) Act which prohibits awarding contracts without calling for tenders, by misinterpreting Clause 4 (G) which provides for certain exemptions. The said clause is loosely worded and makes an exemption “in respect of specific procurements as may be notified by the government from time to time,” a provision that is repeatedly exploited to defeat the very purpose of the Act. According to details provided by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to the Legislative Council recently, the works included Shivamogga and Vijayapura airports, construction of four three-star hotels and laying of roads. While the purpose of the exceptions is to meet certain exigencies like natural calamities, exemptions have been granted for the purchase of an LED screen worth Rs 88 lakh at the Chief Minister’s official residence (exact year not specified) and vehicles for elected representatives, highlighting how the provisions are blatantly abused.  This is not the first time that the government has sought to skirt the Act. Some time ago, the Act was amended to give the Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (KRIDL) a blanket exemption from calling for tenders for all types of works not exceeding Rs 2 crore. In the past, a certain portion of tenders with a value of Rs 50 lakh was reserved for the SC/ST community, and the increase in the ceiling had led to allegations that the actual aim was to help the big fish from the cities at the cost of small rural-based contractors. A study conducted by Bengaluru NavaNirmana Party last year had found that works worth Rs 4,721 crore were awarded by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike to a single contractor without calling for tenders. Often, large projects are broken down into small pieces and awarded to several contractors without tenders to escape the provisions of the KTPP Act. This naturally paves the way for corruption and favouritism. The opaqueness in the awarding of contracts and procurement of goods and services has rendered redundant the KTPP Act the aim of which was to ensure transparency in public expenses. The government should demonstrate that it is above board by amending the Act to ensure that the exemptions provided in good faith, especially under Clause 4 (G) are not misused. Accountability and transparency, rather than culpability and opacity, should be the cornerstones of good governance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ensure-ktpp-is-not-misused-1037125.html
04-10-2021||Second Edit||It’s high time I-T portal is fixed||The continuing glitches and snags in the Income Tax (IT) department’s e-filing portal, developed by outsourcing major Infosys, raise serious questions that need to be answered by both the department and the company. The contract to develop the new portal was given to Infosys in 2019, and it was launched on June 7 this year. Technical problems have dogged the portal from the first day and they have not been resolved till now. When the glitches continued for weeks, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman “summoned” Infosys CEO Salil Parekh to express her disappointment with the working of the portal and to seek an explanation for it. The company was given a deadline of September 15 to rectify the problems but even weeks after the deadline has passed, the portal hasn’t been fixed. As a result, the government has extended the deadline for filing returns from September 30 to December 31. While the government has blamed Infosys for the problems, the company has not chosen to fault the government, perhaps because it is vulnerable, or out of considerations of business ethics, or because a mutual blame game would not help. But the responsibility for the less than optimum performance of the portal has to be shared by both the government and the company. It has been reported that the project was done in 18 months, which is three months less than the original estimate. There are doubts whether the right user requirements were given to the company. When the company handed over the portal, the government had the responsibility to test and check it thoroughly before deploying it for use by the public. It does not seem to have done that.  The company has said that it has made steady progress in removing glitches and that 1.5 crore returns have been filed till now, with over 15 lakh taxpayers logging into it every day. It has also said that it had engaged chartered accountants and experts to check the processes and the functioning and that even now hundreds of personnel are working with the I-T department to solve the problems. But these cannot be the answers to the continuing complaints. Bugs are not uncommon in software projects. But the inability to rectify the errors in good time compounds the problems. Both the government and the company should be embarrassed by the fiasco, the company more so in popular perception because it had developed the portal and had the responsibility to execute it well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/it-s-high-time-i-t-portal-is-fixed-1037335.html
04-10-2021||South||Sitting pretty? Indian shop workers win the right to a chair||On her feet at work for 10 hours each day, Indian shop assistant S. Lakshmi lumbers home at the end of her shift to nurse her aching legs and swollen ankles. But relief may be in sight. Tamil Nadu became last month the second Indian state to enshrine the "right to sit" for retail staff in law, ordering store owners to provide seating and let employees take the weight off their feet whenever possible during the working day. "Until now, the only solace during these long shifts would be the 20-minute lunch break and the few seconds we would lean against the shelves to support our aching feet," said Lakshmi, 40, who has worked in the same clothing store for a decade. "Even sitting on the floor if there were no customers wasn't allowed," she added, asking to use a pseudonym. India's fast-growing retail segment is a pillar of the economy - accounting for 10 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) and 8 per cent of jobs, according to Invest India, the country's investment promotion arm. In southern states including Tamil Nadu, big family-run chains dominate the jewellery, sari and clothing segments and hire women from lower middle-class homes to serve their mainly female clientele. The neighbouring state of Kerala brought in a similar law in 2018 following protests by sales staff in textile shops, and labour rights campaigners said the new legal amendment to protect workers' health was welcome though overdue. "This has been a long pending demand," said M. Dhanalakshmi, Tamil Nadu state convener of the Working Women's Coordination Committee, a wing of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions. "From the time they board the bus to get to work until they return home after a 12- or 14-hour shift, they barely sit. There are health issues like varicose veins that they grapple with and work under constant stress. This rule is long overdue." 'Key welfare measure' P. Viji, a trained tailor, helped lead "right to sit" street protests in Kerala, forming a union - Asanghaditha Mekhala Thozhilali - for previously unorganised labour sectors such as shop assistants. "Since the women were not being allowed to sit at work, they held chairs on their heads and walked in protest," Viji said during a video call, adding that she was "thrilled" about the legal change in Tamil Nadu. "But the real test is implementation. As a union, we constantly check stores and lodge complaints if (seating) facilities aren't there. The law has no meaning if it isn't enforced." Tamil Nadu Labour Secretary R. Kirlosh Kumar said teams of inspectors would visit shops to guarantee compliance. "We see it as a key welfare measure for workers and will ensure store owners comply," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. The Retail Association of India, which represents 500,000 stores across the country, could not immediately be reached for comment. 'Long way to go' But not being able to sit down is just one of the daily hardships faced by shop workers, union leaders and women's rights campaigners said. Shop assistants are often paid less than the minimum wage and forced to work seven days a week. Many complain of being under constant surveillance by managers and facing restrictions to use the bathroom. "The right to sit was one of the demands that has been met, but there's a long way to go," Dhanalakshmi said. "The battle for fair wages, proper restroom breaks and less surveillance continues. While shop owners justify CCTV cameras saying it prevents thefts by customers, they in fact use it to spy on workers. The atmosphere in stores is stifling," she said. Unions in Kerala are demanding curbs on CCTV monitoring of workers, which they say is used to punish workers for talking to colleagues or briefly leaving their posts. "There are instances when salaries are cut. We're asking the labour department to regulate the monitoring, reduce the number of cameras and the number of hours a worker is being watched," Viji said. At her store in the town of Avinashi in Tamil Nadu, Lakshmi said she doubted the new legislation would make much difference to her working life. "When there aren't any customers, we're folding, sorting and reorganising shelves," she said. "The managers are very, very strict ... They make sure we're on our toes, so even if the chairs do arrive, I don't know if I'll actually be able to sit during work hours." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sitting-pretty-indian-shop-workers-win-the-right-to-a-chair-1037227.html
04-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu BJP to protest outside temples on October 7 ||Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) in Tamil Nadu will organise protests outside temples on October 7 demanding that the state government roll back its decision to keep temples closed during the weekend citing the Covid-19 pandemic.  In a statement, Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai said party leaders and cadres will organise protests outside major temples across the state on Thursday demanding that temples and other places of worship are allowed to function seven days a week. Following the protest, the minority wing will organise similar agitation outside mosques and churches.  Currently, temples, mosques, and churches remain closed from Friday to Sunday across the state to avoid overcrowding during the weekend. The latest statement by Chief Minister M K Stalin on extending the “lockdown” till October 31 reiterated that places of worship will remain closed for three days a week.  Annamalai said it was “not fair” on the part of the government to keep temples closed over the weekend at a time “almost everything” has been opened in the state. He argued that liquor shops owned by TASMAC, private companies and cinema theatres in the state are functioning and the government is also planning to reopen schools for students from Class 1 to Class 8. “It is very surprising to see that the government is obstructing devotees going to temples, mosques, and churches over the weekend. Not just devotees, but lakhs of people who are dependent on temples are in the lurch wondering about their future. The government should waste no time in allowing temples to be opened on all seven days,” Annamalai said.  While Annamalai will participate in a protest outside Arulmigu Kalikambal Temple in Chennai, former Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan will lead the agitation outside the Arunachaleswarar Temple in Tiruvannamalai, H Raja (Ramanathaswamy Temple in Rameswaram), C P Radhakrishnan (Murugan Temple in Palani), and Prof Srinivasan (Aranganathar Temple in Srirangam).  Annamalai also asked people to participate in the protests. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-bjp-to-protest-outside-temples-on-october-7-1037284.html
04-10-2021||South||Need to restore the primacy of states in administering education sector: Stalin to CMs||Eliciting support from Opposition-ruled states in his government’s fight against NEET, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin has written to 12 of his counterparts stressing the need to “put up a united effort” to restore the primacy of State Governments in administering the education sector. Stalin sent letters to the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, West Bengal, and Goa on October 1. A copy of the letter was released to the media on Monday. Except for Goa, ruled by BJP, all other states have non-BJP governments.  In his letter, Stalin said Tamil Nadu has always been opposed to conducting of NEET for admission into medical and dental colleges and referred to a report submitted by Justice (retired) A K Rajan committee on the social impact of the exam. The Chief Minister also enclosed a copy of the report to his counterparts.   The Committee was also requested to suggest alternative admission procedures which would benefit all students, the feasibility of implementing such alternatives and the legal steps to be undertaken to implement such fair and equitable methods.  NEET is an emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with at least 14 students taking their lives due to fear of appearing for the exam or failing in their attempts to get into medical colleges. The state assembly had last month passed a bill, the second in four years, seeking exemption from NEET for students from the state. However, the Bill needs Presidential assent since education is on the Concurrent List in the Constitution.   “Our considered position has always been that the move by the Union Government to introduce NEET goes against the spirit of the federalism and violates the constitutional balance of power by curbing the rights of the State Governments to decide on the method of admission in the medical institutions founded, established and run by them,” Stalin said.   Observing that state governments need to assert their constitutional right and position in deciding the method of admission to their higher educational institutions, Stalin asked the Chief Ministers to extend their support in this regard to ensure that the students of the respective states are not put to hardship in obtaining admissions to higher educational institutions.  “We need to put up a united effort to restore the primacy of State Governments in administering the education sector, as envisaged in our Constitution. I look forward to your cooperation in this crucial issue,” Stalin wrote in the letter. As part of the efforts to drum up support, DMK MPs will meet the 12 Chief Ministers and hand over a report of the Justice Rajan Committee in person.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/need-to-restore-the-primacy-of-states-in-administering-education-sector-stalin-to-cms-1037288.html
04-10-2021||South||Is Shailaja becoming a corrective force in Left government?||Kerala's former health minister K K Shailaja is seemingly becoming a corrective force within the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) as she has been pointing out flaws of the government on key issues such as Covid-19 relief measures and inadequate higher secondary seats. During the second session of the present Kerala assembly in July, Shailaja had said that the government's support measures to various sections of the society who were badly hit by lockdown were not sufficient. This remark came at a time when the Pinarayi Vijayan government was trying to resist criticism from the opposition parties in this regard. On Monday, during the opening day of the third session of the assembly, Shailaja raised a calling attention motion on the difficulties being raised by students who passed the tenth standard examination in getting higher-secondary admission. It came close on the heels of the Congress-led United Democratic Front also raising the same issue and staging a walkout. As health minister in the first Pinarayi Vijayan government, Shailaja had won much praise for handling of Nipah outbreak and the initial phase of Covid-19. She also received international recognitions. Her popularity was much evident as she won this assembly election with a record margin of 60,963 votes and some pre-poll surveys had even projected her as a probable Chief Minister. But she was denied a place in the second Pinarayi Vijayan cabinet, on a general policy of the CPM to bring in new faces. The move had even invited much criticism against the CPM leadership, particularly against Vijayan. For these reasons, the present critical approach of Shailaja in the assembly against the government is attaining much political significance. Owing to the liberal conduct of the SSLC examination due the Covid-19 situation, a high number of students passed the examination this time and hence even those who secured 'A-plus' in all subjects were now finding it difficult to get admission in desired subjects. While the Opposition raised the issue in the House through an adjournment motion on Monday, Kerala Education Minister maintained that there would be over 30,000 excess higher secondary seats once the admissions were over. But the opposition pointed out that many students who secured high marks in the tenth-standard were not getting admission to the desired streams and hence the allocation of higher secondary streams should be reworked. Shailaja also raised a similar demand in her calling attention motion that followed, thereby backing the opposition party's contention indirectly. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-shailaja-becoming-a-corrective-force-in-left-government-1037289.html
04-10-2021||South||Kerala panchayat seeks cap on beef price||A panchayat in Kerala has passed a resolution seeking regulation on the price of beef. The Kottayam district panchayat passed the resolution last week considering widespread demand from the local people. The resolution demanded that the price of beef should be fixed at Rs 320 per kilogram in the district, where buffalo meat is mainly sold as beef in the district. Christians, who are a major chunk of the district population, urged the panchayat authorities that regulation in the price of beef was essential as some merchants were charging exorbitant prices compared to other districts. The panchayat authorities said that the resolution would be sent to the local self government and Animal Husbandry departments for necessary action. Meanwhile, a section of meat traders of the district came out in protest against the resolution. "The panchayat authorities did not initiate any talks with the traders before passing the resolution. Bringing down the price would not be feasible," they said. Some of the local people had even listed out the rates of beef in different parts of the state as well as in other states to establish that the meat traders in the district were charging high.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-panchayat-seeks-cap-on-beef-price-1037311.html
04-10-2021||South||IPS officer Sajjanar appears before Hyderabad encounter probe panel; To be questioned on October 7||Former Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar appeared before the Justice Sirpurkar commission on Monday. The senior IPS officer was asked to attend the probe again on Thursday. The apex court-appointed panel is investigating the police “encounter killing” of the four men accused of rape-murder of a young veterinarian in Hyderabad in December 2019. About 10 Cyberabad cops who were present in the encounter incident would be questioned later this month. Sajjanar was then hailed by the public as a hero for the “swift justice delivered by the Telangana cops.” In a reshuffle recently, the K Chandrasekhar Rao government has posted him as the Managing Director of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation. The Supreme Court had constituted the three-member panel headed by former SC judge Justice VS Sirpurkar, days after the encounter. The incident created a sensation nationwide and was challenged by civil liberties activists as “extra-judicial killings.” Though Sajjanar attended the proceedings on Monday, as summoned by the panel, his questioning could not be taken up as the recording of some witnesses statements took time. The commission was originally required to submit its report by August last year but its work was largely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. On 3 August, its term was extended again by another six months by the apex court which observed that the probe has been “going on and on.” The inquiry panel's proceedings are taking place in hybrid form, with both physical and virtual appearances because of the ongoing pandemic. While the commission members are logging in from Nagpur, Pune, New Delhi; all the witnesses, advocates and persons served with notices, others are appearing physically in the commission's office in the Telangana high court premises. In the last two months, the commission recorded the statements of Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat, who headed a state government's probe into the encounter, few police officials, families of the four accused, relatives of the murdered girl and some witnesses. The Case Mohammed alias Arif (26) a lorry driver and A-1, and three others – Gollu Shiva, Gollu Naveen and Ch Chennakesavulu – all in twenties and hailing from Maktal in south Telangana were shot dead by the Cyberabad police, just over a week after the gruesome rape-murder on 27-28 November night at Shamshabad on the Hyderabad-Bangalore highway. The suspects were arrested on 29 November and were produced before a court. In the pre-dawn hours of 6 December 2019, the men were taken to the Chatanpally underpass where the body of Disha, as the vet was later referred to, was found in half burnt condition. Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar had claimed that the accused, taken there to recover the victim’s mobile and other belongings, snatched two weapons and started firing at the police team. “We warned them to surrender but the accused did not heed, forcing us to open fire. They were later found dead with bullet injuries,” Sajjanar had stated. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ips-officer-sajjanar-appears-before-hyderabad-encounter-probe-panel-to-be-questioned-on-october-7-1037336.html
04-10-2021||South||Hyderabad cops earn KTR's praise after they impose fine on his car for violation||Two Hyderabad traffic cops who had stopped IT, Industries and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao's car and imposed a fine for plying in the wrong direction have earned the praise of the public. Rao, popularly known as KTR, is the only son of K Chandrasekhar Rao and is regarded as the most influential person in the state, after the chief minister. The 45-year-old is also the working president of the ruling TRS. The traffic rules violation incident occurred at the Bapu Ghat at Langar-Houz in Hyderabad on October 2. Traffic SI Ilaiah stopped the minister's car, which was entering the venue in the wrong direction to pick him, reportedly around the time when the convoys of Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya were coming out after the dignitaries paid their tributes to Mahatma Gandhi. Though KTR was not present in the car, the police officer faced the ire of some TRS party men at the spot who were offended by the cops blocking their leader's vehicle. Senior officials had to intervene to placate them saying that the SI was not aware it was the minister's car. While several netizens praised the cop's duty dedication, some questioned VVIP car driver's rules violation and the overbearing act of TRS party men. On Monday, KTR agreed that rules are meant to be followed by everyone, “be it citizens or public representatives.” The high profile minister also stated that their government stands by officers like SI Ilaiah who discharge their duties sincerely. KTR met Ilaiah and constable Venkateshwarlu, who raised a traffic challan on his vehicle. While felicitating them, the minister stated that he had also paid the fine amount, “to send out the right message to everyone including his party workers.” “I always follow the traffic rules. I was not in the vehicle when the incident took place at Bapu Ghat,” the minister said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-cops-earn-ktrs-praise-after-they-impose-fine-on-his-car-for-violation-1037350.html
04-10-2021||State||Farmers to lay siege to Vidhana Soudha on Tuesday||Sugarcane farmers from all over the state have decided to lay siege to the Vidhana Soudha on Tuesday to protest against the central government’s meagre hike in the fair and remunerative price (FRP) for their crops. For 2021-22, the Centre has increased the FRP by Rs 5. Farmers said the hike does not even cover their expenses and have demanded that it should be increased to Rs 350, at least. Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of the Sugarcane Growers Association demanded the government bring in a law to ensure that the profits generated from ethanol and its byproducts are distributed among the growers. He said farmers will also protest against new farm laws. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmers-to-lay-siege-to-vidhana-soudha-on-tuesday-1037004.html
04-10-2021||State||Will release caste census report if Cong voted to power: Siddaramaiah||Congress leader Siddaramaiah said that caste census report will be released if the party returned to power after the 2023 elections. Speaking at a convention of Ganiga community, he said that socio-economic census report was essential to learn the status of various castes in the state, as the last such census was carried out in 1931. “Whenever the issue of reservation was taken up by the courts, it used to question us about the documents that reflected the population of various castes in the state. It is for this a socio-economic and educational census was commissioned during my tenure as CM,” he said. The report will help governments to formulate welfare programmes based on the population of various castes. “The report was not complete when I was CM, but is ready now. However, the current administration does not appear to be keen to accept the report. We will accept the report if we return to power,” he said. He also lashed out at the BJP for being ‘anti-reservation’, saying that BJP leader Rama Jois had challenged an order providing reservation to backward classes and women in the Supreme Court. The petition, Siddaramaiah, said was struck down by the court. Why is BJP afraid, asks DKS Amidst claims and counter-claims of BJP MLAs joining Congress and vice versa, KPCC president D K Shivakumar asked whether BJP was afraid of the developments. He was responding to Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa’s claims that Congress leaders were going ‘mad’ as many Congress MLAs would desert the party soon. “I am ready to get admitted to the asylum as soon as Eshwarappa readies a bed. But, wasn’t it a former minister who claimed that five Congress MLAs would join BJP in 24 hours.  Kateel (BJP state president Nalin Kumar) said that 20 Congress MLAs are in queue to leave the party. Have we ever named any MLA who is willing to join us? We are doing our politics. Why is BJP afraid?” he said. Shivakumar added that unlike BJP and JD(S), which provided representation only to Lingayats and Vokkaligas, Congress had provided political leadership and representation for all communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/will-release-caste-census-report-if-cong-voted-to-power-siddaramaiah-1037006.html
04-10-2021||State||Kumaraswamy calls govt ‘murderous’ over family suicide||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy hit out at the state government over the mass suicide of three family members of a BMTC employee, calling it a “murderous government.” He urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to provide special attention to the families of transport corporation employees who perished due to Covid, and ensure that relief reaches their families at the earliest. Prasanna Kumar, a BMTC employee perished due to Covid. His wife and two children ended life by suicide. “The suicide of the wife and children of a transport corporation employee at Nelamangala is saddening. The government could have prevented this incident and saved three innocent lives, if it had offered relief and compassionate appointment to the employees’ family. This is a murderous government,” Kumaraswamy said in a tweet. The government, he said, should have stopped all “unnecessary expenses and loot,” and prioritised disposing cases of relief for Covid victims in public sector enterprises. “It is clear that the state government has failed completely and officials concerned were irresponsible. They should be suspended immediately,” he said. The state government can prevent such tragedies by ensuring relief for Covid victims at the earliest, the JD(S) leader added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kumaraswamy-calls-govt-murderous-over-family-suicide-1037008.html
04-10-2021||State||Tobacco consumption on the rise in rural women: Report||An analysis of tobacco consumption in seven states and Union territories, including Karnataka, has found increased use among women in rural areas, raising concerns that children are being conditioned from a younger age to start using tobacco. In a report by the Delhi-based think-tank, AF Development Centre (AFDC), the researchers note that based on the latest NFHS-5 data (2019-2020) tobacco consumption among women in rural India has increased from 13.67 per cent in NFHS-4 to 17.83 per cent in NFHS-5.  While the report focuses on Karnataka, Assam, Gujarat, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, the data shows that the increase is prevalent in all states except Manipur, Meghalaya and Nagaland.  Sachi Satapathy, the principal investigator and director of AFDC, pointed out that cigarette smoking prevalence was highest in Odisha and Karnataka with 62.50 per cent and 63.68 per cent respectively. “Cigarette consumption is primarily limited to cities. But in rural areas, the prevalence of smoking bidi is highest in Karnataka at 35.32 per cent,” he added. Among smokeless tobacco, gutka-use was highest in Gujarat (69.16 per cent) and lowest in Uttar Pradesh (24.25 per cent). Use of chewing tobacco, meanwhile, was highest in Assam (30.07 per cent), followed by Karnataka and Jammu & Kashmir (28 per cent). Tobacco consumption in rural and urban areas is driven by different factors, explained Associate Professor R Sarala of International Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR), Bengaluru, who co-authored the study. “In urban areas, cigarette smoking among college-going girls is on the rise, driven by peer-pressure and within the middle class and IT crowd, by a combination of fear-stress. However, in rural areas, while bidis are consumed by men, smokeless tobacco consumption is prevalent among women, because it is not taboo. This is problematic as it has the same end result on health,” Dr Sarala said. Effects on kids This also has collateral effects on children. The study found that 18 per cent of women tend to send children to buy tobacco products as opposed to 5 per cent of men. This leads to tobacco initiation in children at an early stage, researchers cautioned. “This also shows that the laws are not being followed by the shop owners, as they are not allowed to sell tobacco products to the under-18 age category,” they noted. Low taxation of bidis and smokeless tobacco is also to blame for consumption, Dr Sarala added. “If current trends continue, a huge chunk of the Indian population will die prematurely from tobacco-related disease,” Satapathy said. “India’s fulfillment of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control has been erratic. Many states are reporting gaps in the law, plus pathetic regulatory surveillance, and overall defiance, as found in this research work. We need to re-strategise our work on tobacco control, including taxation and drafting of legislation, as the ground-level implementation is weak as found from this study.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tobacco-consumption-on-the-rise-in-rural-women-report-1037010.html
04-10-2021||State||Karnataka Covid weekly numbers fall to pre-second wave levels||The state’s Covid-19 case numbers fell below the pre-second wave levels for the first time this past week. In the last one week, the state recorded 4,265 cases, which is slightly less than the 4,448 cases recorded in the seven days before the second wave began on March 12. A total of 664 new cases recorded on Sunday, out of which 30 per cent or 196 were from Bengaluru Urban.  Mysuru recorded  101 cases, Dakshina Kannada (76), and Kodagu (52). The new numbers, coupled with 711 discharges, left Karnataka’s active caseload at 12,301 cases. However, the state’s declining level of testing remains a matter of concern. Last week, from September 27 to October 3, as many as 8.45 lakh tests were conducted, which is a 14.1 per cent drop over the 9.84 lakh tests conducted four weeks ago. The state also reported eight new fatalities. Four of the fatalities had happened on Saturday, while the remaining four had happened in mid- to late- September. The fatalities ranged in age from 43 to 74. Six of the deceased were women. Seven had symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. All but one fatality also had comorbidities such as diabetes or hypertension or a combination of both. Teen cases rising Between September 26 and October 2, the state recorded 184 Covid-19 cases among pre-teens and 829 cases among teens (aged 10-19).  While this represents a decline in the number of pre-teen cases (238 cases were recorded in the previous week, between September 19 and 25), the number of teen cases represent an increase - a lower number of 773 cases was recorded in the previous period. Vaccinations slowing On Sunday, the state administered the lowest number of doses in recent memory - only 26,300 doses as of 9 pm.  This harks back to March 14, when the state administered only 25,226 doses. However, at that time, vaccine hesitancy had been noted among healthcare workers, who were the target population.  In this past week, the state administered 21.92 lakh doses of the vaccine - which is 16.07 per cent less than the 26.12 lakh doses administered two weeks ago. The first dose coverage has touched 79.20 per cent, while the two-dose coverage reached 35.14 per cent. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-covid-weekly-numbers-fall-to-pre-second-wave-levels-1037011.html
04-10-2021||State||Karnataka 100% committed to Mekedatu, reiterates CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that the state government was committed to implement the Mekedatu balancing reservoir and drinking water project and that it will go ahead despite a stiff opposition by Tamil Nadu. “We all know the stand taken by Tamil Nadu on Mekedatu. Politicians in the neighbouring state are misleading the people on the issue. In fact, there’s nothing TN could do about it. We will go ahead with this project, we are 100 per cent committed to this project,” Bommai told reporters here. “There is no change in our stand (on Mekedatu), our efforts and the legal battle for the same. We will use all our might to safeguard the state’s interest on the said project,” Bommai reiterated. The Rs 9,000-crore project aims to draw 4.75 tmcft water to meet the drinking water needs of Bengaluru and surrounding areas. This apart, the project proposes to generate 400 MW power. Desilting TB Dam Replying to a query on desilting Tungabhadra reservoir, Bommai said, “A global tender was floated for desilting of Tungabhadra reservoir when I was the Irrigation minister. But we did not get a good response for the same. Later, it was decided to construct a parallel balancing reservoir and a survey for the same was carried out. Then chief minister B S Yediyurappa had released Rs 20 crore for preparing a DPR. Since it is an inter-state issue, I will talk to the chief ministers of the concerned states and an appropriate decision on the balancing reservoir will be taken soon,” Bommai assured. Land allotment  The land allotment to industrialists and firms would be cancelled if the said land was not used for setting up units, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday, reports DHNS from Ballari “Vast tracts of land were allotted for setting up mega units in iron ore and energy sectors some 10 to 12 years back in Ballari region. But many have not utilised the land for the purpose it was allotted. Land allotment of non-complying industrialists and firms will be cancelled, Bommai told reporters here. A good measure of land has been locked in the region. The state government is keen to remove land-lock and will allot land to those who make investments and create jobs on priority basis, the chief minister said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-100-committed-to-mekedatu-reiterates-cm-1037012.html
04-10-2021||State||BJP core panel shortlists probables for bypolls||The BJP core committee empowered state president Nalin Kumar Kateel to finalise the list of probable candidates for Hangal and Sindagi constituencies, which are bound for bypolls on October 30. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, BJP national general secretary C T Ravi said that three to four names will be shortlisted from each constituency and sent to the high command, which will pick the final candidate. According to sources, the list of probables for Hangal constituency include Revati Udasi, daughter-in-law of former MLA C M Udasi and wife of Haveri-Gadag MP Shivakumar Udasi, Kalyan Kumar Shettar, Krishna Eeligera and Rajashekargouda Kattegoudar. For Sindagi, BJP leaders are learnt to have picked Ramesh Bhusanur - who had contested from BJP ticket in 2018, Ashok Hallapura, Shambulinga Kakkalameli, Siddu Biradar and Sanganagouda Patil as probables. Ravi said the priority of the party was to secure wins in both the constituencies. “We will face the elections based on the developmental activities and welfare programmes carried out by the government,” he said. BJP, he said, was not concerned about the candidates fielded by Congress or JD(S). “Our cooking is not dependent on what masala the other parties prepare,” he said. On whether the candidature of BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra was discussed during the meeting, he said that issues deliberated by the media are generally not discussed in the core committee meetings. On allegations by Congress that JD(S) has fielded candidates from minority community due to a secret pact with the BJP, Ravi asked whether he could determine which party fielded which candidates. “Those parties will decide on their candidates,” he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-core-panel-shortlists-probables-for-bypolls-1037014.html
04-10-2021||State||Karnataka looks to bait urban tourist with rural hook||Agri-tourism seems to be catching the fancy of investors and the urban crowd, which is always seeking newer thrills to rejuvenate, by promising an escape from the ubiquitous hotel-centric activities. Experiencing the slow-pace of a rural setting, living on a village farm, orchard or plantation are some of the things a tourist can look forward to under the new initiative, which has generated a lot of buzz in the tourist circuit.  It is no surprise that the tourism department is looking to cash in. The department has proposed about 26 potential areas for investors and come out with fresh guidelines to regulate tourist activities on farms as interest surges. “The target crowd for this would be the urban population who want to experience rural life,” Sindhu B Rupesh, Director, Department of Tourism, said. The director said that tourists would get to experience activities such as milk production, sericulture, bee-keeping, hands-on farming, including picking fruits and vegetables, rides and games and many others. Officials revealed that these activities would be spread throughout the state, ranging from silk farms of Ramanagara to paddy farms in Mandya and Ballari, areca plantations of central Karnataka to coffee plantations of Malnad. The initiative could be owned by an individual farmer or a group of farmers or society. Alongside their farm activities, this will act as an income multiplier for farmers while providing exposure to the urban crowd about rural conditions, said officials. A senior official of the department told DH that this would be completely different from the current home-stay tour concept. "Travellers visit home-stays to go to nearby popular destinations. But here, it will be nothing but understanding the rural life and economy in the middle of nature along with the stakeholders while living with them," the officer clarified.   A minimum farm area of five acres is a must to offer the agri-tourism activities, with guided tours on farming practices, interaction with farmers and agricultural labourers. “There is a population which has never travelled in a long time and is willing to spend. We have a chance to show them what they have not seen in their entire lives,” Rupesh explained. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-looks-to-bait-urban-tourist-with-rural-hook-1037028.html
04-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Road accident: No need for personal complaint, says HC||Holding that there is no requirement in law for giving a complaint personally in road accident cases, the high court has directed an insurance company to pay Rs 54 lakh compensation to an accident victim, a former sergeant of IndianAir Force. The accident had left the victim paralyzed and he was discharged from service in December 2010. He is presently residing in Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh. He moved the high court after a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal at Belagavi rejected his claim for Rs 42 lakh compensation. The Tribunal had rejected the claim on the ground that the victim had not personally filed the complaint against the driver of the offendingvehicle. Allowing the appeal, a division bench comprising Justices P B Bajantri and M G S Kamal said it was unfortunate that the Tribunal did not take into consideration the Medico Legal Case - FIR on the complaint by the doctor on the day of the accident. “Obviously, the claimant could not be expected under the circumstance to personally follow up the First Information Report given by the duty doctor to the South Traffic Police, Camp, Belagavi. It was the duty on the part of the concerned police to have registered the case and taken up the investigation and failure on the part of the police cannot be faulted with the claimant,” the bench said. The bench, after going through the entire records, also pointed out that the victim had equally contributed to the accident. The bench said the victim was therefore entitled to 50% of the total compensation of Rs 1.08 crore. Check out DH's latest videos  The victim had suffered serious injuries to his spinal cord in the accident on the evening of February 3, 2007. He had rammed his motorcycle into a passenger tempo, which overtook him, moved to the left and stopped all of a sudden to pick up passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/road-accident-no-need-for-personal-complaint-says-hc-1037009.html
04-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Minister R Ashoka performs mass 'pinda pradhana' for Covid-19 victims in Srirangapatna||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashok performed mass 'Pinda pradhana' ritual for those who died of Covid-19 at Gosai ghat in Srirangapatna on Monday.  It may be mentioned that he had immersed the ashes of more than a thousand unclaimed people, who had succumbed to Covid-19 during the second wave.  With 'pitru paksha' being observed during the month of September, the Minister conducted the ritual.  Priest Bhanuprakash Sharma and team conducted the rituals at a programme organised by the district administration on the banks of River Cauvery at Gosai ghat.  Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi was also present.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minister-r-ashoka-performs-mass-pinda-pradhana-for-covid-19-victims-in-srirangapatna-1037158.html
04-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Dasara elephant Abhimanyu carries wooden howdah||Dasara elephant Abhimanyu successfully carried the wooden howdah on his back for the second time as part of the Jamboo Savari rehearsal at Mysuru Palace premises. The Jamboo Savari is scheduled for October 15. Kumki elephants Chaitra and Kaveri accompanied Abhimanyu. The howdah was mounted using a crane where Golden howdah will be mounted on Jamboo Savari day. The wooded howdah weighs 280 kg. Along with the howdah, sandbags were mounted on his back. The elephant successfully carried the weight, said an officer. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dasara-elephant-abhimanyu-carries-wooden-howdah-1037170.html
04-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Uttar Pradesh CM, MoS Home Affairs must resign: D K Shivakumar||Demanding the resignation of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Misra and UP DyCM Keshav Prasad Maurya over Lakhimpur violence, KPCC president DK Shivakumar lashed out at the BJP over the incident, here Monday. Addressing a news conference, he condemned the police 'high-handedness' meted to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi who was detained on her way towards Lakhimpur.  "Those who promised to turn India into a 'Rama Rajya' has turned it into 'Ravana Rajya' today," he said, lashing out at BJP governments at the Centre and in UP. This is not just the murder of four people. It is the murder of the entire agrarian community of the country. It is the murder of democracy, Shivakumar said. "We are witnessing the death of democracy in the country. This is autocracy. Such incidents are proof that the country is ruled by a government with Hitler mentality," he said. Which country are we in? Where is the law? Why was she (Priyanka) stopped from consoling the families of victims? What was her crime? UP CM should answer, he demanded. BJP government, he said, was worse than the British. "At least they respected non-violent struggle. Today, the situation is so bad that voters have to revolt against an elected government." Farmers, especially those from North India, have risen up against the government. "The arrest of Priyanka Gandhi is condemnable. The entire country and Congress party are behind her," he said. Deadline for Mekedatu Shivakumar set a months' deadline for the state government to start implementing the Mekdatu project. "If there is a double engine government in the state, why has the project not yet started?" he asked. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is acquainted with the law and has said that Tamil Nadu has no right to interfere with the project. However, the state government has not been able to start even the long-pending Mahadayi project due to a dispute with a small state such as Goa, he said. He accused the government of thwarting a padayatra of farmers demanding the implementation of Mekedatu. If the works are not started in a month, Karnataka Congress will launch agitations across the state, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/uttar-pradesh-cm-mos-home-affairs-must-resign-d-k-shivakumar-1037173.html
04-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lakhimpur Kheri: Nagendra seeks arrest of Ajay Kumar Mishra's son||Rajya Raita Sangha president Badagalpura Nagendra condemned the attack on farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh and also demanded the arrest of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra's son Ashish Mishra. In a press conference here, Nagendra said, Ashish Mishra ran over his SUV on protesting farmers and four of them lost their lives. Ashish should be arrested and Ajay Kumar Mishra must resign from his post, he demanded. Nagendra also demanded to form a committee headed by a Supreme Court Judge to conduct a probe. Despite the violence, Prime Minister Narendra Modi failed to give at least a statement. The farmers' agitations are a threat to the PM, he said, and also demanded the Centre to withdraw three agriculture laws implemented last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lakhimpur-kheri-nagendra-seeks-arrest-of-ajay-kumar-mishras-son-1037253.html
04-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Woman resists rape attempt, burnt alive||In a horrifying incident, a woman was burnt alive by a man who allegedly attempted to rape her at a village in Surpur taluk of the district on Sunday night.  The victim was rushed to the taluk hospital and later shifted to the district hospital in Kalaburagi but she succumbed to the burn injuries on Monday evening. Superintendent of Police C B Vedamurthy said the suspect had been identified as Gangappa Basappa Arolalli, a resident of Chowdeshwarihal village of the district. He barged into the house of the woman at around 2 in the early hours of Sunday when her husband went out for defecation, and attempted to rape her. When she resisted, he went out of the house in a huff only to bring petrol from his motorbike parked outside and set her ablaze by pouring it on her, the SP said. The victim was brought to Surpur taluk hospital Monday by 8 am. As her condition deteriorated due to the deep burns, she was shifted to the district hospital in Kalaburagi. District hospital Superintendent Ambaraya Rudrawadi said the woman had sustained 95 per cent burns and succumbed to injuries on Monday evening.  Surpur police have registered a case. A search has been launched to trace the absconding suspect. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/woman-resists-rape-attempt-burnt-alive-1037318.html
04-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Don’t cut power to govt engineering colleges, energy department urged||Facing a severe shortage of funds and unable to clear the pending electricity bill dues, the technical education department has decided to write to the energy department, requesting it not to disconnect power supply to any of the government-run engineering and polytechnic colleges.   At the meeting, the officials assured the colleges that they will write to the Energy department and also requested the principals to write to the escoms in theirjurisdictions.  Sources in the department told DH that the officials collected information about the dues towards utility bills such as electricity, water supply and telephone. “The officials asked us to write to the escoms concerned, requesting them not to disconnect power as these are also institutions run by the government,” said the principal of a college. Speaking to DH, a senior official from the department said they will write to the finance department seeking additional funds or re-appropriation of funds. “The budget allocated to us for these purposes is very less and we are writing to the finance department, requesting for additional funds,” the official said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/don-t-cut-power-to-govt-engineering-colleges-energy-department-urged-1037320.html
04-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||VTU to introduce open book exams in some engineering courses from current year||The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) will introduce ‘open book’ exams for select engineering courses from the current academic year. The system will be introduced for courses which have design-based subjects and mostly in streams like civil, mechanical, electrical and architecture. According to university authorities, an official communication will be issued once the board of studies submits its recommendations. Speaking to DH, Prof Karisiddappa, vice-chancellor, VTU, said, “We have directed the Board of Studies to recommend on the streams where open book exams can be introduced.” The open book examinations cannot be introduced in all streams. As explained by the VC, in certain streams of engineering, students are expected to design components and elements. “In streams like mechanical, civil and electrical, students have to design components, elements and structure-based designs. While designing, they will be given hand books and BS codes for reference,” said Karisiddappa. With the introduction of open book exams, teachers will be told to ask innovative questions for which students can refer to codes and hand books. According to subject experts, this will help students in understanding the subject and concepts better. Better understanding “This will definitely help students in understanding the subjects better and put an end to rote learning,” said a senior professor from an engineering college in Bengaluru. Speaking about extending the open book exam facility to other streams in engineering, the VC said, “Open book exams cannot be conducted for all streams. We will issue a detailed circular about it soon.” This will be applicable from the current academic year and students aspiring to get admissions for engineering courses this academic year will benefit from this. Currently, the Indian Institutes of Technology and National Institutes of Technology follow the open book exam system. This is the first time in Karnataka that a state-run university is introducing it.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vtu-to-introduce-open-book-exams-in-some-engineering-courses-from-current-year-1037322.html
04-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP promised ‘Rama Rajya’, gave ‘Ravana Rajya’: DK Shivakumar on Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Demanding the resignation of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Misra and UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya over Lakhimpur violence, KPCC president D K Shivakumar lashed out at the BJP over the incident, here on Monday. Addressing a news conference, he condemned the police ‘high handedness’ meted to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi who was detained on her way towards Lakhimpur.  “Those who promised to turn India into a ‘Rama Rajya’ has turned it into ‘Ravana Rajya’ today,” he said, lashing out at BJP governments in the Centre and Uttar Pradesh. This is not just the murder of four people. It is the murder of the entire agrarian community of the country. It is the murder of democracy, Shivakumar said. “We are witnessing the death of democracy in the country. This is autocracy. Such incidents are proof that the country is ruled by a government with Hitler mentality,” he said. Which country are we in? Where is the law? Why was she (Priyanka) stopped from consoling the families of victims? What was her crime? The UP CM should answer, he demanded. The BJP government, he said, was worse than the British. “At least, they respected non-violent struggle. Today, the situation is so bad that voters have to revolt against an elected government.” Farmers, especially those from North India, have risen up against the government. “The arrest of Priyanka Gandhi is condemnable. The entire country and Congress party are behind her,” he said. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah, in a series of tweets, also condemned the incident. “BJP and its state units have turned the entire country into Goonda Raj. There is no space to question the wrongs done by them. What did those innocent farmers do that they had to be run over? Is questioning the autocracy of Narendra Modi wrong?” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-promised-rama-rajya-gave-ravana-rajya-dk-shivakumar-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-1037323.html
04-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Railway cops hand over Khanapur youth murder case to district police||The railway police have handed over the investigation into the murder of a 24-year-old youth from Khanapur, whose body was found near the railway tracks on the outskirts of the town on September 28 last, to the district police. Arbaz Mulla, 24, a resident of Khanapur, had a love affair with a girl from another faith and the latter’s family was opposed to their relationship. Arbaz and his mother Nazima Sheikh, who works as a teacher in a Urdu school, had been allegedly threatened by the family members of the girl and activists of a Hindu organisation.  Both the families had held a meeting in the presence of Hindu activists and Arbaz had deleted all pictures and chats he had with the girl and had also destroyed the sim card in his cell phone. His mother had also met their monetary demand. Arbaz, who was in car resale business, was later found dead. His hands and legs had been tied and head severed. Prima facie it appeared that he was murdered at some other place and his body was dumped near the railway tracks. The railway police had detained eight persons for inquiry. As the murder took place elsewhere, it was handed over to the district police for investigation. It is suspected that activists of a Hindu organisation murdered Arbaz due to his love affair with the girl and her family members were part of it.  Arbaz’s mother has accused activists of Sriram Sene, one of them identified as ‘Maharaj,’ as responsible for the murder of her son as the accused had threatened them earlier. It is not known whether the activists named by her were associated with the Sriram Sene or its breakaway faction Sriram Sena Hindustan. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi confirmed to DH that the investigation has been handed over to the district police. A special investigation team led by the deputy superintendent of police of Bailhongal sub-division has been formed. About 40 persons have been inquired, but none of them has been arrested or detained, he said. The Khanapur police have registered a case. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/railway-cops-hand-over-khanapur-youth-murder-case-to-district-police-1037324.html
04-10-2021||West||After 18 months, schools reopen across Maharashtra for physical classes||After being closed for about a year and a half, bells rang in the schools of Maharashtra on Monday. Students were welcomed with flowers, school bands, balloons and cultural events -- in what was an emotional moment for teachers as well.  “We have reopened the schools. Let’s carry it forward with confidence that we will not allow it to shut again,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said.  He asked the schools to keep the doors and windows of classrooms open, "be closer to clean air and nature", and cited the example of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore’s Shantiniketan. “We have to maintain cleanliness, ensure social distancing and compulsory wearing of masks,” he said.  Several from the council of ministers of the Maha Vikas Agahdi government visited the schools and interacted with students.  “On the first day of reopening of schools, we reiterate our commitment to continuous education and well-being of all students,” state’s School Education Minister Prof Varsha Gaikwad said.  The schools are following a series of protocols and SOPs in wake of the coronavirus pandemic and the threat of the third wave. The School Education Department also launched the “Majhe Vidyarthi, Majhi Jawabdari”. “The mission defines the roles and responsibilities of schools, principals, teachers, school management committee and parents in ensuring that our education systems adapt to a post-pandemic situation and facilitate the continuous learning and evaluation of every child,” Prof Gaikwad said.  While in urban areas, classes 8-12 reopened for offline classes, in rural areas, classes 5-12 started again.  For a smooth transition of teaching-learning activities to offline classes, effective coordination between Education and Health departments, and local administration will have to be maintained, Prof Gaikwad said adding that she has instructed education officers to personally visit schools and monitor reopenings.  The Maharashtra State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) said it will be helping out schools to gradually reopening schools. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-18-months-schools-reopen-across-maharashtra-for-physical-classes-1037104.html
04-10-2021||West||After busting drugs party, NCB searches cruise ship on its return to Mumbai, detains 8||The Narcotics Control Bureau detained eight people after searching a cruise ship on its return to Mumbai on Monday, two days after a drugs party onboard the vessel was busted off the city coast, an NCB official said. The NCB also found some documents and some material, suspected to be drugs, after an over six-hour-long search onboard the ship, the official said, without divulging any further details. The anti-drugs agency had on Saturday evening busted a drugs party on board the ship, of the Cordelia Cruises company, and arrested Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and seven others, including two women. On Monday, the NCB got information that the ship returned to the city after two days. Hence, NCB officials including its zonal director Sameer Wankhede reached the cruise terminal and conducted searches onboard the vessel, the official said. The sleuths subsequently detained eight people and the latter were seen with travelling bags in their hands while they were being brought from the ship to the NCB's office. After conducting searches on Monday, the NCB is likely to record the statement of the cruise ship manager and owner, the official said. On Saturday evening, an NCB team, led by Wankhede, had raided the ship based on a tip-off that a party was scheduled on board. The sleuths seized 13 gm of cocaine, 5 gm of MD, 21 gm of charas and 22 pills of Ecstasy and Rs 1.33 lakh, an official earlier said. During the raid, over 20 officials of the Mumbai NCB had boarded the ship posing as customers. There were 1,800 people on the ship, but after checking all were asked to go except the eight, including Aryan Khan, the official said. Besides Aryan Khan, the arrested accused were identified as Munmun Dhamecha, Arbaaz Merchant, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Gomit Chopra, Nupur Sarika, and Vikrant Chhokar, the official said. A special holiday court had earlier remanded Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant in the NCB's custody till Monday. The anti-drugs agency had kept a close watch on the cruise ship event for 15-20 days after receiving information that a drug party would be organised. After confirmation, the NCB conducted the raid on Saturday, officials earlier said. They had said the NCB may question officials of Delhi-based event management company Namas'cray, registered as Caneplus Trading Private Limited, and officials of the cruise company, Cordelia Cruises. The (Delhi-based) firm was tasked with the management of the event onboard Cordelia Cruises' Empress ship, which was supposed to take place from October 2 to October 4. All known organisers of the event are now under the scanner of the NCB, an official of the anti-drug agency earlier said. The cruise company in a statement on Sunday said it had nothing to do with the incident.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-busting-drugs-party-ncb-searches-cruise-ship-on-its-return-to-mumbai-detains-8-1037184.html
04-10-2021||West||Mumbai Airport Terminal 1 to resume operations from October 20||With the nationwide vaccination drive and increase in passenger confidence, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) is re-opening its Terminal 1 (T1) for domestic flight operations starting October 20.  The terminal will cater to around 156 flights daily, while around 396 flights will ply from Terminal 2.  After a brief resumption in March 2021, operations at T1 were suspended temporarily and were consolidated through Terminal 2.  The resumption of services via T1 will help maintain social distancing measures, uphold passenger safety, and ensure a seamless transit. From midnight, October 20, GoFirst, Star Air, Air Asia and TruJet will resume all their domestic operations from Terminal 1.  While IndiGo’s select flights will resume from October 31 with most of its flights operating from T2 and base flights will operate out of Terminal 1.  “All passengers travelling through Terminal 1, will be able to enjoy the luxuries of the lounges and the world-class retail and F& B experiences, adhering to a high level of safety and hygiene standards,” a CSMIA spokesperson said. Further, all modes of transport to and fro will be made available for the convenience of the passengers, as before.  CSMIA’s T1 will host 12 registration desks and 12 testing booths across arrivals and departures where passengers can opt to undergo the RT-PCR test at the airport. The airport will ensure that measures such as stringent screening of passengers and personnel, regular sanitization and disinfection, mandatory compliance of wearing face masks and other necessary PPE will be implemented at T1.  The terminal will also promote social distancing through measures such as the re-arrangement of seating, installation of plexiglass to minimise face-to-face interactions amongst others at the terminal.  “The revival of operations at T1 enhances the ability of the airport to offer passengers a seamless transit while simultaneously enhancing its ability to ensure safety for its passengers and personnel,” the spokesperson added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-airport-terminal-1-to-resume-operations-from-october-20-1037238.html
04-10-2021||West||Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan's NCB custody extended till Oct 7||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan will remain in the custody of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for another three days till October 7.  The Esplanade Magistrate’s Court on Monday extended the remand of Aryan Khan, Arbaz Seth Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha by three days. The trio was arrested on Sunday from Cordelia, a cruise liner at the Mumbai International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate in Ballard Pier, after it was forced to turn back from its voyage to Goa by NCB following a raid.  Aryan Khan was presented by veteran criminal lawyer Satish Maneshinde while Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh represented the NCB. More details are awaited. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shah-rukh-khans-son-aryan-khans-ncb-custody-extended-till-oct-7-1037242.html
04-10-2021||West||No garba, dandiya this Navratri in Maharashtra||No garba, dandiya, cultural events and processions will be allowed during the upcoming Navratri festival in view of the coronavirus pandemic in Maharashtra, particularly in the Mumbai metropolitan region. The Maharashtra government on Monday come out with dos and don’ts for the Navratri festival from October 7-15.  Last week, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has issued similar guidelines for the financial capital of Mumbai.  The government has asked the festival organisers to hold blood donation camps and health awareness programmes vis-a-vis Covid-19 vector-borne diseases like malaria and dengue.  In the guidelines/SOPs, the government capped the height of Durga idols to four feet for public celebrations and two feet for the ones that would be installed in homes during the nine-day festival.  All attempts should be made to avoid crowds during aarti and other rituals -- and a gathering of more than five people is not allowed during the processions of the Goddess. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-garba-dandiya-this-navratri-in-maharashtra-1037259.html
04-10-2021||West||Crackdown on unregistered hotels, villas as Goa opens up for tourists: Minister||Just as tourists have started to trickle into Goa over the last few weeks, Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Monday warned inbound tourists against reserving their stay in unregistered hotels, bed and breakfast facilities and villas. Ajgaonkar also said that his Ministry would soon be issuing notices to such unregistered facilities soon to bring them under the ambit of regulation. "We will be taking strict action going ahead. Only a hotel registered with the Tourism Department will be allowed to accept bookings," Ajgaonkar said. "And tourists should only book hotels or other facilities approved by the department," he also said. The Tourism Ministry has previously maintained that a proliferation of houses and apartments put out on rent through room aggregator apps, as well as unregistered villas and hotels were responsible for leakages in revenue as far as the tourism sector is concerned. Ajgaonkar said that while the official count of tourists visiting the state in 2019 was nearly 8 million, nearly four million more tourists were put up at such unregistered hotels and therefore unaccounted for. He also said that his Ministry had initiated a move to issue notices to such unregistered hotels. "We have issued notices. Action is on," he said. The Tourism Minister also said the Goa government was in the process of putting together a marketing blitz in order to attract visitors to Goa, in wake of the fact that Goa was likely to complete 100 per cent coverage of both Covid vaccine doses by the end of this month. "We are preparing a media plan and advertising (campaign) we will announce that now. We want good tourists to come to Goa," he said, adding that music festivals would also be allowed in the state during the festive season of Christmas and New Year, with complete observance of the Covid SOPs. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/crackdown-on-unregistered-hotels-villas-as-goa-opens-up-for-tourists-minister-1037292.html
04-10-2021||West||Leopard rescued in nail-biting operation in Maharashtra's Pune district||In a nail-biting rescue operation that lasted 2 hours, a nearly 4-year-old male leopard was rescued by Wildlife SOS and the Maharashtra Forest Department from a 35-feet-deep well in Narayanwadi in Junnar division of Pune district. The leopard was under observation for a few days and was later released back into the wild, officials said on Monday. The leopard was first spotted late at night on Thursday by local residents who heard rumbling noises coming from the well. Upon inspection, they were shocked to find a leopard struggling to get out of the 35-feet deep well. Concerned for the well-being of the animal, the residents immediately contacted the Forest Department. Wildlife SOS, operating out of Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Center, was also called in for reinforcements. In order to ensure the leopard did not drown while help arrived, a team of village rescuers trained by Wildlife SOS and the Forest department collectively lowered a metallic plank into the well. Relieved to find a dry surface, the distressed leopard instinctively climbed onto the plank. Upon arrival, the 4 member rescue team from Wildlife SOS along with the Forest department meticulously lowered a trap cage down the well to extricate the leopard. The leopard leaped onto the cage, which was then subsequently pulled up by the rescuers and transported to the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Center for medical observation.  After a few days under observation, the leopard was safely released back into the wild. Kartick Satyanarayan, Co-founder & CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “The open wells of Maharashtra have been a constant threat to leopards of the area. Unsuspecting animals fall into these wells and gravely injure themselves or sometimes even die due to drowning, starvation, or injuries. These rescue operations need to be carried out swiftly and with caution by trained professionals. We are grateful to the village rescue team that acted promptly and alerted concerned authorities.” Dr. Nikhil Bangar, wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, said: “The leopard is an approximately 4-year- old male. We kept the leopard under close observation while he recuperated from this stressful ordeal. Fortunately, he had not sustained any severe injuries and was safely released back into the wild.” Ajit Shinde, Range Forest Officer, said: “ The expansive sugarcane fields make Narayanwadi a leopard-prone area. Leopards often come here to hunt and unintentionally fall into these open wells.” Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/leopard-rescued-in-nail-biting-operation-in-maharashtras-pune-district-1037300.html
