06-10-2021||Comment||Golden goose to Donald Duck||Sixteen months after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) would be corporatised, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has dissolved the OFB, effective October 1, transferring its assets, employees and management to seven defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) as part of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. But how is ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ connected to corporatisation? Was OFB in violation of Atmanirbhar Bharat? The seven new DPSUs are Munitions India Limited, Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited, Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited, Troop Comforts Limited, Yantra India Limited, India Optel Limited, and Gliders India Limited. All OFB employees stand transferred en masse to the new DPSUs on terms of ‘foreign service’, without any deputation allowance (deemed deputation), initially for a period of two years. DPSUs are to seek permanent absorption option from the employees. A committee from the Department of Defence Production (DDP) is to guide the DPSUs on how to make the absorption package “attractive.” Wow! The government approved the restructuring of the OFB and its 41 ordnance factories (OF) into seven DPSUs segmented into: Ammunition & Explosives; Vehicles; Weapons & Equipment; Troop Comfort Items (TCI); Ancillary; Opto-Electronics, and; Parachute Group. Also, the DDP had communicated that for the ‘interim’, the first set of Board of Directors of the corporate entities was to be appointed from among senior serving officials of OFB/DDP, the Armed Forces, the CGDA and nine existing DPSUs; for CMD appointment, Senior Administrative Grade (SAG) and above level officers of Indian Ordnance Factory Services (IOFS), OFB, with minimum five years’ service in the SAG; for Functional Directors’ appointment, SAG officers of the same with minimum two years’ service in the grade, and aged not more than 57 years as on October 1, 2021. Previous attempts to corporatise OFB were stonewalled due to strikes by workers’ unions: Indian National Defence Workers’ Federation (INDWF) affiliated to Congress, All India Defence Employees’ Federation (AIDEF) affiliated to the Left, and Bhartiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS), affiliated to RSS/BJP — all under the umbrella of Confederation of Defence Registered Associations. However, the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, passed by Parliament in August, bars employees in defence production units from going on strike. This is a good development, though it is effective for one year as of now. But strikes by worker unions is only one part. The bane of OFB has been inefficiency, lack of accountability, poor work culture, substandard products costlier than that available off-the-shelf, wasteful expenditure and corrupt practices, which has also been pointed out by the CAG periodically. How will this change with OFB employees and the 76,000 OF workers transferring en masse to the new DPSUs? How will corruption go away with the same overall control of the ‘deep state resident’ in governments at the Centre? Were the strikes even in the face of Chinese aggression on the behest of foreign intelligence? Was anyone probed? A few examples of the OFB’s functioning are as under: Army found OFs supplying combat uniforms three times more expensive than those of the same material available in the open market. In 2020, Army reported that faulty OFB ammunition resulted in 403 accidents over the past six years, the deaths of 27 soldiers, and a loss of Rs 960 crore. An internal assessment sent by the Army to MoD last year said that 100 medium artillery guns could have been bought in place of the dud OFB ammunition lying around. Army discovered this year that the complete lot of one crore indigenous Tavor ammunition supplied by OFB was defective. CBI found that the six ‘Dhanush’ guns handed over to the Army in 2019 amidst a media blitz of ‘Make in India’ had been fitted with Chinese bearings, not German as agreed to. These bearings did not pass the quality test of Gun Carriage Factory (GCF) but they were still fitted in the guns handed over to the Army. No product of the OFB has ever met the time schedule, by default or design. The costs escalate. To whose benefit exactly? The overall control and management in the new DPSUs will continue with the same DDP-OFB-IOFS officials. The Armed Forces, despite being primary users, find a place only in the Board of Directors whereas they should have representation at every level. Relocation implies the cost of uprooting, creation of additional infrastructure and acquisition of land, which will be expensive, being in urban areas. Production may be disrupted due to reorganisation and relocation. Instead of including members from existing DPSUs in the Board of Directors, members should have been taken from the private sector, which appears deliberately ignored. If savings and ‘Atmanirbar Bharat’ were really the intent, DRDO entities should have been automatically merged into the new DPSUs, for example by combining: Armament Research & Development Establishment (ARDE) with Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited. Aerial Development and Research Organisation (ADRDE) and Centre for Air Borne System (CABS) with Gliders India Limited. Vehicle Research Development Establishment (VRDE) and Combat Vehicles Research & Development Establishment (CVRDE) with Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited. Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory (DMRL) with Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited. Defence production in America has flourished with state-of-the-art technologies because defence production is wholly privatised. Government-controlled defence production is a success only in Communist countries like China where a rigid work schedule is enforced and production is closely monitored even in private industries. India’s chaotic democracy is witness to the worst work culture, slippages, wasteful expenditure and corruption in the government-controlled defence industry, organisations and structures. The OFB required ‘privatisation’ decades back, but no government has the will to take on the workers’ unions and the bureaucracy.   Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) needed to be privatised years ago but that, too, will not happen. OFB was considered the goose that laid golden eggs for the powers that be. So why privatise it when it can still hatch those golden eggs when ‘corporatised’ and turned into Donald Duck?   Keeping government control over defence research and production has terrific advantages. For example, 118 Arjun MK1 50-ton tanks can be forced on the Army that already had two regiments of 124 Arjun MK1 tanks and has been desperately looking for light tanks since the Chinese aggression in Eastern Ladakh in May-June 2020. But then, pumping more money into OFB-DPSUs means more golden eggs!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/golden-goose-to-donald-duck-1038041.html
06-10-2021||First Edit||Highhandedness visible in UP incident||The farmers’ agitation, which has gone on for 11 months, has seen major violence for the first time in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, after the dubiously stage-managed disorder on the Republic Day and occasional clashes with the police, one of which saw the Haryana police unleashing a brutal lathi-charge on them. The farmers had steadfastly remained peaceful, as anything that could be construed as violence would have undermined their cause and given the government a reason for repression. But the agitation has been taken to a different level with the killing of at least eight people, four of them after Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son allegedly drove a car into a crowd of farmers, killing four of them. Others died when the farmers retaliated. The farmers had gathered to display their displeasure against UP Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, who was visiting the village of Ajay Mishra. Mishra had also issued threats to the farmers.   While the farmers and the BJP have blamed each other for the killings, a judicial enquiry has been ordered by the UP government to probe the incident. Mishra has claimed that his son was not at the spot, though a case has been filed against him. But the people who have been arrested are detained are leaders of opposition political parties, including the Congress’ Priyanka Gandhi, for trying to visit the spot. The UP government has dealt with the situation the way it knows best, by imposing prohibitory laws and preventing politicians and journalists from going there. Both politicians and journalists have the right to go there for their own reasons, and that is how a democratic society works. The agitators have also been called anti-nationals and Khalistanis, and the agitation has been dubbed as a subversive movement. It is clear that the attack on the farmers and their response cannot be equated. But the reaction has now become the main offence and what led to it is to be found out with an enquiry!  The government’s attempts to tire out the farmers, move the responsibility for a solution to the Supreme Court, and sabotage the agitation in various ways have not helped. Its talks with the farmers did not lead anywhere because of the hard positions of both sides. There is a trust deficit between the two sides, mainly created by the government’s conduct and actions, starting with the way the farm bills were passed by Parliament. A wound like this should not be allowed to fester in the body politic. It is the government’s responsibility to find a solution, and that cannot be by ignoring, defaming or vilifying the agitation. The farmers have genuine concerns and they need to be addressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/highhandedness-visible-in-up-incident-1038044.html
06-10-2021||In Perspective||Why quota for women judges in judiciary won't help||The almost “Women of the world unite. You have nothing to lose but your chains!” call by the Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has left an impression on everyone’s mind. Diversity in public institutions arguably sensitises them to the needs of diverse communities, and enhances social dialogue. Even so, any serious discussion of judicial quotas has been absent. The 1995 UN World Conference on Women drew a clear link between gender equity and democracy. It called for increasing women’s participation in both elective and non-elective offices. However, efforts in this regard were only made for legislative and party quotas for women. Before we mobilise in support of a judicial quota we need to ask whether gender quotas for judicial seats would actually help increase women’s representation.  The first adoption of such a judicial quota for women was made in Ecuador in 2005, but it did not lead to the desired outcome. Of a 31-member court that year, only two were women. As Professor Mona Lena Krook argues, there are broadly six factors that can explain why quotas fail. Of these, the most relevant to the Indian context would be the interaction of the quota with the existing political environment. In this context, it is important to note that the women’s reservation bill, seeking to create a legislative quota for women, has not been passed for 25 years due to a lack of political consensus. Given that, the future of the success of a judicial quota for women is muddy at its best. In India, several states have implemented quotas for women at the lower judiciary level. However, there has been no pattern of improvement in the appointments of women in the judiciary in the light of such reservation policies. States such as Kerala often record a high rate of entry of women at the lower judiciary levels, but this should not be viewed as a result of quotas. Such high rates can largely be attributed to the higher socio-economic development of women in these states. This directs us to a more important thought — if not reservation, then what can we do to diversify the judiciary? Focusing on better tertiary education for women and sensitising young women to career options in the judicial services is the most obvious first step. Then, there are deeper systemic changes needed. Article 217(2) of our Constitution in effect requires High Court judges to be appointed either from the bar or from the judicial services. In his research, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy’s Alok Prasanna Kumar has pointed out that the appointment system is severely tilted in favour of selecting judges from the bar rather than the services. Undoubtedly, the pool of applicants from the services are more diverse than those practising at the bar. Thus, the bias against judges from the services negatively impacts diversity and as a result of this, High Court judges are usually males. To solve this issue, we need a more transparent manner of appointing judges. The proposed National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) would have proved to be instrumental in this regard. The introduction of clear and transparent criteria for appointing judges, a more even distribution of judges from both the bar and the services, and enhancing accountability are some alternative approaches to creating a judicial quota.  We must also try and incorporate a lesson from England in this context. It was only in 2003 that Britain got its first female judge in its highest court. To better understand the lack of diversity, the government there created an Advisory Panel on Judicial Diversity, which was to investigate the barriers to women in the judiciary and propose suitable remedies and recommendations. India, too, can look at creating such a body, and strike at the problem of low judicial representation of women at its root. While there has been an increase in the representation of women in India’s judicial system, the pace of such change has proved to be slower than what societal progress requires. Instead of calling for a reservation policy which is set up for failure, we must pay deeper attention to such underlying factors and roots to bring about systemic changes that are bound to succeed.  (The writer is a student at NALSAR, Hyderabad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/why-quota-for-women-judges-in-judiciary-wont-help-1038048.html
06-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru social media monitoring cell to be strengthened||The social media monitoring cell in City Police Commissionerate on the lines of Bengaluru is being strengthened and will be inaugurated soon, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said. The cell will have a six-member team monitoring social media content, supervised by an official of the ACP (assistant commissioner of police) rank. Besides ACP, the cell will also have a cyber station inspector and four personnel from the department with sound technical knowledge. If any provocative issues are noticed online, a legal opinion will be sought. If any violations are found, then cases will be booked against individuals or organisations. When his attention was drawn to the provocative speech made during a programme in Surathkal, the commissioner informed that none had filed any complaints. "We will seek legal opinion and if any violations are found, then action will be taken," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-social-media-monitoring-cell-to-be-strengthened-1037849.html
06-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cage, camera trap placed to catch leopard in Mangaluru||After a leopard was spotted at Maroli on the outskirts of Mangaluru, the forest department officials have placed a cage and a camera trap to capture the movement of the animal. DCF Dinesh Kumar told DH that the officials rushed to the spot after a video that showed a leopard crossing the road was received. The presence of a pug mark had confirmed that it was a leopard.  "We had received information on leopard being spotted at Pacchanadi a few days ago.  A team of officials is also patrolling the area and residents have been warned not to move around at night," he said. "There was no trace of the leopard on Monday night. The footage of CCTV cameras of houses in the nearby area is being checked. If we get the footage on the movement of leopard, then more cages and camera traps will be placed," he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cage-camera-trap-placed-to-catch-leopard-in-mangaluru-1037887.html
06-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Visit RSS shakha before criticising it': Kateel to HD Kumaraswamy||Reacting to JD(S) leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy's remark that Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) trained over 4,000 bureaucrats in India who conform to its ideology, State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel invited Kumaraswamy to visit RSS shakha and see its activities before criticising any organisation.  Speaking to media persons, here on Wednesday, he said, "Kumaraswamy must visit RSS shakha once and stay there for about a week to inspect the activities. RSS has been playing a key role in instilling patriotism among people for the past several years. RSS uses educational institutes in the country to achieve this target. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind are also volunteers of RSS." Taunting JD(S) leader, he said, there are volunteers of RSS in JD(S) and former minister PGR Sindhia is one among them and even Congress has many such volunteers. RSS aims to build a strong nation on the basis of patriotism and it does not run after political power. Referring to the candidates for bye-elections to Hanagal and Sindhagi assembly constituencies, he said the list of probable candidates has been sent to Central leadership and the candidates would be announced soon. He exuded confidence that BJP would win both the seats in the by-elections and the party workers are working on these lines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/visit-rss-shakha-before-criticising-it-kateel-to-hd-kumaraswamy-1037908.html
06-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Focus on North Karnataka issues in Belagavi Session, says Horatti||Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti on Wednesday stated that efforts would be made to focus on issues related to the North Karnataka region, in the Winter Session of the State Legislature proposed to be held at the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi in December second week. "The Session in Belagavi is being held after a gap of three years. I have already discussed with Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri about giving stress on North Karnataka issues in the session. Systematic debates will be planned," he said. A joint meeting of business advisory committees of both the Houses is proposed to be convened to discuss this, and there is a confidence that Opposition parties would also co-operate in properly discussing the issues related to the North Karnataka region, he said. Horatti also stated that he would sign the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill-2021 on Thursday (October 7). Suggesting the government to collect the views of parents, students, experts, and others regarding the new National Education Policy-2020 (NEP), Horatti stated that division-level seminars should be conducted for this purpose. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/focus-on-north-karnataka-issues-in-belagavi-session-says-horatti-1037992.html
06-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Seven killed in Belagavi house collapse as rain returns with renewed vigour||The southwest monsoon has returned with renewed vigour as most parts of the state received widespread rain on Wednesday. As many as nine people, including a family of seven from Badala Ankalagi in Belagavi taluk, died in rain-related incidents since Tuesday night. Seven members of the Khangavi family perished after a rain-weakened wall collapsed on them on Wednesday evening. While five of them died on the spot, two died en route to a hospital. According to the police, deceased are: Arjun Khangavi (48), his wife Satyavva Khanagavi (45), daughters Lakshmi (17) and Puja (8), their relatives Gangavva Khanagavi (50), Savita Khanagavi (28) and Kashavva Kolappanavar (8). The victims, all construction workers, were renovating an old house. They were living in a shed erected nearby. In another incident, two farm labourers were struck dead by lightning at Diggaon village in Chittapur taluk of Kalaburagi district on Tuesday night. Basavaraj Shahbadi (56) and Arjun Kolluru (52) are the victims. Sharp spells of rain throughout the day left Karwar roads waterlogged. Sirsi and Siddapur taluks also experienced heavy showers. Taluks in coastal plains of Uttara Kannada received moderate to heavy rain. Heavy rain lashed most parts of Mumbai-Karnataka region - Hubballi-Dharwad, Gadag and Vijayanagar districts. Intermittent spells of downpour poured misery on central Karnataka districts - Davangere and Chitradurga. Incessant rain filled lakes, check dams and tanks in the twin districts to the brim. The driver of a ragi-laden lorry had a narrow escape when the vehicle toppled on the bridge across the overflowing Sulekere stream in Channagiri taluk of Davangere district. Three houses suffered partial damage in the rain at Santebennur while acres of paddy were submerged in the villages under Malebennur hobli. Sharp showers brought misery to the residents of the low-lying areas in Chitradurga town. Wet weather has hit the farmers hard as the ready-to-harvest onion and groundnut have gone under water. Malnad districts - Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Hassan - have been experiencing heavy rain since Tuesday night. Mysuru and Kodagu districts saw spells of mild to moderate rain in the day while parts of Udupi and Mangaluru districts witnessed heavy showers. Yellow alert in 19 districts The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy showers, accompanied by thunder and lightning, in most parts of the coast, Malnad and plains till October 9. The weather department has sounded a yellow alert in as many as 19 districts. Jagalbet in Uttara Kannada and Karkala in Udupi districts recorded the highest rainfall in the state in the last 24 hours. Both the towns received 8 cm of rain each followed by Arkalgud in Hassan district and Mangaluru city 6 cm each. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seven-killed-in-belagavi-house-collapse-as-rain-returns-with-renewed-vigour-1038029.html
06-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Lakhimpur violence: Mallikarjun Kharge demands immediate arrest of Ashish Mishra||Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge demanded the immediate arrest of Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra for the Lakhimpur incident that left eight people dead.  He also sought a probe into the illegal detention of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi. "Hindering the freedom of movement of those who wanted to express sympathy with the families of farmers who perished in Lakhimpur is not right. I condemn it," he said in a news conference.  Kharge lashed out at the MoS Ajay Mishra and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for instigating the attack on farmers and said that sections on sedition should be invoked against the two. "When the UP police have arrested Priyanka Gandhi for trying to visit Lakhimpur, why is MoS Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra - accused of running over the farmers in his SUV - still free? If representatives from some parties were allowed to meet the families of victims, why are Congress leaders not allowed?" he asked, accusing the Central government of plotting a 'systematic conspiracy' against the party. He demanded that Ajay Mishra be sacked for "misrepresentation of facts and abetment to the crime (at Lakhimpur)." Action should also be initiated against those who are trying to shield the culprits involved in the case, Kharge said. The Congress leader also targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for failing to console the families of victims of Lakhimpur. "Modi was in Lucknow yesterday. He should've visited Lakhimpur and consoled the farmers. But, he did not even try," he said.  Taking a dig at UP CM Yogi Adityanath, he said that the CM was among those with 'mukh mein Ram, bagal mein choori' policy. RSS Responding to a query on RSS, he said that the organisation was not pro-poor and was against social justice. "They stand for Manusmriti," he said. RSS, he said, was infiltrating everywhere 'even education'. Many (from RSS backgrounds) are directly appointed which affects those benefiting from the reservation, Kharge added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/lakhimpur-violence-mallikarjun-kharge-demands-immediate-arrest-of-ashish-mishra-1037875.html
06-10-2021||Mysuru||Stage set for Mysuru Dasara 2021||The stage is all set for the ‘Nada Habba’ Mysuru Dasara 2021. Former chief minister S M Krishna will inaugurate the festival atop the Chamundi Hill, between 8.15 am and 8.45, on Thursday. Krishna and other dignitaries, including Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, will perform ‘Pushparchane’ to the panchaloha idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari to mark the beginning of Navaratri. The idol, which is brought from the Palace Museum, will be placed on a silver chariot and puja will be performed, before the inauguration of Dasara. Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Kannada and Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar, Religious Endowments, Wakf and Haj Minister Shashikala Jolle and Tourism, Ecology and Environment Minister Anand Singh will be present. Besides, Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi, Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Shobha Karandlaje, A Narayanaswamy, and Bhagwanth Khuba will be part of the inaugural ceremony. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, cultural programme and Jamboo Savaari are confined to the Mysuru Palace. The district administration has restricted the entry of devotees atop Chamundi Hill until October 15. However, all rituals will be performed at the Chamundeshwari temple. In the evening, the chief minister will inaugurate Dasara cultural programme and present ‘Rajya Sangeeta Vidwan’ award at Mysuru Palace. Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti and Speaker of Legislative Assembly Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri will be chief guests for the programme. Minister Somashekar, who inspected the preparation works atop Chamundi Hill, said, the government has decided to allow 400 people for the inaugural ceremony, while it was limited for 100 earlier. All guidelines issued due to Covid will be followed and safety measures will be in place, he said. Despite the Dasara being simple, a large number of tourists are visiting the city. The Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation has decorated the city with lights on a stretch of 100 km. There will be a few cultural events for a couple of days at Kalamanidra in Mysuru and at Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud. Besides, the erstwhile royal family will hold private durbar and conduct rituals as per traditions. The rituals will be conducted by Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, under the guidance of his mother Pramoda Devi Wadiyar. His wife Trishika Devi will take part in the rituals. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/stage-set-for-mysuru-dasara-2021-1037881.html
06-10-2021||National||PM Modi meets noted stock market investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday met well-known stock market investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, noting that he is very bullish about the Indian economy.  "Delighted to meet the one and only Rakesh Jhunjhunwala... lively, insightful and very bullish on India," Modi tweeted.  The prime minister also had a "productive" meeting with Nunzio Quacquarelli, the CEO and Managing Director of QS Quacquarelli Symonds Ltd, and said they talked at length about aspects relating to the education sector. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-meets-noted-stock-market-investor-rakesh-jhunjhunwala-1037755.html
06-10-2021||National||Coal stocks at thermal power plants to increase in next 2-3 days: Official||Coal stocks at thermal power plants will start increasing in another two to three days, according to an official in the coal ministry. The remarks come at a time when the country's power plants are grappling with coal shortage. "The situation has started improving from yesterday. In the next two to three days, coal stocks will stop depleting at the power plants and will start going up," the official said on the condition of anonymity. A Coal India official also said the company is making efforts to ramp up its supply to power sector with 1.5 million tonne per day in another few days from present 1.4 million tonne. Coal India Ltd (CIL) accounts for over 80 per cent of domestic coal output. He further said power plants did not pick up coal from CIL from October last year till February this year. "Power plants used their coal stocks and did not replenish them. They even did not adhere to the CEA guidelines of stocking the coal for 22 days. With rise in power demand, the demand for fuel also went up," he said. When things went beyond their control they started putting blame on Coal India, he added. Coal India, the official said, is trying to match up the requirement of power plants but it is taking time, he said. On Monday, CIL Director Marketing S N Tiwary had said, "the company is responsive to the importance of improving coal stocks at thermal power stations. We are rallying our efforts to restore normalcy as early as possible by pushing additional quantities. The demand is far outstripping the supplies now." In fact, during the first half of this financial year, CIL's supply to the power sector at nearly 246 million tonne (MT) was highest ever for this period, and the demand from this sector was even higher as an outcome of a sudden spike in coal-based generation to unprecedented levels. There was an additional supply burden of around 10-12 MT on CIL to cater to domestic coal-based plants due to curtailment of power generation by plants which source their coal from overseas, where the prices have skyrocketed and holding firm. Generally, CIL builds up coal inventories at power utilities during the first quarter but Covid posed a hindrance to this, and extra stocking was not possible. Compounding the woes, extended monsoon at coalfield areas interrupted production and supplies. Primarily, what precipitated the situation was the unforeseen escalation in the power generation from the second week of August and the insatiable appetite for coal, CIL had said. "Reasons aside, the company is fully seized of the imperative need to meet the power sector's demand. With the monsoon on the wane, increased production and availability of more coal will help us stabilise stocks at power plants," the company had said. Ahead of the festive season, coal supply crisis seems to be deepening as 64 non-pithead power plants are left with less than four days of the dry fuel stocks, according to a report. The latest report on coal stocks for power plants from the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) also showed that 25 such power plants had coal stocks for less than seven days as on October 3. As many as 64 non-pithead thermal power plants had less than four days of stocks of the dry fuel. The CEA monitors coal stocks at 135 power plants that have a cumulative generation capacity of 165 GW on a daily basis. Overall, total coal stocks of 78,09,200 tonne were available at the 135 plants as on October 3 and that was sufficient for four days. The daily coal requirement of the 135 power plants with 165 GW of installed capacity is 18,24,100 tonne. Among the 135 plants, not even a single one had eight or more days of coal stocks. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-stocks-at-thermal-power-plants-to-increase-in-next-2-3-days-official-1037792.html
06-10-2021||National||India records 18,833 new Covid-19 cases, 278 deaths||India added 18,833 new coronavirus infections taking the country's tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,38,71,881, while the active cases declined to 2,46,687, the lowest in 203 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,49,538 with 278 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections remained below 30,000 for the 12th straight day. The active cases comprise 0.73 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.94 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,215 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-18833-new-covid-19-cases-278-deaths-1037825.html
06-10-2021||National||Coal crisis: India left with few options to avoid power crunch||By Saket Sundria, Rajesh Kumar Singh and Debjit Chakraborty India is grappling with an escalating crisis as stockpiles of coal, the fuel used to generate about 70% of the nation’s electricity, dwindle to the lowest in years just as power demand is set to surge. Coal-fired power stations have an average of four days’ worth of stock of the fuel, according to the latest data, and more than half the plants are already on alert for outages. Power Minister Raj Kumar Singh has warned that the nation could be handling a supply squeeze for as long as six months. Power shortages are already emerging, and the gap between available electricity supply and peak demand widened to more than 4 gigawatts on Monday, according to government data from power ministry.                               While shortages of coal in China, and that nation’s power crunch, have commanded most attention, it’s India that’s facing a potentially worsening scenario.  Industrial and domestic consumption usually hits peak levels as India enters a festival season from later in October and that could risk stalling a rebound in Asia’s third-biggest economy, which has been recovering from an unprecedented 7.3% contraction in the fiscal year ended in March.   Here are some potential next steps and constraints in India’s crisis:  Mining Rebound Coal India Ltd., the world’s top producer of the fuel, is seeking to increase daily coal supply to 1.9 million tons by mid-October from about 1.7 million tons currently, an increase that would go a long way to help ease the deficit. Deliveries to power plants are currently short by between 60,000 and 80,000 tons a day, according to Anil Kumar Jain, India’s coal secretary.  Coal production has been hit by severe flooding in India’s eastern and central states during the typical monsoon season, with mines and key logistics routes impacted. Any recovery will hinge on the weather -- rains need to stop to allow mines to ramp up operations and for coal trucks to resume deliveries. On Tuesday the government said it will allow companies that have been allotted coal and lignite mines for their own use to sell 50% of their annual output in a bid to ease shortages.  While coal stockpiles at power plants are perilously low, it remains unlikely the operations will completely run out of fuel. Government ministries and industry are working to closely monitor stocks, and could move again to divert supplies away from industrial users -- like aluminum and cement makers -- to prioritize power generation. That’d leave those industries faced with their own dilemma: curb output, or pay high prices for imported coal.  Supply Controls Rationing domestic power supplies, especially in rural and semi-urban areas, may emerge as one of India’s easiest solutions -- though it’d pose other challenges for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Indian power distributors do typically cut supplies to certain areas on a rotational basis when generation is lower than demand, and an extension of load-shedding would likely be considered if power plants take any further hits.  However, doing so would risk jeopardizing the country’s fragile economic recovery and Modi’s government is already facing criticism for failing to generate enough new jobs. Price Incentive Soaring power prices could potentially make it viable for some coastal plants to use high-cost imported coal, easing some of the burden on domestic miners. The country meets around three-quarters of power demand with locally-produced coal, and much of the rest is imported from countries including Indonesia, South Africa and Australia.  Spot prices of power sold through the Indian Energy Exchange Ltd. jumped more than 63% year-on-year in September to average Rs 4.4 ($0.06) a kilowatt hour and were as high as Rs 13.95 on Wednesday, according to official data. That means some plants likely could now look to snap up prompt cargoes of seaborne coal, even with prices of the commodity at a record.                                  New guidelines are being drafted to allow generation companies to sell surplus electricity on the exchanges, in part to spur idled plants back into action. Two giant plants in Gujarat state owned by Tata Power Co. and Adani Power Ltd. are among those that have been mothballed as a result of issues including high imported coal prices. Fuller Dams  The same monsoon rains that have flooded coal mines are likely to boost hydro-power generation. Large hydro-electric projects on dams are India’s major electricity source after coal and the sector performs at its peak around the rainy season which typically extends from June to October. Generation from the projects accounted for about 14% of India’s total during the six months through September 30, and that share could increase if the plants can operate at higher utilization rates. Recent data shows hydro-power generation is above target in a sign that companies are beginning to ramp up output. Turn to Gas  There could be a larger role for natural gas to play, even with global prices currently surging. India has almost 25 gigawatts of gas-based generation capacity, though nearly 80% of that capacity remains unused because of high prices of the fuel. At current prices, imported LNG cargoes bought on the surging spot market aren’t a solution for Indian power generators, according to Arun Kumar Singh, chairman of Bharat Petroleum Corp, India’s second biggest fuel retailer which also buys and sells LNG. However, in a desperate situation the gas-powered fleet could help prevent any widespread power outages. State-run generator NTPC Ltd., for example, has idled capacity that could can be fired up in around 30 minutes if needed and is connected to a gas grid. Pricey Diesel Any switch to oil products like fuel oil and diesel could be limited due to pollution curbs and prohibitively high prices. As it stands, the lack of large oil-fired plants directly connected to the grid means gas-to-fuel swaps are unlikely to take place on a grand scale. Some commercial establishments, including hospitals and malls, as well as small industries use diesel-based generators to ensure uninterrupted power supply in case of outages. But record high diesel prices in the country will prevent their widespread use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-crisis-india-left-with-few-options-to-avoid-power-crunch-1037829.html
06-10-2021||National||An ambitious ethanol plan spurs food security fears in India||India’s ambitious plan to cut the use of fossil fuels by promoting ethanol derived from rice, corn and sugar is drawing criticism from some experts who warn the move could undermine food security in the world’s second-most populous country. In June, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration accelerated the nation’s ethanol goal by five years, seeking to double production and to have gasoline 20 per cent blended with the spirit by 2025. To help meet the target, the government is offering financial assistance to biofuel producers and faster environmental clearances. The plan is also resulting in the diversion of food grains meant for the poor to companies at subsidized rates.  Even as many developed countries debate limiting policy support for grain-based biofuels amid reports of food-price increases and greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation, India is seeing multifold benefits. The government argues that the new target will help the world’s third-largest oil consumer save 300 billion rupees ($4 billion) annually by cutting crude imports, reduce carbon emissions and boost farmers’ incomes.  But critics say it’s a self-goal for a country that’s struggled for years to feed its poor. Though the Green Revolution helped boost farm yields and turn India into a net exporter of wheat and rice, it still ranks 94th on the Global Hunger Index 2020 comprising 107 nations. The Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that about 209 million Indians, or about 15 per cent of its population, were undernourished between 2018 and 2020. The coronavirus pandemic is also pushing more people into poverty, dealing a blow to decades of progress. “It will always be the poor who will be affected worse as a result of diverting precious food grains to alternative energy conversion,” said Shanthu Shantharam, who helped formulate the country’s biotechnology regulations in the 1990s and now teaches agricultural biotech at the University of Maryland Eastern Shore. “As it is, the food security situation in the country is precarious.” The report that maps out the new ethanol blending target primarily focuses on food-based feedstocks, with the government saying the program is a “strategic requirement” in light of grain surpluses and wide availability of technologies. Yet the blueprint is a departure from the 2018 National Policy on Biofuels, which prioritized grasses and algae; cellulosic material such as bagasse, farm and forestry residue; and, items like straw from rice, wheat and corn.  “India has a real opportunity here to become a global leader in sustainable biofuels policy if it chooses to refocus on ethanol made from wastes,” said Stephanie Searle, fuels program director at the International Council on Clean Transportation. “This would bring both strong climate and air quality benefits, since these wastes are currently often burned, contributing to smog.” The new ethanol policy should ensure that it doesn’t drive farmers toward water-intensive crops and create a water crisis in a country where its shortage is already acute, said Ramya Natarajan, an energy researcher at the Centre for Study of Science, Technology and Policy, a think tank in Bengaluru. Rice and sugar cane, along with wheat, consume about 80 per cent of India’s irrigation water.  “With our depleting groundwater resources, arable land constraints, erratic monsoons, and dropping crop yields due to climate change, food production must be prioritized over crops for fuel,” Natarajan said. A ton of corn can typically produce about 350 liters of ethanol, while a similar quantity of rice can yield about 450 liters of the spirit. For sugar cane, it’s about 70 liters. Even in the US, food-versus-fuel fights have flared intermittently. Some say the domestic fossil-fuel industry’s embrace of climate-friendly fuels has diverted corn and soy meal used to bulk up chickens and hogs, and made them more expensive. For instance, demand for soy oil has pushed futures up about 80 per cent in the past 12 months, while the fast-food industry has complained of paying more for everyday items such as mayonnaise.  These days, many developed countries are focusing more on electric vehicles to cut carbon emissions. The Biden administration’s infrastructure proposal has set aside $174 billion of investments in EVs, including subsidies, but relatively little for biofuels. India, which is also seeking to promote EVs, shouldn’t focus on both policies at the same time as they aren’t complementary, said Kushankur Dey, chairman of the Centre for Food and Agribusiness Management at the Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow.  The push for ethanol poses no threat to India’s food security because the government has enough stockpiles of grains at warehouses of the state-run Food Corp. of India, said Sudhanshu Pandey, the top bureaucrat at the food ministry in New Delhi. “The long-term planning of the government involves the creation of sufficient capacities so that half of the requirement of 20 per cent blending is catered by grains, predominantly maize and the rest by sugar cane,” Pandey said.  State reserves stood at 21.8 million tons of rice as of Sept. 1, against a requirement of 13.54 million tons, according to the food ministry. The blending plan would benefit corn and rice farmers, while addressing the issue of surplus, Pandey said.  Some critics are concerned that food grains meant for the impoverished are being sold to distilleries at prices cheaper than what states pay for their public distribution networks. Many ethanol producers are getting rice at 2,000 rupees per 100 kilograms (220 pounds), which compares with an estimated 4,300 rupees Food Corp. of India pays to stock up the grain.  “Competition between the distilleries and the public distribution system for subsidized food grains could have adverse consequences for the rural poor and expose them to enhanced risk of hunger,” said Prabhu Pingali, professor of applied economics and director of the Tata-Cornell Institute for Agriculture and Nutrition at Cornell University. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/an-ambitious-ethanol-plan-spurs-food-security-fears-in-india-1037830.html
06-10-2021||National||Brazil, Argentina face tests as World Cup qualifying resumes||Brazil and Argentina will be hoping to avoid any more interruptions when World Cup qualifying resumes on Thursday across South America. The game between the two rivals in Sao Paulo last month was suspended shortly after kickoff after a Brazilian health official entered the pitch to remove four Argentina players he considered should be in quarantine due to Covid-19 protocols. Both teams then earned victories in their second game of that international window to remain on course for a place in Qatar. And similar scenes should be avoided when Brazil, which tops the qualifying standings, visits last-place Venezuela and second-place Argentina travels to Asuncion to face Paraguay. This time, England-based players have been allowed to travel to South America despite Britain's strict Covid-19 restrictions. Premier League players will have to show they have been fully vaccinated to avoid a 10-day quarantine after they return to their clubs. Also on Thursday, third-place Uruguay will host Colombia. Ecuador, in fourth place, will play Bolivia and Peru hosts Chile. Brazil has 24 points and Argentina has 18 from eight matches. Uruguay (15), Ecuador (13) and Colombia (13) follow, but they've all played nine matches. The top four teams secure a spot at next year's World Cup in Qatar. The fifth-place team will enter a playoff against a team from a different confederation. Venezuela vs Brazil A win in Venezuela would put Brazil on the verge of qualifying for Qatar, but coach Tite might be without a key starter. Midfielder Casemiro is out with an injury, with Liverpool's Fabinho seen as his likely replacement. Fabinho is one of several England-based players, including goalkeeper Ederson, defender Thiago Silva and striker Gabriel Jesus, who couldn't play in the previous international window amid pressure from their Premier League clubs. Jesus, who hasn't played for Brazil since the Copa America quarterfinals, was widely criticised at home after the last World Cup in Russia, when he failed to score a single goal. Brazil lost to Belgium in the quarterfinals but Jesus said he's already thinking about redeeming himself in Qatar. "I don't think I will erase 2018, but I will write another story," Jesus said at a news conference on Tuesday. "Now we have a new group." Paraguay vs Argentina Paraguay's well-organised and defensive team has often given Lionel Messi's Argentina side a difficult time. Argentina managed to beat Paraguay 1-0 at the Copa America, but their previous four meetings resulted in three draws and a win for Paraguay. Expect another tough game for Argentina on Thursday, with Paraguay coach Eduardo Berizzo — an Argentine — having already said he will use a back five to stop Messi and his teammates. Argentina coach Lionel Scaloni is sticking with much of the squad that won the Copa America in July, the country's first major title in 28 years and Messi's first with the national team. "There is a foundation of 80 or 90 per cent that is repeated in this squad," Scaloni said. "That gives you some ease, despite the little time we have to work." Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brazil-argentina-face-tests-as-world-cup-qualifying-resumes-1037832.html
06-10-2021||National||Will implement changes in NEET-Super Speciality exams from next year: Centre to SC||A day after the top court told the government to fall in line, the Centre on Wednesday said that it would implement changes in the examination pattern of NEET Super Speciality from the next academic year. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, representing the Centre, submitted before a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud that keeping in view the larger interest of students, the government has decided that revised NEET SS exam syllabus will be introduced from 2022-23 and the new question pattern will be applicable from next year.  The examination for this year would be held as per the old pattern, she said. The decision was taken in consultation with the National Medical Commission and the National Board of Examination. The bench, which had earlier been very critical of the government's decision to introduce a new pattern, appreciated the stand taken by the Centre, saying that the government has been very fair. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing a petitioner, submitted that this should not in any way imply that the court has accepted the revised pattern exam for next year.  The bench said it would leave open the question of the validity of changes in the pattern of examinations. The court disposed of petitions filed by a group of Post Graduate doctors. On Tuesday, the court gave one day's time to the Centre to "think over and fall in line" to restore the old syllabus, saying, “If there is obduracy, arms of law are long enough to prevent that”.  The petitioners challenged the validity of the August 31, 2021 notification, changing the pattern of the exam, by which the entirety of questions for the critical care super speciality will be drawn from general medicines, leaving the candidates from other disciplines in a difficult situation.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-implement-changes-in-neet-super-speciality-exams-from-next-year-centre-to-sc-1037839.html
06-10-2021||National||PM Modi condoles death of actors Ghanashyam Nayak, Arvind Trivedi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the death of actors Ghanashyam Nayak and Arvind Trivedi.  While Nayak was known for his role in popular TV serial "Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah", Trivedi was best known for essaying the role of Ravan in the television show "Ramayan".  Modi tweeted, "In the last few days, we have lost two talented actors who won the hearts of people through their works. Shri Ghanashyam Nayak will be remembered for his multifaceted roles, most notably in the popular show 'Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah.' He was also extremely kind and humble".  "We have lost Shri Arvind Trivedi, who was not only an exceptional actor but also was passionate about public service. For generations of Indians, he will be remembered for his work in the Ramayan TV serial. Condolences to the families and admirers of both actors. Om Shanti." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-actors-ghanashyam-nayak-arvind-trivedi-1037844.html
06-10-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi wishes people on Mahalaya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday greeted people on the occasion of Mahalaya, which marks the beginning of Durga Puja festivities.  May everyone be happy as well as healthy in the times to come, Modi wished.  Shubho Mahalaya! We bow to Maa Durga and seek her blessings for the well-being of our planet and the welfare of our citizens. May everyone be happy as well as healthy in the times to come. "Shubho Mahalaya! We bow to Maa Durga and seek her blessings for the well-being of our planet and the welfare of our citizens. May everyone be happy as well as healthy in the times to come," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-wishes-people-on-mahalaya-1037848.html
06-10-2021||National||Western Naval Command wins sailing championship||The Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command, the sword arm of the Indian Navy, has won the overall sailing championship hosted by the three-dimensional blue-water force. The Indian Navy Sailing Championship 2021 was conducted at INWTC in Mumbai from October 1 to October 5. The Western Naval Command won the overall championship and Kochi-based Southern Naval Command was the runners-up. A total of 63 personnel from the three naval commands -- Western Naval Command, Eastern Naval Command and Southern Naval Command -- participated in the event. The championship was conducted in seven different classes of boats, namely, Laser (Standard), Laser (Radial), Laser Bahiya, Enterprise, Bic-Nova, 29er and J-24. A total of 49 races were conducted in a span of four days with seven races for each of the seven categories. The concept of Team Racing and Match Racing in Enterprise and J24 classes were reintroduced to facilitate wider participation and enhance team spirit. The chief guest, Rear Admiral Sanjeev Sharma, Chief Staff Officer (Personnel & Administration), Western Naval Command, presented medals to winners in each of the seven categories of sailing. He complimented the naval yachtsmen and women for setting high standards and displaying excellent sailing skills under challenging sea conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/western-naval-command-wins-sailing-championship-1037877.html
06-10-2021||National||Consumers alert! Fake ecommerce websites con shoppers amid festive season boom||As leading ecommerce platforms gear up for record revenues in the festive season, several fake and malicious ecommerce platforms have proliferated in the country, selling smartphone accessories to luxury watches.  One such portal is wellbuymall.com that has conned thousands of Indian users. The portal, now ceases to exist, has fooled them into buying technology products, only to disappear once orders were made and the money transferred. Sujeet Verma, one such cyber fraud victim, posted on scamadviser.com: "I have ordered and paid online but no response and they did not deliver the ordered item. They are FRAUD." Sunil Gupta, another user, said: "I ordered an SSD (solid state drive) and paid online. This website is fraud but unfortunately supported by Facebook and all advertisements are displayed on my Facebook account. After paying, no responses from website." Ayush, a Gurgaon-based user, recently ordered a mini-pocket charger for smartphones for Rs 1,668, only to realise that his shipment was never going to arrive. He has now registered a complaint against the e-commerce website at the Gurguram Police Cyber Crime Cell. The url of wellbuymall.com now takes users to a message in Chinese, which reads: Site Not Found. Your request did not find the corresponding site in the web server!" The modus operandi is simple: The advertiser creates a Facebook Page/Profile, and starts selling via their Page on the social media platform, taking users to their portal. Once they receive payments for their orders, they delay in dispatching the products and by the time Facebook completes its feedback process to understand whether the advertiser is legit or a scam, the fraudsters make quick money and shut their operations once Facebook declares they are cyber offenders and treats them as "unhealthy". According to cyber experts, the Facebook process to gather users' feedback and decide on the "health" of the advertiser's Page takes about a month -- which is a long enough window for cyber criminals to con users and flee. "Facebook has a slow customer feedback process to declare an advertiser 'not fit' and act on the advertiser as part of its terms and conditions. Fraudsters take advantage of this and con innocent Indians before they are declared 'unhealthy' and blocked on Facebook and Instagram Pages," independent cyber security researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia told IANS. These scamsters pay insignificant money to advertise their products via Facebook Pages, display fake and cheap Chinese products as genuine on their e-commerce portals and con users, he added. Several such fake e-commerce platforms are now operational as India goes through a record festive season, ready to generate sales worth about $9.2 billion, up 42 per cent (year-over-year) from the estimate of $6.5 billion in festive month sales during 2020. In just the first week (October 3 to 10), it is estimated that $6.4 billion of online sales, about 70 per cent of the festive month total online sales, will happen. "The only way to avoid falling prey to such fake e-commerce platforms is to trust the leading ones like Flipkart, Amazon etc., and shop online via them," Rajaharia said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consumers-alert-fake-ecommerce-websites-con-shoppers-amid-festive-season-boom-1037886.html
06-10-2021||National||Pradhan writes to Vaishnaw, demands LHB coaches for Tapaswani Express||Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has urged the Railways for conversion of the Puri-Hatia Tapaswini Express to Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) design coaches. This important train, which passes through the heart of Odisha and Jharkhand connecting Puri and other areas, has been running since 1996 and is much used by commuters, he said. “On my recent visit of Odisha, I had the pleasure of travelling from Bhubaneswar to Redhakhol on the Puri-Hatia-Puri Tapaswini Express and interacting with many of my co-passengers, who mentioned their long-pending demand for LHB rakes on the train,” Pradhan said in a letter to Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Tuesday. He said LHB rakes have enhanced safety features with modular interior and fittings, more seating capacity with less noise, and other attributes like high-capacity cooling, the improved suspension system for a hassle-free journey. “Keeping in mind the welfare and comfort of the train commuters, I seek your personal intervention for conversion of the Puri-Hatia-Puri Tapaswini Express to LHB rakes as early as possible,” Pradhan, the Union Minister for Education and Skill Development, added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pradhan-writes-to-vaishnaw-demands-lhb-coaches-for-tapaswani-express-1037889.html
06-10-2021||National||Covid-hit Kerala tourism sector on revival mode; tourist inflow improves||Kerala Tourism Minister P A Mohammed Riyas on Wednesday said the bio-bubble system and the complete-vaccinated-destination project have helped the state tourism sector, which had been crippled due to the pandemic outbreak, reclaim its tourist inflow. During the time of crisis the entire focus of the state government was to instil confidence in the sector so that it would be able to overcome the challenges, he told the state Assembly. Noting that tourism was the worst affected industry due to the spread of the pandemic, the minister said several programmes were implemented with the objective of ''safe Kerala and safe tourism' and to bring back holidayers. "As part of this, the complete-vaccinated-destination project was launched in Vythiri in Wayanad district. It has been expanded to other places and the majority of tourism destinations have achieved the target now," Riyas said while replying to a calling attention motion moved by Ambalapuzha legislator, H Salam (CPI-M). The increase of tourist arrival in the high range Wayanad could be seen as its reflection, he said adding that their inflow is steadily increasing in other destinations also. "The bio-bubble system has been implemented to make the tourism sector safe and secure. The latest figures indicate an increase in the domestic tourist arrival in the state and these all factors seemed to have helped for the same," the minister added. The implementation of innovative projects like 'caravan tourism'', recently launched by the department, and the farm tourism network, a proposed programme to tap the potential of agriculture tourism, are expected to revive the sector and facilitate its strong come back, he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-hit-kerala-tourism-sector-on-revival-mode-tourist-inflow-improves-1037892.html
06-10-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: All eyes on ZyCoV-D rollout, WHO's word on Covaxin EUL||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-all-eyes-on-zycov-d-rollout-whos-word-on-covaxin-eul-1037895.html
06-10-2021||National||SVAMITVA Yojna to be implemented at national level: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the initiative to provide property cards to the poor in rural parts of the country will be rolled out across the country. The SVAMITVA (Survey of Villages for Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Area) scheme has helped the poor get easy access to finance by way of loan against property, Modi said, interacting with the beneficiaries in Madhya Pradesh. Modi said after the successful implementation of the SVAMITVA initiative on a pilot basis in some states, it will be implemented and extended at the national level for ensuring the development of rural areas. “A lot of energy, time and money is wasted in land-related disputes and legal complications in villages...documentation of a property is a global problem and several countries are facing it,” he said. The SVAMITVA initiative will give great strength to villagers as it will bring land and property records of villages out from uncertainty and mistrust, he said. Modi said land documents will not only strengthen the villagers, but also ensure the availability of undisputed land for schools, hospitals, storage and food processing units in villages. The Prime Minister said SVAMITVA was initially launched on a pilot basis in the villages of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab and Karnataka. Till now, property cards for over 22 lakh families have been prepared in these states, while in Madhya Pradesh, they have been given to over 1.70 lakh families in more than 3,000 villages. The Prime Minister said over the past seven years, the government has been working to make the poor free from dependence on anyone. “Now, money is being sent directly to the bank accounts of farmers under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi for small farming needs,” he said. Modi said the government was now coming to the poor and empowering them through initiatives such as the Mudra scheme of making finances available to people through loans without collateral. The Prime Minister said self-help groups and street vendors too have been extended hassle-free loans under various initiatives. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/svamitva-yojna-to-be-implemented-at-national-level-pm-1037896.html
06-10-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi en route Lakhimpur after brief row at Lucknow airport||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi left for Lakhimpur Kheri from the Lucknow airport in his own vehicle after staging a brief 'dharna' on initially being asked to travel in a police vehicle, a party spokesperson said. "Rahul Gandhiji along with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjeet Singh Channi and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel have left for Lakhimpur Kheri from the Lucknow airport,” UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh told PTI. Gandhi had reached the Lucknow airport from Delhi along with Channi and Baghel. Television footage from the airport showed officials telling Gandhi to take the police vehicle, which Gandhi did not agree to and sat on a 'dharna' there. "We want to go in our own vehicles, but they want that we should go in their vehicle. I want to know that why are you not allowing me to go? First, I was told that I can go in my own vehicle, now you are saying that you will go in police vehicle. They are doing some mischief," Gandhi told reporters. To a question, he said, "You can put me or Priyanka in a jail. It does not have any meaning. The question is that six people were crushed by criminals. Those who should have been in a jail, are not being put in a jail. We are being stopped from meeting the aggrieved families of the farmers."  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-en-route-lakhimpur-after-brief-row-at-lucknow-airport-1037906.html
06-10-2021||National||Government allows 100% FDI in telecom via automatic route, slashes bank guarantee requirement by 80%||The government on Wednesday allowed 100 per cent foreign direct investment in the telecom sector through automatic route to promote ease of doing business in the industry. The telecom department has also reduced performance and financial bank guarantee requirements of telecom operators by 80 per cent. Earlier, 100 per cent of FDI was allowed, of which 49 per cent of investment was permitted through automatic route. According to the DPIIT's press note, 100 per cent FDI is permitted across all kinds of telecom services and infrastructure providers. In the Press Note 4 (2021 series), the government has amended the 100 per cent FDI cap in the sector to "Automatic Route". The move will provide relief for Vodafone Idea, as it has been looking to raise funds from overseas to support its business. The Department of Telecom (DoT) slashed performance and financial bank guarantee requirements of telecom operators by 80 per cent. The amendment has been made in both old telecom licences in the UASL (Unified Access Services licences) category and new licences that were started in 2012- Unified Licence (UL) category. The move will unblock cash reserves of Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio, Vodafone Idea, BSNL internet licence holders like Tata Communications, Atria Convergence Technologies etc that they have kept with banks for securing bank guarantees (BGs). Under the amended norms in UL, telecom operators will be required to provide a performance bank guarantee (PBG) of up to Rs 44 crore for each service for the telecom licence compared to Rs 220 crore mandated under the old rule. Similarly, telecom operators will need to provide a financial bank guarantee (FBG) of maximum Rs 8.8 crore per circle now, against the previous requirement of Rs 44 crore. The rule will not be applicable in cases where bank guarantees (BG) have been furnished due to any court order or are subject to any litigation, the licence amendment note said. In the case of UASL, there were three different amounts of FBGs that were charged - Rs 50 crore for each A category telecom circle, Rs 25 crore for B service area and Rs 5 crore for C category circles - that has been reduced to 20 per cent through the amendment, which has been issued with immediate effect. "The PBGs and FBGs of existing licensees shall be revised to 20 per cent of the current total amount held by the licensor...," the amendment note for UASL said. The new rules will not apply to telecom operators, who are currently going through the liquidation process. These developments are part of the telecom reforms announced by the government in mid-September. The DoT has also eased rules for clearing mobile tower installations in the country. Now, the clearance of mobile tower installation will be done through self-declaration and in an automated time-bound manner through the Saral Sanchar portal. "System will clear cases automatically and applicants can download the system generated SACFA clearance from Saral Sanchar Portal of DoT. Cases not meeting auto-settled criteria ...will be processed by members through their integrated systems and will be cleared /rejected within 30 days," an official memorandum said. The new rules have been issued along with the department amending norms to reduce performance and financial bank guarantee requirement of telecom operators by 80 per cent, according to the licence amendment note issued on Wednesday. Telecom industry body Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) said the FDI approval will help the industry to build a robust telecom sector for new India. "Through the amendment in License agreements, telecom service providers will be eased off the huge burdens of Bank Guarantees and will enable the availability of more funding for the expansion of the Telecom Network and build a Digitally Connected India. “Further, SACFA clearance based self-declaration will facilitate ease of doing business & will help in the faster rollout of services to the citizens," COAI director general SP Kochhar said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-allows-100-fdi-in-telecom-via-automatic-route-slashes-bank-guarantee-requirement-by-80-1037911.html
06-10-2021||National||Coronavirus impact worsens India's educational divide, UNESCO says||India's school closures and its children's lack of smartphone and internet facilities amidst the Covid-19 pandemic have worsened an educational divide, the UN cultural agency said, flagging risks to young people's futures. About 248 million students were hit by school closures since March last year, UNESCO said in a report, though many Indian states have started easing curbs as infections dwindled and vaccinations rose in the last two months. Nearly 70 per cent of students lacked smartphones or other devices to access classes online, while a majority grappled with poor Internet facilities, or none, especially in rural areas, it added. "There is an urgent need to plan to get students and their teachers back to school," the agency said in its report on education in India issued on Tuesday. Almost 40 per cent of parents could not afford internet costs, affecting learning, and so widening the educational gap between different parts of society, it said in the report, based on government data. Widespread economic distress and job losses as people fled home to villages in the countryside have pushed families into poverty, worsening distress for children from such woes as malnutrition and early marriages for girls, the agency said. Worst-hit were private schools that receive no government grants, but where many poor families aspiring for a better education send their children, as parents found themselves unable to pay fees after the reduced economic activity. India's economy contracted an annual 7.3 per cent in the fiscal year that ended in March 2021, in the worst recession since independence from colonial ruler Britain in 1947. Salary cuts or job losses faced teachers in the private schools employing nearly 30 per cent of India's total of 9.7 million, as many students were withdrawn or shifted to schools subsidised by the government. UNESCO called for India to recognise teachers as "frontline workers" in the battle on the pandemic, and improve working conditions for them to ensure better outcomes in education. "Quality of education is the core challenge of the next decade," it said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-impact-worsens-indias-educational-divide-unesco-says-1037912.html
06-10-2021||National||PM Modi to inaugurate 35 PSA oxygen plants on October 7||Coinciding with his two decades in a public office, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday will inaugurate 35 oxygen generation plants resulting in establishment of at least one such plant in every district in India. “The Prime Minister will dedicate to the nation 35 Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen plants established under PM-CARES, across 35 States and Union Territories. With this, all districts of the country will have commissioned PSA oxygen plants,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a note. The event will take place at AIIMS, Rishikesh. As of now, 1,224 such plants have been funded under the PM-CARES fund, out of which more than 1,100 plants have been commissioned, providing an output of over 1,750 MT oxygen. Though the event is a government function, it happens at a time when the ruling BJP is celebrating two decades of Modi in public life in a big way. Incidentally, the Centre has disclosed very little on the PM-CARES fund in court affidavits and RTI responses. Recently, it told the Delhi High Court that the fund could neither be brought under the ambit of Right to Information (RTI) Act as a “public authority” nor could it be listed as a “State”, even though the PMO controls the corpus. Last month, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 3,631 PSA plants were being set up to generate nearly 4,600 metric tonnes of oxygen per day. As of now around 40 per cent of such plants – 1,595 plants to be exact – have been commissioned to produce 2,100 MT of oxygen, out of which 1,491 were created with the central money. Since the ferocious peak of the Covid-19 in May when people died due to lack of oxygen, there has been a concerted effort on the part of the administrative agencies to establish more oxygen generation units to take care of any future crisis. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-35-psa-oxygen-plants-on-october-7-1037917.html
06-10-2021||National||Union Cabinet approves setting up of 7 mega integrated textile region and apparel parks with Rs 4,445 cr outlay||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the setting up of 7 Mega Integrated Textile Region and Apparel (PM MITRA) parks with a total outlay of Rs 4,445 crore in the next five years. The move will provide 7 lakh direct and 14 lakh indirect jobs. PM MITRA parks were announced in the Union Budget for 2021-22. Inspired by the '5F' formula -- Farm to fibre; fibre to factory; factory to fashion; fashion to foreign -- the integrated vision will help to further the growth of the textile sector in the economy. Maximum Development Capital Support (DCS) of Rs 500 crore to all greenfield projects and a maximum of Rs 200 crore to brownfield will be provided for development of common infrastructure at 30 per cent of the project cost and Rs 300 crore of competitiveness incentive support (CIS) will also be provided to each PM MITRA park for early establishment of textiles manufacturing units. The government support will include the provision of 1,000-acre land for the development of a world-class industrial estate. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-approves-setting-up-of-7-mega-integrated-textile-region-and-apparel-parks-with-rs-4445-cr-outlay-1037925.html
06-10-2021||National||Delhi BJP launches campaign to clean Yamuna with help from party leaders, workers||Delhi BJP leaders and workers will make a voluntary contribution every month to clean the Yamuna river and its ghats, party president Adesh Gupta said Wednesday. BJP leaders and workers are participating in the campaign at 71 places along the Yamuna under 'Seva Samarpan Abhiyan' marking Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday last month, Gupta said while launching the initiative at Chhath Ghat on Yamuna near ITO. "The pollution of Yamuna is a pain for every Delhi resident. It is our responsibility to keep it clean. BJP workers will now try to keep the river and its ghats clean through Shramdan (voluntary labour) fortnightly every month," Gupta said. The Delhi BJP president appealed to the people of Delhi to join the campaign. He further said that permission should be granted for celebrating Chhath festival at riverbanks and other water bodies while adopting SOPs for Covid appropriate behaviour. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-bjp-launches-campaign-to-clean-yamuna-with-help-from-party-leaders-workers-1037933.html
06-10-2021||National||Recent civilian killings lay in tatters Centre's fake narrative of normalcy in Kashmir: Mehbooba||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday said the recent spate of civilian killings in Kashmir lays in "tatters" the Centre's "fake narrative" of normalcy in the Valley. Three civilians, including Kashmiri pandit Makhan Lal Bindroo, owner of Srinagar's prominent pharmacy, were shot dead by suspected militants on Tuesday in separate incidents in Srinagar and Bandipora districts of Jammu and Kashmir. "With the recent spate of civilian killings in Kashmir GOIs fake narrative of normalcy lies in tatters. An utterly desensitised govt that has devalued human lives & pushed J&K into further peril & chaos by its ruthless policies of collective punishment all in the garb of security," Mehbooba wrote on Twitter. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recent-civilian-killings-lay-in-tatters-centres-fake-narrative-of-normalcy-in-kashmir-mehbooba-1037940.html
06-10-2021||National||Cabinet approves bonus equal to 78 days' wage for over 11 lakh railway employees||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a productivity-linked bonus (PLB) for around 11.56 lakh non-gazetted employees of the Indian Railways equivalent to 78 days' wages for 2020-21. The total productivity-linked bonus for railway employees has been estimated to be around Rs 1,985 crore, railway board chairman Suneet Sharma said at a press conference. The wage calculation ceiling prescribed for payment of PLB to the eligible non-gazetted railway employees is Rs.7000/- p.m. The maximum amount payable per eligible railway employee is Rs. 17,951 for 78 days. Payment of PLB to eligible railway employees is made each year before the Dusshera/ Puja holidays. This year money will be credited to employees bank account before Dasara, said the statement from the railways. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-bonus-equal-to-78-days-wage-for-over-11-lakh-railway-employees-1037947.html
06-10-2021||National||R K Singh asks PFC, REC to explore cheaper fund options||Power Minister R K Singh has asked state-owned Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and REC to explore cheaper options for raising funds, including offshore sources. Besides, he also asked both the non-banking financial companies to focus on ensuring that the power sector value chain gets access to cheaper funds, particularly renewable energy. "R K Singh, Union Minister of Power and New & Renewable Energy, reviewed the performance of REC and PFC Ltd on October 4 and 5, 2021, respectively, in the presence of Minister of State for Power Krishan Pal, power secretary, and senior officers of the Ministry of Power, with CMDs (chairman and managing directors) of REC and PFC," the power ministry said in a statement. The minister highlighted the government's vision to make available affordable power for all round-the-clock, according to the statement. In this context, he stressed the need for improving the competitiveness of both institutions to increase their market share. He also advised that both the organisations should be nimble-footed and dynamically adapt to the changing market needs, increasing renewables, and make efforts to reduce their cost of funds. In this context, he advised PFC and REC to explore better and cheaper options for raising funds, including from offshore sources, with an overall objective of ensuring that the power sector value chain gets access to cheaper funds, it stated. For this, he directed PFC and REC to carry out a strategic analysis to adapt to the changing business environment in the sector with an overall objective to deliver power to consumers at a reasonable cost, it said. The minister also stressed the need for a speedy resolution of stressed assets. He also suggested a slew of measures to both the entities in this context, including ensuring that the stressed assets are resolved at a fair value with a minimal haircut for PFC and REC and in line with the national interests. He asked both PFC and REC to increase their outreach by establishing a physical presence across the country. The minister also directed that oversight on the projects funded by PFC and REC should be tightened, the ministry said. He also emphasised strengthening the risk management framework of both institutions. Further, Singh also expressed his concern about the finances of some power distribution companies. He also suggested remedial measures to PFC and REC, including establishing the presence of their lender nominees in the board of directors of the discoms concerned, it stated. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-k-singh-asks-pfc-rec-to-explore-cheaper-fund-options-1037948.html
06-10-2021||National||Delhi riots: 'Police witnesses lying on oath', says court on contradictory statements||One of the police witnesses in a north-east Delhi riots case is lying on oath, a Delhi court has said after one policeman identified three alleged rioters but another said that they could not be identified during the investigation. “This is a very sorry state of affairs,” Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said, seeking a report from the Deputy Commissioner of Police (northeast) in this regard. He made the observations after examination of four prosecution witnesses in the case, pertaining to the February 2020 riots in which 53 people had died and over 700 injured. Notably, a Head Constable told the judge on oath in his evidence that he had identified rioters -- Vikas Kashyap, Golu Kashyap, and Rinku Subziwala. He is one of the prosecution witnesses. “I had been the beat officer of the concerned area since the year 2019. I knew all the four accused persons and Vikas Kashyap, Golu Kashyap, and Rinku Subziwala by name and their appearance prior to the incident,” he stated during the examination. ASJ Yadav noted that the policeman “categorically asserted” about their presence at the spot at the time of riots and identified them by their names as well as professions. On the contrary, another prosecution witness, an assistant sub-inspector stated that the three accused, although specifically named by the head constable, could not be identified during the probe. “I had searched of remaining three accused persons but they could not be traced,” he apprised the court. Meanwhile, the investigating officer (IO) of the case said that there is nothing on record to substantiate that the three accused were ever investigated despite their names being there on record. The judge then noted, “On the contrary, it is stated that the identity of these accused persons could not be established during investigation. There is no material on record that efforts were ever made by IO to apprehend the said accused persons. Prima facie, one of the police witnesses is lying on oath punishable under section 193 IPC.” It was also brought to the notice of the court by the defence counsels that these three persons have also been specifically named as accused in another FIR but even in that case they were not interrogated. The court has completed the recording of the prosecution evidence and listed the matter for recording of statement of accused persons on October 30. This case was registered on two complaints filed by Delhi's Bhagrathi Vihar area alleging that a riotous mob robbed and vandalized their property on February 26 last year. Charges of arson, theft, and rioting have been framed against four accused. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-police-witnesses-lying-on-oath-says-court-on-contradictory-statements-1037952.html
06-10-2021||National||Covid vaccine hesitancy in India at lowest level, only 7% adults now hesitant: Survey||Only 7 per cent Indian adults are currently hesitant to getting inoculated against Covid-19, the lowest vaccine hesitancy level in the country so far, according to a new survey. The study conducted by the online community platform LocalCircles received 12,810 responses from citizens -- 67 per cent men and 33 per cent women -- across 301 districts. It sought to understand from unvaccinated citizens their reasons for not taking the jab and their plan on getting inoculated. As much as 42 per cent respondents were from tier 1, 27 per cent from tier-2 and 31 per cent from tier 3, 4 and rural districts. India has an adult population of 94 crore, and approximately 68 crore have already taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The responses suggest that overall 46 per cent of the unvaccinated citizens plan to take their first dose soon, said Sachin Taparia, the founder of LocalCircles said. There were, however, 27 per cent of citizens who do not plan to take the vaccine yet as they are not convinced whether the currently available ones provide enough protection from the current and future variants of coronavirus, he said. These 27 per cent are what can be classified as hesitant population, he said. They may take the vaccine if more data become available or if different vaccines become available, he said. "If the entire adult population of India is taken into consideration, the survey shows that only 7 per cent of them are currently hesitant. If these percentages are applied to the unvaccinated population of 26 crore adults, it amounts to 7 crore citizens still hesitant to take the vaccine," Taparia said. Safety concerns, quick clinical trials, rushed vaccine approvals, side-effects were among apprehensions expressed by some citizens for their hesitancy, according to the survey report. Some respondents with a medical condition also cited concerns of potential blood-clotting. Some also cited Covid going away as the reason for them to not get vaccinated, the survey found. According to the feedback received, there are also certain other myths and misinformation holding people from taking the vaccine. When the vaccination drive began in India in January, the vaccine hesitancy stood at 60 per cent which drastically reduced during the brutal second Covid wave that hit India in April-May. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccine-hesitancy-in-india-at-lowest-level-only-7-adults-now-hesitant-survey-1037957.html
06-10-2021||National||SC directs probe into collusion of Tihar officials with ex-Unitech promoters||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered immediate suspension and a full-fledged probe against some Tihar jail officials, identified by Commissioner of Delhi Police for allowing ex-Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra to indulge in alleged illegal activities inside the high-security prison. The hearing also witnessed heated exchanges between the bench and senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for the Chandras as the counsel contended that the court should not pass any order which it would repent later. As the Delhi police said that a criminal case has been lodged against the jail officials under the Prevention of Corruption Act, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah, said in view of a report by the Delhi police chief, prima facie it appeared jail officials have connived with the accused.  On August 26, the court had earlier ordered the shifting of the Chandra brothers, arrested in a money laundering case involving Unitech company, to separate jails in Mumbai.  The report by Delhi Police chief Rakesh Asthana sought permission for a criminal investigation against named and unnamed persons. Taking consideration of the matter, the bench said, "We direct those officials of Tihar jail, who were prima facie found to be complicit, will be suspended for the time being till the pendency of proceedings”.  Appearing for Chandra brothers, Singh asked the court to provide them access to the forensic auditor Grant Thornton report, which was necessary for defending themselves.  "I don't want the court to repent later on that it did not take timely action. I am sure the court has nothing personal against the Chandras. I should have been given the report," he said. Singh also asked, "How many companies will this court run? Amrapali you are running, Unitech you are running, Supertech you are running. You have arrested my father, my wife, arrest my children also. Put us all behind bars. At least let me defend Grant Thornton report." His arguments irked the bench, which objected to the allegations and the language against the court. "What is this language? What is this repent later on? Is this the way of addressing the court," the bench asked, adding it did not expect such allegations from him. The bench finally declined his request saying the underlying materials which formed part of the investigation cannot be provided at this stage under the law. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-probe-into-collusion-of-tihar-officials-with-ex-unitech-promoters-1037960.html
06-10-2021||National||Ending drug menace not possible with NCB alone, citizens have to report it, says Kranti Redkar Wankhede||Marathi film and television actor, theatre artist and entrepreneur Kranti Redkar Wankhede said that drug menace is so deep-rooted in the society that huge effort is needed to uproot it. “It is not possible with the NCB alone. Citizens have to report it when they see it happening in the society,” Kranti told DH. She is the wife of NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who headed the probe into the drug bust on the Mumbai cruise ship. “The main target customers of drugs in the society are young boys -- in the age group of 16 to 18 – who are drug peddlers and consumers,” she added. “It’s very scary. Rich people have the money to splurge on. Among the poor, some are peddling only because they are addicts. We have to work hard to keep it away from the society and people,” said Kranti. She added that her husband has completely dedicated his life to the service of society and she stands solidly behind him. Kranti pointed out that “when the NCB nabs gangsters or others, which is so commendable, people don’t take much interest in such news. When it’s someone from Bollywood, the news gets highlighted". Mother to three-year-old twins, Kranti has her hands full. “It’s like a one-man show at my house since Sameer is very busy. I have to take care of my kids, my job, so it gets too much at some point in my life.” “But I am left with a great set of parents and parents-in-law. They are so supportive,” she said. Talking about the dangerous operations and the multiple raids her husband carried out, she says “Sameer has one strong motto in life -- that your life has to be for others. His mother was a social worker and his father was in the police. He is fearless. I have known him for the last 20 years and he has always been like this.” When Kranti is not running behind her toddlers, she is posting humourous content on Instagram, which has quite a big fan following. “I want to bring some lightness in the relationship, she said, adding “Sameer and I are poles apart. Somewhere, we complement each other because I bring the light when day in and day out he sees the dark side of the society.” Moreover, she loves observing people and those little things that she sees in everyday life comes as relatable content on Instagram. It was with the Marathi film ‘Soon Asavi Ashi’ that Kranti made her film debut. She also directed the film ‘Kaakan’. In Prakash Jha's 'Gangaajal', she played the role of a kidnapped girl. Speaking about the Marathi film industry, she said, "We are like a tiny family here. Covid has affected the industry badly. But now cinemas are opening. And there are OTT channels exclusively for Marathi now.” She is proud and enjoys being part of the Marathi film industry. “Brilliant content is being made here, although they are made on a low budget. We have some international-level filmmakers in Marathi." As far as her twin daughters, all of three, are concerned and the couple’s dreams for them, she said, "They can be whatever they want to be. Let them find their own space. I am very neutral about it. But Sameer has already decided they are going to wear the uniform. He wants them to be the first twin police officers of India,” she laughs. Kranti finds hope in the new generation and strongly believes that they are righteous. “They don’t support corruption, they feel you have to punish the guilty whoever they are,” she said. Check latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ending-drug-menace-not-possible-with-ncb-alone-citizens-have-to-report-it-says-kranti-redkar-wankhede-1037963.html
06-10-2021||National||Congress sees Lakhimpur Kheri tragedy as opportunity to derive political mileage, says BJP||The BJP on Wednesday accused Rahul Gandhi of trying to fan unrest over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, alleging that the Gandhi family is using the tragedy as an opportunity to derive political mileage as it has been facing questions from Congress leaders. Hitting back at Rahul Gandhi after the Congress leader alleged that dictatorship prevails in the country, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said "irresponsibility" has become his second name. The Congress has been trying everything to "provoke" people to cause violence, he said, asking Gandhi to desist from attempts aimed at getting votes from the crisis. With the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh earlier not allowing most opposition leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, Patra said maintaining peace has been the top priority. The Uttar Pradesh Police had detained Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who wanted to go to the site of Sunday's violence and meet families that lost their members. Now the state government has allowed them to travel to the place. Patra also took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi over his allegation that there is no democracy in the country and dictatorship prevails, noting that he had never faced protests from BJP workers for his press conferences, while Congress members threw tomatoes and agitated outside their leader Kapil Sibal's residence for his critical comments about the party's functioning. "There is democracy in the country and that is why you are holding the press conference," he said. Gandhi always tries to spread misinformation, and it has been our endeavour to highlight this, the BJP spokesperson said, adding that whatever happened in Lakhimpur Kheri was painful. Noting that farmer leaders and the local administration had coordinated to deal with the crisis after eight persons. including four farmers, died, he said an "impartial probe" is on into the violence and people should not give irresponsible statements that may obstruct justice. He alleged that the Gandhi family had nothing to do with either farmers or any other section of society. "They are not even concerned about the Congress. All they want is that their fortunes should not be scuttled," Patra said. Hitting back at the Rahul Gandhi over his allegation of corruption at the government, the BJP spokesperson took a dig at him, saying he and his mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi are on bail in the alleged National Herald corruption case. With Gandhi claiming that farmers have been "systematically attacked" by the government, he said they have been "systematically uplifted", citing a number of pro-farmers schemes. The BJP leader referred to the recent baton charge on farmers by police in Rajasthan, where the Congress is in power, and asked if Gandhi ever spoke to the state chief minister regarding this. Earlier in the day, Gandhi alleged that "dictatorship" prevails in the country with farmers being "systematically attacked" and politicians not allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh to meet families hit by the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. After initially denying permission to Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, the Uttar Pradesh government has now allowed him and Priyanka Gandhi to visit the district. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-sees-lakhimpur-kheri-tragedy-as-opportunity-to-derive-political-mileage-says-bjp-1037968.html
06-10-2021||National||Lakhimpur Kheri violence hits local Sikh community hard||The spot near Tikonia village where violence erupted on Sunday during a farmers’ protest is amid an area linked to the life of Guru Nanak Dev, the founder of Sikhism. Granthi Baljeet Singh from Kaudiyawala Ghat Gurdwara says the Guru came here in 1554 and cured a person of “kodh”, or leprosy. The shrine gets its name from there. The devout believe that a dip in the ‘sarovar’ of the gurdwara, located close to the spot where eight people were killed, can cure people of skin diseases. Lakhimpur Kheri district and the adjoining areas in the Terai have been home to Sikh farmers for generations --- including those who came during the time of the Awadh nawabs, migrants from undivided Punjab and the more recent settlers. On Sunday, Sikh farmers formed a sizeable number of those protesting over the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. And all the four dead farmers had Punjabi names. They were allegedly mowed down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. The other four victims included two BJP workers, allegedly lynched by angry protesters. Many farmers from Lakhimpur Kheri and the neighbouring areas in the Terai have been actively involved in the protests against the agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre last year. Many have made trips to the protest sites on Delhi’s borders – dominated by farmers from Punjab and Haryana -- where the agitation has been on for months now. They also attended the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar last month. Bahraich, Shahjahanpur and Pilibhit are among the other Uttar Pradesh districts with a significant population of Sikh farmers. Largest in area among the 75 UP districts, Lakhimpur Kheri is known for sugarcane cultivation, and there are nine sugar mills in the district. Sarjit Singh, a retired sports teacher at a government school in Bahraich, says Sikh farmers from Punjab started buying forestland in the Terai districts because the same amount of money would get them bigger pieces of land than back home. "Some sold their five bighas of land in Punjab and bought 25 bigha in Bahraich near the forests," he says. But there have been settlers earlier as well. Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, who has been a minister in UP and at the Centre, said Sikhs came to Lakhimpur Kheri from undivided Punjab in the 1940s. Earlier, the nawabs of Awadh encouraged members of the community to settle in the area, and many bought land, he tells PTI. "The first chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Govind Ballabh Pant, too had encouraged Sikhs to buy land in this area," says Ramoowalia, now a member of the UP legislative council from Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party. According to an elderly Pyara Singh, there are three or four lakh Sikhs in Lakhimpur Kheri. Most farmers from the community are based in Palia, Nighasan and Gola tehsils in the district. In Bahraich district, Nihinaurwa, Mihipurwa and Bichiiya areas have a significant concentration of Sikhs in Bahraich district. Of the four farmers killed on Sunday, Lovepreet Singh and Nachatar Singh hailed from Lakhimpur Kheri. Gurvinder Singh and Daljeet Singh were from Bahraich. The community is represented in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet by Baldev Singh Aulakh. Ramoowalia was a minister during the SP term. Lakhimpur farmers say they were angry with Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra over a “provocative” speech he made after being shown black flags during his public meeting in his Kheri Lok Sabha constituency. He said he could discipline such people in “two minutes”, the farmers say. Ashish Mishra, the minister’s son, is named in an FIR registered over the farmers’ deaths. But he claims he was nowhere near the trouble spot when the violence took place.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-hits-local-sikh-community-hard-1037969.html
06-10-2021||National||Biden admin far away from recognising Taliban govt in Afghanistan, US tells India||President Joe Biden’s administration is far away from legitimising or recognising the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, the United States Deputy Secretary of State, Wendy Sherman, conveyed to senior officials of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi on Wednesday. Sherman discussed the situation in Afghanistan with her counterpart, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla, and the Prime Minister’s National Security Advisor, Ajit Doval. She later told journalists that India and the United States had “one mind and one approach” on Afghanistan. She also said that India’s security concerns were the “first and foremost” and at the “front and centre” for the United States. She conveyed to Shringla and Doval that the US was far away from legitimising, let alone recognising, the interim government the Taliban set up in Afghanistan, according to the sources in New Delhi. She told journalists that the US was building a robust “Over-the-Horizon” capability for aerial surveillance and neutralizing terror threats in Afghanistan. She, however, did not elaborate on a discussion between Washington and New Delhi on prospects of cooperation between the security establishments of the two nations on “Over-the-Horizon” capabilities, which the Biden Administration of late repeatedly highlighted as a means for dealing with terror threats after withdrawing troops from Afghanistan. The Foreign Secretary and the National Security Advisor conveyed to the US Deputy Secretary of State India’s position on Pakistan’s role not only in supporting the Taliban and its associate Haqqani Network’s return to power in Afghanistan but also in forming a government, which lacked inclusivity. Sherman visited New Delhi to follow up on the outcomes of the Biden-Modi meeting in Washington last month. The Taliban returned to power in Kabul last month through a swift military campaign across Afghanistan, taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the US and its NATO allies. The militant organization on September 8 announced an interim government in Afghanistan, with hardly any representation of the ethnic communities other than the Pashtuns. It also had no representation of women or religious minorities of Afghanistan. New Delhi’s position on the new government in Kabul was articulated by the Prime Minister himself. He said on September 17 that the new regime in Afghanistan was not inclusive and it had not been installed through negotiation. He also urged the global community to tread cautiously on recognizing the new regime in Afghanistan. Sherman said that no country was in a rush on recognising the Taliban dispensation in Afghanistan or giving legitimacy to it. She told journalists that both the US and India shared the same view that the Taliban must ensure an inclusive government and respect the rights of all sections of the society in Afghanistan, including the women and the religious and ethnic minorities. She said that the Taliban must also allow people willing to leave Afghanistan to do so and stop using the country to export terror or pose threat to other nations. The US Deputy Secretary of State is set to visit Pakistan after concluding her visit to India. During her talks with Foreign Secretary and the National Security Advisor, she, however, dismissed the speculation that the US was once again hyphenating India and Pakistan. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biden-admin-far-away-from-recognising-taliban-govt-in-afghanistan-us-tells-india-1037973.html
06-10-2021||National||Nine judges appointed to five high courts||Nine judicial officers and advocates were appointed as high court judges on Wednesday. The Department of Justice in the Law Ministry tweeted a list of the new appointees -- seven judicial officers and two advocates -- to five high courts. Four judges were appointed to the Jharkhand High Court and two to the Patna High Court. One judge each has been appointed to the high courts of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-judges-appointed-to-five-high-courts-1037975.html
06-10-2021||National||Monsoon withdrawal begins three weeks after usual period||The Indian summer monsoon on Wednesday began to retreat from the northwest parts of the country three weeks after its regular withdrawal date of September 17, marking the second-most delayed withdrawal of the southwest monsoon in the last 60 years. The record of the most delayed withdrawal will go to 2019 when the monsoon’s return journey started on October 9. According to the India Meteorological Department, 2019 and 2021 are the only two years since 1961 when monsoon withdrawal commenced in October. However, down south Karnataka and other states are likely to experience heavy to moderate rainfall in the next couple of days due to a cyclonic conditions off Tamil Nadu impacting local weather. “As a consequence, isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Kerala and coastal Karnataka between October 6-10; over Tamil Nadu between Oct 6-7 and over interior Karnataka between Oct 6-8,” India Meteorological Department says in a statement. After a bountiful September that witnessed the last 28 years’ second-highest rainfall, the 2021 south west monsoon began withdrawing from parts of northwest India and would be gone from Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand and parts of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh over the next three-four days. “This is the second most delayed withdrawal in the last 60 years after 1961, which recorded withdrawal on Oct 1,” said an IMD scientist. Thanks to the late surge in rainfall, this year India recorded a normal monsoon for the season even after registering a decline in July and a sharp drop in August when the country as a whole saw a 24 per cent drop in monsoon with the highest fall being recorded in central (39 per cent) and northwest India (31 per cent). Both zones were compensated in September when central India received 85 per cent excess rainfall and the northwest got 40 per cent more. Out of the 13 low pressure systems created in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea between June and September, as many as five happened in September. The month also experienced a cyclone and a deep depression. As a result, Delhi recorded 413 mm of rainfall in September – the second highest in the last 121 years after 1944 (417.3 mm). Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-withdrawal-begins-three-weeks-after-usual-period-1037976.html
06-10-2021||National||Kabira Festival makes its return after one-year hiatus||Cancelled last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Mahindra Kabira festival returns to Varanasi from November 26-28, organiser Teamwork Arts announced on Wednesday. The festival, however, this year will allow a limited entry of "small and select audience of double-vaccinated people" only, they clarified. Celebrating the wisdom of the 15th century mystic poet Kabir, it will host a plethora of activities from classical and folk music, talks, live-art demonstrations to a delectable local food journey and the quintessential Ganga aarti experience. Eminent artists including the likes of folk singer Malini Awasthi, Indian classical vocalists Kalapini Komkali, Nirali Kartik, Indian sitar maestro Purbayan Chatterjee, Malayalam playback singer Gayatri Asokan, Carnatic vocal and violin duo Ranjani Gayatri and folk poet Jumma Khan make up the roster of the artists performing at the festival. It will also feature a modern version of theatre actor and cultural activist M K Raina's popular play "Kabira Khada Bazaar Mein" and a performance by artists from 'The Aahvaan Project' presenting collaborative fusions following Kabir's ideas. "Kabir's teachings are all about inclusiveness and common-sense! Each year, Mahindra Kabira Festival celebrates the inclusive philosophy and syncretic traditions of Kabir bringing to music-lovers and those in search of truth an unforgettable experience with a line-up that includes Kashmiri folk to Carnatic music with some of the most interesting artists of our county," said Sanjoy Roy, managing director, Teamwork Arts. The list of artists also includes musician-storyteller Raman Iyer and educator-spiritual mentor Umesh Kabir. According to the organisers, music sessions by leading artistes on the historic ghats of Varanasi, walks down mysterious city alleys, talks and discourses, ethereal boat rides on a timeless river, and food that is linked with Varanasi’s ancient culinary traditions, are all on the anvil in the festival. "Mahindra Kabira Festival 2021 returns with the promise of hope and optimism. It signifies new beginnings in a changed world, a world we can never again take for granted. A world that values compassion & empathy - qualities that Kabir held dear," said Jay Shah, vice president, head – cultural outreach, Mahindra Group. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kabira-festival-makes-its-return-after-one-year-hiatus-1037977.html
06-10-2021||National||Sitting BJP MLAs cannot be assured tickets for 2022 Assembly polls: Goa CM||All BJP sitting MLAs cannot be guaranteed party tickets to contest the upcoming 2022 state Assembly polls, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant warned on Wednesday.  Speaking to reporters, Sawant also said that while the local unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would send candidate recommendations to its high command, the final decision would be taken by the BJP parliamentary board -- the party's highest-ranking body for allocation of tickets -- after assessing internal ground level surveys carried by both the state unit and the central BJP apparatus.  "All parties do this. Each and everyone (sitting MLA) do not get tickets. That depends on the performance and (an MLAs) contact with the people. I am not saying that everyone will get a ticket. That is not possible at all. Everyone knows this," Sawant told reporters on Wednesday.  "Surveys are carried out by the local state team, the central team and the final ticket is allotted by the Center. BJP is a central party with a Parliamentary board. It decides on the ticket. When the time comes to allot a ticket, the Parliamentary board declares a ticket," the Chief Minister also said.  While the BJP currently has 27 MLAs in the 40-member state legislative assembly, 13 of its current crop of MLAs have joined the party from Congress since 2017. The party also has two MLAs, who split the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party to join the ruling BJP in 2019.  The intake of 15 MLAs from other parties has started a power struggle within the BJP, especially between the new breed of imported MLAs and the original party apparatus in most constituencies.  Flashpoints between the two groups have already occurred in assembly constituencies like Panaji, Mandrem, Canacona, etc.  Sawant also said that the practice of dropping sitting MLAs was practised in other states too.  "It is a practice in every state. It will be the same in Goa. The central party allots the tickets after the local (unit) of the party makes a recommendation," Sawant said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitting-bjp-mlas-cannot-be-assured-tickets-for-2022-assembly-polls-goa-cm-1037979.html
06-10-2021||National||US conveys its unease over India's S-400 deal with Russia||A senior official of President Joe Biden’s administration on Wednesday acknowledged that India’s decision to buy S-400 Triumf missile defence systems from Russia was a “problem” in the relationship between New Delhi and Washington D.C., as it was not in the security interests of anyone. The official, however, said that the US and India shared a strong partnership and the two nations would hopefully be able to address the issue and resolve it through bilateral talks, just as they dealt with other problems in the relations. “We've been quite public about any country that decides to use the S-400. We think that is dangerous and not in anybody's security interest. That said, we have a strong partnership with India,” Wendy Sherman, the US Deputy Secretary of State, told journalists in New Delhi. During her meeting with Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla in New Delhi, Sherman reiterated the unease of the US over India’s move to buy the S-400 missile defence systems from Russia. “We want to be very thoughtful about the ways ahead, and discussions between our countries try to solve problems and I hope we will be able to in this instance as well,” she told a journalist, who asked her about the possibility of the US imposing sanctions on India for buying the S-400s from Russia. A source in New Delhi also said that Sherman and Shringla had a discussion on India’s S-400 deal with Russia. The issue is likely to be discussed during Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar's visit to Washington D.C. for a meeting of the US Defence Policy Group. The US hinted on several occasions in the past that New Delhi’s S-400 missile deal with Moscow could threaten future US-India defence cooperation and put India at risk of sanctions under Section 231 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). India in October 2018 inked a $5.4 billion deal to buy five S-400 Triumf long-range surface-to-air missile systems from Almaz-Antey Corporation of Russia and is expecting the delivery to start by the end of this year. The US Congress had in July 2017 passed the CAATSA to impose sanctions on Russia, Iran and North Korea. The then US President Donald Trump had signed it into law in August 2017 and its scope had been further expanded in October 2017. Section 231 of the CAATSA mandates secondary sanctions to any nation entering into high-value deals to procure military hardware from Russia. The erstwhile Trump Administration in December 2020 not only imposed sanctions on Turkey, but also asked “other countries” to take note and avoid striking any big-ticket deal to buy military hardware from Russia. The Biden Administration continued with the policy and of late warned the Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s government in Ankara that the US might impose further sanctions on Turkey if it moved to buy more S-400s from Russia. Sherman on Wednesday said that whether the US would impose CAATSA sanctions on India would be decided by Biden or his Secretary of State Antony Blinken. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-conveys-its-unease-over-indias-s-400-deal-with-russia-1037988.html
06-10-2021||National||Bharat Biotech submits data of Covaxin clinical trials on children||Bharat Biotech, which completed the Phase 2/3 trials of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin for use in children under 18 years of age, has submitted the data to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation for its verification and subsequent approval for Emergency Use Authorisation for the jab, company sources said on Wednesday. "Covaxin clinical trial data of 2-18 years age group has been submitted to CDSCO...This is feasible due to the safety of the manufacturing platform and empirical evidence from Phase 1,2 and 3 clinical trials in adults," sources told PTI. Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech International Ltd, Krishna Ella, had said on September 21 that the Paediatric Covaxin completed phase 2/3 trials with about 1,000 subjects and the data analysis was going on. As part of the Phase II/III trial, the two-dose Covaxin was administered with 28 days apart. "We will be submitting the data (to the regulator) by next week," he had said. He also had said that Phase 2 trials of intranasal vaccine to prevent Covid-19 were going on and expected to be over in October. If approved, Covaxin will be the first Covid-19 vaccine that can be administered to children in India. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-submits-data-of-covaxin-clinical-trials-on-children-1037990.html
06-10-2021||National||Apple to face EU antitrust charge over NFC chip||Apple will be hit with an EU antitrust charge over its NFC chip technology, people familiar with the matter said, a move that puts it at risk of a possible hefty fine and could force it to open its mobile payment system to rivals. The iPhone maker has been in European Union antitrust chief Margrethe Vestager's crosshairs since June last year when she launched an investigation into Apple Pay. Preliminary concerns were Apple's NFC chip which enables tap-and-go payments on iPhones, its terms and conditions on how mobile payment service Apple Pay should be used in merchants' apps and websites, and the company's refusal to allow rivals access to the payment system. The European Commission has since narrowed its focus to just the NFC chip, which can only be accessed by Apple Pay, one of the sources said. The EU competition enforcer is now preparing a charge sheet known as a statement of objections, which could be sent to Apple next year, one of the sources said. Such documents typically set out practices considered anti-competitive by the regulator. The Commission declined to comment. Apple, which has cited privacy and safety issues for its policy on Apple Pay, was not immediately available for comment. NFC-enabled payments have grown in popularity due in part to the Covid-19 pandemic. Apple Pay's wide reach and superior consumer experience on a mobile website or in-store give it a competitive edge over rivals, according to some analysts.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apple-to-face-eu-antitrust-charge-over-nfc-chip-1037994.html
06-10-2021||National||Congress may hold CWC by month-end to discuss internal issues||The Congress Working Committee is likely to meet by the end of the month amid demands by several leaders including those from the G-23 dissident group to hold internal deliberations on the "turmoil" within the party and multiple desertions taking place, sources said on Wednesday. Even though no date has been set, the sources said the CWC, the party's apex decision-making body, may meet this month to discuss the internal matters of the party. The party sources said Sonia Gandhi has already indicated that the meeting of the CWC will be convened soon and internal issues will be debated. Senior party leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal, who are part of a group of 23 leaders (G-23) seeking organisational revamp, have demanded that a meeting of the CWC be convened immediately to discuss internal party issues like the spate of defections from the party and the turmoil in many state units including Punjab. Azad had also written to party chief Sonia Gandhi in this regard, demanding the convening of the CWC meeting. He has said that the party should welcome suggestions and not suppress them. Sibal had also recently raised questions on the decision-making process in the party in the absence of a regular president and demanded a dialogue where all senior leaders would be heard. While Azad and some other G-23 leaders are part of the CWC, Sibal is not. The Congress is also to elect its new regular president and the election schedule is likely to be discussed at the meeting.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-may-hold-cwc-meet-by-month-end-to-discuss-internal-issues-1037995.html
06-10-2021||National||Acquittal would not automatically entitle one to join police force: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said acquittal by an individual in a criminal case would not automatically entitle him for employment in the police department as a person joining a disciplined force must be a man of utmost rectitude with impeccable character and integrity.    "If a person is acquitted giving him the benefit of doubt, from the charge of an offence involving moral turpitude or because the witnesses turned hostile, it would not automatically entitle him for the employment, that too in disciplined force," a bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and J K Maheshwari said. The top court explained that the employer cannot be compelled to give an appointment to a candidate merely on the basis of disclosure of the offences alleged and the result of the trial. "One who wishes to join the police force must be a person of utmost rectitude and have impeccable character and integrity. A person having a criminal antecedents would not be fit in this category. The employer is having the right to consider the nature of acquittal or decide until he is completely exonerated because even a possibility of his taking to the life of crimes poses a threat to the discipline of the police force," the bench said. The top court allowed an appeal filed by the Union government and set aside the Madhya Pradesh High Court's orders of 2013 for giving an opportunity of training and all consequential benefits to Methu Meda as a constable in the Central Industrial Security Force.  The candidate, after his selection, was found not eligible for appointment by the standing screening committee in view of a criminal case related to kidnapping for ransom of the year 2009, though he was acquitted as the main witness turned hostile. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/acquittal-would-not-automatically-entitle-one-to-join-police-force-sc-1037997.html
06-10-2021||National||DRDO espionage case: Mysterious woman operated from Pakistan||The Odisha Police which is probing the DRDO espionage case in ITR, Chandipur, Wednesday said that it has a Pakistan link. The Crime Branch sleuths came have come to the conclusion that the “mysterious” woman handler, who gathered defence-related information from five DRDO employees, used four Facebook accounts which were operated from Pakistan, Additional Director General of Police, Crime Branch, Sanjeev Panda said. “The Facebook accounts were operated from Pakistan - three from Islamabad and one from Rawalpindi. The woman used proxy IPs (Internet Protocol) of the US, India and Germany to keep her location a secret. Few of the accounts are currently active and she is still chatting with some people,” he told reporters in Cuttack on Wednesday. Though the ADG refused to divulge further details, he said the woman was using the five accused employees of the Integrated Test Range (ITR) at Chandipur to get "valuable information" on missiles test fired from there and other airborne equipment testing activities in Odisha. He said the mysterious woman had talked to the five arrested persons from different Facebook accounts by changing her voice through a mobile application. She had even asked the accused to change their SIM cards and hacked their phones to keep tab on their movements in the ITR. Meanwhile, the crime branch has completed the first phase of interrogation of the accused and are verifying information collected from them. “If required, the CB will seek their remand further,” Panda said. The five accused have already been interrogated by NIA sleuths and a team from Airforce Intelligence, Kolkata. A special squad of Balasore district police had arrested the five employees, four of them working under contractual basis, from Chandipur on charges of espionage on September 14 and 16. Four of the accused worked at launch pad-3 of the ITR. It was also alleged that the accused persons were honey trapped as they admitted that the mysterious woman had assured one of them that she would marry him. This apart, one of the accused had received Rs 38,000 in two instalments from a Dubai-based bank account.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-espionage-case-mysterious-woman-operated-from-pakistan-1038002.html
06-10-2021||National||ICMR releases dementia research and assessment tool||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Wednesday released a dementia research and assessment tool in five languages. The tool consisting of various tests and questionnaires is available in five Indian languages -- Hindi, Bengali, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam -- and is freely accessible to professionals and researchers across the country, the ICMR said in a statement. The Multilingual Dementia Research and Assessment Toolbox, or MUDRA Toolbox, was framed collectively by seven leading centres -- NIMHANS (Bengaluru), AIIMS (New Delhi), SCTIMST (Thiruvananthapuram), NIMS (Hyderabad), Apollo Hospital (Kolkata), Manipal Hospital (Bengaluru) and Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said, "This was one of the crucial needs for undertaking uniform, standardised dementia research in the country. The toolbox includes various cognitive tests to assess different domains of cognition such as attention and executive function, memory, language, and visuospatial functions." "The questionnaires assess depression, functionality, quality of life, prevalence of neuropsychiatric symptoms and informant questionnaire on cognitive decline in elderly. The ICMR has decided to make this tool freely accessible to professionals and researchers across the country. We hope this would be used in quality longitudinal studies and for early and accurate diagnosis of dementia," he said. The tool includes a five-minute cognitive screening instrument for the busy clinic, and a detailed version for more in-depth clinical testing or for research. It is a pioneering initiative undertaken by ICMR Neuro Cognitive Tool Box (ICMR-NCTB) consortium to transform India's dementia and mild cognitive impairment research and clinical practices, according to the statement. According to the Dementia India Report 2010 by Alzheimer's and Related Disorders Society of India (ARDSI), there are approximately 5.29 million people living with dementia in India and this number is expected to increase to 7.61 million by 2030. Dementia refers to a neurological disorder that causes a decline in a person's cognition and affects their ability to carry on with day-to-day activities. Despite the high number of people with dementia in the country, only one in 10 people with dementia are diagnosed in India due to low awareness and the lack of linguistically and culturally appropriate tests that are essential for diagnosis, the ICMR said in the statement. Early diagnosis is key to optimal management of the disease and adequate care for people with dementia.  Dr R S Dhaliwal, Head of Non-Communicable Diseases division, said the ICMR commissioned the multidisciplinary project with team of researchers from various fields, including neurologists, psychologists, and speech-language pathologists, to develop a culturally, educationally and linguistically relevant neurocognitive toolbox. The investigators had worked very hard over the last six years to develop and validate the tool in Indian population, the statement said.  Dr Meenakshi Sharma, a senior scientist of ICMR, said the toolbox is designed to provide detailed neuropsychological profile of a patient and is a standardised measure of diagnosis for mild cognitive impairment and dementia.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-releases-dementia-research-and-assessment-tool-1038003.html
06-10-2021||National||Don’t make allegations against court and raise pitch of your voice: SC to ex-Unitech promoter’s lawyer||The Supreme Court on Wednesday witnessed heated exchanges during which it warned ex-Unitech promoter Sanjay Chandra’s lawyer not to raise the pitch of his voice and also asked him not to make allegations against the court after he said the top court will "repent" if he is acquitted of charges of diversion of home buyers money. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said it was not expected of senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is representing Chandra, to put forth arguments like this and submissions that the court will not be able to set the clock back. As tempers rose over the issue of sharing of a forensic audit report and status reports of investigating agencies, the top court said that natural justice is being followed as under the law documents which would become part of the charge sheet or case diary cannot be shared with the accused. Justice Chandrachud, who seldom loses his cool, said angrily, “What kind of argument is this that this court will repent its mistake. What kind of language is this? You are making allegations against the court. Is there some sense of responsibility towards the court or not. Also read: SC directs probe into collusion of Tihar officials with ex-Unitech promoters "We are bound by law and cannot share the reports which will become part of the case diary. Maybe you are not briefed properly by your clients. We are very much aware of natural justice." Justice Shah intervened and asked Singh, “Don’t raise the pitch of your voice too high and don’t raise the pitch of the case. Don't remind us of the law of land. "We know our law of land. Our law says, till the investigation is complete nothing can be given to you. It seems you are not aware of what transactions your wife was involved in. Don’t say such things and make allegations against the court. We never expected this from you Mr Vikas Singh”. The heated exchanges erupted as the court directed suspension of Tihar Jail officials, registration of case against them and a full-fledged probe into their collusion with Unitech's imprisoned ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra, based on Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana's report filed in a sealed cover. Vikas Singh said the forensic audit report has claimed that Sanjay Chandra has diverted home buyers money and the Enforcement Directorate(ED) is proceeding on that premise, but he is innocent until proven guilty. ‘My 84-year-old father and wife have been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate without any charge being proven against him. Now they would arrest my children. This is unfair, without giving me a copy of the forensic audit done by M/s Grant Thornton to put my defence, this court has taken over my company”. “Out of the Rs 2,600 crore transaction, I have collected Rs 1,400 crore from home buyers and have put Rs 1,200 crore from my pocket. We are the second largest real estate company in the country and have delivered over one lakh flats to the home buyers. If tomorrow, I am acquitted of the charge of diversion of funds, will the court be able to set the clock back. This will not be possible and the court will have to repent this,” Singh argued. Singh also went on to say that he assumed that the “court does not have anything personal against Chandras and I don't want the court to repent later that no timely action was taken”. At the outset, when the top court was perusing the reports filed by the ED, Singh said this kind of ex-parte hearing should not go on and he has a constitutional right to be heard. The bench said it cannot allow the status report to be shared with him as the investigation is still underway and the document may become part of the case diary. Singh also asked how many real estate companies the court will run as it is already running Amrapali and Unitech, where for every small thing permission is needed. “They have arrested my father, my wife and now they will arrest my children also. At least let me defend the forensic audit report,” Singh repeated again, adding that great injustice has been done to him and that his company has been taken over by the court on the basis of a report which was not given to him. Singh said that since the court has been asking the ED that it is not doing anything, now it has arrested my parents and my wife. The bench said that if it gives the report then it will be against the public interest and it may be used to dispose off the assets abroad. Singh said the forensic audit report was never given to him and the court is presuming that his client has diverted home buyers money. He also submitted that had the Unitech got the opportunities that are being given to Amrapali and other group home buyers it would have been revived. He said the ED has been investigating the case since 2018 but claimed the agency has not been able to complete the probe. "Please give me an opportunity, I will satisfy the court that there was no diversion." The top court then asked the ED to rapidly complete the investigation in the matter. Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, appearing for the ED and the SFIO, said the problem that is being faced by the probe agency is that the home buyers’ money which has been diverted is blended with other funds and it is taking time to find the trail. The bench said it is at present not finding any fault with the agency but the ED should now proceed rapidly and in a comprehensive manner in the case. Divan said there are some developments in the case as some parties were not cooperating and they have been arrested. The investigation is very much in progress and the ED has found Rs 7,638 crore which have been diverted, she said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/don-t-make-allegations-against-court-and-raise-pitch-of-your-voice-sc-to-ex-unitech-promoter-s-lawyer-1038031.html
06-10-2021||National||India hands over power transmission line to Nepal: Indian Embassy||India has completed and handed over Nepal a 22KV power transmission line, a cross-border economic initiative under India's Neighbourhood First policy, an official statement said on Wednesday. The 106-km Koshi Corridor transmission line, costing a total of NRs 10.40 billion (USD 86.8 million) is being built under the Government of India’s Line of Credit of USD 550 million, extended by the EXIM Bank of India, the Indian Embassy here said in a statement. Package 1 of this project, worth NRs 4.5 billion (USD 37.3 million), was executed by India’s Kalpataru Power Transmission Ltd (KPTL) and handed over to Nepal Electricity Authority after successful completion and charging of the line. A function was held on Wednesday in the Hile area of, Dhankuta Municipality of Nepal to mark the completion of construction of the 220 kV Double Circuit Koshi Corridor power transmission line (Inarwa-Basantpur-Baneshwar-Tumlingtar) and its handover to Nepal Electricity Authority, the statement said. Once the remaining two packages are completed, the project will ensure smooth power evacuation from the generation projects coming up in the Arun and Tamor river basins, with power output totalling about 2,000 MW.  The project was handed over by KPTL and EXIM Bank of India to the Managing Director, Nepal Electricity Authority in presence of senior officials of the Indian embassy and administration representatives from Dhankuta.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hands-over-power-transmission-line-to-nepal-indian-embassy-1038039.html
06-10-2021||National||SC says onus of proof of deficiency on complainant under Consumer Protection Act||Onus of proof of deficiency in service is on the complainant under the Consumer Protection Act, the Supreme Court Wednesday said while setting aside an order of the apex consumer body --NCDRC -- directing a company to pay Rs 65.74 lakh with interest. A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian said if a complainant approaches the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) without any proof of deficiency, the opposite party cannot be held responsible for deficiency in service. “The onus of proof of deficiency in service is on the complainant in the complaints under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986,” the bench said. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by SGS India Ltd challenging an order passed by NCDRC which directed the company to pay Rs.65.74 lakh with interest. The appellant company is a testing, inspection, and certification company that tests the quality and quantity of several products. The complainant company Dolphin International Ltd engaged SGS India Ltd for inspection of groundnut procured for the purpose of exporting the same to Greece and the Netherlands. The appellant was responsible for carrying out the inspection of samples and further certified in respect of different parameters of the groundnut. As per the complainant, SGS India Ltd carried out the inspection and analysis of hand-picked and selected peanuts which were to be exported to Greece. The peanuts were of two qualities – Bold and Java and the Inspection Certificate of quantity, quality, weight, and packing certificates were issued. When the consignment reached Greece, the complainant sent a communication to SGS India Ltd in respect of 20 full container loads stating that peanut count size in 11 full container loads was disputed. A similar inspection was carried out in respect of other containers for shipment to the Netherlands which reflected a higher level of Aflatoxin, a naturally occurring byproduct of mold that affects many crops The NCDRC found that the appellant has not led any evidence in respect of the contention that the quantity of Aflatoxin in peanuts is affected by various extraneous factors i.e., weather, moisture, humidity, temperature, and storage conditions. On the basis of the said fact, the Commission returned a finding that the appellant was grossly negligent and deficient in service as the count of Java-type peanuts and content of Aflatoxin was more than what was specified. The apex court said that the onus of proof that there was a deficiency in service is on the complainant but in the case before it, the complainant has not produced the best evidence in support of its contention. "If the complainant is able to discharge its initial onus, the burden would then shift to the respondent in the complaint. The rule of evidence before the civil proceedings is that the onus would lie on the person who would fail if no evidence is led by the other side. "Therefore, the initial burden of proof of deficiency in service was on the complainant, but having failed to prove that the result of the sample retained by the appellant at the time of consignment was materially different than what was certified by the appellant, the burden of proof would not shift on the appellant. Thus, the Commission has erred in law to draw an adverse inference against the appellant," the bench said. The apex court said SGS India Ltd cannot be held responsible for the excess content of Aflatoxin. "The complainant has not produced the best evidence which they were expected to produce in respect of the test results of the samples sent by the appellant to the port of destination.  "There could be a deficiency of service only if the complainant was able to prove that the certificate issued by the appellant at the time of dispatch and the samples sent to the complainant or his agents are materially different," the bench said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-says-onus-of-proof-of-deficiency-on-complainant-under-consumer-protection-act-1038053.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||DH Toon: New Delhi fails to decipher what empathy means!||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who spoke at a function in Lucknow on Tuesday, chose not to mention the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in which four farmers were run over by a vehicle allegedly being driven by Union Minister Ajai Mishra's son along with five others even as the opposition leaders slammed what they termed the 'dictatorial' UP government for not allowing them to visit the violence-hit district. Modi, who inaugurated the 'New Urban India Conclave' here, highlighted the achievements of his government on different fronts and said that his opponents were busy only in 'wasting' their energy in criticising him (Modi).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-new-delhi-fails-to-decipher-what-empathy-means-1037803.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||'Systematic attack on farmers': Rahul Gandhi slams PM Modi over Lakhimpur violence||Accusing the Narendra Modi government of "systematically attacking" the farmers, top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said India is under "dictatorship" now with leaders not being allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh and alleged that a "big loot" of common man is happening. Rahul addressed a press conference at Congress headquarters in the morning just before he along with two Congress Chief Ministers Bhupesh Baghel and Charanjit Singh Channi headed to Lakhimpur Kheri to visit the families of victims who were killed there after a car allegedly belonging to Minister of State Ajay Mishra rammed into a group of protesters on Sunday. "There was democracy in this country. But today, India is under dictatorship. Politicians cannot go to Uttar Pradesh. Since yesterday, we have been told that we cannot go to UP. The Chhattisgarh Chief Minister went to UP yesterday but he was not allowed (to go to Lakhimpur Kheri) saying there is Section 144. He told them he is going alone but there was no answer," Rahul said before taking off for Lucknow enroute Lakhimpur Kheri. Emphasising that there is dictatorship to give cover to a "big loot" happening in the country, he claimed the small and medium industries, small businessmen, farmers and common man are the victims. "The voices (of dissent) are trampled upon," he said. The UP government arrested Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi and several others for attempting to reach Lakhimpur Kheri to visit families of farmers who were killed on Sunday. Initially, the UP government had denied permission for Rahul and others to visit Lakhimpur Kheri but was later allowed, though only after some high drama at Lucknow airport. Asked about the narrative that Leftists and naxalites are behind the farmers' protest, Rahul said such a narrative is being built using institutions but one will soon find out that there is a limit to such narratives. "Sooner than later, there will be an explosion the size of which people do not understand. We are telling the government that let the democratic process work and do not interfere in it. It is a safety valve and if you shut the safety valve, other problems will arise," he said. He said leaders are visiting Lakhimpur Kheri to give confidence to people. "You cannot be run over by a criminal who calls himself son of a (Minister of State) Home Minister and then nothing happens. We are not going to allow that. That is the message we are going to give them. A message of hope. Today, those families of farmers do not have hope," he said. He said an "arrogant" government is "systematically attacking" the farmers, "provoking, insulting and killing" them. "This is a very dangerous idea," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/systematic-attack-on-farmers-rahul-gandhi-slams-pm-modi-over-lakhimpur-violence-1037836.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||Congress sees Lakhimpur Kheri tragedy as political mileage opportunity : BJP||The BJP on Wednesday accused Rahul Gandhi of trying to fan unrest over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, alleging that the Gandhi family is using the tragedy as an opportunity to derive political mileage as it has been facing questions from Congress leaders. Hitting back at Rahul Gandhi after the Congress leader launched a sharp attack on the government, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said "irresponsibility" has become his second name. The Congress has been trying everything to "provoke" people to cause violence, he added. With the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh not allowing many opposition leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, Patra said maintaining peace is the top priority. The UP Police has detained Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who wanted to go to the site of Sunday's violence and meet families that lost loved ones. Patra also took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi over his allegation that there is no democracy in the country and dictatorship prevailed, noting that he had never faced protests from BJP workers for his press conferences, while Congress members threw tomatoes and agitated outside their leader Kapil Sibal's residence for his critical comments about the party's functioning. "There is democracy in the country and that is why you are holding the press conference," he said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-sees-lakhimpur-kheri-tragedy-as-political-mileage-opportunity-bjp-1037864.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||Opposition adopted negative attitude in sensitive Lakhimpur Kheri incident: UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday said the opposition has adopted a “negative” attitude in the “sensitive” Lakhimpur Kheri incident and warned that no one will be allowed to vitiate the atmosphere. Government spokesperson and cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh alleged that the opposition parties wanted to visit Lakhimpur Kheri for a photo opportunity and "now yuvraj”, referring to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, had decided to tour the area. "Government has taken a decision (by denying permission) as per law and has also requested them (Rahul Gandhi) not to come," he told reporters. Singh said the state government will go deep into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. "In the Lakhimpur case, the law will take its own course and guilty will be caught,” he said. Singh alleged that the opposition's attitude on the “sensitive” Lakhimpur incident was "negative". "They got a chance for a photo opportunity and do Twitter politics while sitting at home. Their objective is to take photos and post it on social media," he said. "No one will be allowed to vitiate the atmosphere," he added. "If they (opposition leaders) want to visit Lakhimpur, they can do after some days and meet the victims’ families. We have no objection to it," Singh said. Attacking Gandhi, he said, "now yuvraj” of a party has also decided for political tourism as his sister is already there, referring to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who is in detention at the PAC compound in Sitapur since Monday morning. “He (Rahul Gandhi) might not remember that it was in the Congress regime during the emergency when the massacre took place. Sikhs were killed in 1984 riots," Singh said. "Rahul says he wants to visit Lakhimpur to know the ground reality. If they know nothing, why you and your sister are jumping (kud rahe hai) on the issue. You put a photo of a drone being used in Sitapur. What’s wrong with it. It’s the technology which is being used by the police," he said. On Rahul Gandhi's allegation over the post-mortem of the victims, Singh said, "All the families agreed to its report. On request of one family, which had an objection, a panel of four doctors was sent for re-postmortem." The probe is being conducted in “full "transparency", he claimed, He alleged atrocities being committed on farmers in Congress-ruled Punjab and Rajasthan. Gandhi on Wednesday alleged that farmers are being "systematically attacked" and there is "dictatorship" in India now with politicians not being allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Addressing a press conference, Gandhi said he along with two Congress Chief Ministers -- Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab) -- will try to visit Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families hit by the violence. Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur told PTI that the Uttar Pradesh government has not given permission for Gandhi's visit, and he will not be allowed to go to Sitapur or Lakhimpur. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-adopted-negative-attitude-in-sensitive-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-up-govt-1037871.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||Not allowed to meet Priyanka Gandhi, says Robert Vadra||Robert Vadra on Wednesday claimed that he has been stopped from going to Lucknow to meet his wife and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been detained in Sitapur while on her way to meet victims of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. In a Facebook post, Vadra also said that he was "shocked" at the manner his wife has been "arrested". "I have been stopped to get to Lucknow, UP. to check on my wife and make sure she is fine and well. I am shocked beyond belief, how Priyanka has been arrested under Section 151 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC)," he said in the post. Vadra said he spoke with Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday and was informed that she has not been served with any order or notice. She has not been produced before a judicial officer and has not been allowed to meet her legal counsel, he said. "I am really worried for her and I had packed my bag to go to Lucknow now, when I was informed that I won't be allowed to step out of the airport. This is totally shocking that as a husband I can't even go and support my wife," Vadra said. "Thankfully, she has a huge support of the masses.But for me, my family and my wife comes first. I really hope and pray that she is released soon and is back home safe," he added. The Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday also denied permission to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. Prohibitory orders have been imposed in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Sunday's violence during a protest, and in Sitapur, where Priyanka Gandhi has been in detention since Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-allowed-to-meet-priyanka-gandhi-says-robert-vadra-1037874.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||Lakhimpur incident: Sibal urges SC to act||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to suo motu act on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. "Supreme Court, There was a time when there was no YouTube, no social media, the Supreme Court acted suo motu on the basis of news in the print media. It heard the voice of the voiceless," Sibal said in a tweet. Supreme Court There was a time when there was no YouTube , no social media , the Supreme Court acted suo motu on the basis of news in the print media It heard the voice of the voiceless Today when our citizens are run over and killed The Supreme Court is requested to act Today when our citizens are run over and killed, the Supreme Court is requested to act, the senior advocate said, in an obvious reference to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Four of the eight dead in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The others including BJP workers and their driver were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by the protesters. The Uttar Pradesh Police has lodged a case against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lakhimpur-incident-sibal-urges-sc-to-act-1037880.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||Why so much hatred against farmers? Kejriwal asks Modi on Lakhimpur Kheri incident||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday lashed out at the Centre over the death of farmers during violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure justice for the families of the victims. The AAP leader also demanded that the accused in the case be arrested and that Union Minister of State for Home, Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose son has been named as accused in the incident, be sacked. Addressing a virtual press conference, he alleged that the “entire system” is trying to protect the killers of the farmers and asked the prime minister as to why nobody has so far been arrested in connection with the case. “For last one year, farmers have been sitting on a dharna. More than 600 farmers have died so far. And then farmers are crushed and killed by mowing them down under wheels. Why is there so much hatred against the farmers?” he asked the prime minister. Kejriwal also asked the prime minister why Mishra has not yet been dismissed as Union Minister of State for Home Affairs. “Every citizen of this country is today demanding justice for the farmers. The decision is in your hands,” he said appealing to the prime minister to intervene in the matter and also visit family members of the accused. The entire nation wants that those accused of killing farmers be immediately arrested and Mishra be sacked from his ministerial post, he said. Kejriwal attacked the Uttar Pradesh government for allegedly not allowing opposition party leaders to meet the family members of the victims. “Pradhan Mantri (prime minister) Ji, on the one hand, the government is celebrating 'Azadi Ka Mahotsav (festival of freedom)' and on the other hand, opposition leaders are being arrested on their way to Lakhimpur. What type of freedom is this? Britishers used to take such actions,” he said. After initially denying permission to political parties to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, the Uttar Pradesh government has now allowed them to visit the district. Four of the eight dead in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.  The others including BJP workers and their driver were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by the protesters. The Uttar Pradesh Police has lodged a case against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish but no arrest has been made so far.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-so-much-hatred-against-farmers-kejriwal-asks-modi-on-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-1037897.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi has same fire as her grandmother Indira Gandhi: Shiv Sena||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has the same fire as her late grandmother Indira Gandhi, the Shiv Sena said on Wednesday while slamming the BJP and the Uttar Pradesh government for detaining the Congress general secretary while she was on her way to meet the family members of farmers who died in violence in Lakhmipur Kheri district. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' also asked if there was an India-Pakistan like animosity, after Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi were stopped from going to Lakhmipur Kheri, and dubbed it as a “strange incident” in the federal structure of the country. “Since she (Priyanka Gandhi) is a general secretary of the Congress party, there can be a political attack on her, but she is also the granddaughter of great leader Indira Gandhi who made great sacrifices for the country and partitioned Pakistan (into Bangladesh). Those who illegally imprisoned her should have been conscious of this fact,” the Marathi daily said. Priyanka Gandhi asked fiery questions to the UP administration on what was her crime and whether a warrant was issued or an FIR registered against her for the imprisonment, said the Sena, which shares power with the Congress and NCP in Maharashtra. The (Uttar Pradesh) administration not only stopped her but also manhandled her, the editorial alleged. "Priyanka Gandhi is a fiery leader and fighter. Her eyes and voice have the same fire as Indira Gandhi," it said. On Tuesday, Priyanka Gandhi alleged that she was being held illegally at the PAC compound in Sitapur, no notice or FIR was provided to her, and she was not allowed to meet her legal counsel. Officials said the Uttar Pradesh Police have booked her and 10 other people under sections related to preventive custody due to apprehension of breach of peace. The Shiv Sena claimed Priyanka Gandhi was “insulted”. Had this taken place with any of the BJP woman workers in Maharashtra, the party would have unleashed its army of women volunteers, the Marathi publication claimed. The BJP has its own definition of exploitation of women and the attack on Indira Gandhi's granddaughter does not come under that purview, it said. Four of the eight dead in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The others, including BJP workers and their driver, were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by the protesters. The Uttar Pradesh Police have lodged a case against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish, but no arrest has been made so far. The Shiv Sena said the one who ordered to fire bullets at farmers at the Jallianwalla Bagh was a British. The one who crushed freedom fighter Babu Genu under a truck in Mumbai (during the independence struggle), while he was protesting against foreign clothes, was also a British, it said. But, the one who crushed farmers fighting for their rights in Lakhimpur Kheri is the son of a Union minister, the Sena alleged. On Tuesday, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and said a united opposition is very important to save democracy in the country. “I met Rahul Gandhi. We discussed many issues, but I cannot disclose what all we discussed. I have also held discussions with him on the Lakhimpur incident,” he told reporters after the meeting. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-has-same-fire-as-her-grandmother-indira-gandhi-shiv-sena-1037902.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||BJP govt committing more atrocities than British: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday alleged that the BJP government is committing more atrocities than the British, and its minister is threatening to suppress farmers' voices. He was addressing a program at Sunaseer Nath Gurudwara here. "The BJP government has surpassed the atrocities committed by the British. Its minister of the state of home is threatening farmers to suppress their voice. Such tone and tenor should not be there in democracy," Yadav said. "There were cruel rulers in the world but in the BJP regime, the voice of democracy is being crushed. In the nearby Lakhimpur district, Sikhs and farmers were crushed and killed. Never has such an incident taken place in the world," he said. Yadav demanded Rs 2 crore for the families of the four farmers who died in Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the arrest of the accused. Highlighting the poor law and order situation in the state, Yadav said an IPS and six officers are absconding, while those involved in the Lakhimpur case are not being arrested. He said that if the Centre's three farm laws were implemented, then the farmers will have no benefit. Attacking Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Yadav said that the person who is ruling is not a 'yogi', because a "'yogi' remains at a distance from desires, and understand grief and problems of others." "Those who have read Guru Granth Sahib and Gita know who and how yogis are," he said. Yadav said that he appreciated the farmers for continuing their agitation and criticised the BJP for labelling them terrorists and defaming them. "If farmers are terrorists, they (BJP) should not eat what they cultivate in their fields," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-govt-committing-more-atrocities-than-british-akhilesh-yadav-1037962.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||Lakhimpur violence: BJP rules out Ajay Mishra's resignation||The Modi government is in no mood to concede to the opposition demand for the resignation of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, who is in the eye of a storm over the Lakhimpur Kheri killings. Mishra, the Minister of State for Home Affairs, was present at his office in North Block this afternoon and later met Home Minister Amit Shah to brief him in detail about the turn of events in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. Government sources ruled out the resignation of Mishra, terming the uproar over the Lakhimpur Kheri killings as an opposition conspiracy to defame the Modi government. The sources pointed out that a judicial inquiry had been ordered into the incident by the Uttar Pradesh government and that there was no question about Mishra's resignation. They also said that Mishra had clarified on several occasions that his son was not present at the site of violence. “The Modi government has been enduring attacks from the opposition since 2019. First, it was the CAA protests and now the farmers' protests,” the sources said. BJP, meanwhile, hit out at Rahul Gandhi and accused him of trying to spread unrest by visiting Lakhimpur Kheri where the situation was slowly returning to normal. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said Gandhi was trying to revive his flagging political career by politicising the Lakhimpur Kheri killings and had no concern for farmers. “Rahul Gandhi's only aim is to save the Gandhi family, whose fortunes are fast depleting. He has no concern for farmers, traders or even the Congress party,” Patra said. Patra also dismissed Gandhi's allegations of “dictatorship” under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and hit out at the former Congress President for “unleashing” goons on leaders such as Kapil Sibal for questioning the Gandhi family. “Sibal had only asked a simple question 'who is the Congress president”? Rahul Gandhi instigated his supporters to attack Sibal's residence, window panes were broken, cars were damaged. Is this democracy,” Patra wondered. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lakhimpur-violence-bjp-rules-out-ajay-mishras-resignation-1038007.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||Lakhimpur Kheri killings give new lifeline to Opposition ahead of UP election||The killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri has given a new lifeline for the Opposition, especially the Congress, ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections early next year with top leaders making a beeline to the families of victims, as the ruling BJP scrambled for a fire-fight to tackle any possible electoral rumblings. Sensing that the optics were not going in its favour after remaining adamant for two days on not allowing the Opposition leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, the Yogi Adityanath government on Wednesday changed the strategy, releasing Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi from detention and allowing her, Rahul Gandhi and other party leaders to visit the victims' families. At the same time, the BJP made it clear that it was not in a mood to sack Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, who is in the eye of a storm over allegations that his son drove the vehicle that rammed into farmers killing four of them, despite vociferous demands. Mishra met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and attended office on Wednesday. The Opposition parties had immediately hit the ground after the news broke out on Sunday about the incident in which eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed. The episode has specifically given a push to Congress, which has been saddled with troubles in various states including where it is in power, as warring leaders got together to rally behind the Gandhis. Opposition parties were quick to draw a parallel with the British rule and leaders like Sharad Pawar and Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi equated the Lakhimpur Kheri episode as Jallianwala Bagh. While Congress, Samajwadi Party, AAP and BSP leaders among others were prevented initially, leaders of Trinamool Congress and RLD dodged the authorities to reach Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday itself. The UP government's move to allow leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri came, soon after Rahul took off for Lucknow en-route Lakhimpur Kheri after holding a press conference in Delhi accusing the Narendra Modi government of "systematically attacking" the farmers and claiming that India was now under "dictatorship" with leaders not being allowed to visit Uttar Pradesh. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal also held a press conference attacking the BJP government. "Why have the murderers not been arrested? Why is the state protecting the culprits? Is there no value in life? Criminals mercilessly ran their cars over innocent people only to have the entire system bow down before them and shield them from the law," he said. The BJP has been on a backfoot after videos surfaced that showed that a vehicle belonging to the Minister of State had rammed into protesters, and party MP Varun Gandhi, who is a cousin of Rahul and Priyanka, demanded action against culprits. As Rahul touched down in Lucknow, Congress Chief Ministers Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and Channi accompanying him separately announced Rs 50 lakh each to families of four farmers and the journalist who lost their lives. In between, the UP government announced that it would be allowing leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. At the airport, there was drama as Rahul and the Congress Chief Ministers were not allowed to leave the facility after they refused to drive to Lakhimpur Kheri in government vehicles. Rahul insisted that he would travel in a private vehicle and a video released by Congress showed security personnel not allowing him to leave the premises. However, soon after, the UP authorities allowed Rahul and others to leave in their own vehicles following which he met Priyanka, who was by then released from custody, in Sitapur, before heading to Lakhimpur Kheri late in the evening. While the episode once again led to questions on the possibility of Opposition unity, Rahul told a press conference in Delhi that the idea was good but at this moment, one does not need "a distraction" from farmers' issues. Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut had met Rahul on Tuesday to press for united action. "Sooner than later, there will be an explosion the size of which people do not understand. We are telling the government that let the democratic process work and do not interfere in it. It is a safety valve and if you shut the safety valve, other problems will arise," he said. He said that leaders are visiting Lakhimpur Kheri to give confidence to people. "You cannot be run over by a criminal who calls himself the son of a (Minister of State) Home Minister and then nothing happens. We are not going to allow that. That is the message we are going to give them. A message of hope. Today, those families of farmers do not have hope," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lakhimpur-kheri-killings-give-new-lifeline-to-opposition-ahead-of-up-election-1038008.html
06-10-2021||National Politics||SC registers suo motu case on Lakhimpur Kheri violence, to hear matter on Thursday||The Supreme Court has taken a suo motu cognisance of Lakhimpur Kheri violence which claimed lives of eight people, including four farmers on Sunday. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli would take up the matter on Thursday. According to the Supreme Court website, the case 'In Re Violence in Lakhimpur Kheri (UP) leading to loss of lives' would come up for hearing before the bench led by the Chief Justice of India. The incident has come under attack from the Opposition leaders as farmers' outfits have claimed that a car ferrying Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish ran over a group of protesters gathered to oppose a programme attended by Uttar Pradesh's deputy Chief Minister. Farmers in Punjab, Haryana and Western UP have been protesting for the last one year demanding repeal of three farm laws. Several videos of the Sunday incident had emerged, creating furore across the country. Reacting to the development, former Union minister and Congress MP Kapil Sibal tweeted, "This is the need of the hour. The courts in India are the temples of justice that can restore the faith of the voiceless who most often feel orphaned." Earlier, two lawyers had written to the Chief Justice of India for CBI probe into the matter.  The letter, written by advocates Shiv Kumar Tripathi and C S Panda, said: “Having regard to the seriousness of the killing of the farmers at District Lakhimpur-Khiri in Uttar Pradesh, it is incumbent upon this court to intervene in the matter”.  The lawyers claimed of late, violence has become the political culture in the country. They said there is need to protect the rule of law in the "violence- ravaged" Uttar Pradesh.  The incident called for direction against the state government and the concerned bureaucrats along with the "law-breaking" police machinery under the administrative control of the ministry of home, so that the "cult of violence" comes to a grinding halt, they said. Watch the latest DH Videos here: (More to follow)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sc-registers-suo-motu-case-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-to-hear-matter-on-thursday-1038027.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Congress leader Sachin Pilot 'detained' in Moradabad en route to Lakhimpur Kheri||Senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Wednesday said he was detained along with Acharya Pramod Krishnam by the police in Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh when they were on their way to meet the families of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Speaking with PTI, Pilot said all through their road journey from Delhi they were stopped at multiple checkpoints, posed several questions by the police and were eventually detained and taken to a guest house in Moradabad. "We have broken no law, we were merely going to meet the families of the farmer victims and the intention was to bring peace and calm in the area. People who are named in the FIR are not being questioned or detained but people who are going to share the sorrow and wipe the tears of people are being detained," the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister said. "This evening @AcharyaPramodk ji & I were detained in Moradabad while on route to Lakhimpur Kheri. We didn't break any provisions of the law. These undemocratic steps of UP Govt will not deter us," he said in a tweet. "We'll raise our voice for justice for the deceased farmers & their families," Pilot said. Pilot landed in Delhi on Wednesday morning and set out for Sitapur and Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh by road straight from the airport. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was in detention in Sitapur since Monday morning. She was on her way to meet the families of the farmers killed in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri when she was stopped. She and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were allowed to go Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday. Pilot was stopped by the police briefly near Gaur City in Ghaziabad on the national highway-24 but then permitted to proceed towards Hapur. Senior Superintendent of Police Pawan Kumar said Ghaziabad Police has no plans to intercept Pilot's motorcade. Earlier, vehicles were being checked at the Ghazipur border, and City Superintendent of Police (second) Gyanendra Singh, who was on duty there, had said that Pilot will not be allowed to go to Lakhimpur as his presence might cause law and order problems there. Eight people were killed Sunday as violence erupted during a farmers' protest. Four of the dead were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Ajay Mishra's native place. The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-leader-sachin-pilot-detained-in-moradabad-en-route-to-lakhimpur-kheri-1037833.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Farmer killed in Lakhimpur violence cremated after second autopsy||Gurvinder Singh alias Gyaniji, one of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, was cremated on Wednesday morning after a second autopsy was conducted on him as demanded by his family, police said. Family members of the 22-year-old, hailing from Moharia village of Bahraich district, had earlier refused to cremate him, claiming that he was shot dead but the post-mortem report had no mention of it. They had received support from farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and Punjabi singer Sonia Maan. With the Uttar Pradesh government agreeing to their demand, a second post-mortem was conducted on Tuesday night by a team of experts from Lucknow, Superintendent of Police Sujata Singh said. Hours after this, Gurvinder Singh was cremated by his family members in his village in the presence of Tikait, ADG (Gorakhpur) Akhil Kumar and senior police and administration officials, Additional Superintendent of Police (Rural) Ashok Kumar said. The post-mortem report will be prepared under the supervision of the experts who conducted the exam, SP Singh said. District Magistrate Dinesh Chandra Singh said the family members of Gurvinder Singh had raised objections on the post-mortem done earlier. "With the permission of the state government, it was done again and videographed as well," he added. Talking to PTI, Sukhdev Singh, uncle of Gurvinder Singh, said, "Post-mortem was done in front of us and our leaders. At that time doctors told us that Gurvinder was not shot." "When in both post-mortems, doctors say that he was not shot, we had no option left but to cremated him," he added. The mortal remains of the three other dead farmers were cremated at their native places on Tuesday. The UP government is facing massive flak after eight people were killed in violence during a protest against the farm laws in Lakhimpur on Sunday. Four of the dead were farmers who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers. The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Ajay Mishra's native place. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-killed-in-lakhimpur-violence-cremated-after-second-autopsy-1037840.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Son was not in the SUV that killed Lakhimpur Kheri farmers, claims MoS Ajay Mishra||The Lakhimpur Kheri violence case has taken a new turn with Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra denying murder allegations against his son. "From Day One, we have been clear that the (Mahindra) Thar is ours, which is registered in our name. And the vehicle was going to receive someone after picking up our workers. Our son was at another venue. From 11 am till the evening, he was organising another event. My son was present there, there were thousands there. There are photos and videos. If you take out his call records and CDR, location... can check all. Thousands of people are willing to give an affidavit also that Ashish Mishra was there," he was quoted telling NDTV. The BJP leader's son, Ashish Mishra, has been in the spotlight after a video surfaced showing his Mahindra SUV, along with some other cars, mowing down and killing four protesting farmers in the Uttar Pradesh district. "As far as the vehicle is concerned, I was clear that my driver was killed, two workers were killed. One worker escaped, three workers are injured, and after that, the car stopped there. After that, the car was pushed and the vehicle and another Fortuner was burnt. Such people can't be farmers. These are extremists hidden amongst farmers," the minister is quoted as saying in the report. In the viral video, the minister's SUV can be seen slamming into the farmers from behind, catching them off guard and killing four, including a protestor as young as 19 years. The graphic footage has also been shared by Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi who is being detained without an FIR for trying to visit the kin of the victims. Gandhi shared the footage on her Twitter account and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was inaugurating projects in the state, why he had not spoken about the violence involving his party cadre and why he is not going to Lakhimpur Kheri. BJP MP Varun Gandhi also shared the video, calling it 'cruel and unfair' and demanding compensation for the family of the victims. The violence is supposed to have taken place following an inciteful speech by Ajay Mishra. Farmers had tried to block Mishra and Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya from visiting as a mark of their protest but the minister told them "it will take just two minutes to discipline you fellows," according to NDTV. When upset farmers marched in protest, the violence ensued with the SUV mowing them down. Addressing his speech, Mishra claimed to have been misunderstood. "If you look at the full speech, it was given in a gathering of farmers. On September 25, in front of a gurudwara, I had made that speech in a gathering of farmers and in that, I had spoken of people who tore the posters at night, and it was said that these people can't be farmers. Who tore the pictures of Bharat Mata, the PM, our hoardings before a Kisan sammelan? They are rowdy, violent. And there should be action against these violent people. That's what I said, that you better reform, or else the state and the administration will fix you through its laws," he said. Furthermore, defending his son, the MoS said, "Police did not add his name to FIR. They were made to add by people who gave the complaint. In the complaint, he is mentioned. This is a matter of investigation, it will all get clear after investigation. I have clearly told you we have proof. It is not without evidence that we are saying. There is a 3-4 km distance between the site of the incident and the event venue. He was continuously at the event venue. He did not go to the scene, neither did I." Mishra clarified that he was under no pressure to resign, as reported by NDTV. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/son-was-not-in-the-suv-that-killed-lakhimpur-kheri-farmers-claims-mos-ajay-mishra-1037843.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Sidhu slams Uttar Pradesh police for detaining Priyanka Gandhi ||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday slammed the Uttar Pradesh Police for detaining party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and accused it of violating the spirit of the Constitution. His remark came a day after he warned that the party's state unit would march towards Lakhimpur Kheri if Gandhi was not released and Union minister Ajay Mishra's son not held in connection with the violence.  Gandhi was detained in Sitapur on Monday while she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, died during a protest over Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit on Sunday. “54 hours passed !! @priyankagandhi Ji has not been produced before any Court … unlawful detention beyond 24 hours is a clear violation of the fundamental rights. BJP & UP Police :- You are violating the spirit of the Constitution, impinging on our basic human rights !!,” Sidhu said in a tweet. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-slams-uttar-pradesh-police-for-detaining-priyanka-gandhi-1037850.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||J&K horticulture generates Rs 10,000 crore revenue annually||Despite negligence from the government and multiple lockdowns, Jammu and Kashmir’s horticulture industry is growing and contributing eight per cent to Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Horticulture, which is a major sector, plays a key role in the economy of the Union Territory as it generates approximately Rs 10,000 crore income annually. As per official figures, the livelihood of 35 lakh people in the UT is directly or indirectly dependent on horticulture and it is the main employment generation sector. According to the 2011 census, J&K had a population of 1.25 crore. An area of 3.33 lakh hectares (2020-21) is under fruit cultivation and a production of 20.35 lakh metric tonnes has been recorded in the same period, the figures reveal. Two decades back (2001), only 2.21 lakh hectares of land were under fruit cultivation in the UT. In 2001, the fruit production was recorded at 10.9 lakh metric tonnes and the same has now gone up to 20.35 lakh metric tonnes. Almost 77 per cent of India’s apples and 90 per cent of walnuts come from J&K. However, despite horticulture being one of the main contributors to the UT’s economy, the government over the years has been allocating a meager sum for the growth of this vital sector. In the 2019-2020 Budget, out of Rs 88,911 crore allocation, Rs 500 crore had been earmarked for the horticulture sector. According to official figures, the horticulture sector generated a total wage employment of 13.32 crore man days in 2020-21 under apple orchards and others, coming out as one of the major sources for direct and indirect employment generation in the UT. A senior officer of J&K Horticulture Department said that the sector can transform the economy of UT over the next decade by creating jobs, increasing production, ecological development, and poverty alleviation. “While agriculture has seen a continuous decline in J&K, the area under horticulture is on a surge which has cemented the latest position as a torch bearer of the economy. However, the government needs to invest in this sector to give it a further boost,” he added. The cultivation of high-density apples has already started transforming the scenario of apple production in Kashmir and is expected to give a boost to the apple economy in coming years. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-horticulture-generates-rs-10000-crore-revenue-annually-1037855.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||'Illegal and unconstitutional': Former SC judge slams Priyanka's detention||Slamming the detention of Priyanka Gandhi related to the Lakhimpur violence in Uttar Pradesh, former Supreme Court judge Justice (retired) Madan Lokur has said the detention is "unconstitutional" as it is done without any order. Gandhi was detained on Monday in Uttar Pradesh when she was on her way to Lakhimpur where the violence broke out, killing eight people on Sunday. She also claimed that her detention was not preceded by any order or notice. The former judge described the Lakhimpur Kheri violence as “horrific” and said that it is a simple case of “murder”. Noting that the first thing that should be done in a murder case is to arrest the accused, he suggested the government should already take steps in that direction now. "It's very odd, very strange that these guys are still roaming around free. How come? What's the explanation for this?" he told the publication. On prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC in force in Lakhimpur, along with restricted internet services, the former judge said, “Nowadays, Section 144 is being used on the drop of a hat.” “Somebody has died and someone wants to commiserate with the family, what is wrong with that?" he added in his interview with the publication. Farmers have alleged that the SUV that rammed over a group of farmers protesting in Lakhimpur Kheri, was driven by Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son. Mishra admitted that the SUV belongs to him, but said that neither he nor his son was present when the incident happened. However, an FIR was registered against Mishra and his son by the Uttar Pradesh police. Also, the officials have confirmed that a case was registered on Tuesday against Gandhi and 10 others, including Deepender Hooda and Ajay Kumar Lallu, under Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) sections 151, 107, 116 related to preventive detention due to apprehension of breach of peace. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/illegal-and-unconstitutional-former-sc-judge-slams-priyankas-detention-1037857.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Cornered Yogi allows opposition leaders to meet Lakhimpur violence victims||Pushed onto the defensive, the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday allowed the opposition leaders to visit the violence-torn Lakhimpur Kheri district and meet the families of those killed in Sunday's violence, which claimed the lives of eight people including four farmers and a local scribe. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and his sister and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, along with the chief ministers of Punjab and Chattisgarh, reached the spot to meet the families of the victims. Priyanka, who was arrested late on Sunday night while on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, joined her brother at Sitapur, after being released from police custody. Rahul, earlier, had a tough time getting out of the Lucknow Airport, where he had arrived with Chattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and Punjab CM Charanjeet Singh Channi. ''What kind of permission is this?" an angry Rahul said after he was prevented from moving out of the Airport by the police. Rahul, Baghel and Channi sat on a dharna inside the Airport premises in protest against the police action. The Congress leader was later offered to travel in a police vehicle to Lakhimpur but he refused saying that the cops might have some other plans. A large number of people stood on the side of the road in Lakhimpur Kheri, when the cavalcade of Rahul and Priyanka arrived there on their way to Tikonia, where eight people, including four farmers and a local scribe, were killed in violence on Sunday. Rahul will be visiting the homes of Luvpreet Singh, who was among those killed after being run over by a vehicle allegedly driven by union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra. He was also likely to visit the family of Raman Kashyap, a local scribe, who too was killed in the violence. Aam Admi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh has also reached Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the victims. Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot was, however, detained in Moradabad while on way to Lakhimpur Kheri. Punjab Congress president Navjyot Singh Sidhu is likely to reach the district on Thursday. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cornered-yogi-allows-opposition-leaders-to-meet-lakhimpur-violence-victims-1037858.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||HC to hear on October 22 plea against complete ban on sale, use of firecracker by Delhi government||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said it would hear on October 22 the plea against complete ban on sale, storage and use of firecrackers in the national capital during Diwali, saying that it will await the outcome of the hearing before the Supreme Court on the issue. “Let us wait for what guidance the Supreme Court is giving,” said a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti while hearing the plea by two individuals, Rahul Sanwariya and Tanveer, who have claimed that Delhi government's decision of imposing a complete ban was an “overreach” as the apex court has never ordered an absolute ban on the sale of firecrackers in the national capital. “So you are saying this (ban) amounts to contempt (of Supreme Court)? Then file a contempt,” said the Chief Justice. “I'm not pitching it that high. I'm just saying Supreme Court order doesn't allow,” said lawyer Gautam Jha, appearing for the petitioners. Delhi government counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi said the issue was coming up for hearing before the Supreme Court. Jha stated that he sought a modification of the September 15 order which imposed a complete ban on the storage, sale and bursting of all kinds of firecrackers during the festival of Diwali on account of pollution concerns. Instead of an absolute ban, the authorities ought to opt for green crackers or a graded regulation, he said. The petitioners have contended that the ban was arbitrary, unreasonable and excessive. “The action of the Respondent (Delhi government) must be no more intrusive than is necessary to meet an important public purpose. No doubt Article 25 of the Indian Constitution is subject to Article 21 and it is not contested by the Petitioners, however it is submitted by the Petitioners that the extent of the intereference of the Respondent by its decision/order is not proportionate to the ultimate aim and objective i.e to curb the Pollution in the NCT Of Delhi,” the petition stated. It is claimed that pollution in Delhi was attributable to vehicles, biomass burning etc and the complete ban on firecrackers, one and a half months prior of the festival of Diwali, has hurt the sentiments of millions of people.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-to-hear-on-october-22-plea-against-complete-ban-on-sale-use-of-firecracker-by-delhi-government-1037860.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||MoS Home Ajay Kumar Mishra meets Amit Shah in Delhi, attends office||Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra on Wednesday met Home Minister Amit Shah, for the first time since a murder case was registered against his son for allegedly mowing down four farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, sources said. Mishra, Union Minister of State for Home, came to his first-floor office in the North Block and stayed for about half an hour. After doing a few official works, Mishra left the North Block, the sources said. The minister then visited the residence of Shah where he closeted for about half an hour. Mishra is understood to have briefed the home minister about the Sunday's incident in his home district of Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Police have registered a murder case against Ashish Mishra, the son of Ajay Kumar Mishra, and several others over the death of the farmers in the Sunday's incident. The minister has denied the allegations by the farmers' unions that his son was in one of the cars. He said he has evidence to show that his son was at an event being held elsewhere. According to his version, a vehicle, carrying BJP workers, turned turtle after protesters pelted stones at it. The farmers came under the vehicle and died, he had said. Four occupants of the car were then pulled out and beaten to death allegedly by protestors. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mos-home-ajay-kumar-mishra-meets-amit-shah-in-delhi-attends-office-1037868.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Two suspected overground workers of militants arrested in J&K||Security forces have arrested two suspected overground workers of militants from Kupwara district in Jammu and Kashmir and recovered arms and ammunition from their possession, officials said here on Wednesday. Safeer Ahmad Sheikh and Zameer Hussian Sheikh were apprehended at Hajitara near the Line of Control in Karnah area of Kupwara on Tuesday evening,  the officials said.  They said eight hand grenades, one pistol, and seven rounds were recovered from the possession of the arrested persons. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-suspected-overground-workers-of-militants-arrested-in-jk-1037869.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Wall collapses in Delhi's Rajendra market, one injured||A sanitation worker was injured after a portion of a boundary wall collapsed in Rajendra market near Tiz Hazari on Wednesday, the Delhi Fire Service said. Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot, they said. A 40-feet long and 10-feet high wall collapsed, said Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Service. The injured man was rushed to Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wall-collapses-in-delhis-rajendra-market-one-injured-1037870.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Congress frustrated by Sidhu's 'resignation' antics: Report||Navjot Singh Sidhu, who announced his resignation from the post of Punjab Congress president, has kept the party in a tough spot. The party's top brass has reportedly held talks with Sidhu in order to try and resolve his issues.  Congress has even asked him to inform the public that his concerns have been cleared out with the party, but Sidhu has not agreed to do so until he feels satisfied with his issues truly being resolved.  Amid a deadlock, the Congress party seems to have started its quest to find Sindhu's replacement. These speculations have been stirred by Channi's Delhi trip with PPCC working president Kuljit Nagra and party MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, reported The Indian Express.  “It is out of Sidhu’s obstinacy that he wants the AG to be replaced first and a new DGP in place before he withdraws his resignation. But the party does not want to give in this time. They have not liked the way Sidhu tweeted his resignation and embarrassed the CM. They want him to take up issues at the party platform,” a source was quoted telling The Indian Express. “Despite his going public with the resignation, the party still provided him with a way out. A panel of IPS officers was prepared the same day and sent to UPSC. The DGP will be chosen after the UPSC panel is received. What is the issue then? If he can tweet his resignation then he can also tweet that all is well." Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-frustrated-by-sidhus-resignation-antics-report-1037904.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh, Punjab govts to give Rs 50 lakh to kin of Lakhimpur violence victims||Congress governments in Chhattisgarh and Punjab on Wednesday announced Rs 50 lakh each to the families of farmers and a journalist who were killed in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, as the party upped its ante on the issue. Chief Ministers Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab) made the announcements while accompanying Rahul Gandhi to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families, after a stand-off with the Uttar Pradesh government over their visit. "We stand with the families of the farmers who have been murdered," Channi tweeted as he announced the compensation. Baghel also said that his government will also give Rs 50 lakh to the families of the farmers and the journalist. "Thanks, Bhupesh Baghel and Charanjit Singh Channi. The BJP will crush the farmers and journalists under the tires of the jeep and the Chhattisgarh and Punjab governments have decided to give Rs 1 crore (50 lakh per government) to each farmer-journalist family to heal the wounds. That's the difference," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted. Claiming that the UP government has made a "mockery" of democracy, Channi described the Lakhimpur violence as reminding him of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in 1919. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-punjab-govts-to-give-rs-50-lakh-to-kin-of-lakhimpur-violence-victims-1037918.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||12 escalators commissioned at various Delhi Metro stations||Delhi Metro has commissioned 12 escalators at various stations falling under phases I and II of the network to provide more convenience to passengers, the DMRC said on Wednesday. Large segments of the Red Line, Blue Line, and the Yellow Line, and other corridors were built under these first two phases. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is currently working on constructing corridors under the Ph-IV network. "In order to provide convenience to passengers, DMRC has recently commissioned 12 additional escalators at different metro stations of Phase I & II.  Presently, Delhi Metro has more than 1,140 escalators and 26 travelators installed and commissioned at 286 stations," the DMRC tweeted. The DMRC's current operational span is nearly 392 kilometres with 286 stations (including the Noida-Greater Noida Metro Corridor and the Rapid Metro, Gurgaon). The Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand extension of the Grey Line of the Delhi Metro opened on September 18. It was the latest corridor of the DMRC to be inaugurated, taking the mass rapid transit system further into the interior areas of Najafgarh. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-escalators-commissioned-at-various-delhi-metro-stations-1037921.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi-Centre row: AAP govt mentions again for hearing in SC plea against amended GNCTD Act, Rules||The AAP government on Wednesday sought again an urgent hearing in the Supreme Court of the plea challenging the amended GNCTD Act and some provisions of the Transaction of Business Rules which allegedly give more power to the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi. On September 13, the Delhi Government had mentioned the same plea for urgent hearing and the apex court had then agreed to list it. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli was urged by senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, that the plea may be listed for hearing. “A day before, a lawyer mentioned the Delhi-Centre case. Everyday, we have to hear the Delhi government matter only? We will list it, Mr Singhvi, leave it there... We will put it before the appropriate bench,” the bench said. Singhvi sought to distinguish between the case, which was being mentioned by him for urgent hearing, from the other one which was mentioned on Tuesday by senior advocate Rahul Mehra. Singhvi said he was seeking listing of a writ petition which pertains to Article 239AA (status of Delhi under the Constitution) and challenged the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Act and 13 Rules of the Transaction of Business of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Rules, 1993. The Delhi government, in its plea through Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, has sought quashing of the four amended sections of the GNCTD Act and 13 Rules on various grounds such as the violation of the doctrine of basic structure, separation of power, as the LG has been bestowed with more authority. The GNCTD Amendment Act, 2021 has come into force after being passed by the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on March 22 and March 24, respectively. According to the amended Act, the expression 'Delhi Government' referred to in any law to be made by the UT's Legislative Assembly shall mean the Lieutenant Governor. The plea has alleged that the amended law gives more power to the LG over the elected government and they have “disenfranchised” Delhiites, and violated the principle of federalism by diminishing the constitutionally guaranteed powers and functions of the elected legislative assembly and the council of ministers. On Tuesday, the city government sought urgent hearing on another plea, arising out of a 2019 split verdict on the contentious issue of who should control administrative services in Delhi. The apex court said that it would set up a bench for hearing it after Diwali vacation. On February 14, 2019, a two judge-bench of Justices A K Sikri and Ashok Bhushan, both retired since, recommended to the chief justice of India that a three judge bench be set up to finally decide the issue of control of services in the national capital in view of its split verdict. Justice Bhushan had ruled the Delhi government has no power at all over administrative services. Justice Sikri, however, made a distinction. He said the transfer or posting of officers in top echelons of the bureaucracy (joint director and above) can only be done by the Central government and the view of the lieutenant governor would prevail in case of a difference of opinion for matters relating to other bureaucrats. On July 4, 2018, the five-judge Constitution bench had unanimously held that the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi is bound by the “aid and advice” of the elected government and both needed to work harmoniously with each other. It had also laid down broad parameters for governance of the national capital, which has witnessed a power struggle between the Centre and the Delhi government since the AAP came to power in 2014. The Delhi government has been at loggerheads with the present L-G and his predecessor.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-centre-row-aap-govt-mentions-again-for-hearing-in-sc-plea-against-amended-gnctd-act-rules-1037922.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 3 policemen, SUV driver killed in road accident in Morena||Three policemen and their SUV driver were killed, while another cop was injured after their vehicle rammed into a truck in Madhya Pradesh's Morena district on Wednesday, a police official said. The accident took place near Banmore industrial area on Agra-Mumbai National Highway no. 3 at around 4 am when the four policemen, all from Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, were going towards Gwalior, he said. The private vehicle carrying four policemen, including a sub-inspector and three constables, rammed into a truck. Three policemen and their vehicle driver died on the spot, located about 40 km from Gwalior, Banmore police station in-charge Viresh Singh Kushwaha said. Another injured constable was rushed to Gwalior and admitted to the Gajra Raja Medical College Trauma Centre for treatment, he said. The bodies were sent for post-mortem. The truck driver fled from the spot after the incident and efforts were on to trace him, the official said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-3-policemen-suv-driver-killed-in-road-accident-in-morena-1037929.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||States must comply with orders on crackers: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that every state must comply with its previous order for banning joint crackers while expressing its concern over the use of banned substances under the guise of green crackers.  The top court also maintained that there can't be a celebration at the cost of others' lives.  A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said that celebration does not mean the use of loud crackers, it can also be with "Fuljhaddi" and other less noisy items.  "Our earlier order must be complied with by every state. Despite the fact that there is a specific ban on joint crackers, if you go to any State or city or any celebration, joint crackers are openly available in the market," the bench said. The court asked if there was a ban how come those firecrackers were being sold in the open market. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for manufacturers' association of firecrackers, contended that the industry should work as per the protocol issued by the government. "It is an organised industry. Around five lakh families depend on us. So far Sivakasi is concerned, we are taking all the precautions," Dave said. The court said that the main difficulty was about the implementation of the orders issued by it. Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta added that because of one or two manufacturers the whole industry should not suffer. The court asked the parties to exchange copies of counter-affidavits filed in response to a CBI report and posted the matter for hearing on October 26. The court had earlier said that the CBI report on the use of toxic chemicals in the manufacturing of firecrackers is very serious and "prima facie" it appears that there has been a violation of the court's orders on the use of barium and labelling of fireworks. The court had on March 3, 2020, directed the Joint Director, CBI at Chennai to make a detailed investigation and submit a report within six weeks on the alleged violation of the court's earlier orders by the manufacturers by using the banned ingredients, including barium salt and mislabeling their products.  The top court had on October 23, 2018, imposed a ban on the use of barium salt due to its deleterious effect. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/states-must-comply-with-orders-on-crackers-sc-1037932.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Rakesh Tikait demands sacking of Ajay Mishra, arrest of all accused; warns of nationwide agitation||Striking an aggressive tone two days after a 'compromise', the farmer leaders on Wednesday warned of a ''massive agitation'' unless Union Minister of State for Home Ajai Mishra was 'sacked' and his son Ashish, who is accused of running over four farmers with his SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday. ''We are giving the government six days' time... the minister must be sacked and his son must be arrested and sent to jail... we will launch a massive agitation if our demands are not met,'' Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said in Lakhimpur Kheri. He said that the farmers had agreed to call off their agitation on the condition that the minister would be sacked and his son would be arrested. ''The compromise is not about compensation... we will return the money to the government if the latter thinks so,'' he added. According to the police sources here, Ashish Mishra, who was booked for murder, was likely to be called for questioning by the special investigation team (SIT), which was probing the incident in which eight persons, including four farmers, were killed. The minister was also booked for conspiracy. Sources said that security personnel in strength were deployed around the residence of the minister in the district. ''He (Ashish) could be arrested after questioning,'' said a police official in Lakhimpur Kheri preferring anonymity. The police had appealed to the people to make available the videos pertaining to Sunday's violence at Tikonia in the district. At least two videos were already circulating on social networking sites. One of them showed an SUV running over a crowd of what looked like farmers on a dusty village road. The police have however asked the people not to share unverified video and information pertaining to the incident on social media and warned of action against anyone found doing so. It was yet to be ascertained if Ashish Mishra was inside the vehicle that ran over the farmers. One of the injured farmers, who was under treatment at a Delhi hospital, claimed that Ashish was in the vehicle. Eight persons, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed at Tikonia in the district after hundreds of farmers tried to waive black flag and block the visit of Ajai Mishra and UP deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya to attend a function on Monday. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-rakesh-tikait-demands-sacking-of-ajay-mishra-arrest-of-all-accused-warns-of-nationwide-agitation-1037972.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Police use water cannon to disperse AAP workers trying to lay siege to Punjab Governor's house||Police used a water cannon to disperse AAP workers trying to lay siege to the Punjab Governor's house here on Wednesday over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh. The police had put up barricades near the MLA hostel here to stop protesters from going towards the Punjab Raj Bhavan. When the AAP workers, led by party MLA Saravjit Kaur Manuke, tried to break the barricades, the Chandigarh Police used a water cannon to disperse them. Meanwhile, the the party's Punjab affairs incharge Jarnail Singh and Sunam MLA Aman Arora, along with some AAP protesters, were detained near the UT guest house. They sat on the road and raised slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre. The police forcibly removed them from the protest site and took them to a nearby police station. Singh demanded the arrest of all those who were behind the killing of the farmers. Four of the eight people who died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Ajay Mishra's native place. The UP Police has lodged a case against Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made so far.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-use-water-cannon-to-disperse-aap-workers-trying-to-lay-siege-to-punjab-governors-house-1037981.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||DU issues guidelines on inclusion of state board subjects in cut-off calculation||With Delhi University colleges witnessing a large number of admissions of students from the Kerala state board, the university has issued guidelines on inclusion of subjects from other state boards equivalent to ones taught under the Central Board of Secondary Education in the calculation of cut-off marks. There is an equivalence committee that decides which subjects from state boards would be similar to CBSE subjects and their inclusion while calculating the cut-off score -- the average of best-of-four marks. "If they (committee) say that a subject is not equivalent, it cannot be included in Best of Four," said Rajeev Gupta, Chairman, Admissions at the university. A meeting was held on Tuesday with colleges and a list was shared with them. Citing an example, Gupta said that CBSE has started Applied Mathematics as a subject to help students who are not well-versed with Mathematics, which means it is easier than Mathematics. "CBSE has also written that students of Applied Mathematics will not be eligible for Physics (Honours), Chemistry (Honours) and Mathematics (Honours). The Equivalence Committee considered it and found that the Applied Mathematics cannot be considered for Economics (Honours) since the course requires a difficult level of Mathematics but it can be considered for B.Com(Honours)," he said. The committee considers factors like theory and practical component, syllabus, etc. while deciding on the equivalence, Gupta said. For instance, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has a subject titled Mathematics and Statistics, which according to the guidelines will be considered equivalent to CBSE Mathematics, while Nagaland Board of School Education's Fundamentals of Business Mathematics will also be considered as the equivalent of Mathematics in CBSE. However, the Bihar School Education Board has 50-mark Hindi and English papers, in addition to 100-mark papers of both the subjects. The committee has stated that the 50-mark papers will not be considered for calculation of best-of-four average for applying to DU colleges. Similarly, the guidelines state that the subject titled Accountancy with Computer Accounting taught by the Kerala Board of Higher Secondary Education will not be considered equivalent to Business Studies of CBSE. The Business Economics paper of Madhya Pradesh will not be considered equivalent to CBSE Economics. Likewise, Secretarial Practice of the Maharashtra board won't be considered equivalent to Business Studies taught to CBSE students. Many of the colleges that have pegged 100 per cent cut-offs for some courses have seen applications from perfect scorers from the Kerala state board. It has come to light that certain colleges are rejecting applications without stating any substantial reason or withholding applications arbitrarily stating "clarifications to be sought from the university". In a related development, the Students' Federation of India demanded that CBSE and its evaluation should not be the deciding factor in admissions. "It has also been identified that CBSE and their methods are being the deciding factor regarding concerns of other state boards. These tendencies have to stop and the university must be comprehensive," the Left student outfit said in a statement. It also alleged discrimination against a "particular state board". "DU is bound to admit students satisfying all the eligibility criteria, it is a matter of shame that applicants are being discriminated against based on their board, while the hard work put in by the applicants from these varying boards are the same," the student outfit said. It also alleged that a faculty member of the university had "antagonised the Kerala board for the commendable work of its students and had using terms such as "MarksJihad". "The university must put in place a mechanism through which it can clarify its doubts regarding different boards, their syllabus, mark distribution and calculation rather than putting the applicants at stake... We hope the university will issue necessary orders to smoothen the admission process for the students of Kerala Board of Secondary Education as for anybody from any other state board," it said. Over 2.87 lakh students have applied for Delhi University's undergraduate courses, down from 3.53 lakh applications last year, with the maximum number of aspirants being from CBSE. Over 2.29 lakh applicants were from CBSE-affiliated schools, followed by Board of School Education Haryana (9,918), Council for the Indian School Certification Examination (9,659) and UP Board of High School and Intermediate Education (8,007). There were 4,824 applicants from Kerala Board of Higher Secondary Education.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-issues-guidelines-on-inclusion-of-state-board-subjects-in-cut-off-calculation-1037993.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Jim Corbett Park may be renamed 'Ramganga National Park'||Jim Corbett National Park, a world-renowned tiger reserve in Uttarakhand, may be renamed as Ramganga National Park in the future. Union Minister of State for Forest and Environment Ashwini Kumar Choubey hinted about the change in name of India's first national park which is spread over an area of ​​about 521 km. He recently mentioned it in a museum guest book on his tour of the park. He wrote that the name of Jim Corbett National Park should be changed to Ramganga National Park. Jim Corbett National Park Director Rahul confirmed this but declined to comment further. However, wildlife lovers have expressed their displeasure over the probable name change. Wildlife lover Prakash Kimothi said, "We should focus more on preserving our heritage than changing the name." If the Jim Corbett park's name is changed, it will not be the first time. The park, which was named Hailey National Park at its inception in 1936, was renamed after hunter-turned-conservationist Jim Corbett two decades later. However, for some time in between it was also named Ramganga National Park as the Ramganga, a tributary of the Ganges, passes through it. Most of the park falls in the Nainital district and is renowned for its healthy density of tigers. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jim-corbett-park-may-be-renamed-ramganga-national-park-1038001.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||3 of family killed in Delhi after fire breaks out in house due to cooking gas leakage||Three members of a family died after a fire broke out in their house in central Delhi's Anand Parbat due to a leakage in the cooking gas cylinder, police said on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Sushila (36), her daughter Mansi (7) and her son Mohan (7), they said. Fire officials said two fire tenders were deployed to douse the blaze. The incident took place on Tuesday morning when Sushila's eldest daughter Mehak (13) was cooking food for her mother and three siblings, who were asleep. A fire broke out due to leakage in the rubber pipe of the gas cylinder, the police said. After the fire broke out, Mehak ran out of the family's rented accommodation, screaming for help. Sushila woke up and tried to get out with her other three children but could not as her saree caught fire, they said. After receiving information about the fire, police personnel reached the spot and rushed the injured to Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital in a PCR van, Deputy Commissioner of Police (central) Shweta Chauhan said. Sushila, Mansi and Mohan succumbed to their injuries during treatment. Sushila's third daughter Monika (9) is undergoing treatment at RML Hospital, the police said. Although the cylinder did not explode, the fire spread rapidly due to the gas leakage, they said. Due to the narrow streets in the area, the ambulance and fire tenders faced difficulty in reaching the spot, they said. Sushila's husband, Rakesh, who works at a flour mill in Lawrence Road and was not home at the time of the incident, said his neighbours informed him about the fire. "When I got back, I saw my daughter Mehak sitting outside and crying. I wanted to save my family but it was very late. My neighbours said that Sushila could not come out as she tried to save the three children," he said. Police said the bodies were handed over to the family after a post-mortem examination.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-of-family-killed-in-delhi-after-fire-breaks-out-in-house-due-to-cooking-gas-leakage-1038028.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Kashmiri Pandits hold anti-Pakistan protests over killing of Bindroo by terrorists||Several organisations representing the Kashmiri Pandit community and some Jammu-based outfits staged anti-Pakistan protests on Wednesday over the killing of businessman Makhan Lal Bindroo and two other civilians by terrorists. They demanded enhanced security for the Kashmiri Pandit community. Activists of the Youth All India Kashmiri Samaj (YAIKS) led by its president R K Bhat staged a protest in Jammu over the killings and raised slogans against Pakistan. "We demand justice. We demand punishment for culprits. This is a move to scuttle the plan of return and rehabilitation of Kashmiri Hindus back in the valley," Bhat told reporters. He said that Pakistan is the epicentre of terrorism in Kashmir and it needs to be dealt with sternly. Hundreds of Kashmiri Pandits living in Jagti town also held a protest and demanded justice for the Bindroo family. They alleged that several members of the community were killed by terrorists in Kashmir in the past few months, but the government has failed to protect them. Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit, was gunned down by terrorists at his pharmacy in Srinagar on Tuesday. Bindroo was one of the few in his community who did not migrate out of Kashmir at the onset of militancy in 1990. He stayed back along with his wife to continue operating his business, which was a trusted name for quality medicines. Barely a few minutes after the killing of Bindroo, militants gunned down a roadside vendor identified as Virendra Paswan, a resident of Bhagalpur in Bihar, near Hawal Chowk in Srinagar. Militants also shot dead Mohammad Shafi Lone at Naidkhai in Bandipora district of north Kashmir. Activists of the Shiv Sena and the Dogra Front took out rallies in Jammu in protest against the killings. They raised anti-Pakistan slogans and burnt a flag of Pakistan. "The government must deal with terrorists, their supporters within Kashmir with an iron hand before dealing with Pakistan. Justice should be delivered," Shiv Sena leader Ashok Gupta said. These terror attacks are aimed at derailing the plan of the government to resettle Kashmiri Pandits back in the Kashmir Valley, he said. Activists of the Rashtriya Bajrang Dal and the KP Sabha also held protests.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-pandits-hold-anti-pakistan-protests-over-killing-of-bindroo-by-terrorists-1038032.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Former Punjab minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan passes away||Former Punjab minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan, 71, died on Wednesday after prolonged illness, according to his son Jagroop Singh Sekhwan. Jagroop Singh shared the news of his father's demise on social media. Several political leaders, including Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal, condoled Sekhwan's death. "I convey my heartfelt condolences on the sad demise of former Minister S. Sewa Singh Sekhwan. With his death, a void has been created in the political circles. His services towards overall development of border area and welfare of its people would be ever remembered by one & all," Channi tweeted. I convey my heartfelt condolences on the sad demise of former Minister S. Sewa Singh Sekhwan. With his death a void has been created in the political circles. His services towards overall development of border area and welfare of its people would be ever remembered by one & all. Kejriwal said he was "deeply saddened" by the news of Sekhwan's death and recalled that the former minister had recently joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Sekhwan had joined the AAP on August 26 when Kejriwal, who is also the party's national convenor, had visited his house in his native village in Punjab's Gurdaspur district. Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also expressed grief over Sekhwan's death. "Deeply saddened by Jathedar Sewa Singh Sekhwan ji's demise. Political differences apart, I recall his long association with @Akali_Dal during struggles for Punjab's interests. My Ardas to Akal Purakh for peace to departed soul & strength to family to bear this loss," Badal said in a tweet. Before joining the AAP, Sekhwan was a senior vice-president of the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). He quit the Shiromani Akali Dal in 2018 after raising a banner of revolt against the party leadership. Thereafter, Sekhwan and former MPs Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Rattan Singh Ajnala formed the SAD (Taksali). He later switched over to the SAD (Democratic), formed by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa last year. The SAD (Sanyukt) was floated in May this year after the dissolution of the SAD (Democratic) and the SAD (Taksali). Sekhwan was a minister in the Parkash Singh Badal-led Punjab government in 1997. He again became a minister in the Akali government in 2009.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-punjab-minister-sewa-singh-sekhwan-passes-away-1038043.html
06-10-2021||North and Central||Rahul, Priyanka, other Congress leaders meet kin of those killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence||A Congress delegation of senior leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, arrived in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday and met the family members of three people killed in violence that erupted during a farmers' protest here on Sunday. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, who was detained at the PAC guest house in Sitapur since Monday morning, asserted that the farmers killed in the violence "deserve justice". The Congress leaders drove to the Chaukhada farm residence of deceased Lovepreet Singh, spoke to the bereaved family members and conveyed their deepest condolences to them, party sources said. They sat on the floor of the house along with the father and sisters of the deceased and were seen listening to them intently. "Shared the grief of martyr Lovepreet's family, but till justice is done, this satyagraha will continue," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress leaders also visited the house of local journalist Raman Kashyap in the Nighasan area of the district and met his family members. Kashyap was among the eight people, including four farmers, killed in Sunday's violence. "Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi met the family of journalist late Raman Kashyap in Lakhimpur and expressed their condolences. #NyayHokarRahega," the Uttar Pradesh Congress said in a tweet and posted pictures of the meeting. The Congress leaders later drove to the house of another deceased farmer, Nakshatra Singh, at Dhaurhara, sources said. Priyanka Gandhi said she met some of the victims' families, adding that she will meet the kin of the two other deceased farmers on Thursday. According to Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi, the party leaders will spend the night in Lucknow and are scheduled to visit the remaining two bereaved families in Bahraich on Thursday. Besides Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi and Deepender Singh Hooda were part of the Congress delegation that met the bereaved families. Priyanka Gandhi was adamant on meeting the families of the farmers killed in Sunday's violence and had asserted that she would proceed to Lakhimpur as soon as she was released from detention. She was released from detention in the afternoon. Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. Of the eight killed, four were farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and Kashyap, a journalist working for a private television channel. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-priyanka-other-congress-leaders-meet-kin-of-those-killed-in-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-1038050.html
06-10-2021||Oasis||The decline of social etiquette||When social relationships become insensitive and devoid of understanding, leave alone compassion, everyone in society suffers. A study on social mindfulness across countries puts India third from the bottom. How did we come to such a state? Where have we erred? All cultures have norms of behaviour that reflect the attitudes of their people towards each other. It could also be called social etiquette. The norms of greeting, celebrations and all social events which bring people together have protocols aimed at strengthening harmony. The simple act of folding the hands together in a greeting conveys a body language that indicates respect, humility and warmth. Touching the fingers to the forehead, a handshake, repeated bowing all are symbols of friendliness. All create an atmosphere for good behaviour. The etiquette and rules observed in offering food not just to humans but also to other species go even beyond an act of kindness. It sets the tone for being aware and grateful for one’s good fortune, perhaps a prerequisite for sensitivity to others. In segregated societies like India, such behaviour used to be restricted to one’s own community. The more fortunate, as a matter of duty, took the responsibility of educating the less fortunate in their extended family or caste group. Offering food was again a practice that was widespread. While the duty to one’s own community and kin was clear, there was no such clarity in relationships involving others. The very idea of a more inclusive society brought in demands which created conflict. In the midst of conflict, the focus shifted from duties to rights. Getting one’s rights often involves a struggle that can sometimes turn ugly. An early casualty in that individualised battle is social etiquette. Cultures and societies are dynamic. Things that were viable in the past could become irrelevant or even seem exploitative at a later date. Such perceptions lead to demands for change. When new perceptions are not put in place all etiquette suffers. Conflict brings toxicity and there is no room for kindness or compassion. The Chinese master Confucius calls social sensitivity or mindfulness ‘rites’ and observes, “unless a man has the spirit of rites… in having courage he will become unruly, and in being forthright he will become intolerant.” This perhaps rings a bell that we must take as a wake-up call. It must not be allowed to become a harbinger of destruction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-decline-of-social-etiquette-1038047.html
06-10-2021||Opinion||How high are oil prices really?||By John Kemp How high are oil prices really and what signal are they currently sending to producers and consumers about the need for more output and lower fuel use? The strength of a price signal depends on both the real level of prices adjusted for inflation and the rate of change compared with recent years. In terms of the rate of change, prices are already sending a strong signal about the need to increase production and reduce consumption, as the recovery in demand has outstripped supply after last year’s coronavirus-induced slump. Front-month Brent futures are currently trading at more than $82 per barrel, up from less than $38 at the end of the same month last year, one of the fastest price increases in percentage terms for three decades. Rapid price escalation is characteristic of the first year of a cyclical upswing, when consumption bounces back and grows above-trend, while producers continue to withhold output, scarred by memories of the recent slump. The turnaround from lower/falling prices to higher/rising ones sends a signal about the need for producers to switch from reducing to increasing output, and consumers to conserve fuel rather than be profligate. But in terms of the level of prices, adjusted for inflation, the current signal to producers and consumers is so far weaker and more ambiguous (https://tmsnrt.rs/3a91SB5). Comparisons with oil prices during previous cycles are distorted by the impact of inflation, which has consistently eroded the value of the U.S. dollar and tended to raise oil futures prices over time. The impact is relatively insignificant over periods of 2-3 years, small enough to be ignored, but becomes increasingly significant over 5-year to 20-year horizons. The dollar has lost almost a quarter of its consumer purchasing power since oil prices peaked at more than $140 per barrel in 2008. If record Brent prices in 2008 are restated at the purchasing power of the dollar in 2021, prices peaked at more than $180 per barrel. Evaluating real prices Inflation-adjusted prices in the past were much higher than they sometimes appear in retrospect, and current prices are lower than they appear in long-term historical comparisons. In real terms, front-month Brent prices are currently in the 72nd percentile for all months since 1990, but only the 50th percentile for all months since 2000, and the 56th percentile for all months since 2010. There is no ideal timeframe over which to evaluate real prices. Longer comparisons incorporate more cycles but contain older, less relevant data. Shorter time frames are more relevant but contain fewer cycles and may be more distorted by short periods of high or low prices. In the oil market, 30-year comparisons are distorted by the lengthy period of very low prices in the 1990s, which proved unsustainable, and may not be relevant to decisions a quarter of a century later. But shorter comparisons since 2000 or 2010 are dominated by the periods of very high prices in 2007-2008 and 2011-2014, which proved equally unsustainable, and may not be relevant to decisions in the 2020s. The four decades from 1990 to 2030 contain several actual and prospective changes in both production and consumption regimes and behaviour, which makes historical comparisons difficult. Significant changes include massive excess production capacity in the 1990s, the shale revolution from the early 2010s and the advent of electric vehicles to compete with oil in the 2020s. However, examining the level of prices in all these time frames, the most conservative conclusion is that the level of real oil prices is currently average or moderately high. Real prices are sending a signal to producers and consumers about the need for more output and more fuel conservation, but not yet a very strong one. Further significant price rises may be needed to compel consumers to reduce oil use and switch to cheaper alternatives and encourage producers to boost output.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-high-are-oil-prices-really-1037814.html
06-10-2021||Opinion||Occupation of the middle ground – the regional alternative||The year 2021 will be remembered in Indian politics as the moment when the Bharatiya Janata Party's confidence in its organisation and limitless resources to steer the course of elections was shaken. In West Bengal, the combined might of the enormously popular Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his, till then unchallenged, mastermind Amit Shah was defeated by a puny regional party and its formidable woman leader, Mamata Banerjee. The defeat sent shockwaves through the Indian political establishment and the BJP. There were consequences and changes because the BJP felt there were lessons it needed to learn from the loss it experienced. One lesson was clear that hard religious Right politics needed to be moderated by broader, more inclusive rhetoric that foregrounded development and hope and relegated divisive communalism to the background. If the BJP learnt a lesson, so did Mamata Banerjee and the anti-BJP opposition forces and regional parties. The Congress, immersed in its unending procrastination over its leadership problems, could not calibrate its response to see that the political ground that had seemed to be baked hard with the heat and fervour of the BJP's Hindutva agenda had begun to loosen up. Mamata Banerjee certainly saw that a fresh opportunity for occupying the middle ground, or the politically and ideologically centre that was neither hard Right nor extreme Left, had emerged after May and the BJP's defeat in West Bengal. She used the Bhabanipur campaign and the huge national media attention it received to broadcast her political message packaged as a pledge that she would work to defeat the BJP and its machinations of transforming "Hindustan" into a Pakistan and stop the takeover of secular, inclusive democratic India by a hard religious right, Hindutva version of the Taliban. It was a gambit to position herself as the Centre and an alternative to the communally divisive, exclusionary identity Hindutva politics of the BJP on the one hand and as a champion of the middle ground, that is, neither Right nor Left. Without losing time, in the middle of the by-election campaign, Mamata Banerjee launched her party in Tripura and Goa by acquiring political assets and that too, mostly from the Congress. Her party is in parleys in Meghalaya to win over former Congress chief minister Mukul Sangma and several MLAs. And she has acquired Sushmita Dev, who headed the Mahila Congress and has her base in Assam's Barak Valley. Having won the Bhabanipur by-election with a huge 72 per cent vote share, Mamata Banerjee is now armed with a new mandate as the champion of the median masses, of voters who have disowned the Left and consider the Congress too feeble and voters who probably voted the BJP in May but now chose the Trinamool Congress. The confirmation of her position as West Bengal chief minister by erasing the slur of being a loser from Nandigram frees her up to take the fight where she believes there is an opportunity and a need. For the leader of a regional party, actually a party in a single state as of now, the plan to go national appears to be ridiculously impractical and impossibly farfetched. More so, because in true Didi style, Mamata Banerjee seems to have embarked on the "BJP hatao" mission without first forming an alliance or a coalition or even partnerships in her target states. That time is of the essence is something that Mamata Banerjee has said over and over again in recent months. She has warned that an immensely resourceful and determined BJP is already embarked on rolling out its strategy for the 2024 general elections making it all the more urgent for the anti-BJP opposition to launch itself as the alternative, without engaging in a series of formal negotiations on patching together a coalition-alliance-partnership. Targeting Congress assets in states where that party is perceived to be withering away is a risky but smart move. The Trinamool Congress is using the same tactics as the BJP did in Goa. The BJP picked up 12 MLAs of the 17 MLAs elected on the Congress tickets in 2017, acquiring two legislators in 2017 and 10 MLAs in 2019. It was entirely likely that the five remaining Congress MLAs would be wooed before 2022. By stepping in, the Trinamool Congress seems to have set up an alternative destination for nervous, disgruntled or dissatisfied politicians to the BJP in Goa. That certainly sets Mamata Banerjee on course for a direct fight with the BJP, if not for the capture of the state assembly, then for the acquisition of leaders who could be groomed for the bigger fight in 2024, when the Narendra Modi-led BJP will face its biggest challenge of defending its regime after ten years in power and the inescapable build up negative political capital that comes with it. The Trinamool Congress will certainly project itself as a party that aims to defeat the BJP in Goa in 2022. It could pull off what would be an unbelievable feat if it emerged as a challenger, replacing the Congress as the alternative to the BJP in the four months left before Goa votes in February next year. Regardless of the 2022 outcome in Goa, the Trinamool Congress will have dug itself into a state where the Congress has all but vaporised, leaving the rank and file of party workers and the die-hard Congress voters in the lurch. As a message that is easy to read, the opening up a battlefront on the other side of the peninsula in Goa against the BJP positions Mamata Banerjee as a challenger to the hegemonic ambitions of the Sangh Parivar and its goal of establishing a Hindutva state. By acquiring political assets from the Congress, as she seems to be doing in Goa, in Assam and Tripura and probably in Meghalaya, Mamata Banerjee is avoiding the risk of being perceived as a threat by other regional parties, who have established themselves in their specific geographies as the opposition to the BJP. As and when Mamata Banerjee ventures into Uttar Pradesh which she has promised to do soon, the Congress is an easy target for poaching political assets. Would her poaching make her an enemy of that party? To some in the Congress, it would, and to others, it would not. As a member of the larger Congress clan, the Trinamool Congress is packed with old Congress leaders who have links to Congress leaders in other states. Offering a shelter or an "umbrella," a description frequently used by Mamata Banerjee to explain the political exercise of bringing together anti-BJP and even anti-Congress regional parties and opposition forces, would be one way of salvaging the political centre, once dominated by the Congress. It could point in the direction of changing political landscape where the fight to defend the secular, inclusive democratic idea of India is not centred around the Congress. It would rob the BJP of its easy target, namely the Congress and its naturally ageing legacy, as the source of all the ills facing the nation and its Hindu majority. It would push the BJP to undertake the enormously complicated task of rewriting its playbook that divided the political space into an "us" versus the Congress. The BJP is not comfortable handling coalitions because it requires making compromises that push it ideologically away from the Right and force it closer to the middle ground. As a monolithic organisation, the BJP's ideological uneasiness with multiple political foes saying the same thing in slightly different ways is understandable. It has, however, benefited enormously from an opposition that is split and as much in competition with each other as it is engaged in fighting the BJP. If this opposition gets round to adjusting its differences and consolidating its votes, a formula that Mamata Banerjee has repeatedly tried to sell, the BJP would be seriously disadvantaged. A splintered middle ground makes it easy for the BJP's right-wing support base, which is just over one-third of voters, to give it the numerical edge it needs to win elections. A middle ground that consolidates itself is a problem. It makes Mamata Banerjee the champion of the splintered anti-BJP and anti-Congress opposition a challenger and the face of the next big fight in 2024. (The writer is a journalist based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/occupation-of-the-middle-ground-the-regional-alternative-1037846.html
06-10-2021||Opinion||China's mounting woes will hit global economy||In recent weeks, China has witnessed distressing woes ranging from severe power breakdowns, the meltdown of real estate developer Evergrande, and a sharp fall in the market value of technology, education, and real estate companies due to regulatory actions. These sudden shocks have caused considerable distress to people and the industry in several provinces of China, hitting global supply chains ahead of the forthcoming Christmas season and would lower the Chinese and global economic growth. Most of these woes stem from the administrative and regulatory initiatives of the Chinese authorities as part of the policy dictates of its top leadership. There were reports of residents stuck in elevators in high-rise buildings, mobile phones and computers going blank, and candles sold out as electricity supply was cut off for long intervals in many localities. Last month, 16 of 31 provinces rolled out measures to ration electricity for industrial (from 8 am to 11 pm) and other users, plunging the industrial sector into chaos. Four reasons are ascribed for the power shortages. One, China's decision to reduce its coal imports from Australia for political reasons disrupted its coal supply. Second, increase in the price of thermal (for power plants) as also high-grade metallurgical coal (for steel making) as the global supply was unable to meet the sudden high demand, added to it the unwillingness of the Chinese government to pass on the increased price to customers. Third, reduced power generation from hydro and wind sources because of drought and bad weather. Fourth, certain provinces have pushed annual emission reduction targets to the end of the year and are now forcing power rationing on energy-intensive industries like metals. In charge of its energy policies, China's Vice Premier Han Zheng recently ordered top state-owned companies "to increase coal supplies by all means." The electricity price has increased in certain areas, and efforts are to import more coal and augment domestic gas production. The second set of problems spring from regulatory actions Chinese President Xi Jinping ordered to clip wings of technology, real estate, ed-tech, and gaming companies and force them to donate larger sums of monies to state regulators to "serve the country." It would reportedly use this money to improve the underprivileged classes' earnings for "common prosperity." Xi was aghast at the power wielded by the tech companies when Facebook and Twitter took down US President Donald Trump's accounts; he thought that the American style of capitalism was flawed and must not happen in China. In November 2020, Xi personally intervened to stop the world's biggest IPO of Jack Ma's Ant Group. Subsequently, regulatory authorities were asked to launch anti-competitive and other actions to reduce the influence of these companies to ensure they could not threaten the power of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). According to Xi, the party controls everything: military, foreign policy, education, or economy. Xi's regime has cracked down heavily on the real estate sector. He has limited the amount of money, which real estate developers could borrow from the banks. An immediate casualty of his decision was the Evergrande group, which has 1300 projects in 280 cities with $300 billion in liabilities; it owes investors 1.6 million unfinished apartments and $88.5 billion to banks and bondholders (it has already defaulted on payment of $130 million in September 2021). The repercussions of the failure of the Evergrande and other prominent real estate developers would be too massive as most middle and upper-class families have invested their life savings in them. The government can't let the real estate sector fail for China's socio-political stability; the expectation is that their debt would be purchased by banks or other public sector companies, postponing the pain to a later period. Xi has acclaimed "common prosperity" as the "original quintessence" of socialism and necessary for the pursuit of a more robust manufacturing sector, reduce debt, cross-border data flows, the rise of foreign influence and income inequalities. Since the Chinese system lacks the necessary checks and balances, questions have been raised whether the above strategy would achieve the desired outcomes. Such policies may discourage risk-taking, innovation and constrain China's shift to higher-skilled manufacturing besides loss of international confidence and access to global capital. Recurrent outbreaks of Covid-19 and China's policy of "zero tolerance" have hurt retail sales, earnings of the services, tourism and hospitality sectors and domestic consumption. Automobile and smartphones sales have contracted due to Covid-19 and chip shortages. Many economists believe that all these factors together will lower China's economic growth by few points. The resulting supply shock will hit global markets, pushing up the prices of Chinese textiles, toys, machine parts, and other exports. The global economy will feel its ripple effects since China accounts for a 15 per cent share of the world economy. (Yogesh Gupta is a former Ambassador) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/chinas-mounting-woes-will-hit-global-economy-1037854.html
06-10-2021||Panorama||Kerala Congress' faction feud saga continues, even after restructuring||The change of guard in the Congress in Kerala, effected after the drubbing the party got in the recent Assembly elections, is yet to deliver any positive sign of revival of the party unit. While the old warhorses are reluctant to accept the leadership change, the new leadership is trying to curb the deep-rooted groupism in the party overnight. There have been many fallouts. Popular senior party leaders are openly expressing resentment over being sidelined, new power centres have emerged in the party, and groupism remains a reality. Many prominent local leaders have bid goodbye to the party. Some of them have joined the CPM. If it was the social engineering by the first Pinarayi Vijayan government that forced the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) to remain in the opposition benches for a second consecutive term, the corrective measures initiated by the Congress seem to have been influenced more by the buzz on social media than by ground realities. While the call for leadership change in Kerala Congress after the defeat in the Assembly elections came from within the party, the campaigns for making Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran the Kerala PCC president and V D Satheesan the leader of Opposition, were more aggressive on social media than within the party, feels a section in the party. Even as AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar is in charge of Kerala, it is AICC general secretary in charge of organisational affairs, K C Venugopal, considered Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s ‘Man Friday’, who is said to be strategising the party affairs in Kerala. Venugopal, a former minister in Kerala, is said to be setting the stage for his return to Kerala politics. While the prime task of the new leadership was to curb groupism, the outcome has so far been only to change the group equations, not eliminate them, and the emergence of fresh power centres under the new leadership. Factions have been a reality in Kerala Congress for decades. Former chief ministers K Karunakaran and A K Antony were the prominent faction leaders earlier, and Ramesh Chennithala and Oommen Chandy succeeded them. Sharing of party positions and seats in elections among those loyal to them was the major criticism against these group leaders. The new state leadership of the Congress literally burnt its fingers as it tried to sideline the senior group leaders overnight. Though suggestions from senior leaders like Chandy and Chennithala were sought during the selection of new district party presidents, the seniors expressed their resentment over not being consulted on the state unit’s final recommendations to the AICC. Sudhakaran and Satheesan, both known for plain-speaking, tried to pooh-pooh the resentment of the senior leaders openly. However, as the state leadership started feeling the heat of the resentment, they had to knock on the doors of the veteran leaders and make a call for unity. “Chandy and Chennithala are leaders who have emerged through the Congress’ organisational structure. The loyalty they earned was mainly from within the party. Hence, it is not easy to sideline them overnight. The new leadership should try to take them along,” says political analyst Jacob George. Meanwhile, political analyst C A Josukutty says that the unwillingness of the old warhorses to accept the new leadership is also a reason for the present crisis. As the new leadership tried to take the prominent group leaders Chandy and Chennithala along, other seniors like former Kerala PCC presidents Mullappally Ramachandran and V M Sudheeran, who have their own groups in the party, came out in the open against the new leadership, especially for succumbing to the other groups’ pressures in the ongoing selection of state and district office-bearers. The new state leadership is being widely criticised for the lack of efforts to plug the exit of many prominent local leaders. At least five such leaders quit the party in a month’s time, accusing the leadership of neglecting their merit in the selection of new office-bearers. “Known trouble-shooters in the party like Chandy should have been actively engaged by the new leadership to stop the party’s prominent leaders bidding adieu,” said a Congress leader. The faction feud in the party is quite visible now, with a section making critical remarks targeting Kerala PCC president Sudhakaran after his links with a fake antique merchant, Monson Mavunkal, came out. Due to the organisational weaknesses, the party’s women’s wing, the Kerala Mahila Congress has remained headless over the last six months. Its former president Lathika Subash left the party after tonsuring her head in protest against the denial of the Assembly election seat. Political analysts say that the weakening of the Congress was quite evident as Christians and Muslims are distancing themselves from the party. The recent ‘narcotic jihad’ remark of a prominent Christian bishop could be seen as an attempt of the prominent community to please the BJP. The CPM is trying to build rapport with the minority communities by intervening in their issues as well as by taking strong positions against the BJP’s Hindutva agenda. The erosion in Congress’s minority vote banks was visible in the recent election. “A weak Congress party could not take strong positions on communally sensitive issues. From the Sabarimala women’s entry issue to the ‘narcotic jihad’ row are many instances where the Congress was seen to dilly-dally,” says Josukutty. The crisis in Kerala Congress attracts national attention now as Rahul Gandhi is a Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad in the state. Congress leaders now have to make a choice — whether to protect their vested interests or unitedly take up the uphill task of reviving the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/kerala-congress-faction-feud-saga-continues-even-after-restructuring-1038045.html
06-10-2021||Panorama||Parsis, the builders of modern India, are shrinking as a race||By Hari Kumar and Mujib Mashal From the porch of his century-old home, Khurshed Dastoor has a front-row seat to a tragedy that he fears may be too late to reverse: the slow extinction of a people who helped build modern India. On the wall of his drawing-room hang portraits of the ancestors who led prayers for generations of Parsis, followers of Zoroastrianism who escaped Muslim persecution in Persia 1,300 years ago and made India home. Outside, across a narrow alley, workers are once again renovating the majestic fire temple, where the marble has been polished clean and the stone of the outer walls treated with chemicals to resist decay. Around him, emptiness encroaches. Only one or two families remain within the tastefully built houses on the surrounding streets. Moss grows on the brick-and-pillar walls. Weeds grow out of arched windows. Congregants remain in some of those homes, Dastoor said, but many are too old and frail to attend services. “I am 21st in the tradition,” said Dastoor, 57, pointing to portraits of his father, grandfather and great-grandfather, all priests. “By the time I live my life and I pass my legacy to my son, I doubt that the last of the houses will also be open.” The Parsi community’s legacy is deeply intertwined with the rise of modern India. Their dwindling numbers in part tell a tale of how orthodox religious rules have clashed with an early and rapid embrace of modern values. Always a tiny drop in India’s vast population, the Parsi community adapted quickly to British colonial rule. Its merchant class built connections with India’s diverse communities. After independence, they filled key roles in science, industry and trade. Parsi trusts bankrolled affordable housing projects and scholarships and propped up important institutions like the Tata Institute of Social Sciences and the National Center for Performing Arts. Prominent Parsis include the founders of the vast Tata conglomerate, plus early members of the Indian independence movement and the Indian National Congress, once the dominant political party. The most famous Parsi outside India might be Freddie Mercury, the Queen singer, who was born Farrokh Bulsara. But the community’s population, which totalled 114,000 in 1941, now numbers around 50,000 by some estimates. The drop has been so drastic that — even as India considers measures to discourage more children in some states — the government has incentivized Parsi couples to have more children, to apparently little effect. Walk into a Parsi business in Mumbai, home to India’s biggest concentration of Parsis, and you’ll hardly see anyone younger than 50. Parsi restaurants have the feel of a senior citizens’ club. That community in Mumbai sees about 750 deaths a year and only about 150 births, according to local leaders. In Surat, another city where Parsis made a name, deaths have almost tripled over the past three years, while births remain few. “When your numbers fall, where are you going to find that same number of people who excel in their fields?” said Jehangir Patel, who edits the Parsiana, one of the oldest magazines dedicated to the community. The question of continuity hangs over even the most renowned name in the Parsi community: the Tata family, which runs one of the world’s largest business empires. Ratan Tata, the man sitting at the top of the empire, is 83. He never married and does not have any children. “What one has watched, silently, is the diminishing of a community known for its excellence,” Tata said in an interview at his seafront home in Mumbai, where he lives with his dogs Tito and Tango. “There have not been as many leaders. And when there have been leaders, there’s been no next generation.” Tata blames the influence of the orthodoxy over institutions such as the Bombay Parsi Punchayat, the body that manages the community’s affairs as well as thousands of apartments and other properties owned by Parsi trusts. They strictly define who counts as Parsi: those who have a Parsi father. Community leaders estimate that up to 40% of Parsi marriages are with outsiders, but women who chose that are often ostracized. In some parts of the community, they lose privileges as basic as attending the final rites of loved ones. They also lose the right to live in affordable Parsi housing, a big advantage in Mumbai, where property prices keep rising. Parsi leaders fear outsiders will work their way into the community to take advantage of those benefits, diluting Parsi culture. The Tata family history plays a role. In 1908, community elders took Tata’s grandfather to court to prevent his French wife from being recognized as a Parsi, starting a series of events that established the precedent. “We’re shrinking as a race,” Tata said. “And we have no one to blame but ourselves.” Armaity R. Tirandaz, chair of the Bombay Parsi Punchayat, said high priests wanted to ensure that changes don’t “wipe out the religious practices of our faith.” Cries of “rules should be relaxed,” she said, were “only made by those who are not faithful or proud of the religion they are born in, or else feel a deficit in its precepts.” “I feel if you cannot ‘conform,’ at least do not try to ‘deform’ it to suit your sensibilities,” she added. As factors for the dwindling, some Punchayat leaders point to migration to the West and an increasing number of young people remaining single. Kainaz Jussawalla, a Parsi author based in Mumbai, said that, for professional and independent Parsi women, staying single is born of a dilemma: limited choice of partners within the community, and the discouragement that comes with marrying outside. “Personally, I have made a choice to be single because the pool is smaller and finding a partner tougher,” she said. For those who marry, the national government has offered assistance and stipends for older relatives to offset the cost of caring for parents. Parsis can receive about $50 a month per child younger than 8, and $50 per parent older than 60. The program has barely made a dent, supporting the birth of 330 children in its eight years, according to official numbers. For Karmin and Yazad Gandhi, the program changed only their timing. The funds proved to be a blessing during the Covid-19 outbreak, when Yazad Gandhi — who organises vacation tours to Europe — almost entirely lost his income. Karmin Gandhi, who works at a consulting firm, said if it weren’t for the program, she probably “would not have had the second kid so fast — maybe five years apart or so.” Sarosh Bana, 65, a Parsi journalist who edits the publication Business India, cited rising living costs in places like Mumbai. Many Parsis would rather raise one child with a high-quality education inside a city than have larger families in suburbs. “The Parsis wouldn’t want any compromises in their living standards and the quality of life,” Bana said. “You won’t see many Parsis hanging outside trains at 6 in the morning coming from the suburbs — they aren’t cut out for it.” Some Parsis believe that the dwindling population will spur the appearance of a saviour. Dastoor, the priest of Udvada, one of the oldest and most sacred temples in the faith, said such a messiah had been predicted to appear in 2000, 2007, 2011 and 2020. “Whenever he comes, it’s a jackpot for us,” Dastoor said, but he added, “We can’t just sit around.” Dastoor, like many community leaders, believes that the population has crossed a point of no return. He has given up on changing the minds of his fellow high priests. Instead, he focuses on running the temple. When he was a child, 35 full-time priests served the temple in Udvada. Now, there are seven. Dastoor has two daughters and a son who, in 10th grade in Mumbai, is an ordained priest already. He wonders what tradition he can pass on. “What is he going to come and do over here?” Dastoor says. “Because there’s going to be no one over here.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/parsis-the-builders-of-modern-india-are-shrinking-as-a-race-1038046.html
06-10-2021||Panorama||It’s good to be nice even if it doesn’t pay||Even at little or no material cost, Indians are less likely to perform small acts of attention or kindness to strangers, reveals a research paper published on August 23, 2021, by Dutch scholar Niels J Van Doesum and others. This study of 31 countries rates Japanese as most socially mindful of showing concern for others. Indians, followed by Turks and Indonesians, are least likely to be thoughtful about how their simple ordinary choices will affect others, finds this research. The paper highlights that people of various countries differ to a great extent in being pro-social or “being thoughtful of others in the present moment, and considering their needs and wishes before making a decision.” Universal co-existence The research paper establishes a strong correlation between social mindfulness and the strength of a country’s social, environmental, and other ecosystems. This is important for global co-existence and co-operation, interdependence in trade, resolving conflicts, environmental protection, and sharing natural resources. The social mindfulness or niceness is thus entwined with the present and future of humans and other species. Happiness quotients Taking a cue from this research, we can argue that self-regulation and social mindfulness create better trust among the citizens as well as between the government and the governed. This results in lesser laws and regulations, making the citizens happier as seen in Scandinavian countries. Niceness per se makes people happier — the doer, the beneficiary, and all others. Do we see the link between a nation’s niceness quotient and happiness quotient — a case for further research into this correlation? We the Indians Forget the ‘costly’ or ‘troublesome’ prosocial act of taking an accident victim to the hospital, we don’t even stop the car to let an aged pedestrian pass, which costs us nothing except a few moments. We lose nothing if we leave a public toilet seat clean after use, or when we don’t spit anywhere and everywhere, or if we don’t throw garbage on the streets. But we have become socially so unmindful, we either indulge with impunity or shrug our shoulders and move on. Does it cost us anything to be socially sensitive, nuanced, and not embarrass people? Can’t we avoid laughing or looking deep into their eyes when they commit a faux pas? This raises questions about the civility of the people from an ancient civilisation — about our character and ethos. This brings us to another interesting question — what happens to the rare breed of nice people surrounded by the unthoughtful, unconcerned, uncooperative majority in our country? Do nice people finish last in our country? It seems so. Being good, fair, and decent to others, we end up being bad, unfair, and indecent to ourselves. If we are good, people take us for granted — they push, pull, and impose. It works at a subliminal level and expresses itself in overt and covert commands and controls. At home, at work, in public places, or in social situations, nice people suffer. You don’t break the cinema queues and traffic rules, but others do — you end up not getting the ticket and getting stuck in a jam. We offer a seat to the elderly, but others usurp ours. You wait long hours to meet a bureaucrat or a politician, but the high and the mighty have an express entry — you don’t get to see the God even after the seventh visit. We often see that goodness doesn’t pay. But life is not all about transactions. Call it courtesy of one’s methods and manners — it’s the innate decency in one’s character. What counts is the way we think, behave, and live when no one is looking. It’s the difference between being pseudo-nice on social media vs being nice in real life — when there is none to send us ‘likes’. The choices we make affect the choices of others. In India, nice guys at times finish last… Still, it’s nice to be nice. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based innovation and public policy consultant.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/it-s-good-to-be-nice-even-if-it-doesn-t-pay-1038052.html
06-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Railways: A window to real India||The window seat is special to everyone who wishes to tour India by rail. While boarding an empty train, people's first preference is a window seat. When a window seat gets vacated, people are drawn into a rat race to occupy it and they are not willing to lend it at the cost of delight offered by other seats. What makes the seat so special? Window seats offer visual treats. They have the power to pacify one’s bad state of mind. For the dream-seekers, the window seat proves to be an important site of attraction. Visualisation of dreams through window seats has been epitomised by movies. A person occupying a window seat has a totally different state of mind than the rest of the passengers. After starting the journey a window seat traveller may get lost somewhere in an imaginary world hatched by one’s inner self, travelling beyond the bounds of the present into the future in search of something, or lost in the past. Window seat travel makes a perfect way towards creativity by emancipation of thoughts over the horizon of constraints. A window seat coupled with a cup of tea constitutes an excellent recipe for creative thinking unless the cup of tea paints your suit in brown by the quake owing to alternate switching of railway track. Once you occupy a window seat, you'll get lost in reveries. The gusting of air crowding the iron bars, a blare of friction created by the well-refined polishing of wheels over the rail, lush green woods making the real call of the wild, majestic roar of the engine as the king on the track. Apart from these virtualities, there are certain realities. The railway window seat is blessed with uniqueness as it is the only vantage point for measuring the length and breadth of our nation and the only place where you will get a chance to observe the reality of India — tracts of land reeling under the hot sun, people crossing the rail merely for sake of subsistence, scores of employees rushing through the risky track for making an early bird at the office. Moreover, slumps abutting the railway tracks are a conspicuous insight into India’s urban divide. Besides the window seats award an opportunity to lend a hand to needy passengers, by bridging the gap between the vendors outside and the passengers inside. When the train is passing through a curved track, take some time to look back and you will realise the ultimate reality that you are caught inside the compartment of the largest Indian mobile snake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/railways-a-window-to-real-india-1038040.html
06-10-2021||Second Edit||A victory marred by unsavoury practices||Trinamool Congress leader and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s resounding victory in the by-election to the Bhabanipur seat was no surprise. The record margin of victory, which was twice the majority the winning TMC candidate had secured in the April-May elections, and the fact that Mamata Banerjee dominated every ward in the constituency speak of the decisiveness of the victory. The two rival candidates from the BJP and the CPM were far behind, and the latter polled just over 4,000 votes. The BJP, which was deflated and humbled in the last elections but is the main opposition party in the Assembly, had found it difficult to find a suitable candidate against Mamata and had settled for a greenhorn, Priyanka Tibrewal. It was a sign that the party had conceded defeat even before the campaign started. It did not even mount a proper campaign. The TMC won two other seats also where by-elections were held, with impressive margins, again asserting the party’s dominance in the state. The victories should also be seen in light of the fact that Bhabanipur has a high proportion of the non-Bengali population, which the BJP thinks supports it, and the other two seats are in Murshidabad district, where also the party is thought to have influence.   Considering that Mamata’s victory was never in doubt, some of the untoward incidents during the campaign and on polling day were unfortunate and avoidable. These incidents did not show the TMC cadres and their leader in a good light. There were complaints of clashes and attacks on BJP workers and threats and intimidations to keep voters away from polling stations. It has also been alleged that the names of many BJP supporters and sympathisers were missing from the records. Electoral misconduct and violence are not new to West Bengal or Bhabanipur, but at a time when Mamata claims to be fighting to preserve democracy against the BJP’s depredations, her party’s conduct does not inspire confidence. Political parties should ensure peaceful campaigns and polling, and ruling parties have a special responsibility for that. The TMC should not have given any cause for complaints against it in this respect.  Even when such charges are there, the results reinforce the TMC’s, especially Mamata Banerjee’s, pre-eminent position in Bengal politics and exposes the BJP’s claims and ambitions as exaggerated. It has also raised her political profile among the leaders of the parties that are opposed to the BJP at the national level. It is certain that she will have a major role in any opposition platform that may be formed against the BJP in the coming months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-victory-marred-by-unsavoury-practices-1038042.html
06-10-2021||South||DMK team meets Kerala CM, seeks support to oppose NEET||A delegation of DMK office-bearers, led by T K S Elangovan, the party's Rajya Sabha MP on Wednesday called on Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Thiruvananthapuram and handed over a dossier on grounds for opposition to the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, seeking the neighbouring state's support to fight against it. Elangovan gave a copy of a letter written by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin to Vijayan seeking Kerala's support to oppose the test and restore "the primacy of states" in education. The DMK MP also presented a copy of the report recommendations of the TN government-appointed Justice A K Rajan Committee, a party release said here. The panel, which submitted its report in July to the government looked into the impact of NEET in the state vis-a-vis, the marginalised sections, students studying in government schools and those belonging to the Backward classes and rural regions. Days ago, Stalin had written to his counterparts in 11 non-BJP ruled states and Goa seeking their support in opposing NEET to ensure that the students in the respective states, hailing from rural areas and marginalised sections of the society are not put to hardship in obtaining admissions to higher educational institutions. NEET went against the spirit of federalism and violated the constitutional balance of power by curbing the rights of the state governments to decide on the method of admission in medical institutions established and run by them, Stalin had underscored in the letter. "We need to put up a united effort to restore the primacy of state governments in administering the education sector, as envisaged in our Constitution. I look forward to your cooperation in this crucial issue," he had said. The committee had concluded that the NEET is not a fair or equitable method of admission since it favours the rich and elite section of the society and is against the disadvantaged groups. Based on the panel's recommendations, the Tamil Nadu Assembly had last month adopted a Bill to dispense with NEET and provide for admission to medical courses based on Class XII marks. Stalin has deputed his party MPs to reach out to the heads of the 12 states to drum up support to oppose NEET. Tenkasi Lok Sabha MP Dhanush M Kumar, Kerala state DMK organiser Murugesan were among those who called on Vijayan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-team-meets-kerala-cm-seeks-support-to-oppose-neet-1037894.html
06-10-2021||South||MK Stalin announces Welfare Board for Tamils living abroad||A Welfare Board for Non-Resident Tamils would be set up and a total allocation of Rs 20 crore shall be made, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin announced on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu Non-Resident Tamils' Welfare Act was enacted during the previous DMK regime on March 1, 2011 and setting up of a Welfare Board was also announced, Stalin said. With the AIADMK assuming power later that year, the new regime did not set up the Board, the Chief Minister said adding, a welfare board for Non-Resident Tamils would now be founded. The state government would constitute a Rs 5 crore benevolent fund for Non-Resident Tamils, an official release here said. Tamils living in several parts of the world would be brought together and every year, January 12 would be celebrated as the "World Tamils Day," he said. In total, Rs 20 crore would be set apart and it includes Rs 8.10 crore for welfare schemes. The official release referred to the proposed Welfare Board as "Pulampeyar Tamizhar Nala Variyam." While 'Pulampeyar' is a Tamil word used in reference to emigration and emigrated people, it may also mean and include the diaspora in general. Tamizhar Nala Variyam stands for a welfare board for Tamils. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mk-stalin-announces-welfare-board-for-tamils-living-abroad-1037953.html
06-10-2021||South||No end to the plight of endosulfan victims of Kasargod||While the government assurances on addressing the woes of the endosulfan victims of Kasargod in Kerala still remain on papers, the victims and their relatives have intensified their stir. On Wednesday, the Congress-led United Democratic Front raised the issue in the state assembly, and the victims and their relatives staged demonstration outside the government secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram. However, the government did not give any firm assurances. The Opposition leader V D Satheesan of the Congress insisted on a reply from Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the house on key plights like the remediation cell remaining defunct for one year and the reasons for not including over 1,000 victims in the official list of victims. Vijayan did not reply. The victims who have been carrying out protests over the last several years said that the state government assured in 2019 that a review of those excluded would be conducted, but it had not happened yet. The concerns of the victims aggravated as a former district collector of Kasargod gave a report that many ineligible persons made to the list of victims and hence a review of the existing beneficiaries was required. To the relief of the victims, Social Justice Minister R Bindu, while replying to the adjournment motion notice given by Kasargod MLA N A Nellikunnu of the Indian Union Muslim League, said that the collector's report was not yet taken into consideration by the government. According to the endosulfan victims' forum, of the 6,727 endosulfan victims identified, only 1,446 were given the compensation of Rs 5 lakh, as directed by the Supreme Court. Around 4,000 eligible for the compensation were not yet paid. The officials concerned were trying to sabotage it, the forum alleged.  Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that the plight of the endosulfan victims worsened during the Covid-19 pandemic as 20 died due to inadequate treatment. He also urged the government to take steps to resume the functioning of the remediation cell. A series of demands of the endosulfan victims, including advanced treatment facilities in Kasargod district and the service of a neurologist in the district, were also long pending. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-end-to-the-plight-of-endosulfan-victims-of-kasargod-1037989.html
06-10-2021||South||Pre-poll decision to withdraw Sabarimala, CAA cases in Kerala still on papers||A pre-poll decision of the Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala to withdraw the cases registered in connection with the agitations against Sabarimala Ayyappa temple women entry and Citizenship (Amendment) Act is still remaining on papers. In a written reply in the assembly on Wednesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the Crime Branch was reviewing the cases, their nature, and present status. A team under a Crime Branch IG was constituted for reviewing the cases. While 2,636 cases were registered in the state in connection with the protests against allowing women of all ages at Sabarimala temple on the basis of a Supreme Court order in 2018-19, as many as 836 cases were registered in connection with the protests against the CAA. Over 60,000 persons including women and aged person were arraigned in the cases pertaining to Sabarimala, many of which pertained to 'Nama Japa' (Chanting) demonstrations. The Left-front government's decision in February to withdraw the cases just ahead of the assembly election was considered as an election stunt. Hence the Chief Minister's present reply that the cases were yet to be withdrawn is likely to trigger protests from BJP and Congress. Left front independent MLA P T A Rahim had raised the question in the house. Many BJP leaders, including state president K Surendran, were arrested in connection with the Sabarimala stir. The pendency of cases was also causing hardships to many in getting police clearance certificate for jobs. Hence the Congress and BJP was also demanding that the cases should be withdrawn. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pre-poll-decision-to-withdraw-sabarimala-caa-cases-in-kerala-still-on-papers-1037998.html
06-10-2021||State||Sriramulu to head 371(J) implementation cabinet sub-committee ||The Karnataka government has issued an order constituting a cabinet sub-committee to supervise and review the developmental works being taken up under the special status accorded under 371(J) of the Indian Constitution to the Kalyana Karnataka region.   According to the order issued on Tuesday, Transportation Minister B Sriramulu will be the chairman of the sub-committee. Major and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani, Tourism Minister Anand Singh, Mines and Geology Minister Achar Alappa, Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan and Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh will be the members of the committee. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sriramulu-to-head-371j-implementation-cabinet-sub-committee-1037999.html
06-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NEP effect: Weightage of theory internal exam marks raised to 40%||In wake of the introduction of National Education Policy (NEP) at higher education level from the current academic year, the state higher education department has revised the assessment pattern for undergraduate courses. As per the new system applicable for first-year undergraduate students, the internal assessment component has been increased from 30 per cent to 40 per cent for theory subjects. The remaining 60 per cent will be for the year-end examination. In the practical section, however, 50 per cent weightage will be given for term-end exam and the remaining for internal assessment. A decision in this regard was taken in the State Higher Education Council meeting with vice-chancellors of state-run universities recently. However, there was a difference​​ of opinion among vice-chancellors, which was discussed during the meeting. One vice-chancellor expressed concern that the move will lead to favouritism. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nep-effect-weightage-of-theory-internal-exam-marks-raised-to-40-1037794.html
06-10-2021||West||NCB summons Cordelia Cruises CEO in drugs seizure case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has issued summons to the CEO of Cordelia Cruises in connection with the seizure of banned drugs from the ship off the Mumbai coast last week, an official said on Tuesday. As the probe is progressing, the NCB has summoned the CEO of the cruise liner to join the investigation, he said. The NCB is seeking details of the passengers who were present onboard the Goa-bound ship and also examining the CCTV footages to get more evidence against the accused persons, the official said. He said teams from other zonal units are also assisting the Mumbai NCB. The NCB had seized 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams MD, 21 grams Charas, 22 pills of MDMA and Rs 1.33 lakh at the International Cruise Terminal at the Green Gate in South Mumbai, he said. The NCB has so far arrested 16 persons, including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, four organisers belonging to a Delhi-based event management company, and others, in connection with this case. After raiding the ship on Saturday, the NCB's Mumbai zonal unit started a crackdown on drug peddlers connected with the arrested persons. The agency sleuths also brought some suspects, including from the cruise ship, to the NCB's office here for questioning, the official said. On Sunday, the cruise company had issued a statement distancing itself from the incident. "Cordelia Cruises is in no way, directly or indirectly, connected to this incident. Cordelia Cruises had chartered its ship for a private event to a Delhi-based event management company,” Jurgen Bailom, Chief Executive Officer and President, Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd said in the statement. “We, at Cordelia Cruises, condemn all acts such as these and will strictly refrain from letting our ship out for similar events in the future. Nonetheless, Cordelia Cruises is extending our full support and cooperating with the authorities," it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-summons-cordelia-cruises-ceo-in-drugs-seizure-case-1037763.html
06-10-2021||West||Gujarat: Congress blames AAP for its rout in Gandhinagar civic polls; calls it 'B team' of BJP||On a day the ruling BJP in Gujarat registered a massive victory in the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) election by winning 41 out of the 44 seats, the Congress alleged the Aam Aadmi Party played a spoiler by dividing the anti-BJP votes which ultimately favoured the saffron party. The Congress called the Arvind Kejriwal-led party the "weapon to defeat" the main opposition party through a division of votes in favour of the ruling party. Besides the GMC, the BJP has retained Okha municipality and won Thara but lost the Bhanvad municipality to Congress in the recently held elections, results for which were declared on Tuesday. The AAP, which contested the local body elections in Gujarat for the first time and won one seat in the GMC polls rubbished the allegations and said the results showed the people of Gujarat wanted a change. As per the final tally released by the State Election Commission (SEC), out of the total 44 seats in the GMC, the BJP won 41 seats, the Congress two and the AAP bagged one seat. This is for the first time in a decade that the BJP scored an absolute majority since the formation of the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation in 2011. The BJP and the Congress had contested all the 44 seats up for grabs in the GMC. The AAP had fielded its candidates on 40 seats. Gujarat Congress chief spokesperson Manish Doshi said the AAP received 21.77 per cent votes and Congress 28.02 per cent votes, which is 18.91 per cent lower compared to the vote share of Congress in 2016. "This way, the BJP got 46.89 per cent votes in its favour and 49.79 per cent against it (votes that went in favour of Congress and AAP combined). Analysing the results, it is clear that the BJP has succeeded in its conspiracy to divide votes of people who are opposed to the ruling party. The AAP has emerged as the 'B team' to help the BJP retain power," Doshi told reporters. Rubbishing the Congress' claims, AAP leader Ishudan Gadhvi said the results showed that the people of Gujarat are accepting the AAP as an alternative to the BJP and the Congress. He claimed the AAP worked (campaigned) for only two weeks but still it won one seat and scored a "huge percentage of votes in the Gujarat capital. He said the AAP stood second in at least four seats (in the GMC polls) and lost several other seats by a thin margin. Gadhvi claimed the people's response to voting was tepid as only 56.24 per cent of the registered voters exercised their franchise (in the Gandhinagar civic polls). Had the voting turnout been higher, the AAP would have had a better chance to win more seats. "People have supported us, though we failed to bring them out to vote. Our campaign to strengthen the organisation will continue," Gadhvi added. He said that the AAP has not entered Gujarat politics to divide votes in favour of BJP as claimed by the Congress party. "We received nearly 22 per cent votes. We are not here for a division of votes (in favour of the BJP) but a change. Our actual target is the 2022 Assembly elections. We will continue to strengthen the organisation and meet the people's expectations for a change," he said. Gadhvi alleged that the BJP won because of its strong organisational capabilities. "The saffron party misused money power as also police and administration in its favour," he alleged. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-congress-blames-aap-for-its-rout-in-gandhinagar-civic-polls-calls-it-b-team-of-bjp-1037769.html
06-10-2021||West||Court remands Shiv Sena MP's aide to judicial custody in money laundering case||A special court here on Tuesday remanded an aide of Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali to the 14-day judicial custody in connection with a money-laundering probe by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The aide, Saeed Khan, was arrested under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on September 28. Khan was produced before a special PMLA court judge M G Deshpande here after his ED remand expired on Tuesday. Seeking Khan's remand, the ED said the accused has played a very crucial role in the offence of money laundering. In a remand application, the federal anti-money laundering agency said Khan didn't cooperate with the investigation and not provided the required information regarding the laundering of the proceeds of crime. The ED said Khan is an influential person who can tamper with the investigation if not remanded in judicial custody and requested the court to not release him till the pendency of the probe. The ED is investigating the money laundering aspect related to the alleged financial irregularities in certain trusts linked to Gawali, the MP from the Yavatmal-Washim Lok Sabha seat. The probe agency had last month conducted searches at multiple premises in Yavatmal, Washim and Mumbai. The case is based on an FIR against some accused for an alleged fraud of Rs 18 crore and some linked irregularities. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/court-remands-shiv-sena-mps-aide-to-judicial-custody-in-money-laundering-case-1037771.html
06-10-2021||West||Cruise ship drug case: NCB arrests one more drug peddler||The Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested one more drug peddler in connection with the seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, an NCB official said on Wednesday. The NCB's Mumbai zonal unit apprehended the drug peddler from suburban Powai late Tuesday night after his name cropped up during questioning of those arrested earlier in the cruise drug party case, the official said. With this, the anti-drugs agency has so far arrested 17 people in the case, including Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, and some "high-profile organisers" belonging to a Delhi-based event management company. Besides Aryan Khan, those arrested by the NCB include Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Satija, Ishmeet Chadha, Mohak Jaiswal, Gomit Chopra, Vikrant Chhokar and a drug supplier from suburban Juhu. In an operation conducted on Monday and Tuesday, the NCB arrested four organisers belonging to an event management firm, identified as Gopal Jee Anand, Samir Sehgal, Manav Singhal and Bhaskar Arora, It has also arrested Shreyas Nair, Manish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu, the agency earlier said. The crackdown against drug peddlers and those related to the cruise drug party case is on at various locations in Mumbai and other places. Earlier, Aryan Khan's lawyer had claimed no drugs were recovered from his client's possession. The NCB on Sunday said they had seized 13 grams of cocaine, five grams of MD, 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of Ecstasy and Rs 1.33 lakh following its raid on the Goa-bound ship. On Tuesday, family members of some of the arrested accused gathered outside the NCB office in south Mumbai. Aslam Merchant, the father of Arbaaz Merchant, told media persons that his son and Aryan Khan are innocent. The NCB on Tuesday told a court here that the matter has become like the novels of Agatha Christie and Sherlock Holmes with "new twists and turns every moment".  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-ship-drug-case-ncb-arrests-one-more-drug-peddler-1037856.html
06-10-2021||West||Gujarat: Surat achieves 100% inoculation of first Covid vaccine dose||Gujarat's Surat city has inoculated 100 per cent of its eligible population with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, a senior civic official said on Wednesday. The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) achieved the target of vaccinating 34.33 lakh eligible beneficiaries with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday, the official said. "Surat has administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to 100 per cent of eligible beneficiaries. To the best of our knowledge, Surat has become the first among the country's big cities, with a population of over 50 lakh, to achieve this target," deputy municipal commissioner, (Health), SMC, Ashish Naik told PTI. The second dose of the vaccine has been administered to around 48.4 per cent, or 16.61 lakh beneficiaries so far, it was stated. The SMC had achieved the goal by setting up vaccination camps, targeting workplaces, housing societies, and seeking active support from the medical fraternity to encourage people to get their jabs, the official said. "We coordinated with people from the medical fraternity who responded positively. The other approach was to reach out to residential societies and hold vaccination camps there," Naik said. The civic body also worked in coordination with textile and diamond industries to vaccinate the large workforce employed thereby setting up camps, he said. Recently, the SMC has been sending teams door to door to inform people about the nearby vaccination camps and urging them to get vaccinated, he said. As per the figure shared by SMC commissioner BN Pani, the Rajkot civic body has administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to 96.20 per cent (10.98 lakh) of the eligible population, followed by Ahmedabad with 93 per cent (44.89 lakh), Vadodara with 89.53 per cent (13.51 lakh) and Bhavnagar with 89.48 per cent (3.96 lakh), till Tuesday. According to the state health department, Gujarat has so far administered over 6.25 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-surat-achieves-100-inoculation-of-first-covid-vaccine-dose-1037900.html
06-10-2021||West||Bombay HC directs NIA to file affidavit on Sachin Vaze's house custody plea||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to file an affidavit in response to a plea filed by dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze, arrested in the Antilia bomb scare and businessman Mansukh Hiran murder case, seeking to be placed under house custody. Vaze was arrested by the NIA in March this year and was later sent to judicial custody. Last month, Waze was permitted by a sessions court to be admitted to a private hospital where he underwent bypass surgery. Vaze later sought permission from the special NIA court to be placed under house arrest so that he could recuperate. Vaze had stated that he was vulnerable to infection if he is asked to stay in jail. The special NIA court had last month rejected Vaze's request following which he approached the high court earlier this week. On Wednesday, Vaze's plea came up before a division bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal. Vaze's advocates Sudeep Pasbola and Rounak Naik told the court that Vaze has been discharged from the private hospital and shifted to the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai. They added that the prison hospital was in poor condition and not well-equipped. The bench then directed the NIA to file an affidavit in a week. Vaze in his petition said he stands a high risk of contracting infections as his surgery was recently performed and his health would be further jeopardized if he is asked to stay in jail. The plea added that if house arrest permission is granted, Vaze would be put in a separate room in his residence where complete seclusion would be maintained. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-directs-nia-to-file-affidavit-on-sachin-vazes-house-custody-plea-1037943.html
06-10-2021||West||Men escorting Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant were not from NCB: NCP||In a shocking disclosure, the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), on Wednesday, alleged that the men escorting Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and his friend Arbaaz Merchant were not part of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) but linked to the BJP.  NCP chief spokesperson and  Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister Nawab Malik identified the two persons as Kiran Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali, who were escorting the two accused out of the Mumbai International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate to the NCB office in Ballard Pier.  While Gosavi was seen escorting Khan out of the terminal and posing for a selfie with him in the NCB office, Bhanushali was seen taking Merchant out.  According to Malik, Gosavi claims to be a private detective based in Kuala Lumpur, Bhanushali is linked to the BJP. Malik also flashed several photos that showed Bhanushali alongside prime minister Narendra  Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP President JP Nadda, leader of opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis among others.  “The entire operation is a total fraud,” Malik said.  When asked about his son-in-law Sameer Khan's arrest by the NCB in January 2021, Malik said, “I will not go into the case now…but you must know that my son-in-law has got bail in the case.”  “The BJP and NCB must come clear… Who are these two persons and why were they seen in the so-called ship raid… Both these persons are fakes and the NCB raid was a fraud intended only for grabbing publicity. What are the BJP’s connections with both of them?” Malik demanded.  “If these two men are not officials of the NCB, then why were they escorting two high-profile people (Khan and Merchant)," he asked. The man seen with Merchant was in Gujarat on 21-22 September and could be connected to the seizure of about 3,000 kilograms of heroin at Mundra Port, Malik said.  "The entire NCB is being used by the BJP to malign people, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra and Bollywood," Malik said, alleging that the anti-drug agency was targeting those who are against the BJP. BJP targets Malik However, the leader of opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar questioned Malik on the issue. “Why is Nawab Malik so rattled…we know that, you know that,” said Fadnavis. “Let us not give much credence to what he is saying,” he said.   Darekar said that he would not like to go into the details of the two persons as it is for the NCB to answer that. “But the way Nawab Malik spoke is not proper,” added Darekar, pointing out that Malik was speaking out of vengeance as his son-in-law was arrested by the NCB.   Two men were independent witnesses: NCB Shaken by the charges, the NCB admitted to the presence of Kiran Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali during the raids and described them as 'independent witnesses'.  “They were independent witnesses and were there legally…no law has been violated,” said NCB’s deputy director-general Gnyaneshwar Singh, who was accompanied by Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede. “The NCB's procedure has been and will continue to be legally transparent and unbiased,” he said. Without naming Malik, he said, “The allegations are baseless, with malice and with prejudice…it seems to be retaliation for earlier legal action". However, Singh and Wankhede did not take any questions Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/men-escorting-aryan-khan-arbaaz-merchant-were-not-from-ncb-ncp-1037944.html
06-10-2021||West||Raids on Cordelia Cruises to divert attention? asks Sachin Sawant||Stepping up pressure on the BJP government, the Congress on Wednesday questioned if the raids on the Cordelia Cruises was a move to divert attention from the Mundra drugs seizure and demanded a high-level probe into the role of private persons in the Mumbai raid.  “Was the real goal to divert attention from Mundra drug seizure? We have seen BJP's drug connection in Goa, sandalwood drug racket and even in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. It's a serious conspiracy against our country,” state Congress spokesperson and general secretary Sachin Sawant said.  He demanded that the allegations made by NCP leader Nawab Malik must be probed by the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.  “We demand a high-level inquiry by the MVA government into collusion between NCB and BJP. How are private people part of the NCB raid on a cruise? With what authority? How do we see the vice president of BJP and a duper taking custody of the accused? How does their vehicle have "police" written on it? Has NCB outsourced their job?” he asked. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raids-on-cordelia-cruises-to-divert-attention-asks-sachin-sawant-1037966.html
06-10-2021||West||Fresh Covid-19 cases jump in Mumbai-MMR||Days after the Ganeshutsav and on the eve of Navratri, fresh Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) jumped on Wednesday.  The daily deaths have also shot up in Maharashtra during the last 24 hours. Earlier this week, schools across the state too opened - 5-12 classes in rural areas and 8-12 classes in urban areas. From Thursday, the places of worship across the state are set to open.  At the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Covid-19 situation the state was reviewed in detail.  According to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, in the last 24 hours, the financial capital reported 629 cases and 7 deaths taking the progressive total to 7,45,792 and 16,136, respectively. This is the highest jump since the second week of July in Mumbai.  On the other hand, the MMR comprising the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban besides neighbouring three districts of Palghar, Thane and Raigad, the new cases were 1,110 and 11 deaths taking the progressive total to 35,313 and 16,82,494, respectively. Across the state, the city recorded 90 deaths and 1,876 cases taking the progressive total to 1,39,362 and 65,67,791.  In terms of daily deaths, it is the highest in a months’ time. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fresh-covid-19-cases-jump-in-mumbai-mmr-1038005.html
06-10-2021||West||Maharashtra govt condoles death of Lakhimpur farmers, MVA calls for bandh on Oct 11||In an unprecedented development, the Maharashtra government - in its weekly Cabinet meeting - condoled the death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri even as the three ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi partners called for a state-wide bandh on October 11.  The Cabinet meeting on Wednesday - presided over by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray - condoled the death of farmers and stood in two minutes’ silence. “The state cabinet passed a resolution expressing regret over the death of farmers in the incident,” the CMO tweeted.  In a related development, the MVA partners - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress - have called for a bandh on October 11 to protest against the incident.  “The MVA has called for a statewide bandh on 11 October against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence,” water resources and command area development minister and state NCP president Jayant Patil said.  The development comes a day after NCP president Sharad Pawar likened the Lakhimpur Kheri incident with the Jallianwala Bagh massacre during India’s freedom struggle - and also accused the BJP-led Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government of misuse of power.  In a related development, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut met Congress leader and Lok Sabha member Rahul Gandhi. “I met Rahul Gandhi. I have also held discussions with him on the Lakhimpur incident. A united opposition is very important for the country and to save democracy,” Raut said. Meanwhile, when asked about the Cabinet resolution against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, former chief minister and now leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said: "You (MVA) should speak of farmers here (in Maharashtra)...farmers are dying, they are reeling under problems...if they are not given relief, we would protest."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-condoles-death-of-lakhimpur-farmers-mva-calls-for-bandh-on-oct-11-1038012.html
06-10-2021||West||NIA takes over probe into seizure of 2,988 kg heroin at Mundra port in Gujarat||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday in a statement said that it has taken over the investigation into seizure of nearly 3,000 kg of heroin worth over Rs 21,000 crore at Mundra port in Kutch district from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI). The transfer of the investigation was based on an order passed by the Ministry of Home Affairs in Delhi on Wednesday. The statement said that NIA had registered the case in Delhi under sections of NDPS Act and UAPA, among other charges against Chennai couple Machavaram Sudhakar and Durga PV Govindaraju Vaisali, Rajkumar P, among others. So far, three of the accused — Sudhakar, his wife Vaisali and Rajkumar P are kept at Palara jail in Bhuj in judicial custody while the remaining six are said to be in Delhi. On Sunday, the DRI had produced one of the accused, Rajkumar P, before the special judge C M Pawar, a day before his remand was to end. The judge sent him to jail in judicial custody. Earlier, while granting custody of Rajkumar on September 26, the special judge had remarked the DRI should investigate the role of "authority and officers at Mundra Adani port." The court had questioned, "how management, Authority and officer of Mundra Adani port was completely under dark and oblivious about the fact of import of such consignment at Mundra Adani port wherein contraband of Heroin of Approx. 2,990 kg was found and whether Mundra Adani port, its management and its authority has gained any benefits from imports of such consignment of NDPS substance at India."  The consignment was imported in the name of Aashi Trading Company, registered at Vijayawada, started by Sudhakar and his wife Vaisali. Investigation has revealed that Sudhakar and Rajkumar were known to each other. Sudhakar was a senior to Rajkumar at a building material manufacturing firm. They both had left their job and got into the export-import business. "Rajkumar introduced Sudhakar to an Afghan national Javad or Javed who in turn introduced him (Sudhakar) to another Afghan national Hasan Husain, who imported the consignment originated from his office located at General Sarak, Kandahar," a source said, adding that all these happened only through Whatsapp messages.  Sudhakar is said to have received Rs 80,000 for the first consignment which arrived in June by the same route and was to get R s1.50 lakh for the second consignment, which was busted by DRI. Sources said that Sudhakar and Rajkumar are "small fries" who were lured by the racket and may not have knowledge of the entire scheme of things. The trio is yet to engage a private advocate in their defence. During their production in the court for remand, they were represented by advocate KM Patel from the state legal aid cell.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-takes-over-probe-into-seizure-of-2988-kg-heroin-at-mundra-port-in-gujarat-1038019.html
06-10-2021||West||Gandhian bodies to take out 'Sevagram to Sabarmati Ashram' march, say 'govt has no understanding of Gandhian thought'||Several Gandhian organisations including Gandhi Smarak Nidhi and Gandhi Peace Foundation have decided to take out "Sevagram Se Sabarmati Sandesh Yatra" between 17 and 23 October to spread Mahatma Gandhi's principles and values. Based on the response, the organisers said on Wednesday, they will decide the future course of action. They said that in the march they will spread the message of the importance of these two Ashrams that Mahatma Gandhi founded during the independence movement and how to preserve his messages. Meanwhile, the first meeting between senior Gujarat government officers and six trusts including Sabarmati Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), which runs Sabarmati Ashram, was held at Gujarat Vidyapith, on redeveloping Sabarmati Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development project. Sources who attended the meeting said that "this was the first time that every stakeholder was given some idea about the project by government officers and master planner architect Bimal Patel. "The government officers have maintained that they won't touch the Sabarmati Ashram but the government has hinted that a new governing body or a trust will be set up which will be responsible for managing the entire facility in the future. For now, the government is going to come up with a website soon where it has promised to keep all its plans for public viewing,' said a source who attended the meeting.  The existing six trusts -- SAPMT, Sabarmati Harijan Ashram Trust, Khadi Gramodyog Prayog Samiti, Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala Trust, Gujarat Harijan Sevak Sangh and Gujarat Khadi Gramodyog Mandal -- own nearly 55 acres of land in and around Sabarmati Ashram which are being converted into a larger precinct. The government promises to come up with "world-class" facilities for visitors. Concerns are being raised that the Rs1,200 crore project may alter the simplicity of Sabarmati Ashram and turn it into "an amusement" park. Besides, formation of a whole new trust to manage these facilities also threatens the autonomy of existing trusts including SAPMT, which has already raised its concerns with the government. Due to these concerns Ram Chandra Rahi, Chairman of Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, Kumar Prashant, president of Gandhi Peace Foundation, Delhi and Sanjay Singh, secretary, Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, held meeting with SAPMT chairperson Ela Bhatt, trustees Sudarshan Iyenger, Kartikeya Sarabhai and Ashoke Chatterjee, among others on Tuesday. The meeting was held to find out what exactly the government was planning by redeveloping the Ashram precinct. "We came here to understand what exactly the government was planning to do with the Ashram as people are questioning us in Delhi. We received a positive response where we tried to understand the situation. However, even the trustees don't have much idea about the entire planning. The government has not shared their exact plan with them," Rahi told DH at Toran Hotel, opposite Sabarmati Ashram, on Wednesday He said that the trustees are there as part of administration to run the Ashram which is sentimentally connected with the entire nation and that's why it is important to know what is the stand of the trustees.   "For managing a system there is a trust (SAPMT) consisting of some people but this trust is a centre of all Gandhians...not just Gandhian organisations but everyone who follow Gandhi. The trust represents all these people and their sentiments. Therefore, we have to run it by taking care of all those feelings and accordingly take a stand...we hope that they will make their stand clear," Rahi told DH. "We don't think that the government has an understanding of Gandhian thoughts. On the contrary, the government takes them as a hurdle and that's the reason why it wants to redevelop it and turn it into a tourist spot," he said. He added that even the erstwhile governments made Gandhi Samadhi (Raj Ghat where Gandhi was cremated) in Delhi a grand one and took every important guest there instead of Birla house where Gandhi was murdered. "Which one is more important- Birla house or Gandhi Samadhi. The government doesn't want anyone to feel the pain of January 30 (1948 when Gandhi was assassinated). Similarly, no one comes to Sabarmati Ashram looking for world-class facilities. There are big hotels for that in Ahmedabad. Here, everyone comes with a sentiment. But, all the government is looking at is 'dukandari' (marketing). Sevagram to Sabarmati Yatra "Primarily, we have planned this yatra to spread the message of Gandhi. We will start from Sevagram by bus on October 17 and reach Sabarmati Ashram on October 23. Following the response of the people, we will decide what to do next with regard to the Gujarat government's plans for Sabarmati Ashram," Rahi said. Sevagram in Wardha, Maharashtra is another important Ashram which Gandhi established. He said that the march will start from Sevagram in buses which will culminate at Sabarmati Ashram. On 24, events will also be organised at the Ashram.  "This is going to a jan chetna yatra to understand Gandhi's thoughts and his heritage and how to preserve them," said Sanjay Singh. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gandhian-bodies-to-take-out-sevagram-to-sabarmati-ashram-march-say-govt-has-no-understanding-of-gandhian-thought-1038054.html
