07-10-2021||Comment||A prescription of ethics for hospitals||In recent weeks, I had to make frequent hospital visits, which led me to some reflections upon the way our hospitals function. However, I am not concerned in this article with the larger challenges that our national Indian health systems, public and private, suffer from. For instance, I am not concerned here with the class character of the Indian ruling elite — aka VIP culture — which plagues even our health systems, private and public, so thoroughly and deeply, that an average Indian patient can hardly hope to get a fraction of the attention the elite get. Government hospitals like All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the like are, for all practical purposes, meant for the political and bureaucratic elite. Even in private hospitals, an ordinary patient can hardly expect the same quality of care as a 'VIP’ patient, even if the former is paying the same charges as the latter. I am neither addressing the problems of medical negligence in our hospitals — public and private alike — whether wrong diagnoses, delays in diagnoses, unnecessary surgery, bloopers in surgery, childbirth and labour malpractice, wrongful administration of anaesthesia, or long-term negligent treatment, and such. Our laws place the burden of proof of such negligence at the hands of the complainant, which is typically beyond the capacity of an average Indian patient — even if we disregard the cost and time taken to get ‘justice’ in what passes for our judiciary. I am also not discussing the unhealthy alliance between doctors, hospital administrations, and pharmacies. Even though this problem has been glaring in the public domain for long, neither the government nor the Medical Council of India (or its new Avatar, National Health Commission) has shown the slightest inclination to penalise either the pharmaceutical companies or the doctors for their role in this unethical practice. My key aim in this article is modest. We know that our private hospitals exhibit a saintly detachment to the larger socio-economic realities, higher principles of social justice, and loftier values of service to humanity at the high altar of profits. They are least concerned that such care as they do dispense has become unaffordable to most common people, as much due to the policy framework governing the health sector in the country, as due to an entirely indifferent and heartless system practised by hospitals themselves. Consequently, the common man is shot by a double-barrel gun; again at the same hospitals’ mercy. Let me share my frustration with the more mundane concerns involving doctors and hospitals: a. It is not uncommon for a doctor to prescribe a high-powered antibiotic by its brand name that burns a hole of ₹150 per capsule in your pocket with a dosage of 14 capsules over a week, which the pharmacy sells only by the strips of 10 each. This means you will have to buy two strips for your dosage of 14, and take a knock of ₹900 on those six extra capsules. Whatever happened to the old practice of pharmacies cutting out six of those capsules from the second strip? Who changed the practice? b. In the good old days, a doctor's consultation fee included a follow-up visit. Now, every hospital charges consultation charges for each visit, including immediate follow-up visits! Say, you pay ₹1000 to consult with a urologist for ten minutes. Obviously, the doctor is unable to have a detailed chat with you in that short time and happily asks you to report back in three days. And then you are charged ₹1000 for each follow-up visit. I had four such visits for a single malady. c. Look at any medical invoice you get, following hospitalisation, and it has billings for consumables ranging from gloves, to cotton, to gauge cloth, to bandage, to blank plastic injections, needles, et al for a three-day stay at the hospital, and you find that the bill runs into tens of thousands of rupees, while the fair market price ought to be a thousand or two, at best. There seems to be no accountability at all for such gouging by a hospital. True, you can go to court and probably get a refund after a dozen years (if you are lucky) of litigation costing several times your losses with the hospital, with the judge paying you a pittance in compensation for your ‘mental anguish’. d. Why doesn’t the law demand that doctors hang their degrees with the names of the college they graduated from, in plain sight, along with their percentile position among the doctors graduating that year in their specialisation nationwide? Surely with today’s technology, the National Health Commission should be able to ensure that, with the threat of serious penalty for violations? e. Is it not reasonable that estimates of hospital treatment are given before and not after asking the patients whether or not they have insurance, and if so, with what limit? The inherent problem in this line of questioning is obvious. The practice incentivises the hospital to levy charges as close as possible to the insurance limit, and on those atrocious overheads too. One would think, it is in the interest of the insurance companies to exert pressure to dissuade the hospitals from this practice, rather than routinely short-change the patients from paying them their benefits. f. Most hospitals have ratios like ‘outpatient to inpatient conversion ratio; 'consultation charges to pathology charge ratio’; ‘consumables charged per day’, often doctor-wise, for monitoring their profitability. Such ratios are obviously detestable and the underlying reason why every single doctor sends every single patient to at least a dozen different tests. We talk long of corporate social responsibility for the industry in general, but are such practices in line with the corporate social responsibility of the hospitals? We have a stringent CSR Act in place, but it fails to recognise that CSR first and foremost is about fairness, transparency, and good governance. How do we make a beginning? (The writer is an academician.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-prescription-of-ethics-for-hospitals-1038442.html
07-10-2021||First Edit||Journalists have done their job, it is now the government’s turn||It is not the first time that illegal or dubious financial dealings of high-profile Indian personalities in offshore tax havens have been brought to light. The latest such revelations, made in reports based on a host of financial documents that have been dubbed the ‘Pandora Papers’, which are being published in India and in many other countries, point to the movement of money and wealth across national boundaries and their parking in destinations where not many questions are asked about their origin and legality. The Pandora Papers, which contain about 12 million documents, were accessed with the help of whistle blowers and by other means. They were shared with the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), which has worked with media organisations all over the world to analyse the files for over a year. The disclosures are similar to those made in the past in the Panama Papers of 2016, the Paradise Papers of 2017, and other exercises in investigative journalism.    According to the reports, names of over 300 Indians from different fields such as business, politics and sports figure in the Pandora Papers. Anil Ambani, Vinod Adani, Jackie Shroff, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw’s husband John Shaw, Niira Radia,  Sachin Tendulkar and former Union minister, the late Satish Sharma, are among them. More names are likely to be made public in the coming days. The documents have also exposed the offshore dealings of many foreign personalities, including kings and dictators, presidents and prime ministers. Financial and banking mechanisms in havens abroad are used to evade taxes in the home country, park ill-gotten money acquired through crime, corruption or other wrong means, and to keep it safely away from tax men. It has come to light that some of those who have billions in such accounts have declared themselves bankrupt in India to avoid repayment of loans and discharge of other liabilities. Some others are under investigation, or in jail or on bail.   The government has said that the revelations would be probed by a multi-agency group headed by the Chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), having representatives from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the RBI. Investigations were announced into similar charges earlier, too, but with precious little outcome. Investigations into the bank accounts and disclosures made in the Panama Papers have not led anywhere. No progress has been reported in probing the details obtained from Swiss authorities. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had even promised to bring back all the ‘black money’ stashed abroad and distribute it to all the citizens of India, Rs 15 lakh apiece. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure that the money illegally stashed away in foreign countries is brought back and those who resort to such wrong practices are punished, however high and mighty they may be. Such practices can only be considered anti-national. Tax laws should be enforced strictly and loopholes should be plugged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/journalists-have-done-their-job-it-is-now-the-government-s-turn-1038428.html
07-10-2021||In Perspective||What’s driving protests around the world?||September was turbulent: More than 200 Australians arrested during citywide protests and a temporary no-fly zone declared over Melbourne. Rubber bullets and tear gas unleashed by the Thai riot police into an angry crowd. Healthcare workers assaulted in Canada. Rallies of up to 150,000 people across the Netherlands. The pandemic has coincided with an upsurge in protests across the globe. Over the past 18 months, people have taken to the streets in India, Yemen, Tunisia, Eswatini, Cuba, Colombia, Brazil and the US. The Armed Conflict Location & Event Data Project reports that the number of demonstrations globally increased by 7% from 2019 to 2020 despite lockdowns and measures to limit public gatherings. What is driving this international discontent? Some experts argue it is the pandemic itself. People of poorer nations are protesting the lack of available vaccines or personal protective equipment, while those of wealthier countries are objecting to perceived civil liberties violations. But the continuing protests in both poor and wealthy countries cannot simply be explained away as reactions to the pandemic. The presence of simultaneous uprisings in countries with a range of income levels, government types and geopolitical significance indicates a deeper disillusionment: the loss of faith in the social contract that shapes relations between governments and their people. Put simply, the governments of today seem incapable of offering both representative and effective governance. And ordinary citizens have had enough. The rise in protests globally actually began long before the pandemic. Following the 2008 economic crash, mass demonstrations — including Occupy Wall Street and the Arab Spring — called for a fundamental rethinking of the existing post-Cold War social contract between governments and their people. Since President George Bush Sr’s announcement of a new world order in 1990, this contract was largely founded upon the notion that market-centric policies would lead to global prosperity and peace. But the financial crisis in 2008 shed light on this social contract’s shortcomings. Both political and economic in nature, the ensuing protests demanded that governments respect the basic rights of citizens and address the growing gap between the haves and the have-nots. Around the world, authoritarian and democratic leaders alike responded to the financial crisis with more neoliberal policies such as fiscal austerity and the privatisation of public-sector services — policies that only further galvanised popular anger. This frustration has carried over in the so-called Covid protests of today. While many demonstrations explicitly invoke the pandemic, the bigger, latent concern is the inability of modern governments to serve the majority of their populations, especially the middle and poorer classes. This failure is made visible by the growing number of monopolies, the increasing political power of corporations, the unremitting spike in economic inequality and the policies that are exacerbating climate change. Add the botched responses to Covid and it is no surprise that citizens have little confidence in their leaders, elected or otherwise, to confront these challenges. Early in the pandemic, experts debated whether it would be democracies or autocracies that would be better equipped to handle the crisis. It is clear both have struggled. Democracy, at least in its dominant neoliberal form, prioritises the rights of individuals and corporations while ignoring the basic needs of the social body. Authoritarian governments — even in countries with robust welfare systems — cannot respond effectively without stoking popular resentment because of their reliance on force to ensure compliance. This is why both South Africa, once a model of neoliberal democracy now mired in corruption, and Cuba, a paragon of welfare authoritarianism that initially overperformed in its Covid response, have recently faced challenges to their leadership. Fissures in the social contract are nothing new. But unlike in times past, when activists pushed colonial and then Communist powers to reimagine a different social structure, there are no good, obvious alternatives capable of challenging the current neoliberal consensus. Going back to the pre-Covid status quo globally is not an option. The pandemic is fundamentally a social challenge. It requires a collective response, and every collective undertaking requires trust. In many countries, trust in government has been shaken by leaders who put their faith in market-based solutions to the detriment of most citizens. A Pew Research study shows that Americans’ trust in their government has declined to 24% from an average of 54% in 2001. Social trust is a precious thing. It can take generations to build but can be lost in a flash. And so, protests are likely to continue wherever that trust remains low, either because of a botched Covid response or other crises like climate change, dysfunctional political institutions and corporate greed. The pandemic has revealed the disconnect between governments and their citizens. The latter now demand a different, more just world. (The writer is a professor of international affairs at the Marxe School of Public and International Affairs, City University of New York)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/what-s-driving-protests-around-the-world-1038435.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka CM Bommai to visit 'jinxed' Chamarajanagar on Thursday||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, on Wednesday, rubbished the superstitious belief that a visit to Chamarajanagar town will lead to loss of power and said power is not permanent and for a CM, every district and town is equal. Bommai will visit the town on Thursday to attend a programme in which President Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate the 450-bed super speciality hospital of Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS). The CM said it is his responsibility and duty to visit each district and place. "As per Nanjundappa Committee report, a few taluks in Chamarajanagar district are backward and it is the responsibility of the CM to visit such places. I have visited the district when I was minister,” he said. “I will visit Chamarajanagar town again and conduct a review meeting of the district. We can understand the problems of the region only if we visit the place,” he said. The CM said, “Belief or disbelief is left to oneself and power is not permanent for anyone”. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cm-bommai-to-visit-jinxed-chamarajanagar-on-thursday-1038071.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Yadgir water contamination: Engineer, PDO suspended||A junior engineer with rural drinking water and sanitation department and a panchayat development officer (PDO) have been suspended in connection with the deaths of six people due to consumption of ‘contaminated water’ at Makarabbi village in the taluk. Zilla Panchayat CEO K R Nandini on Wednesday ordered suspension of JE Vijay Naik and Makarabbi PDO Sharanappa. More than 150 residents of Makarabbi village fell sick after consuming the contaminated water recently. As many as six villagers died in a span of 10 days. The villagers had complained about the negligence of the Rural Drinking water and sanitation department and gram panchayat following which, the ZP CEO suspended the officers pending enquiry. Villagers back PDO In an interesting development later in the day, a group of villagers staged a protest condemning the suspension of the junior engineer and the panchayat officer. The agitating villagers locked the panchayat office, demanding revocation of the suspension of officers. The protesters said that the PDO Sharanappa stayed in the headquarters and made sincere efforts to contain gastroenteritis in the village. He also made sure the sick received timely treatment. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, on Tuesday, had ordered a probe by a team, led by IAS officer Munish Moudgil, into the incident. The CM had also announced a compensation of Rs 3 lakh to family members of the victims. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yadgir-water-contamination-engineer-pdo-suspended-1038075.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru firing: Businessman's son declared brain-dead||Sudheendra, the 15-year-old boy, who was shot at by his father and businessman Rajesh Prabhu on Tuesday, was declared brain-dead on Wednesday. Prabhu, the owner of Vaishnavi Express Cargo, had attempted to threaten his employees Ashraf and Chandru who were demanding higher wages, by brandishing his .32 bore pistol. However, he ended up firing at his son. The bullet lodged in Sudheendra's skull after piercing through his left eye. On hearing doctors declare Sudheendra as brain-dead, Rajesh took ill and was admitted to the same hospital on Wednesday. The hospital staff have initiated the process of harvesting organs from the brain-dead patient. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-firing-businessmans-son-declared-brain-dead-1038080.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kateel, Polali temples enforce dress code for devotees||The Durgaparameshwari temple at Kateel and the Rajarajeshwari temple at Polali have made traditional attire compulsory for devotees, following directions from the Karnataka Dharmika Parishat, a government body that advises the government on rituals and traditions in Muzrai temples. A board requesting devotees to be in traditional Hindu attire has been installed at the Kateel Durgaparameshwari temple, about 37 km from Mangaluru. “The move is to create awareness among the public. As the temple is a sacred place, there is a need to give priority for devotion,” sources in the Parishat said. Harinarayana Asranna, priest of the Durgaparameshwari temple, said, “We have requested devotees to be attired only in traditional dress. It’s only a request and not compulsory.” The move to implement dress code came close on the heels of the VHP and the Bajrang Dal organising a padyatra recently, to urge the government to implement a dress code in temples.  Posters on the proper traditional wear for male and female devotees visiting temples had also sprung up at some places.  Mixed response The Parishat’s dress code was greeted with mixed response on social media. Many tweeted in favour of the dress code, as temples had become ‘modelling spots’ in recent days. Aditya tweeted that soon there will be a dress code for public places and finally for home.  “Who are we? Victorians? Islamists?,” he wondered. The Parishat, undaunted by the criticism, is keen on rolling out a dress code for devotees in all 216 grade ‘A’ temples of the state. Sources pointed out that the Hindu religious institutions and charitable endowment department has to first approve the Parishat’s recommendations and then send them to the Cabinet for approval. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kateel-polali-temples-enforce-dress-code-for-devotees-1038082.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two daily wagers struck dead by lightning in Chittapur||Two people were struck dead by lightning at Diggaon village in Chittapur taluk of the district. The deceased have been identified as Basavarajappa Sharanappa Shahabadi (56) and Arjun Sabanna Kollur(52). While Basavarajappa's body was found on Tuesday night, the body of Arjun was traced on Wednesday. Lightning struck them in the forest when they had gone for work.  A case has been registered at the Chittapur police station. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-daily-wagers-struck-dead-by-lightning-in-chittapur-1038124.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||S M Krishna inaugurates Mysuru Dasara 2021||Former chief minister S M Krishna inaugurated the 2021 edition of Mysuru Dasara atop Chamundi Hill on Thursday. Krishna touched upon all aspects of life and nation, ranging from religion, spirituality, human relations, nostalgia, history, heritage, tourism, evolution, achievements, foreign relations, and related them to Mysuru Dasara in his speech at the inauguration. He spoke after lighting the lamp before the idol of Sri Chamundeshwari, placed in the silver chariot, and offering floral tributes to the deity. Eighty-nine-year-old Krishna recalled his school and college days in Mysuru although he was a native of Somanahalli in Maddur taluk of Mandya district. Krishna, along with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar, offered 'pushparchane' to the idol of Chamundeshwari Devi that is placed in the Silver Chariot  after the chief priest of Chamundeshwari Temple N Shashishekara Dixit offered puja.  “Mysuru Dasara Exhibition was equally famous like the world famous Dasara itself. We oppose monarchy but we cannot erase the achievements and contributions of great kings of the the Yadu dynasty from the pages of history. Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar pledged the gold jewels of his family members to construct Krishnaraja Sagar Dam, which helped the progress of the farmers of the region, especially Mandya district,” he said. He said the government should plan a Dasara package by next year to cover other significant tourist destinations like Badami and Aihole to attract more visitors and to increase the revenue. “Singapore is an example on how a place can progress by proper planning of development and maintaining cleanliness to attract tourists. Mysuru has a similar potential,” he said. A Congressman for nearly five decades, Krishna who joined the BJP a couple of years back, heaped praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “In my nearly six decades of political awareness, I have not seen a leader with such commitment and dedication towards the progress of India. He has big dreams for the nation and is ably leading by example to take India to new heights. There is a need to give the right direction to the youth of the nation by setting the right kind of ambitions. Hope the Union and the state governments will take steps in this regard,” he said. Krishna recalled how, Mahatma Gandhi was pleased to see the realisation of his ideals at his native place Somanahalli. “Gandhi was on his way to Mysuru from Bengaluru, in 1934, when he dropped in the hostel established by my father Mallaiah, a member of the erstwhile Praja Pratinidhi Sabha of Mysuru state at Somanahalli. B Venkatappa, a Congressman, explained to Gandhi that two ‘Harijan’ boys were staying together with other boys in the hostel, to attend school,” he said. Mayor Sunanda Palanetra and a host of ministers including Dr K Sudhakar, Burari Basavaraj, B C Patil, Shashikala Jolle, MLAs G T Devegowda, L Nagendra, Tanveer Sait, S A Ramadass, B Harshavardhan, K Mahadev and others were present at the event. As the celebration was a low-key affair this time, only 400 people were allowed to attend the event. A large number of police were deputed atop the hill to ensure security. A few cutural troupes performed on the occasion. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/s-m-krishna-inaugurates-mysuru-dasara-2021-1038186.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two Bajrang Dal members arrested for 'assaulting' couples in Mangaluru||Two members of Bajarang Dal were arrested for allegedly assaulting two young couples near St Agnes college in Mangaluru on Thursday. Bajarang Dal members allegedly assaulted two couples of different faith before handing them over to Kadri police. Based on a complaint of moral policing by the couples, Kadri police arrested two youth, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Sashi Kumar said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-bajrang-dal-members-arrested-for-assaulting-couples-in-mangaluru-1038216.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi house collapse: State, Centre announce compensation for kin of deceased||The Karnataka government announced compensation of Rs 5 lakh each and the Centre Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of seven persons killed in a house collapse at Badal-Ankalagi village in the Belagavi taluk on Wednesday evening. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai spoke to survivour Bhimappa Khagavi over the phone on Wednesday night and consoled him. The CM also announced compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the incident and announced compensation of Rs 2 lakh each, the Prime Minister's office tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-house-collapse-state-centre-announce-compensation-for-kin-of-deceased-1038227.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||India generating five lakh litre medical oxygen per minute, claims MP||MP G M Siddeshwara claimed that around four to five lakh litre medical oxygen is being generated per minute at present in the country. Inaugurating the programme organised to mark the launching of two medical oxygen generation plants in the premises of District Chigateri General Hospital here on Thursday, he said that in order to strengthen healthcare system in the country and prevent deaths for want of medical oxygen, Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to set up medical oxygen generation plants in district general hospitals across the country using PM Cares Fund. "With this, people of the district will benefit from it. During the first wave of Covid-19, India had the capacity to generate one lakh litre medical oxygen and it had to import it from other countries. But now, there is no need to import it from overseas," he said. He also claimed that the Modi-led government at the Centre has implemented many schemes for the welfare of poor people and farming community. Following the complaints by patients that doctors in district general hospital ask them to bring medicine required for dialysis from outside, the minister warned that he would initiate disciplinary action against the officials concerned if such complaints are repeated. Reacting to it, Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi said, the adequate grants are being given to district general hospital to purchase medicine. But it is unfortunate that patients are asked to bring medicine from outside the hospital. He also warned that he would initiate disciplinary action against hospital superintendent without fail. Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Hardeep Singh Puri virtually inaugurated two medical oxygen generation plants with 1,000 LPM capacity installed in the premises of District Chigateri General Hospital from New Delhi. Mayakonda MLA Linganna, Mayor S T Veeresh, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Vijay Mahantesh Danammanavar, Superintendent of Police C B Rishyanth, District Surgeon Jayaprakash, District Health Officer Nagaraj and others were present on the occasion. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/india-generating-five-lakh-litre-medical-oxygen-per-minute-claims-mp-1038304.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man dies in wall collapse in Davangere||A 48-year old man died and another sustained injuries at Naraganahalli in the taluk on Thursday, when a wall of a house collapsed due to heavy rains accompanied by strong wind and lightning that lashed the region. Kumblara Manjappa is the deceased while Parashuram sustained injuries. The wall of the house was in a pathetic state following heavy rains that had been lashing the region for the past six days. Family members of Manjappa have escaped unhurt. Mayakonda police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-dies-in-wall-collapse-in-davangere-1038335.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S) to support party that promises development of Kalaburagi city: H D Kumaraswamy||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said that the JD(S) will extend its support to form a council in Kalaburagi City Corporation to a party that will strive to improve the living condition of the people as the people in some areas are leading life worse than a 'dog in the city'. Speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi Airport on Thursday, he said, "Pre-corporation polls, I visited some areas of the city to understand the situation. The residents in some localities hardly get potable drinking water and don't have proper underground drainage. Hence, the party will throw its weight behind those who promise a comprehensive development of the city", he told. To a query, the ex-CM said, "We do not consider the secular party or a communal party in local bodies polls like city corporations. The JD(S) has emerged kingmaker in the recent Kalaburagi City Corporation polls and both Congress and the BJP are vying to get our support to form the council". "Who is Siddaramaiah?" Kumaraswamy lambasted at Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly asking who was he to question the decision taken by the JD(S) to field a Muslim candidate in Sindagi bypolls. "Siddaramaiah doesn't have the right to ask whom to field and not to field. Why is he meddling in the matters of our party?" he asked.  Reiterating that there is no intention of helping the BJP behind fielding a minority candidate, the JD(S) leader mentioned that the JD(S) will do politics independently but don't like to be a B team of a political outfit. Congress, but not the JD(S), was responsible for the BJP coming to power. The MLAs of which party helped the BJP come to power. Drawing a difference between the present and old Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangha, Kumaraswamy alleged that the outfit was now dividing the people on a caste basis and is inciting communal violence. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-to-support-party-that-promises-development-of-kalaburagi-city-h-d-kumaraswamy-1038346.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Musician Manohar to inaugurate 7-day Dasara film festival||Noted music composer V Manohar will inaugurate the seven-day Dasara film festival on October 8 at HPC cinema hall in Shivamogga at 9:30 am. Shivamogga City Corporation, District Administration, Information & Public Relations Department, Belli Mandala and Cinemoge are jointly organising the event as part of Dasara festivities. Popular singer and music composer Vasuki Vaibhav, actress Veena Sundar, actors Sundar and Shivamogga Ramanna will be present at the event. Mayor Sunita Annappa, Deputy Mayor Shankar Ganni, City Corporation Commissioner Chidananda Vatare, Film Festival Committee Chairman Lakshmi Shankar Naik, members U H Vishwanath, R C Naik, Latha Ganesh, Shabana Khanam, Shivamogga Belli Mandala Working President D S Arun, Convener Vaidya, senior Assistant Director of Information & Public Relations Department Shafi Saaduddin, leader of ruling party in the corporation S N Channabasappa and leader of opposition in the corporation Yamnuna Range Gowda and others will be present in the event. Films will be screened in various cinema halls free of cost in the morning during the festival. People have been asked to come in large numbers to watch the films. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/musician-manohar-to-inaugurate-7-day-dasara-film-festival-1038348.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||President Kovind inaugurates teaching hospital in Chamarajanagar||President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the 400-bed Teaching Hospital of Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS), in the presence of Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, in Chamarajanagar on Thursday. The President, who was on a private visit to B R Hill temple, in Yalandur taluk, travelled to Chamarajanagar via helicopter. He was received by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other dignitaries at the helipad. The President drew huge applause when he addressed the gathering in Kannada, saying he is very happy to visit Karnataka and to be with the people here. He said that the event gained importance as it was being inaugurated on the first day of auspicious Navaratri. He also recalled the contributions of Mysuru Kings to the education and welfare of the people and described Jayachamaraja Wadiyar as Monarch-democrat. The teaching hospital is a perfect example of unity in diversity and represents mini India, as students from Jammu and Kashmir from the North, Assam in North-East and southern states are studying here, he said.  50% women students The President expressed happiness over 50% of medical students and 60% of nursing students are women. There are 750 medical students and out of the 300 are women. The daughters of India are taking great strides, which reflects progressive India marching ahead in the 21st century, he said. He also lauded CIMS for ranking third place for the successful implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka scheme, in 2021. Healthcare Need of the hour is to take health services to the remotest corners of the country, he said. He urged the CIMS to make affordable health available to immediate neighbours. We can build an Atmanirbhar Bharat only when our technology, human resources and access come together, he opined. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/president-kovind-inaugurates-teaching-hospital-in-chamarajanagar-1038358.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hasanamba festival to begin from October 28||The Hasanamba Jatra Mahotsava will be held from October 28 to November 6 this year.  The temple opens once a year during the Deepavali festival. The sanctum sanctorum of the temple will be opened at 12 noon on Thursday (October 28) as per the tradition followed for decades. It will be closed at 12 noon on November 6. As the Covid cases are still being reported in the district, the district administration has restricted the entry of the public to the temple, like last year. There would be a live telecast and LED screens would be installed around the temple to facilitate the devotees to have darshan of the goddess. Only elected representatives and special invitees will be allowed to visit the temple, according to Minister K Gopalaiah, who is in charge of the district. CHeck out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hasanamba-festival-to-begin-from-october-28-1038416.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||I-T sleuths raid Bagalkot contractor Uppar's premises||The Income Tax sleuths raided the front office of Class 1 contractor D Y Uppar here on Thursday. The heli-hopping contractor Uppar, a native of Vijayapura, has executed several major road and irrigation projects, including the Upper Krishna Project, in the last three decades. A six-member I-T team pounced on the home office of Uppar at 69 Sector of Navanagar in the town in the early hours of Thursday and verified documents and files. They also questioned the manager and staff. Police personnel have been manned outside the Uppar's office to ensure no outsider enters the premises. The I-T department had conducted search and seizure at Uppar's premises in 2014. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/i-t-sleuths-raid-bagalkot-contractor-uppars-premises-1038434.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||After Kumaraswamy, D K Shivakumar trains guns on RSS||A day after JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy alleged that the RSS was controlling Indian bureaucracy, KPCC president D K Shivakumar made a similar allegation on Wednesday. The RSS, which has forayed into setting up educational institutions, is trying to push its candidates into various government posts. It is also ensuring that ABVP-affiliated candidates are recruited in schools and colleges, he said. “There is no law and order in the state. BJP leaders have been trying to fan conflict even during the pandemic. This is the fate of all BJP-ruled states,” he said. Shivakumar’s allegations came even as Kumaraswamy continued to spar with BJP leaders, defending his statement on RSS. While BJP national general secretary C T Ravi had asked Kumaraswamy to stop reading about RSS and instead visit a ‘shaakha’ to understand the Sangh in its entirety, Kumaraswamy hit back at Ravi. “If I have gotten to know so much by reading a book in which RSS pracharaks have disclosed the details, imagine how much more will be revealed if I visit a shaakha,” he said in retort. Ravi must also talk about ‘Operation Kamala’ which defied the basic tenets of democracy, the former chief minister said. “Did the RSS teach you this?” he sought to know. An organisation such as the RSS, which operates by controlling people’s representatives and governments, can never do good for the country, hesaid. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/after-kumaraswamy-d-k-shivakumar-trains-guns-on-rss-1038072.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka bypoll battle heats up as BJP announces candidates||Poll battle for Hangal and Sindhgi constituencies in Karnataka is heating up as the BJP announced its candidates on Tuesday. While Ramesh Bhusanur, who came second behind MC Managuli in the 2018 polls. is BJP candidate from Sindhgi, Shivaraj Sajjanar is a candidate from Hangal constituency. Both the Congress and JD(S) had announced their candidates earlier. Congress is fielding Ashok Managuli, son of former Sindhgi MLA from JD(S) MC Managuli at Sindhgi and Srinivas V Mane at Hangal. JD(S) was the first to announce candidates from both the constituencies and fielded 33-year old Naziya Shakeel Ahmed from Sindhgi and Niyaz Shaik from Hangal, much to the chagrin of Congress who have targeted the regional party for 'dividing minority votes'. Ramesh is a two-time MLA from Sindhgi and had lost to MC Managuli of JD(S) in 2018. Managuli passed away earlier this year due to age-related complications. The constituency has witnessed neck-to-neck contests between BJP and JD(S) in the last three general elections, with Congress relegated to the third position. This time around, Congress is plotting to ride the sympathy wave by fielding Ashok Managuli. Election in Hangal was necessitated due to the demise of senior BJP leader CM Udasi. Though Revati Udasi, daughter-in-law of the former MLA, was pitted to be the front-runner for the BJP ticket, the party high command picked Shivaraj, a former MLA. He had also contested from a KJP ticket in 2013 when former CM BS Yediyurappa split from BJP and launched his own regional outfit. The bypolls are considered to be a prestige battle for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is facing his first electoral challenge after being appointed CM in July this year. Moreover, Hangal is a neighbouring constituency of Shiggaon. Nominations All the candidates are expected to file nominations by Friday, October 8, the last day for nominations. Polls are scheduled for October 30 and results are scheduled to be out on November 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bypoll-battle-heats-up-as-bjp-announces-candidates-1038204.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bashing RSS will not bring Muslim votes, says Shettar||MLA and former chief minister Jagadish Shettar on Thursday stated that Congress leader Siddaramaiah and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy have a misconception that they would get Muslim votes if they blame RSS. "They have suddenly developed a 'love' towards the RSS. They are criticising the RSS as part of their appeasement politics. Even senior leaders like H D Deve Gowda had earlier appreciated the RSS. Several Muslims also like the RSS. Criticism by Sidaramaiah and Kumaraswamy will not have any impact and the RSS would grow stronger," Shettar said. RSS is working to protect the Indian culture. We have no embarrassment to say that it is our original organisation, and it guides us, he noted. Commenting on Siddaramaiah's remarks about JD(S) fielding minority community candidates in Assembly by-elections, Shettar said, "It shows that the Congress has lost the faith in getting minority community votes, and it lacks the strength." It is left to respective political parties to select their candidates. How can Siddaramaiah dictate other parties in this issue? he asked. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bashing-rss-will-not-bring-muslim-votes-says-shettar-1038248.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||No information on Bengaluru I-T raids: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he has no full information about the Income Tax (I-T) department raids at more than 30 spots across Bengaluru in the early hours of Thursday. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, the Chief Minister said he has no information about the raids on the houses, including one Umesh, who is said to be a close aide and personal assistant of former chief minister B S Yediyurappa and the houses of businessmen, contractors and chartered accountants in Sahakaranagar, Hegde Nagar, Ramamandir and other places. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-information-on-bengaluru-i-t-raids-cm-bommai-1038309.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Shift Siddaramaiah to national politics, Congress veterans urge Sonia||With former chief minister Siddaramaiah making no secret of his chief ministerial ambitions for 2023, Congress veterans in Karnataka have swung into action, urging party president Sonia Gandhi to shift him to national politics.  Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, former AICC general secretary B K Hariprasad, KPCC president D K Shivakumar, senior leader G Parameshwara and a host of ‘original’ Congress leaders have been meeting party leaders in the national capital for the last one month, suggesting that the Kuruba leader be shifted to national politics. These leaders argued that Siddaramaiah’s activities were undermining Shivakumar’s authority in the state and it would be better if the former CM was accommodated in the AICC. They conveyed to the central leadership that Siddaramaiah’s personal enmity with former prime minister H D Deve Gowda and his family did not augur well for the party in the state, sources in Congress told DH. They also did not rule out Siddaramaiah’s role in the exit of his loyalists from the Congress to join the BJP, which led to the collapse of the JD(S)-Congress coalition government in 2019. Siddaramaiah’s chief ministerial ambitions have divided the state Congress vertically into two groups – ‘migrants’ from the Janata Parivar and ‘original’ Congress leaders, with the latter rallying behind Shivakumar, said a Congress leader. The ‘original’ Congress leaders claim they feel ignored with Siddaramaiah at the helm and accuse the former CM of promoting his loyalists in the party. “The differences between Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar have led to delays in the appointment of new district office bearers for the party,” a Congress leader said. In July, party leader Rahul Gandhi had to step in when Siddaramaiah supporters started demanding that their leader be projected as the Chief ministerial candidate for the 2023 Assembly polls. Gandhi brokered peace between the warring factions, making it clear that the next CM will be chosen by the legislature party after the elections. Siddaramaiah has made no secret of his ambition to become the CM again. “If people’s blessings are there, there is nothing wrong in becoming the CM,” has been the refrain of Siddaramaiah, who is the leader of the Congress legislature party. Siddaramaiah has already declared that he will contest from the Badami Assembly segment, which he currently represents, conveniently forgetting his announcement that the 2018 Assembly election would be his last. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shift-siddaramaiah-to-national-politics-congress-veterans-urge-sonia-1038414.html
07-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP, JD(S) leaders continue to spar over RSS||BJP and JD(S) leaders continued to spar over the RSS on Thursday, with a war of words ensuing on social media between the leaders.  Pulling out old news reports and images, BJP national general secretary C T Ravi pointed out how Deve Gowda had a word of appreciation for the RSS in the past. "Recalling the Emergency period when several leaders were arrested, Gowda has publicly appreciated L K Advani and others for the way they conducted themselves. This shows that the former prime minister has accepted the RSS ideology. But his son is questioning the values of RSS which shows his immaturity," Ravi charged.  RSS is the only organisation that inculcates a spirit of nationalism, he said, adding that RSS workers had served the people during the pandemic. In a quick retort, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy pointed out that in 1975, even the Jan Sangh was an ally of the Janata Party. "Vajpayee, Advani and Deve Gowda were among many who had expressed their dissent against the Emergency and were jailed. But the RSS has changed much after that," he said. "This is why he had opposed my move when I formed a coalition with the BJP. He has always maintained a distance from the RSS," he stated, alleging that the RSS was disturbing peace in the nation and was brainwashing the youth.  Meanwhile, JD(S) state president H K Kumaraswamy also lashed out at the BJP leaders for calling the party family-centric. "BJP leaders have themselves been openly complaining about Yediyurappa's family business. Have you forgotten this?" he questioned his BJP counterpart Nalin Kumar Kateel. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-jds-leaders-continue-to-spar-over-rss-1038418.html
07-10-2021||Mysuru||Private durbar at Mysuru palace from today||Navratri celebrations began at Mysuru Palace with the titular head of the erstwhile Royal family Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar conducting private (khasagi) durbar at the Durbar Hall, during the auspicious hour on Thursday.  The puja rituals began at the palace at around 4.30 am. Yaduveer ascended the gem-studded golden throne during Dhanur lagna between 11.45 am and 12.35 pm, said sources.  The erstwhile Royal family has restricted entry to the private durbar for the public and also family members due to the Covid-19 crisis.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/private-durbar-at-mysuru-palace-from-today-1038215.html
07-10-2021||Mysuru||CM Bommai receives President Kovind in Mysuru||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai received President Ram Nath Kovind, who arrived in Mysuru, on Thursday.  Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot, Minister S T Somashekar, Mayor Sunanda Palanetra and others were present at the airport. The President will visit Biligiri Rangana Betta temple in Yalandur taluk. He will also inaugurate the super speciality hospital at Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences in the afternoon.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/cm-bommai-receives-president-kovind-in-mysuru-1038218.html
07-10-2021||National||US, India line up series of bilateral engagements||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with President Joe Biden in White House last month, India and the United States have now lined up a series of bilateral engagements to keep up the momentum and set the stage for a big-ticket visit from Washington D.C. to New Delhi. New Delhi is expecting either Biden or his Indian-American Vice-President Kamala Harris to visit India within the next few months. The two sides have already started preparing for the visit and working on the deliverables. Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar will soon visit Washington D.C. to co-chair a meeting of the Defence Policy Group with his counterpart in the US, sources said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will visit Washington D.C. soon for a meeting of India-US Economic and Financial Partnership dialogue, which she will co-chair with Janet Yellen, her counterpart in the Biden Administration. The two sides will soon have a meeting of the Trade Policy Forum, which has not been convened since 2017. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will visit the US for a meeting with his counterpart Secretary of Defence, Lloyd Austin, later this year. Singh and Austin will join External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart American Secretary of State Antony Blinken for the India-US 2+2 dialogue in Washington D.C, sources said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-india-line-up-series-of-bilateral-engagements-1038068.html
07-10-2021||National||Baby on board: Passenger gives birth to boy mid-air in Air India London-Cochin flight||More than 200 people onboard an Air India flight from London to Cochin experienced anxious moments that soon turned into a pleasant surprise as a boy was born mid-air on Tuesday. Two doctors and four nurses who were onboard the flight AI 150 helped the lady passenger in the premature delivery of the baby. Since the lady needed medical care, the plane was diverted to Frankfurt, an Air India spokesperson said on Wednesday. In a late evening Facebook post on Wednesday, Air India said, "AI 150 of 5th Oct, enroute to Kochi from London with 202 pax, landed in Frankfurt with 203 passengers. We had a surprise arrival mid-air. A baby boy was born."  Kochi is also known as Cochin. The airline said its aircraft is well equipped with all necessary medical equipment and its crew are experienced to handle this kind of eventuality. The mother along with the baby and another passenger de-boarded and were taken to a hospital in Frankfurt, the spokesperson said, adding that the baby was doing fine. "Our officials are in constant touch with the family and all necessary support is being provided. Soon they will be flying home with us," it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/baby-on-board-passenger-gives-birth-to-boy-mid-air-in-air-india-london-cochin-flight-1038113.html
07-10-2021||National||India critical part of global climate change solutions: USAID||India, which has shown global leadership in the fight against climate change, is a critical part of the global climate change solutions, a top Biden Administration official said on Wednesday. "As one of the most innovative and vibrant economies on Earth, India, isn't simply at the mercy of a changing climate, it is a critical part of the solution," USAID Administrator Samantha Power said in her special address to the India Ideas Summit of US-India Business Council. "That leadership was demonstrated at the leaders' climate summit in April where President (Joe) Biden and Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi launched the India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership, a key framework to help our countries meet the goals of the Paris Agreement," she said. Climate change serves as a brake on India's growth, as it recovers from the Covid-19 pandemic, she noted. If global temperature rises by one degree, it would cost India three per cent of its GDP, she warned. Power said India-US partnership doesn't end with cutting emissions. "We also are committed to partnering with the Indian government, the private sector and civil society to safeguard against climate impacts that are happening today. And this is where the world truly needs the private sector's help,” she said. Of the estimated $30 billion spent on climate adaptation, $500 million came from the private sector. Given the massive need in the world, and the fact that private sector financial flows represent more than 80 per cent of all investment in poor and middle-income countries that dynamic has to change, she said. "Here, India has given us a roadmap for partnership through the Coalition for Disaster Resilient infrastructure. The US is a founding member of this India-led coalition, and a continued supporter of its work to raise private and public sector financing for infrastructure that can stand up to natural disasters,” she said. "As India grows, we will develop a new generation of resilient infrastructure; from modern airports to smart power grids to efficient railways and highways that will connect its many cities. To that end we recently committed over $9 million to support the coalition and attract more private sector financing for climate resilience, and adaptation," she said. The USAID, she said, is proud to be a key partner to India as it transitions to renewable energy and achieves its climate goals. "In the past six years, our partnership has already helped India integrate, five gigawatts of renewable energy into its grid that is enough to power over three million households, helping cut greenhouse gas emissions by 30 million tonnes. That is the equivalent of pulling six million cars off the road,” she said. "To build on these results, USAID is supporting a five-year regional program that aims to mobilise $7 billion in private clean energy investments to add another five gigawatts of renewable energy in South Asia, much of it in India. We are also partnering with the Department of Energy and our national labs to launch the South Asia Group for Energy and effort to help partner governments like India, make strategic investments in clean energy,” she said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-critical-part-of-global-climate-change-solutions-usaid-1038125.html
07-10-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices at record high levels as rates hiked again||Petrol and diesel prices across the country soared to all-time high levels on Thursday as rates were hiked again in line with the spurt in international oil prices. Petrol price was increased by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 103.24 a litre and to Rs 109.25 per litre in Mumbai, the notification showed. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 91.42 in Delhi and inched closer to the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Mumbai. It currently costs Rs 99.55 a litre in Mumbai. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. The increase on Thursday pushed rates to a new record high. Petrol crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Lucknow and Gandhinagar - the last of the handful of state capitals that had rates less than that. Petrol prices, which is dictated by the incidence of local taxes and freight, had already crossed the Rs 100 mark in several places in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. The only state capitals where petrol now is less than Rs 100 are Dehradun, Chandigarh, Guwahati and Ranchi. Diesel is already above the Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Sri Ganganagar, the border town in Rajasthan, had the costliest fuel in the country with petrol costing Rs 115.14 a litre and diesel coming for Rs 105.64. UT of Daman had the cheapest petrol at Rs 98.26 per litre. State-owned fuel retailers have in the past few days resorted to modest increases to align domestic rates with cost. But with international benchmark Brent crude soaring to $81 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are being increased by a larger proportion. A month back Brent was around $72 per barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. With international crude oil prices moving in both directions during July and August, no price increase was carried out by oil marketing companies (OMCs) from July 18 to September 23. Instead, petrol price was cut by Rs 0.65 a litre and diesel by Rs 1.25. However, with no respite from surging international prices, OMCs have started to increase the retail selling price of petrol and diesel with effect from September 28 and September 24, respectively. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 3.15 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 2.15. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-at-record-high-levels-as-rates-hiked-again-1038150.html
07-10-2021||National||India logs new 22,431 Covid-19 cases, 318 deaths||With 22,431 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of cases rose to 3,38,94,312, while the active cases declined to 2,44,198, the lowest in 204 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,49,856 with 318 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise  in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 13 straight days. The active cases comprise 0.72 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.95 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,489 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-new-22431-covid-19-cases-318-deaths-1038155.html
07-10-2021||National||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greets people on Navratri||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday greeted people on the beginning of Navratri. May Navratri be the bringer of strength, good health and prosperity in everyone's lives, he said. Modi tweeted, "Navratri greetings to everyone. The coming days are about devoting ourselves to the worship of Jagat Janani Maa. May Navratri be the bringer of strength, good health and prosperity in everyone's lives." Navratri greetings to everyone. The coming days are about devoting ourselves to the worship of Jagat Janani Maa. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-navratri-1038160.html
07-10-2021||National||IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta feels Centre 'effectively managed' pandemic||India has won the battle against Covid-19 and the virus will be history by 2023, IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said here on Tuesday as he lauded the Indian government for doing a "very good" job of dealing with the pandemic. A study conducted by researchers of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Imperial College London has stated that rise in tourism and mass congregations due to social, religious or political events can lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases, worsening an anticipated third wave scenario in India. Dutta said: "I am… ready to declare that we have won (over) Covid. It was very bad. Delta came to India first. We had a horrific experience but now, we are back down to 20,000 cases a day." "The way the traffic is coming up, yes, by 2023, I think this (Covid) will be history," the CEO said during a panel discussion at an annual conference here of the International Air Transport Association, a global airlines body. Dutta said he has to applaud the Indian government for the way it has worked with the Indian aviation industry in gradually scaling up the capacity. When the government had resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, it had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. The cap has been gradually increased to 85 per cent till date. Dutta had said on July 27 at the quarterly results conference call that the airline would like the government to do away with the cap because "we don’t think they make sense". Meanwhile, he said on Tuesday that the Indian government "did a very good job managing the Covid-19" pandemic with the aviation industry. "The way they said, let's take these caps gradually....Let's start with 33 per cent, then let's go to 50 per cent. And they always listened to us," he said. "We said we have forward bookings, you should increase (capacity cap) if you can, and they have," he added. The CEO said the Indian government also worked very closely with the aviation industry in resuming international flights with various countries. Currently, the carriers are operating about 70 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights within India and approximately 20 per cent of their pre-Covid international flights from India. India faced a brutal second wave of Covid-19 during March-May period this year. Approximately 4.5 lakh people have died in India due to the virus till date, according to the Union health ministry. The aforementioned study titled 'Responsible travel to and within India during the Covid-19 pandemic' was done by Balram Bhargava, Samiran Panda and Sandip Mandal from ICMR and Nimalan Arinaminpathy from Imperial College London, and published in the Journal of Travel Medicine earlier this week. In their study, the researchers illustrated some possible scenarios in a hypothetical state in India constructed to resemble Himachal Pradesh in the dynamics of its first and second waves, including the much lower seroprevalence of SARS-CoV-2 compared to the rest of the country. "A sudden increase in population density due to incoming tourists or mass congregations due to social, political or religious reasons can worsen the third wave scenario," the researchers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-ceo-ronojoy-dutta-feels-centre-effectively-managed-pandemic-1038163.html
07-10-2021||National||Cops save e-rickshaw driver trying to kill himself in Delhi's Jamia Nagar||Timely intervention by two Delhi policemen saved the life of an e-rickshaw driver who attempted suicide worrying over financial woes in southeast Delhi's Jamia Nagar on Thursday morning, officials said. The victim's mother spotted her son trying to hang inside his room and informed police who reached the spot within four minutes, they said. According to police, Sub-Inspector Ramdas and Head Constable Mahender Singh rushed inside the woman's house. They broke open the room's door that was locked from the inside and found the man standing on a stool under the ceiling fan with a scarf wrapped around his neck and the other end tied to the fan. He was about to kick down the stool but the policemen managed to save him. One policeman held his feet while the other one unwrapped the scarf, police said. After bringing him down, the policemen asked him why he was taking such an extreme step. The man said his family is facing financial crisis and his mother wanted to sell his e-rickshaw to make both ends meet, a senior police officer said. He was depressed about how he would survive if his vehicle gets sold and attempted to end his life, the officer added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cops-save-e-rickshaw-driver-trying-to-kill-himself-in-delhis-jamia-nagar-1038180.html
07-10-2021||National||Looming syringe shortage spells trouble for 'world's largest vaccination drive': Report||The Covid-19 pandemic has being testing India ever since its initial outbreak in 2020. After reeling under a shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen, and more recently, a crisis of cremation spaces running out earlier this year, there is a new dearth - of syringes. India is inching towards a syringe shortage that would bear serious consequences on the vaccination drive against the virus. Around 300 million syringes are need every month to carry on India's vaccination drive, according to the publication, roughly the same number required by the country to vaccinate children every year. "Vaccine availability in India surpasses the production rate of auto-disable (AD) syringes, and buffer stocks were inadequately created,", Rajiv Nath, chairman and managing director of Hindustan Syringes and Medical Devices (HMD) told Business Standard. Serum Institute of India (SII) is aiming to manufacture 20 crore doses of Covishield every month, but HMD is supplying only 9 crore AD syringes monthly. Since AD syringes are not meant for reuse, and are used for governmental and non-profit vaccine campaigns, the shortage of needles compared to vaccines produced would be notable. The shortage is reportedly a result of the Centre not communicating the need to the syringe makers in advance. Th Centre's latest order with HMD has been for 7.5 crore AD syringes, Nath told Business Standard. This is nowhere near enough for the supply to meet the demand. “We need more clarity if we need to allocate 30 crore or 50 crore AD syringes for next year. If not India, then we need to find international buyers", he was quoted telling the publication. What adds to the problem is an increased demand for syringes for non-Covid use as well. Unless the supply and demand match, the anticipated syringe shortage issue is very likely to disrupt what the Centre has dubbed 'the world's largest vaccination drive". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/looming-syringe-shortage-spells-trouble-for-worlds-largest-vaccination-drive-report-1038182.html
07-10-2021||National||Facebook didn’t flag India hate content because it lacked Hindi, Bengali classifiers: Whistleblower||Social media giant Facebook could not take action or flag hate content in India, given its “lack of Hindi and Bengali classifiers”, according to a whistleblower complaint. Whistleblower Frances Haugen, a former Facebook employee, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) against Facebook’s practices, flagged that Facebook’s language capabilities are “inadequate” and lead to “global misinformation and ethnic violence”.  The documents submitted by Haugen are from reference research and findings by Facebook’s own researchers. Among those, some related to India, referencing what they said were fear-mongering and dehumanising content promoted by Facebook accounts allegedly run by or associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Citing an undated internal Facebook document titled “Adversarial Harmful Networks-India Case study”, Haugen said that “there were a number of dehumanising posts (on) Muslims… Our lack of Hindu and Bengali classifiers means much of this content is never flagged or actioned, and we have yet to put forth a nomination for designation of this group (RSS) given political sensitivities.” Currently India is ranked among the topmost bucket of countries by Facebook in terms of its policy priorities. As of January-March 2020, India, along with Brazil and the US, is part of “Tier 0” countries, the complaint shows; “Tier 1” includes Germany, Indonesia, Iran, Israel and Italy. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-didn-t-flag-india-hate-content-because-it-lacked-hindi-bengali-classifiers-whistleblower-1038187.html
07-10-2021||National||Border Security Force foils bid to bring in weapons from Pakistan along International Border, big cache of arms seized||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Thursday foiled a major bid by terrorists to smuggle in weapons from Pakistan along the International Border (IB) and seized a big cache of arms and ammunition in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district, officials said. "The BSF, Jammu today foiled a weapon smuggling attempt from across the International Border in Samba area and seized a big cache of arms and ammunition," BSF DIG S P S Sandhu said. He further said the seizure by BSF troops included four pistols, eight pistol magazines and 232 rounds of ammunition. The DIG said further details are expected to follow. There have been several incidents of weapons and narcotic smuggling attempts done by cross-border terrorists to drop weapons on this side of the border through drones over the past six months. It may be recalled that an arms consignment including one AK assault rifle, three magazines and 30 rounds believed to have been dropped by a drone from Pakistan had been recovered last Saturday by police near the International Border from Sounjana village of Phalain Mandal, about six km from the IB. On September 27, BSF recovered four pistols, eight magazines, 100 rounds of ammunition, a packet of narcotics weighing about one kg along with fake Indian currency worth Rs 2,75,000, from the International Border in Akhnoor sector of Jammu district, officials said.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/border-security-force-foils-bid-to-bring-in-weapons-from-pakistan-along-international-border-big-cache-of-arms-seized-1038191.html
07-10-2021||National||PM Modi condoles loss of lives due to house collapse in Belagavi; announces ex-gratia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed grief over the loss of lives due to a house collapse in Belagavi district and has announced ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to paid to the next of kin of the deceased. Seven of a family had died when a house collapsed at Badal-Ankalgi village in Belagavi district on Wednesday evening following heavy rain. Of the seven, five died on the spot and two on the way to hospital. Two of the deceased were girls of about eight years, police sources have said. "The loss of lives due to a house collapse in Belagavi, Karnataka is saddening. My thoughts are with the bereaved kin in this hour of sadness. An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be paid to the next of kin of the deceased: PM Narendra Modi," the PMO tweeted. Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday had announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh for the kin of each of the deceased. He even spoke over the phone to Bheemappa, the surviving member of the family, last night and assured him of all help from the government. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-condoles-loss-of-lives-due-to-house-collapse-in-belagavi-announces-ex-gratia-1038233.html
07-10-2021||National||Operations to trap man-eater tiger intensified in Tamil Nadu on 13th day||The Forest department has intensified the combing operations to trap the suspected man-eater tiger on the 13th day on Thursday in Masanagudi and Gudalur areas in the Nilgiris district. The operations, to trap the tiger, coded T23, started after it killed four people, two in the gap of 14 days, in Gudalaur, Masinagudi and Singara area and more than 20 head of cattle, involves officials from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. To assist the teams, two tamed elephants and sniffer dogs were also requisitioned, with modern drone to trace the location and movement. With the Madras High Court directing to catch the tiger and not to kill it, the four special teams are working to tranquilise the animal, with the help of veterinarians and medical teams. As there was no trace of the tiger for the last four days, the strategy now was to camp on tall trees, based on the earlier movement recorded in the cameras, with medical team sitting so that they can tranquilise immediately. Similarly, to attract the tiger, cows were tied so that veterinarians can use the dart to tranquilise it, Forest department sources said. The department appealed to the people not to venture out particularly in the operational area, which would prevent the tiger from coming out from its hideout. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/operations-to-trap-man-eater-tiger-intensified-in-tamil-nadu-on-13th-day-1038235.html
07-10-2021||National||Tax department raids Maharashtra deputy CM Pawar's family, realtors; NCP hits back||The Income Tax department on Thursday raided people, firms and places linked to Maharashtra deputy chief minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar and his three sisters.  The 62-year-old politician, a seven time-MLA from Baramati in Pune district, is the nephew of NCP founder-president Sharad Pawar.  While no details were provided by the I-T department, the junior Pawar confirmed the development. ”It is true I-T has raided a few firms related to me. It is their right... I don’t know whether they were conducted for political purposes or they want more information as we have been paying taxes on time,” said Pawar, who is the finance and planning minister.  Pawar added that his three sisters were also raided. “My sisters have been raided, one in Kolhapur and two in Pune... If they are targeted because they are related to me, then the people of the state must consider the levels to which the Central agencies are being misused to target us,” Pawar said.  "How many people linked with BJP have been raided in the past two to three years?" he asked. The raids were conducted in Mumbai, Pune, Satara and some other places. He said that he himself is the finance minister and hence the necessary documents, returns related to him and his firms are done in time. According to reports, the board of directors of sugar factories and cooperatives and real estate companies were raided -- DB Realty, Shivalik, Jarandeshwar Sahakari Sugar Karkhana Ltd, Daund Sugar Pvt Ltd and Ambalika Sugar Pvt Ltd. “I am not sure whether they were conducted for political purposes or for getting more information... We have been paying all taxes promptly,” he said. In July, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached properties worth Rs 65.75 crore belonging to the Jarandeshwar sugar factory in the Satara district, in connection with the Maharashtra State Co-operative (MSC) Bank money laundering case.  Lashing out at the NCP, Pawar’s nephew and MLA Rohit Pawar said wondered how the raids came just a day after the results of the zilla parishad and gram panchayat results -- in which NCP performed well. State NCP president and state water resources minister Jayant Patil alleged that over the last few years, forces opposed to BJP are being suppressed. “The raids are just to divert attention from the Lakhimpur Kheri incident,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tax-department-raids-maharashtra-deputy-cm-pawars-family-realtors-ncp-hits-back-1038240.html
07-10-2021||National||With an eye on IPL play-offs spot, MI face SRH in ‘must win’ game||Five-time champions Mumbai Indians will need to outclass bottom-placed Sunrisers Hyderabad in the last league match of the Indian Premier League (IPL) on Friday, knowing fully well the tricky situation they have found themselves in their bid for a play-offs spot. Courtesy their eight-wicket win over Rajasthan Royals, the defending champions are currently at the fifth spot, with 12 points from 13 games, with a net run rate of -0.048. But, Kolkata Knight Riders, with a net run rate of +0.294, are sitting on the fourth spot with 12 points from 13 games and will play Rajasthan Royals on Thursday evening in Sharjah. A win for KKR against RR will take them to 14 points and also improve their net run rate further. In that scenario, MI may find it very difficult to qualify for the play-offs even if they beat SRH as the gap in their NRR with KKR is not small. Asked if it is an advantage to play a team like SRH on the last day, MI captain Rohit Sharma had said, "All eight teams are capable of beating each other. But the good thing is that KKR plays before us, so we will know what to do.” In case KKR lose, then a win will be enough for MI to seal the fourth play-offs spot as they then will have 14 points. In any case, Rohit (363 runs) will have to lead from the front again. He has got starts but has not been able to convert them, and the great white-ball exponent would be itching for a big score. And so would be his opening partner Ishan Kishan (157 runs), whose confidence would have been boosted from his unbeaten fifty against RR. MI's horribly out of form middle order, comprising the supremely talented Suryakumar Yadav (235 runs), all-rounders Hardik Pandya (117 runs), Kieron Pollard (232) and Saurabh Tiwary (115 runs), will have to come good. On their day, they can take any opposition attack to the cleaners and SRH’s would be no exception. MI team management would, however, be pleased with the performance of their bowlers, who had restricted RR for a meagre 90 and are unlikely to tinker with the combination. Pace spearhead Jasprit Bumrah (19 wickets) was exceptional and would be raring to bowl his yorkers again. He would need support from Trent Boult, Nathan Coulter-Nile, who grabbed four wickets in the last game, and spinner Jayant Yadav. The Sunrisers, who are already out of reckoning for a play-offs berth, will look to finish the tournament on a high. Skipper Kane Williamson was back among the runs and would be keen to start from where he left on Wednesday. But the Kiwi will need support from others like Jason Roy and relatively inexperienced guys like Abhishek Sharma, Priyam Garg, Abdul Samad and aggressive Wriddhiman Saha. With the addition of pace sensation Urman Malik, SRH have one of the best bowling attacks and the likes of Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Rashid Khan and Siddharth Kaul would have to be at their best to contain MI’s explosive batting line up. Also, the contribution of West Indian all-rounder Jason Holder, both with the bat and ball, could be decisive. The Teams (From): Mumbai Indians: Rohit Sharma (captain), Quinton de Kock, Ishan Kishan, Suryakumar Yadav, Aditya Tare, Anmolpreet Singh, Chris Lynn, Saurabh Tiwary, Anukul Roy, Simarjeet Singh, Hardik Pandya, Krunal Pandya, James Neesham, Jayant Yadav, Kieron Pollard, Marco Jansen, Yudhvir Singh, Adam Milne, Dhawal Kulkarni, Jasprit Bumrah, Mohsin Khan, Nathan Coulter-Nile, Piyush Chawla, Rahul Chahar, Trent Boult. Sunrisers Hyderabad: Kane Williamson (captain), David Warner, Manish Pandey, Sherfane Rutherford, Wriddhiman Saha, Shreevats Goswami, Rashid Khan, Vijay Shankar, Mohammad Nabi, Abhishek Sharma, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Siddharth Kaul, Khaleel Ahmed, Urman Malik, Basil Thampi, Sandeep Sharma, Shahbaz Nadeem, Abdul Samad, J Suchith, Jason Holder, Virat Singh, Priyam Garg, Kedar Jadhav, Mujeeb-ur-Rahman, Jason Roy. Match starts at 7:30pm IST.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-an-eye-on-ipl-play-offs-spot-mi-face-srh-in-must-win-game-1038244.html
07-10-2021||National||'Not possible to tread into policy domain', says SC on Swamy's plea for guidelines to check NPAs||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to act on a plea by BJP MP Subramanian Swamy on framing guidelines to deal with the menace of Non Performing Assets in the banking sector, saying this was a policy matter falling in the domain of RBI and the government. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B V Nagarathna, said, "It is not possible for the court to tread into policy domain." The court, however, allowed Swamy to make a representation before the RBI which can take a considered decision on making any changes in the extant guidelines. As Swamy argued the matter, the bench asked him, "How do we frame guidelines so that non-performing assets do not occur? It's for the legislature to decide and act". Swamy maintained his plea dealt with cases and methods by which a large number of NPAs would not occur again, which would be beneficial for everybody. He said the court can set up a committee in the matter. The court, however, pointed out the RBI and finance ministry have been issuing guidelines, and policies are framed so that NPAs do not occur. "There is no need for us to interfere in all of this," the bench noted. Swamy said that the RBI was maintaining extraordinary secrecy in connection with information on NPAs. When a bank closes down, people run from pillar to post for their funds, he said. He said there have been judgements by the top court which stated how courts should not have taken a hardline position that it cannot enter this domain. Disposing of his plea, the bench, for its part, said, "We can say ultimately RBI can look at your material and take a decision at the policy level. But constituting a committee etc cannot happen". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-possible-to-tread-into-policy-domain-says-sc-on-swamys-plea-for-guidelines-to-check-npas-1038246.html
07-10-2021||National||'Unwilling to permit you to misbehave', SC tells NGO chairperson; defers sentence on contempt||The Supreme Court Wednesday told the chairperson of an NGO who has been held guilty of contempt for not depositing Rs 25 lakh cost for "scandalising and browbeating" the court that he has not learned a lesson and the apex court would not permit him to misbehave. “You think that by threatening everybody, whether this bench or threatening the other people, threatening the government, threatening others, you can make people to withdraw. You have said so. You want people to hold back by misbehaving. We are unwilling to permit you to misbehave,” the apex court said. The observations were made by a bench comprising Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh, which deferred till January next year the sentence of the chairperson of NGO ‘Suraz India Trust’, Rajiv Daiya, who said he has tendered an unconditional apology and the court was gracious and kind enough towards him. However, the bench observed, “We tried to be kind to you but you are not a person who takes this kindness very well. That is the whole difficulty.” Daiya said at the outset that he had “misinterpreted” the apex court’s order. The bench said he is well-versed in the law and has been arguing constitutional issues before the court. “It is no pleasure for us to convict somebody. That is the last resort. But you went on and on,” it said, adding, “You don’t seem to learn a lesson.” The bench said he has moved an application tendering an unconditional apology and the court would defer the sentence. “We will defer the sentence. Let us see how you behave,” the bench observed, adding, “We will defer the sentencing to January and see what is the position and then, some sentence we will impose. What we will impose, let us see.” The bench has posted the matter for January 11 next year. In its September 29 judgement holding Daiya guilty of contempt of court, the top court had said that its power to punish for contempt is a constitutional power that cannot be abridged or taken away even by legislative enactment. The bench had said that he was clearly guilty of contempt of the court and his actions to scandalise the court cannot be countenanced. The top court had issued contempt notice to Daiya as to why he should not be proceeded against and sentenced for his endeavour to scandalise the court. Daiya had told the bench that he did not have the resources to pay the cost imposed by the apex court and would approach the President of India with a mercy plea. The top court on December 5, 2017, had refused to modify its earlier order against the NGO for filing 64 PILs. It had dismissed the plea filed by the NGO to modify the order which also barred the organisation from filing any plea before any court across the country. Since the costs were not deposited with the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Welfare Trust, the matter was put up again before the apex court and notice was issued on September 29, last year. The court had on May 1, 2017, taken the punitive step and imposed a hefty cost on the NGO, saying waste of judicial time was a matter of serious concern. Referring to the details of the matters filed by the NGO and the various orders passed by the apex court, the bench headed by the then Chief Justice J S Khehar had said it "leaves no doubt that Suraz India Trust has repeatedly misused the jurisdiction of this court". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unwilling-to-permit-you-to-misbehave-sc-tells-ngo-chairperson-defers-sentence-on-contempt-1038252.html
07-10-2021||National||Man shot dead while offering namaz at mosque||A man was shot dead while offering namaz at a mosque in a village here Thursday, police said. The incident took place in Uttar Pradesh's Kolua village in the Chilia area. An unidentified person fired at Kamruzzama (55) from behind when he was reciting Quran after "azan" about 5 am, Additional Superintendent of Police (SP), Suresh Chand Rawat said. Later, police reached the spot and sent the body for postmortem. A detailed probe in the matter is on. No arrests have been made in this case so far. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-shot-dead-while-offering-namaz-at-mosque-1038259.html
07-10-2021||National||India suffered immensely due to cross-border terrorism by groups using illicit weapons smuggled across borders: Tirumurti||India has for several decades suffered immensely due to cross-border terrorism by terror groups using illicit weapons smuggled across the country’s borders, New Delhi’s envoy here has said, in a veiled reference to Pakistan, calling on the global community to “unequivocally” condemn state sponsorship to such militant outfits. At the UN Security Council briefing on ‘Small Arms and Light Weapons’, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti strongly underlined the need for the Council’s focus on the transfer and trafficking of arms and weapons to terrorists and terrorist groups. “These weapons become more sinister and lethal in the hands of terrorists, who deliberately and indiscriminately use them to target innocent civilians, including women and children,” he said. “For several decades, my country has suffered immensely due to cross-border terrorism and violence carried out by terrorist groups using these illicit weapons smuggled across our borders, including now through the use of drones,” he said, in a veiled reference to Pakistan. He said an increase in volume and the quality of the arsenal acquired by these terrorist organisations “reminds us time and again that they cannot exist without the sponsorship or support of states. This aspect needs to be unequivocally condemned.” He also strongly urged the Council to have “zero tolerance” to terror actors, their possession and misuse of small arms and light weapons, and their sponsors. High Representative for Disarmament Affairs Izumi Nakamitsu told the Council that the misuse, illicit transfer, and destabilising accumulation of small arms and light weapons, and their ammunition, remain a defining factor in undermining peace and security at the national, regional, and global levels and have deeply aggravated situations for vulnerable populations already suffering from conflict. "In contexts where United Nations peace operations have been mandated, illicit flows and easy availability of arms can exacerbate and sustain conflict dynamics; render arms embargoes ineffective; endanger peacekeepers, humanitarian workers, and local populations; and complicate the implementation of peace agreements,” she said. Nakamitsu added that small arms control measures, in particular, the development and implementation of border security and management strategies; efforts to detect and seize parts and components of weapons and ammunition; enhanced stockpile management; and the fight against the illicit manufacture of weapons are effective tools to disrupt the supply of illicit small arms and light weapons to terrorists. Tirumurti stressed that the threat posed by the illicit transfer of small arms and light weapons is a matter of concern to the entire international community. Noting that an arms embargo is an important tool at the disposal of the Council to curb the flow of such weapons to situations of armed conflict, he voiced concern that embargoes continue to be blatantly violated, as repeatedly reported by the various Panel of Experts supporting the subsidiary bodies of the Council. “It is important that all member states to respect and strictly enforce existing arms embargoes and strengthen measures against the illicit transfer of arms,” he said, as he underlined that it is a well-known fact that the flow of illicit arms and weapons to non-state actors and terrorists drives and sustains conflicts. Tirumurti told the Council that the illicit possession and misuse of small arms and light weapons by non-state groups and terrorists is a violation of state sovereignty. “In post-conflict situations, we often witness that non-state actors continue to possess these weapons illegally, which hinders disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration efforts.” India called on the Security Council to ensure effective and timely action against such non-State actors to ensure that post-conflict peacebuilding efforts are not jeopardised while advancing security sector reforms, capacity building of law enforcement agencies, promotion of rule of law, and good governance. “India attaches high importance to preventing, combating, and eradicating the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. We consider that the primary responsibility for addressing this problem lies with the Member States,” he said. India supports the redoubling of efforts at the national and global level to strengthen the implementation of the UN Program of Action and the International Tracing Instrument, including through national legislative measures and enforcement, export controls, information sharing, and capacity building, he added. Further, India said the safety of UN peacekeepers is directly affected by the steady and illicit supply of small arms and light weapons to the warring parties in armed conflict situations. The Council is aware of numerous incidents in the past, where killings and attacks on peacekeepers have been perpetrated through the use of these weapons, Tirumurti said emphasising the need for the Council to address the danger posed by such illicit transfers to the safety and security of peacekeepers by giving due attention to this issue in the consideration of peacekeeping mandates. “UN Peacekeeping Missions could support host countries in addressing the issue of illicit transfer of small arms and light weapons through strengthening the capacities of the law enforcement and security agencies in safe handling, upkeep and stockpile management of arms and weapons, including those recovered from non-state actors,” he said. India welcomed Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s recommendation to establish a dedicated component or a unit within peacekeeping Missions to handle such assistance. Recalling that India’s External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, in his address to the Security Council earlier this year, had presented an eight-point action plan to counter-terrorism, Tirumurti said two points are directly relevant to the discussion – the need to address the linkages between terrorism and transnational organised crime and combating terrorist financing. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-suffered-immensely-due-to-cross-border-terrorism-by-groups-using-illicit-weapons-smuggled-across-borders-tirumurti-1038265.html
07-10-2021||National||100-year-old former Nazi camp guard to go on trial in Germany||A 100-year-old man is going on trial in Germany on Thursday, accused of being an accessory to murder for serving as a Nazi SS guard at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp near Berlin during World War II. The trial of the defendant, who is charged with 3,518 counts of accessory to murder, is being held at the Neuruppin state court, which moved the proceedings to a prison sport hall in Brandenburg for organisational reasons. The court has not disclosed the name of the suspect. He is alleged to have worked at the Sachsenhausen camp between 1942 and 1945 as an enlisted member of the Nazi Party's paramilitary wing. Authorities say that despite his advanced age, the suspect is considered fit enough to stand trial, though the number of hours per day the court is in session may have to be limited. More than 200,000 people were held at Sachsenhausen between 1936 and 1945. Tens of thousands of inmates died of starvation, disease, forced labour and other causes, as well as through medical experiments and systematic SS extermination operations including shootings, hangings and gassing. Exact numbers on those killed vary, with upper estimates of some 100,000, though scholars suggest figures of 40,000 to 50,000 are likely more accurate. The trial comes a week after another the opening of another elderly concentration camp suspect's trial was disrupted. A 96-year-old former secretary for the Stutthof camp's SS commander skipped the opening of her trial at the Itzehoe state court in northern Germany. She was tracked down within hours and proceedings are to resume on October 19.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-year-old-former-nazi-camp-guard-to-go-on-trial-in-germany-1038266.html
07-10-2021||National||Covid-19 necessitated need for urgency to re-imagine cooperation: Jaishankar on India-ASEAN ties||The ASEAN region is one of the major hubs for India's global economic engagement and the coronavirus pandemic has triggered a new urgency to re-imagine the cooperation and expand its ambition further, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. In an address at a CII event, he also said that the centrality of ASEAN to the Indo-Pacific and the importance of ties between India and the grouping are self-evident. "But if they have to continue to be salient, then we must strive to go beyond ideas and concepts that have outlived their shelf life," the external affairs minister said without elaborating. The 10-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is considered one of the most influential groupings in the region, and India and several other countries including the US, China, Japan and Australia are its dialogue partners. Jaishankar said the larger region is undergoing "significant" socio-economic changes and that the pandemic has clearly accelerated them. "It is important that we -- India, the ASEAN and our relationship -- we recognise that a different world awaits us. It is one that puts a greater premium on trust and transparency, resilience and reliability, as also on choices and redundancy," he said. "Our contemporary conversations will be relevant only if we adequately capture these emerging concerns," he noted. Jaishankar said India's ties with the ASEAN are rooted in history, geography and culture and what has energised them in recent years is a growing awareness of the potential they hold for mutual interests and development. He said that as cooperation between the two sides grew in the course of the last 25 years, new facets and domains emerged for collaboration and that connectivity and security were among the more notable ones. "As a result, our Look East policy matured into an Act East one. Its success is reflected in drawing India more comprehensively into the Indo-Pacific. There is no doubt that the ASEAN is one of the major hubs for India's global economic engagement," Jaishankar said. "As it develops, it is natural that we would like to re-visit the level of ambition that we have set for our partnership. That is also influenced by autonomous changes in the region. But what has given this objective a new urgency is the necessity to re-imagine our cooperation in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic," he said. The external affairs minister said a crisis can often be the basis of creativity and the endeavour should be to come out of the pandemic stronger. The 10 member countries of ASEAN are Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia. The ties between India and ASEAN have been on an upswing in the last few years with the focus being on ramping up cooperation in the areas of trade and investment as well as security and defence. The ASEAN region along with India together comprises a combined population of 1.85 billion people, which is one-fourth of the global population and their combined GDP has been estimated at over $3.8 trillion. Jaishankar said that the pandemic provided the backdrop for how most countries approach both their economic policies and their global outlook now. "After all, it has disrupted our supply chains, impacted our manufacturing, affected our trade and veritably ruined many services sectors. These developments have not just altered various dimensions of our day to day business; they have even shaped our way of life," he said. "From the prolonged crisis of the last two years, four areas have come into sharp focus for international business cooperation: resilient and reliable supply chains, health security, digital for development and green and sustainable recovery," he added. Jaishankar said these four elements should constitute the core agenda for the ties. He said uncertainties brought forth by the pandemic cannot just be wished away nor can it be considered as a one-time phenomenon. "Therefore, we are tasked with responding to the immediate repercussions even as we are compelled to plan for the future. A large part of the answers - both short term and beyond - lies in diversification, expansion and transparency. De-risking our national economies will only be possible if we achieve a strong measure of success quickly in that regard," he said. Jaishankar said the pandemic has brought out many inadequacies in the global health system and that meaningful partnerships, sharing of advanced technologies, collaboration in vaccine and pharmaceutical production and transparency in health information are all part of the answers. He also highlighted the achievements of India's pharma sector. "Apart from vaccines, Indian pharmaceutical manufacturing stepped up to the challenge by ramping up production for medicines that were in great demand. All this was happening even as we simultaneously transformed the public health system in India," he said. "The fact is that health has emerged as a more serious priority for all societies. Business must recognise the ensuing opportunities," he added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-necessitated-need-for-urgency-to-re-imagine-cooperation-jaishankar-on-india-asean-ties-1038268.html
07-10-2021||National||NTPC, Électricité de France ink pact for international power project development opportunities||State-run power giant NTPC has inked a pact with Électricité de France S.A. (EDF) for cooperation in the international power sector. “EDF, one of the world’s leading power sector companies headquartered in Paris, France, and NTPC have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to explore potential power project development opportunities in the Middle East, Asia, Europe, and Africa,” a statement said. The two companies will also collaborate for knowledge sharing, research and development, technical services, and consultancy assignments globally. EDF and NTPC will jointly explore the possibility of power project development in the countries of mutual interest, as well as exchange knowledge and technical expertise. The parties will also explore collaboration around technical services, including international consultancy assignments, and will consider the possibility of pursuing pilot programmes in the clean energy sector together.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ntpc-lectricit-de-france-ink-pact-for-international-power-project-development-opportunities-1038292.html
07-10-2021||National||CBI files FIR against 3 MP newspapers for showing inflated circulation to get govt ads||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has said it has registered an FIR against three newspapers in Madhya Pradesh -- one from Jabalpur and two from Seoni -- for allegedly showing inflated circulation numbers to get government advertisements worth lakhs of rupees. The case was registered in Jabalpur on October 4 against the publishers/owners of the three newspapers, said the copy of the FIR that the CBI uploaded on its website. They have been charged under the alleged offences of criminal conspiracy, forgery and cheating based on a complaint filed by one Himanshu Kaushal at the CBI's Jabalpur office on August 13 this year, it said. In his complaint, Kaushal had alleged that on the basis of the forged report of Chartered Accountants with regard to their circulation, these newspapers were receiving advertisements worth lakhs of rupees from the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP), an agency of the government of India, for the last many years. The DAVP is now the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC). The complainant alleged that these three dailies were small category newspapers, but they registered themselves in the medium category by showing their false enhanced circulation, the FIR said. The reason behind this is that, the advertising rates are different for small and medium categories newspapers and the provision of budget for medium category is approximately double, it added. "The allegations levelled in the complaint, prima facie, disclose commission of cognizable offences of criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery for the purpose of cheating, using forged documents as genuine, and criminal misconduct, by the accused persons. Hence, this FIR is registered accordingly," the central investigative agency has said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-files-fir-against-3-mp-newspapers-for-showing-inflated-circulation-to-get-govt-ads-1038307.html
07-10-2021||National||PM-CARES for Children Scheme to benefit kids who lost caretakers to Covid-19||Children who lost their parents or guardians to Covid-19 and are registered under the PM-CARES for Children Scheme will receive stipend after they turn 18 years old for five years and receive Rs 10 lakh at the time of attaining 23 years besides gap funding for ensuring education and health insurance. The guidelines for the scheme were issued on Thursday by the Ministry of Women and Child Development. Eligible children can avail benefits till they turn 23. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the comprehensive support for children who have lost both their parents due to Covid-19 pandemic on May 29, which is aimed at ensuring comprehensive care and protection of such children in a sustained manner, enable their wellbeing through health insurance, empower them through education and equip them for self-sufficient existence with financial support. Children who lost both parents or surviving parents or legal guardian/adoptive parents/single adoptive parents due to Covid-19, starting from 11 March, 2020, the date on which the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 as pandemic till December 31 this year will be eligible. According to the scheme, a lump sum amount will be transferred directly in the post office account of beneficiaries. A pro-rata amount will be credited upfront in the account of each identified beneficiary such that the corpus for each beneficiary becomes Rs 10 lakh at the time of attaining 18 years of age. Children will receive a monthly stipend between 18 years and 23 years of age. They will receive Rs 10 lakh on attaining 23 years. All beneficiaries will also be enrolled under Ayushman Bharat Scheme (PM-JAY) with a health insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh. The scheme also provides assistance for studies from preschool to higher education. While children below six years will receive support and assistance from anganwadi services for supplementary nutrition among others, admission will be given to beneficiaries in any nearest school as a day scholar, including in Kendriya Vidyalayas and private schools. In private schools, tuition fees will be exempted under the Right to Education Act. In government schools, for students below 10 years, two sets of free uniforms and textbooks will be provided, under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. For children between 11-18 years of age, if the child is living with the extended family, then admission in the nearest government/government aided school/Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs)/private schools as a day scholar should be ensured by the District Magistrate. For higher education, the beneficiary would be assisted in obtaining education loans for professional courses or higher education in India. Under circumstances where the  beneficiary is unable to avail interest exemption from extant Central and State Government scheme, then the interest on the educational loan will be paid from PM-CARES for Children Scheme.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cares-for-children-scheme-to-benefit-kids-who-lost-caretakers-to-covid-19-1038316.html
07-10-2021||National||'Please watch your Oct, Nov, Dec,' Govt warns people of Covid surge during festival, wedding season||"Please watch your October, November, December," a senior Health Ministry official warned people on Thursday about the threat of Covid-19 resurgence during the coming festival and wedding season, and advised them to avoid crowded places and celebrate festivals virtually. Asserting repeatedly that the second wave of the pandemic is not over, the government said that though the situation is plateauing, the country is still reporting as high as 20,000-odd new infections every day. "We cannot take the current stable situation for granted. We have to be mindful of the fact that the pandemic is going on and can take an untoward turn if we are not careful," an official said at a joint media briefing. Warning people about the threat of Covid-19 resurgence during the coming festival and wedding season, Health Ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said, "Please watch your October, November, December." He advised people to avoid crowded places and unnecessary travel and to stay home, celebrate festivals virtually and explore online modes of shopping. The government said that Kerala recorded 50 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country last week. Kerala has over over lakh active cases currently and the figure in four other states is ranging between 10,000 and 50,000. It said five states -- Mizoram, Kerala, Sikkim, Manipur and Meghalaya -- are reporting a weekly positivity rate of over five per cent. Thirty-four districts across nine states and union territories are reporting a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent, according to the government. Twenty-eight districts across 12 states and UTs are reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent. The government said 71 per cent of India's adult population have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, while 27 per cent have got both doses. Listing its preparations to tackle any surge in coronavirus infections, the government said 8.36 lakh hospital beds are currently available in the country for Covid-19 patients, in addition to nearly one million isolation beds in dedicated care centres. It said 4.86 oxygen-supported beds and 1.35 lakh ICU beds are available. "We are prepared to face a daily surge of 4.5-5 lakh Covid-19 cases," an official said. The official said there is no issue of vaccine availability in the country now. With 22,431 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,38,94,312, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,49,856 with 318 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/please-watch-your-oct-nov-dec-govt-warns-people-of-covid-surge-during-festival-wedding-season-1038324.html
07-10-2021||National||India to grant tourist visas from October 15||India on Thursday announced re-starting international tourism by offering tourist visas from October 15 for travellers arriving on chartered flights. The decision came 18 months after it shut doors for foreign tourists due to the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) announced that tourist visas for those arriving in India by flights “other than chartered aircraft” would be available from November 15. “After considering various inputs, the MHA has decided to begin granting of fresh Tourist Visas for foreigners coming to India through chartered flights with effect from October 15, 2021,” an official statement said. The tourist season begins in India with the onset of winter as travellers land in huge numbers at the sylvan beaches in the country, particularly Goa. “All due protocols and norms relating to Covid-19 as notified by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare from time to time shall be adhered to by the foreign tourists, carriers bringing them into India and all other stakeholders at landing stations,” the MHA statement said. The restrictions placed on visa and international travel since March 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic stand further eased given the present overall pandemic situation, it said. In a bid to boost tourism, the government had already announced to provide five lakh tourist visas free-of-cost to those visiting Indian shores before March 31, 2022. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said the government had given a special thrust on Covid-19 vaccination in tourism-dependent states such as Goa and Uttarakhand with a view to re-start tourist activities.   Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to begin granting fresh Tourist Visas to foreigners coming to India through chartered flights with effect from October 15 Tourism destinations such as Lakshadweep, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Andaman & Nicobar and Sikkim have vaccinated 100% of their population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, which could help address the health concerns of tourists. Travel operators have welcomed the decision to issue tourist visas and have now pinned hope on resumption of normal international air travel, instead of the current air bubble arrangement. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-grant-tourist-visas-from-october-15-1038326.html
07-10-2021||National||Wearing mask, face cover mandatory: UPSC to civil services prelims aspirants||Wearing mask or face cover, adhering to Covid norms on social distancing and maintaining personal hygiene inside exam halls and premises will be mandatory for all candidates appearing for the civil services preliminary examination on Sunday, the UPSC has said. Candidates, however, will have to remove their masks for verification, whenever required by the examination functionaries, it said in a series of instructions to the candidates. Candidate may carry his/her own hand sanitiser (small size) in a transparent bottle, said the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), that conducts the prestigious test. "Wearing of mask/face cover is mandatory for all candidates. Candidates without mask/face cover will not be allowed entry into the venue," it said. The civil services examination is conducted in three stages – preliminary, main and interview – to select officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) among others. The civil services preliminary exam 2021 is scheduled to be held on October 10. "Candidates to follow Covid-19 norms of 'social distancing' as well as 'personal hygiene' inside the examination halls/rooms as well as in the premises of the venue," the Commission said. Faculty members providing training for clearing the civil services examination advised aspirants to rely on their preparation rather than panicking at the last moment. "UPSC preliminary examination is scheduled for Sunday. Candidates must have a calm and composed mind as examination conditions have the ability to make brains run even faster. So, the candidates should have faith in their preparation rather than panicking in the last moments," said Smriti Shah, faculty (sociology and Indian society) at 'Vision IAS' coaching centre. Kapil Sikka, faculty at StudyIQ.com (an online platform for providing training for the civil services examination), asked aspirants to focus on their strengths. "Be it quantitative ability or reading comprehension, candidates should try to be as accurate as possible in that. Keep a right balance between speed and accuracy. A wrong answer is of no value if done in a speedy manner to save time. Also a right answer is useless if too much time is taken to solve it," Sikka said. The UPSC, in its instructions for the exam on Sunday, also said candidates should not be in possession of or using any mobile phone (even in switched-off mode), pager or any electronic equipment, programmable device, storage media like pen drive, smart watches, etc., camera or bluetooth devices or any other equipment or related accessories either in working or switched-off mode capable of being used as a communication device during the examination. "Any infringement of these instructions shall entail disciplinary action including ban from future examinations," it said. Use of normal or simple wrist watches by candidates is allowed inside the examination rooms/ halls, the Commission said. "However, use of watches fitted with any special accessory that might be used as communication device or smart watches is strictly prohibited and candidates are not allowed to take such watches into the examination rooms/halls," it said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wearing-mask-face-cover-mandatory-upsc-to-civil-services-prelims-aspirants-1038328.html
07-10-2021||National||BJP releases list of Lok Sabha, Assembly bypoll candidates||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday released a list of candidates for the October 30 Lok Sabha and Assembly bypolls. The bypolls to Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) and Khandwa (Madhya Pradesh) Lok Sabha seats were necessitated following the death of sitting members. The BJP is fielding Mahesh Gavit from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Gyaneswar Patil from Khandwa, and Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) from Mandi, a party communication said. The party also announced the names of 16 candidates for Assembly bypolls -- four for Assembly bypolls in West Bengal, three each in Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, two each in Karnataka and Rajasthan, and one each in Andhra Pradesh and Haryana. The Election Commission had last month announced bypolls to three Lok Sabha and 30 Assembly seats across the country. Counting of votes will take place on November 2.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-releases-list-of-lok-sabha-assembly-bypoll-candidates-1038343.html
07-10-2021||National||Mumbai court sends Aryan Khan, seven others to 14-day judicial custody||A Mumbai court on Thursday sent Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and seven others in 14-day judicial custody in connection with the alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Their bail applications will be heard on Friday, the court said. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had sought an extension of their NCB custody, but the request was not granted.  Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant were arrested by the NCB on October 3 following a raid on a Goa-bound ship, while the other five were arrested the next day. They were produced before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R M Nerlikar at the end of their earlier remand. The court sent them in judicial custody even as the probe agency sought extension of remand till October 11. Watch the latest DH Videos here: (More to follow)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-court-sends-aryan-khan-seven-others-to-14-day-judicial-custody-1038349.html
07-10-2021||National||RSS leader condemns Lakhimpur violence; says opposition creating atmosphere of hatred, violence||Senior RSS functionary Indresh Kumar on Thursday condemned the Lakhimpur Kheri violence but lashed out at the opposition parties, accusing them of creating an "atmosphere of hatred and violence" in the country. He congratulated the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh for constituting an enquiry into the incident to bring the culprits to justice. "Some opposition leaders and parties are creating an atmosphere of hatred and violence in the country. The incident that took place in Lakhimpur kheri is condemnable. I congratulate the state government that it condemned the incident and constituted an inquiry into it so that the culprits are punished and the victims get justice," Kumar, a member of the RSS national executive committee, said. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of an event organised to mark two decades of governance of Narendra Modi in his roles as the Gujarat chief minister and the prime minister. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader said the farmers' agitation against three agriculture laws of the Centre was never a nationwide movement and that it remained a victim of the design of extremists and the politics of opposition parties. "It was never a nationwide movement of farmers. All the time, they (farmers) gave calls for a Bharat bandh that remained completely unsuccessful. The farmers' movement has remained a victim of 'ativadis' and political parties," he said. Alleging that the opposition party leaders are "vitiating" the country's atmosphere latching on to the farmers' agitation, Kumar said the Centre has kept the doors open for the farmers and appealed to the protesters to come forward and hold talks with the government for an early resolution of the issues. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-leader-condemns-lakhimpur-violence-says-opposition-creating-atmosphere-of-hatred-violence-1038351.html
07-10-2021||National||Shasho Tharoor slams DU professor's 'mark jihad' remarks against Kerala education board||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Thursday described as "ridiculous" a Delhi University professor's "mark jihad" remarks against the Kerala education board after a large number of students from the southern state applied to DU colleges for higher studies with good marks. Responding to remarks by Rakesh Kumar Pandey, a member of RSS-affiliated teachers' body National Democratic Teachers' Front, who had hinted at a "conspiracy" behind the high number of applicants from Kerala, Tharoor said, "This anti-Kerala bias must end now!". "The use of "jihad" as a synonym for any trend you don't like is exceeding all limits: now a DU teacher has got attention by absurdly decrying #MarksJihad!," Tharoor tweeted, sharing the link of a news report carrying Pandey's controversial remarks. "I've always decried the over-reliance on marks as the main criterion for DU admission, but this is ridiculous. If "Jihad" means a struggle (with yourself above all), the Kerala students scoring 100% have struggled against the odds to get to DU. Interview them first if you wish before letting them in, but don't demonise their marks! This anti-Kerala bias must end now!", the Thiruvananthapuram MP tweeted. In a statement on Wednesday, Pandey had alleged that "the invasion of Kerala board students with perfect 100 per cent marks cannot be considered as unplanned." "It hints at something that must be investigated. There is no way that one can accept this inexplicable flow of students from the Kerala board as normal. Majority of these students are comfortable neither in Hindi nor in English. All these students do not have 100 per cent marks in Class 11," Pandey had said, calling it a "marks jihad". Over 100 admissions of students of the Kerala board were put on hold by the Delhi University (DU) over a confusion related to their marksheets, but the matter was resolved after officials contacted the board in the southern state, sources had said on Wednesday. Amid a large number of students from the Kerala board applying to DU colleges, that too a majority of them being perfect scorers, an issue over their marksheets had risen on Monday, leading the admission branch of the university to direct the colleges to put the admissions on hold. A majority of these admissions had taken place in north campus colleges, the sources had said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shasho-tharoor-slams-du-professors-mark-jihad-remarks-against-kerala-education-board-1038352.html
07-10-2021||National||PM Modi to launch industry body Indian Space Association on October 11||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Indian Space Association, a grouping of space and satellite companies, at a virtual event on October 11, the industry body said on Thursday. Indian Space Association (ISpA) represents homegrown and global corporations with advanced capabilities in space and satellite technologies. Its founding members include Bharti Airtel, Larsen & Toubro, Nelco (Tata Group), OneWeb, Mapmyindia, Walchandnagar Industries and Ananth Technology Limited. Other core members include Godrej, Hughes India, Azista-BST Aerospace Private Limited, BEL, Centum Electronics and Maxar India. "We are truly honoured to have the Hon'ble Prime Minister grace the launch ceremony and outline his vision for the growth of India's space industry and making our nation a global leader in the space arena," ISpA Director General A K Bhatt said in a statement. L&T-NxT Senior Executive Vice President for Defence, Jayant Patil has been appointed as the first chairman of ISpA, while Bharti Airtel's Chief Regulatory Officer Rahul Vatts will serve as vice chairman.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-industry-body-indian-space-association-on-october-11-1038353.html
07-10-2021||National||Penalty for not wearing masks on railway premises extended||The Railways will keep imposing fines of up to Rs 500 on those found without face masks on its premises, the Railway Board said on Thursday, extending the practice which began in view of the coronavirus pandemic. According to an order issued by the board, the penalty was supposed to be in place till September but has now been extended for another six months. Through an order issued on April 17, the Railway Board had informed the zones to ensure that everybody wore face masks or face covers on railway premises, including trains. It had asked the zones to impose fines up to Rs 500 under the Indian Railways (Penalties for Activities Affecting Cleanliness at Railway Premises) Rules, 2012 on those found without such masks. The penalty shall be imposed by authorised railway officials, it had said in the order. "Now, the matter has been reviewed and it has now been decided that the validity of the said instruction is further extended by six (6) months i.e. up to 16.04.2022 or till further instructions issued in this regard," the Railway Board's order issued on Thursday said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/penalty-for-not-wearing-masks-on-railway-premises-extended-1038356.html
07-10-2021||National||Supreme Court orders status quo on demolition of ‘jhuggis’ in Gujarat, Haryana to continue till Nov 10||The Supreme Court Thursday extended till November 10 the status quo granted on demolition of around 5,000 'jhuggis' in Gujarat for a railway line project, after being informed that deliberations were on regarding whether rehabilitation can be provided or not. The apex court also said that status quo granted in a separate matter regarding demolition of ‘jhuggis’ near the railway tracks at Faridabad in Haryana concerning the structures of those, who have approached the court seeking stay of the eviction, would also continue till November 10. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar was informed by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) K M Nataraj that in the Gujarat matter, deliberations were going on as to whether rehabilitation can be provided or not. “Kindly grant us some time. We are at the stage of deliberations,” he told the bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar. The top court was hearing two separate petitions which have raised certain issues, including that of rehabilitation. One of the pleas, filed by 18 petitioners including those who are residing in the area in Faridabad, has challenged the September 28 interim order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court which had refused to grant a stay on demolition. The other plea, filed by Surat-based 'Utran se Besthan Railway Jhopadpatti Vikas Mandal', has said that “irreparable injury” would be caused to the slum dwellers residing on the Railway land if they are not provided with alternate arrangement and once they would be evicted and made homeless, their condition would become more miserable especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. During the hearing, the ASG said that in the Faridabad matter, except the structures of those regarding whom the status quo order was passed, rest have already been demolished before the apex court had granted status quo. The bench asked Nataraj why the rehabilitation issue is not being examined in Faridabad matter when it is being considered in Gujarat. The ASG said in the Gujarat matter, the local administration is looking into this aspect and they would have consultation with the Railways. When he said that municipal corporation of Faridabad is the local body in respect of the matter concerning there, the bench said, “We will issue notice to the local body.” The top court directed that notice be issued to the municipal corporation of Faridabad. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the petitioners in both the matters, said that the interim orders of status quo passed earlier by the court should continue. “Whatever interim order is given in item two (Gujarat matter), it will continue. Whatever interim order is there in item 10 (Faridabad matter), it will continue separately,” the bench said. While hearing the Faridabad matter on September 30, the apex court had said that status quo granted on September 29 in “respect of unauthorised structures” belonging to petitioners before it would continue till today. The ASG had told then the bench that around 450 structures in the area in Faridabad were already demolished before the order of status quo was passed by the court. In the plea filed in the apex court, the petitioners have claimed that demolition without providing rehabilitation to over 500 slum dwellers was “illegal” and violative of Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. The plea has said the high court has nowhere asked the concerned authorities and the land-owning agency, the Railways, to provide rehabilitation to these slum dwellers before conducting the demolition. In the Gujarat matter, the petitioners had earlier told the apex court that in compliance with the Gujarat High Court's August 19 order, the authorities were going to start the demolition work. The petitioners had told that the high court had vacated its July 23, 2014 interim order of status quo and permitted the Western Railways to go ahead with the Surat-Udhna up to Jalgaon third Railway line project. The petition, filed through advocate Satya Mitra, has sought stay on the demolition of these ‘jhuggis’ claiming that no breathing time has been given to the slum dwellers and authorities have been forcing them to vacate within 24 hours. It has also sought direction to the authorities, including the Centre and Gujarat government, to rehabilitate the concerned slum dwellers.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-orders-status-quo-on-demolition-of-jhuggis-in-gujarat-haryana-to-continue-till-nov-10-1038359.html
07-10-2021||National||SC asks Centre to explain reasons for fixing Rs 8 lakh limit to determine EWS category for NEET||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to explain the reasons behind fixing Rs 8 annual income as a criterion for declaring the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category for claiming reservation in All India Quota seats in NEET examinations.  "What exercise did you undertake for reaching Rs eight lakh figure or did you just list what was applicable to OBC," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud asked Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj. The bench said the income criterion cannot be uniformly applied across the country as a person living in big metropolitan cities like Mumbai and Bengaluru with the same annual earning can't be compared with those living in a remote village in Uttar Pradesh. The top court put the questions while hearing a batch of petitions by Neil Aurelio Nunes and others challenging the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC, EWS quota in NEET-All India Quota from the current academic session in Post Graduate courses in medical colleges across the country.  As many as 15% seats in MBBS and 50% seats in MS and MD courses in medical colleges are filled through all India quota from the candidates selected on the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test. As Nataraj contended implementing reservations was a matter of policy, the bench asked, "What exercise did you do for reaching Rs 8 lakh figure or did you just list what is applicable to OBC?" The bench pointed out as Indra Sawhney (Mandal case) judgment, those who are below Rs 8 lakh income, they filled the criteria of educationally and socially backwardness and economic backwardness. "Here we are dealing with pure economic backwardness. We have to know what exercise has the Centre done. The notification specifically adverts to Rs 8 lakh. Now you have an Office Memorandum of January 17 which combines Rs 8 lakh with assets. Are you applying the asset cum income requirement?" the bench asked him. "You just can't say it is a matter of policy when we are asking what is the basis of Rs 8 lakh for EWS eligibility," the bench asked Nataraj who sought time to file an affidavit in this regard. Even though Nataraj maintained there was deliberation and with proper notings approved by the Cabinet, the court asked him to demonstrate the data or and contemporaneous study undertaken for it. The court put the matter for consideration on October 20. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-explain-reasons-for-fixing-rs-8-lakh-limit-to-determine-ews-category-for-neet-1038362.html
07-10-2021||National||Vandalisation of gurdwara in Kabul raises concern not only for India but for world as well: MEA||The vandalisation of a gurdwara in Kabul raises concerns not just for India but for the world and the international community must continue to insist on fulfilling goals outlined in a UN Security Council resolution, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday.  According to reports, Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul was vandalised two days ago. "Obviously it raised concerns not just for us, but I suppose across the world. It is important that the international community continue to insist on the fulfilment of goals outlined in the UN Security Council resolution," MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. He was replying to a question on the issue at a media briefing. The UN Security Council resolution on Afghanistan was adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the powerful body. Bagchi said issues relating to the Afghan situation figured during US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman's talks in India on Tuesday, adding there was a need to ensure that terrorism does not emanate from Afghan soil. "We highlighted our perspective on role of Pakistan and what are our concerns regarding that," Bagchi said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vandalisation-of-gurdwara-in-kabul-raises-concern-not-only-for-india-but-for-world-as-well-mea-1038365.html
07-10-2021||National||71% of India's adult population received first Covid vaccine dose: Govt||Seventy-one per cent of the country's adult population have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and 27 per cent have got both doses, the government said on Thursday as the cumulative vaccine shots administered in the country crossed 93 crore. Addressing a press conference here, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said there was no issue with vaccine availability in the country now as he urged people whose second dose were due to get fully vaccinated. Around 93 crore vaccine doses have been given, and second dose coverage is also picking up speed, he said, adding that it is very important to fully protect ourselves. "The second dose of many people is due. Our vaccines are completely safe, there is not much reaction and they can be taken during festivals too," Paul said. First dose coverage is less than 60 per cent in Jharkhand, West Bengal, Meghalaya, Manipur and Nagaland, he said. "This is no time for hesitancy, and in the coming weeks, we have to complete vaccination. There is no issue of vaccine availability now. We should all accept the vaccine and save ourselves," Paul stressed. Joint Secretary in Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said 99 per cent of healthcare workers have received the first dose, while 85 per cent have taken their second. Among frontline workers, first dose coverage is 100 per cent and that of the second dose is 83 per cent, he added. "Seventy-one per cent of the country's adult population have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and 27 per cent have been administered both the doses," Agarwal said. According to the data shared, the average daily doses administered in a month has increased from 19.69 lakh in May to 39.89 lakh in June, 43.41 lakh in July and 59.29 lakh in August. The average daily vaccination in September was 78.69 lakh, and in October, it was 62.56 lakh per day till Thursday.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/71-of-indias-adult-population-received-first-covid-vaccine-dose-govt-1038374.html
07-10-2021||National||SII gets nod to send Covid vaccines to Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar; Bharat Biotech to Iran||The government has permitted Serum Institute of India (SII) to export 10 lakh Covishield doses each to Nepal, Myanmar and Bangladesh, while Bharat Biotech will provide Iran with 10 lakh doses of Covaxin under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme in October, official sources said on Thursday. The Pune-based pharma company SII has also been allowed to supply bulk Covishield vaccine, which is equivalent to around 3 crore doses, to AstraZeneca in the UK, they told PTI. According to the sources, Prakash Kumar Singh, director (government and regulatory affairs) at SII had sought permission from Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in August to supply bulk concentrated solution of Covishield to AstraZeneca citing contractual obligation with the UK-based firm. Mandaviya on September 20 announced that India will resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool. "While 10 lakh doses of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin would be sent to Iran, Serum Institute of India will export 10 lakh doses of Covishield each to Myanmar, Nepal and Bangladesh under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme in October," an official source told PTI. "Further, Serum Institute has been given permission to supply bulk Covishield, equivalent to around 3 crore doses, to AstraZeneca this month," the source said. SII has enhanced the manufacturing capacity of Covishield to more than 20 crore doses per month and has informed the Centre that it will be able to supply around 22 crore doses in October. Also, Bharat Biotech is currently producing nearly 3 crore doses of Covaxin every month and its production is likely to be ramped up to 5 crores in the coming months. In a recent communication to the Centre, SII had also assured that by December 31, it will complete supply of 66 crore doses of Covishield against the recent order and will touch supplies of more than 130 crore doses in the year 2021. According to the official source, Singh while seeking permission for supply of bulk Covishield vaccine to AstraZeneca in August had stated that according to the firm's contractual obligation with AstraZeneca, it is legally bound to supply bulk/fill finish vaccine to AstraZeneca as per their demand from time to time. "We believe in the ideology of 'nation first' and because of this, fulfilling the vaccine requirement of our country has been our top most priority during Covid-19 pandemic. "We believe in the clarion call of 'vocal for local' given by our prime minister and we are continuously working on this to make our country Atmanirbhar Bharat," the source quoted Singh as having communicated. "In view of the above genuine reasons, we request for your kind consideration for approval to supply bulk concentrated solution to AstraZeneca as they urgently need this supply," Singh is learnt to have communicated, assuring this will in no way hamper the domestic supplies of Covishield vaccine to India. The Covid-19 vaccine Covishied has been developed by SII in collaboration with Oxford University and AstraZeneca under technology transfer. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-gets-nod-to-send-covid-vaccines-to-nepal-bangladesh-myanmar-bharat-biotech-to-iran-1038376.html
07-10-2021||National||Parents not bothered to ensure that kids wear helmet while going to school in two-wheeler: Study||A sizable number of parents who take their children to school in two-wheelers are not bothered to ensure that they are wearing helmet while commuting, says a study conducted in 14 major cities in different parts of the country. "Total 34 per cent of the respondents using two-wheelers surveyed had not ensured their they or their children were wearing a helmet while commuting via two-wheelers," the study titled ' Safe Commute to School.' said The study with a sample size of 11,845 children, parents and other stakeholders carried out by Save Life Foundation and Mercedes-Benz Research and Development India. The survey was conducted in Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Bhopal, Chennai, Delhi, Jaipur, Jamshedpur, Kanpur, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai, Patna, Pune, and Vijayawada. "It also emerged that a worrying 30 per cent of children witnessed a crash during their commute to school, while 6 per cent of them were themselves involved in a road crash or a near-miss situation during their commute to and from school," says the study. Overall, school bus was most preferred mode of transport for commute (33 per cent of the children), followed by school van (12 per cent). It was also found that 11 per cent of the children also commute to school by walking. "Across all cities, the school bus was the most used mode of commute. The largest number of respondents whose children commute to school by walking were found in Mumbai and Bengaluru," says study. The study also highlighted gaps in the safety standards of school zones too. "Total 47 per cent of the surveyed respondents whose children cycled to school reported no cycling paths en route or even around the school. 30 per cent of parents whose children walked to school reported missing footpaths around the school zone," says the study. More than half of the parents surveyed stated that school authorities took no action on the safety concerns reported to the school authorities. These issues included overcrowding in school vehicles, congestion near the school, and over-speeding by drivers in the school zone. “Findings through this report have once again emphasised that the right to a safe commute to school is as important as the right to education itself," Save Life Foundation Founder & CEO, Piyush Tewari, said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parents-not-bothered-to-ensure-that-kids-wear-helmet-while-going-to-school-in-two-wheeler-study-1038386.html
07-10-2021||National||Centre 'prepared' to tackle up to 5 lakh Covid-19 cases a day||India prepares to handle a daily caseload of 4.5-5 lakh Covid-19 patients in the third wave if it ever comes, a top government official said here on Thursday, observing that more than two million beds are available to deal with any such emergency. The official, however, noted that such a peak in the talked about third wave was unlikely as more than 70% of the adult population had been vaccinated with a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and more than a quarter of Indian adults is fully vaccinated. “Our preparedness is pitched for a surge of 450,000 to 500,000 daily cases,” V K Paul, NITI Ayog member and the government’s principal advisor on Covid-19 said. “But this does not mean we’re saying that will happen or can happen or may happen. No. It should not and won’t reach those levels under current seropositivity, vaccine protection, and Covid-appropriate behaviour.” On May 16, India registered 4.14 fresh infections, reaching the peak of the ferocious second surge that witnessed large scale Covid deaths all over the country. In July, the Indian Council of Medical Research released the results of a nationwide survey showing 67% of India’s population had become seropositive -- or acquired possibly protective antibodies against Covid-19 through the natural infection. Such a large proportion of seropositive individuals implies that the pool of people susceptible to the infection has shrunk. On the vaccination front, more than 93 crore doses have been administered till Thursday covering 71% of India’s 94.47 crore adult population with a single dose and 27% with both doses. Both factors are likely to play a key role in lowering the peak in the third wave of Covid-19 infection if it ever comes after the Dasara-Diwali-Chhath festivities. The Union Health Ministry asked people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour over the next three months and try to observe the festivities in a distant mode. As a preparedness measure, the government has kept 8.36 lakh hospital beds available along with 9.7 lakh isolation beds, 4.86 lakh oxygen supported beds and 1.35 lakh ICU beds. Also around 1,600, oxygen generation plants have been commissioned to produce 2,100 MT of oxygen and more such units are in the offing. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-prepared-to-tackle-up-to-5-lakh-covid-19-cases-a-day-1038388.html
07-10-2021||National||Centre releases guidelines for cybersecurity in power sector||The government on Thursday announced the release of guidelines for cybersecurity in the power sector for the first time, to create a secure cyber ecosystem. Under the direction of Union Power and New & Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh, the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has prepared the guidelines for cybersecurity in the power sector and it was released on Thursday, the power ministry said in a statement. The CEA under the provision of Section 3(10) on cybersecurity in the 'Central Electricity Authority (Technical Standards for Connectivity to the Grid) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019' has framed the guidelines on cybersecurity in the power sector to be adhered to by all power sector utilities to create a secure cyber ecosystem. The ministry said this is the first time that comprehensive guidelines have been formulated on cybersecurity in the power sector. The guidelines lay down actions required to raise the level of cybersecurity preparedness for the power sector. The norms have been prepared after intensive deliberations with stakeholders and inputs from expert agencies in the field of cybersecurity, such as CERT-In, NCIIPC, NSCS and IIT-Kanpur, and subsequent deliberations in the power ministry also. It lays down a cyber assurance framework, strengthens the regulatory framework, puts in place mechanisms for security threat early warning, vulnerability management and response to security threats, and secures remote operations and services, among others, it added. The norms are applicable to all responsible entities as well as system integrators, equipment manufacturers, suppliers/ vendors, service providers, and IT hardware and software OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) engaged in the Indian power supply system. The guidelines mandate ICT-based procurement from identified 'trusted sources' and 'trusted products' or else the product has to be tested for malware/ hardware trojan before deployment for use in the power supply system network, it stated. It will promote research and development in cybersecurity and open up the market for setting up cyber testing infra in public as well as private sectors in the country. The CEA is also working on cybersecurity regulations. These cybersecurity guidelines are a precursor to the same, the ministry said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-releases-guidelines-for-cybersecurity-in-power-sector-1038392.html
07-10-2021||National||Science relating to booster doses of Covid vaccines still evolving: Govt||The science relating to the use of booster doses of Covid-19 vaccines is still evolving and the developments are being closely watched, the government said on Thursday. NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said there are several studies that are looking into the subject of booster doses. "This is an evolving science and a paradigm of information...that data is still emerging. We are watching this science very very carefully through our NTAGI system. We know that COVAXIN has done a study on booster doses and those results can be available anytime. We are also aware that although the antibody can disappear, the presence of T-cell immunity is a huge protection that also has to be accounted for," he said. "We also know that WHO has not given a clear-cut recommendation on the matter. The situation is that it is an evolving, learning phase and we are watching science as it emanates and in India also, there are studies which are looking at this aspect," Paul told reporters at a press briefing. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/science-relating-to-booster-doses-of-covid-vaccines-still-evolving-govt-1038393.html
07-10-2021||National||Calcutta HC allows 'Sindur Khela', 'Arati', 'Anjali' in Durga Puja pandals||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday modified earlier its orders restricting entry of visitors in Durga Puja pandals in view of improvement in the Covid-19 situation and permitted all activities and rituals like 'Anjali', 'Arati', 'Sindur Khela' inside the marquees. The court made it clear that the relaxation will be subject to the maximum number of persons, which is allowed inside a puja pandal, and compliance with other conditions such as double vaccination and wearing of masks. Modifying earlier orders of the high court, a division bench comprising justices IP Mukerji and Aniruddha Roy directed that with the said conditions being followed, "all activities and puja rituals like Anjali, Arati, Sindur Khela etc. are permitted inside the pandal." The high court had in October 2020 ordered that in case of smaller pujas, a list for people entering the pandal each day of the four-day festival may include up to 20 names, but not more than 15 persons in case of smaller pujas should get access to the pandals at any given point of time. It had directed that for the larger pujas, the charts may include up to 60 names, but at no point in time should the number of persons present within the pandals or the covered area be more than 45. It had been said that the norms for the highest-end pandals would only apply to pujas where the pandals cover an area in excess of 300 square metres, excluding the dais on which the idols are placed. In a petition seeking similar curbs for this year also in view of the Covid, the high court had on October 1 this year directed that restrictions imposed last year would apply during this year's Durga Puja celebrations as well. A prayer for review of the order was moved before the court on Thursday. The division bench, in its order, said that a "little review" of the directions is necessary with the improvement in the Covid situation and administration of double vaccination to a substantial number of people. The bench directed that entry into a pandal will be limited to the maximum number of persons permitted at any point of time, as per the earlier orders of this court. "Such entry shall be unrestricted provided each visitor is double vaccinated and wears a mask," the court directed. The bench directed that the compliance of the entry requirement will be checked by the puja organisers at the entrance. "Spot verification is to be made by the police. If any Puja organisation is found to be in default, the Puja and all other activities in that pandal may be forthwith cancelled by the police," the bench directed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/calcutta-hc-allows-sindur-khela-arati-anjali-in-durga-puja-pandals-1038398.html
07-10-2021||National||Man secures custody of child fraudulently, SC orders CBI to bring child from Kenya||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered CBI to register a criminal case against a Kenyan national who secured the custody of his 11-year-old son fraudulently by obtaining court orders in his favour last year.  The top court directed CBI to secure the child’s custody and entrust it to his mother. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Hemant Gupta, and Ajay Rastogi recalled the judgement passed in favour of Perry Kansagra, the father of the child, for having made false and fraudulent representations before it to secure child’s custody.  "It shall be the duty of this court to nullify, in every way, the effect and impact of the orders which were obtained by playing fraud upon the court,” the bench said.   The bench noted that there was concrete material and reason to believe that it was a well-planned conspiracy on part of Perry to persuade it to pass orders in his favour and allow him the custody of the child and then turn around and defy the orders passed by it.  “The Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi and the Indian Embassy in Kenya are directed to ensure that all possible assistance and logistical support is extended to the mother in securing the custody of the child," the bench said. On October 30, 2020, the top court's three-judge by a majority view of 2:1 has directed the woman from Delhi to hand over custody of the male child to his father of Indian origin having dual citizenship of Kenya and the UK with the condition that he would obtain a 'mirror order' from Kenya, in order to safeguard her interests, including of regular meetings with the boy.  The 'mirror order' from the concerned court in Nairobi was to reflect the directions contained in the judgment by the apex court. On May 21, this year, the top court was told that the Kenyan High Court refused to recognise the order passed by it, saying the judgment is from a superior court of a non-reciprocating country, and in connection with the guardianship of a child, was not registrable there.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-secures-custody-of-child-fraudulently-sc-orders-cbi-to-bring-child-from-kenya-1038400.html
07-10-2021||National||CRPF creates CBRN attack combat teams||The CRPF has created an exclusive team of about 1,800 personnel within its special anti-riots wing Rapid Action Force (RAF) to act as responders against CBRN attacks and various other disasters, a senior officer of the force said on Thursday. The CBRN stands chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) disasters. The country's largest paramilitary forces has 15 battalions of the blue dunagree-wearing RAF that is deployed across the country to combat riots, protests and for assisting state police forces in various law and order duties. "It has been planned to create two teams of 60 personnel each in all the 15 RAF battalions." "Thirteen RAF teams have been trained by the National Disaster Response Force and at a specialised training centre in Coimbatore till now," a senior Central Reserve Police Force officer said here. He said the decision to have responders for CBRN disasters and rescuers to help people affected by other man-made and natural disasters was taken after after Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently asked various agencies to enhance their capabilities in the field of disaster management. Subsequently, Union Home minister Amit Shah asked all central forces to have this component in their establishment during a review meeting of the national disaster management authority (NDMA) held in June last year in Delhi, he said. The new CBRN teams displayed their skills during the 29th raising day celebrations of the RAF held at its 108th battalion campus on Thursday here, where Minister of State for Home affairs Nityanand Rai took the salute of a ceremonial parade. The RAF was raised in 1992 under the CRPF and has a total of 15 battalions at present. A single RAF battalion has a standard strength of over 1,100 personnel. The last five RAF battalions were sanctioned by the Union home ministry in 2018. The CRPF is the country's largest central armed police force with about 3.25 lakh personnel in its ranks and is designated as the lead national internal security force. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-creates-cbrn-attack-combat-teams-1038406.html
07-10-2021||National||India asks Taliban to respect human rights of all||Expressing concerns over vandalisation of a gurdwara in Kabul, India on Thursday reminded the Taliban regime in Afghanistan of the United Nations Security Council’s August 30 resolution, asking the militant organisation to respect human rights of all, including the minorities in the conflict-ravaged country. New Delhi stated that vandalisation of the Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul two days back triggered concerns not only in India, but also around the world. Some men appearing to be the militants of the Taliban raided and vandalised the shrine of the of the minority Afghan Sikhs in Kabul on Tuesday. On the same day, the Taliban’s affiliate Haqqani Network’s leader Anas Haqqani praised Mahmud of Ghazni as he had “smashed the idol of Somnath”. Haqqani was referring to destruction of the Somnath Temple in Gujarat in the 11th century. “Obviously, it (vandalisation of the shrine) raised concerns not just for us, but I suppose across the world. It is important that the international community continue to insist on the fulfilment of goals outlined in the UN Security Council resolution,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. He was referring to the UN Security Council resolution 2593 adopted on August 30. The resolution had reaffirmed the “importance of upholding human rights including those of women, children and minorities, encourages all parties to seek an inclusive, negotiated political settlement, with the full, equal and meaningful participation of women, that responds to the desire of Afghans to sustain and build on Afghanistan’s gains over the last twenty years in adherence to the rule of law, and underlines that all parties must respect their obligations”. The UNSC resolution had insisted that the territory of Afghanistan should not be used for exporting terror or to threaten or to attack any other country. It had also asked the Taliban to keep its words on allowing the people to leave and fly out of Afghanistan. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-taliban-to-respect-human-rights-of-all-1038407.html
07-10-2021||National||Molestation case against Hazaribag BJP leader||Hazaribagh police has launched a hunt for a senior district BJP leader who allegedly molested a minor girl and was thrashed by locals for his act, a police official said on Thursday. Shankar Prasad Gupta, the 62-year-old former Hazaribagh district president of BJP is absconding since he was confronted by the victim's mother and thrashed by the locals on Wednesday, he said. The police have registered a case against him under sections of the Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act. It has launched a search for Gupta and raided several places, the official said. Hazaribagh superintendent of police Manoj Ratan Chauthe has ordered the officer-in-charge of Barabazar police station, Yogendra Mishra and the sub-divisional police officer (HQ) Mahesh Prajapati to arrest the accused forthwith. The officer-in-charge of Barabazar police station said that the victim's mother said in her statement that Gupta, who owns a flour mill in Barabazar locality of the town, had allegedly molested the 13-year-old when she went there on October 3 to get wheat ground for the family. Gupta had allegedly lured the girl and molested her. He had then given her Rs 10 and warned her not to disclose the incident to anyone. The girl narrated the incident to her mother on Wednesday. The mother then rushed to the flour mill and protested against the incident. A heated argument followed with Gupta denying any involvement in the incident. Locals who had gathered at the spot then caught hold of Gupta and beat him up, police said. BJP leader, however, managed to free himself and fled from the scene. The victim's mother then registered a case and when the police investigating team went to his house on Thursday, it found Gupta was absconding. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/molestation-case-against-hazaribag-bjp-leader-1038408.html
07-10-2021||National||India hopeful of finding solution to vaccine certification row with UK||India on Thursday said it was hopeful of finding a solution to the contentious vaccine certification row with the UK through talks even as it insisted that Britain's travel restrictions on Indian nationals were "clearly discriminatory". In a retaliatory move, India imposed reciprocal action under which all British nationals arriving in India from the UK needed to undergo a mandatory 10-day quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated. "Discussions are ongoing and we remain hopeful that some solution may emerge," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. At the same time, he said the British travel restrictions on Indians with valid vaccination certificates were "clearly discriminatory". "There is no second opinion about it. We had taken it up with the UK authorities so many times at various levels, but without success. That is why we have applied reciprocal measures from October 4 on all UK nationals arriving in India from the UK," he said. Under the new British rules that came into effect on October 4, fully vaccinated Indians require to undergo 10-day quarantine as the UK have issues with India's Covid-19 vaccine certification. The UK initially refused to recognise Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII). However, following India's strong criticism of the decision, the UK on September 22 amended its new guidelines and included the vaccine. However, the move did not provide any relief from quarantine rules for Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield. Later, British officials said the UK has issues with India's vaccine certification process and not with the Covishield vaccine. The two sides held series of technical-level talks to resolve the vaccine certification issue, but there was no resolution to the row. According to the new UK rules, Indian travellers who received both doses of the Covishield vaccine will be considered unvaccinated. The new British rules have triggered massive criticism in India. In a separate development, the second meeting of the India-UK joint working group on cyber capacity building was held on Thursday virtually. "The meeting discussed various aspects of cooperation in the area of cyber capacity building and was held under the aegis of the India-UK Framework for Cyber Relationship and in support of the Enhanced Cyber Security partnership agreed in the India-UK 2030 Roadmap," the MEA said in a statement. "The delegations exchanged views on a wide range of issues to further deepen the existing bilateral cooperation and agreed to work closely with each other in the area of capacity building," it said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hopeful-of-finding-solution-to-vaccine-certification-row-with-uk-1038420.html
07-10-2021||National||Congress, BJP alike in taking away powers of states: Telangana CM||The Congress and BJP have been alike in taking away the powers of states when they are in power at the Centre, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao alleged on Thursday. Saying that Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin has recently written to him on collectively speaking on disputes that are occurring, he said he would be ready to fight with the Centre, if there is a need, for state's rights. Rao, who spoke in the Legislative Assembly on the state government's 'Palle Pragati-Pattana Pragati' (progress of villages - progress of towns) programmes, said the Centre taking away subjects and powers of states has been happening since Congress regimes many years ago. He cited the example of agriculture. "Congress and BJP have equally taken away many powers in the states' sector. These two parties are same to same in reducing the stature of states... and draining states' powers. I am saying this as the Chief Minister of a state and president of a regional party, because people should know," he said. Many newspaper articles also appear as to how the Central government takes away the powers of states. Saying that even the wages of workers (under government schemes) are proposed to be directly deposited in Delhi, he asked what state governments, Sarpanches and other local body representatives are for. Noting that several taxes have been taken (from states) in the name of GST, he said the idea of bringing petrol and diesel under the GST ambit was recently mooted. The idea was opposed by BJP-ruled states, he claimed. The Centre had to step back on the matter, the chief minister added. There is no difference in the attitude of Congress and BJP vis-a-vis Centre draining the powers of states and not letting the states work. "Both do the same thing," he said. He asked whether the local bodies, panchayat raj institutions and ZP Chairmen do not look after issues like municipalities and rural workers. "The money for that is deposited in Delhi. It is Jawahar Rojgar Yojana when Congress is in power, it is Deendayal Yojana when these people come (to power). Names only change. The attitude doesn't. This is what is exactly happening in this country. This is fact. These anomalies need to go," he said. He said Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin has recently written a letter to him, saying that many disputes are occurring and that they should speak collectively. "Yes. We will fight with the Centre if we have to fight on the rights of the states," he said. Rao, who spoke extensively on the rapid strides made in development during the TRS regime, said the state government would soon launch 'Palle dawakhanas' (village clinics) to improve health infrastructure and in view of the possibility of spread of viral diseases like Covid-19 and swine flu in future. The state government has already set up 'basti dawakhanas' (clinics in residential colonies) in the state.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-bjp-alike-in-taking-away-powers-of-states-telangana-cm-1038425.html
07-10-2021||National||Fully vaccinated Indians travelling to UK from Monday need not quarantine||The British Government has finally relented and agreed to exempt travellers inoculated with two doses of the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine in India from mandatory quarantine on arrival to the United Kingdom. “No quarantine for Indian travellers to UK fully vaccinated with Covishield or another UK-approved vaccine from 11 October,” Alex Ellis, the UK’s envoy to India, tweeted after the British Government’s Secretary of State Grant Shapps announced the changes in the new travel rules that came into effect last Monday. No quarantine for Indian 🇮🇳 travellers to UK 🇬🇧 fully vaccinated with Covishield or another UK-approved vaccine from 11 October. Shapps announced in London that eligible travellers vaccinated in 37 more countries and territories, including India, Brazil, Ghana, Hong Kong, Pakistan, South Africa and Turkey, would also be treated on par with returning fully vaccinated UK residents, if they had not visited a “red list” country or territory in the 10 days before arrival. The British Government’s new travel rules had initially stipulated that only those people who had been inoculated with the vaccines, such as the double dose ones developed by the AstraZeneca PLC, Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc or the single-dose one developed by the Johnson and Johnson’s would be considered fully vaccinated and hence would be exempted from mandatory quarantine requirement on arrival in the UK. The Serum Institute of India (SII) is authorised to manufacture AstraZeneca PLC’s vaccine in India and markets it as Covishield. But the British Government’s new travel rules had initially not included it in the list of the approved vaccines for treating travellers as inoculated and hence entitled for exemption from quarantine requirement upon arrival in the UK. After New Delhi had warned of “reciprocal measures”, the British Government had on September 22 revised its travel rules to recognise Covishield as one of the “approved” Covid-19 vaccines, but still refused to recognise the certificates issued to people who had been inoculated with the jab in India. This meant that people administered with Covishield in India would still have to undergo mandatory quarantine on arrival in the UK from Monday, unlike the ones administered with the same jab or any other “approved” Covid-19 jab in the US or anywhere in Europe or 17 other countries. The diplomats and health officials of the two governments have been in touch over the past couple of weeks to address the British Government’s concerns over some aspects of the certificates issued through the CoWIN app to people vaccinated with the Covishield Covid-19 vaccines. The Government of India made arrangements for the certificates to show full dates of birth of the vaccinated beneficiaries and thus addressed one of London's concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fully-vaccinated-indians-travelling-to-uk-from-monday-need-not-quarantine-1038429.html
07-10-2021||National||Over 93 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India: Govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 93 crore on Thursday, the Union health ministry said. More than 45 lakh (45,54,939) vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm on Thursday, it said, adding that the daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final report by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with the healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of the frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged above 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 years of age to be inoculated against the viral disease from May 1.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-93-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-govt-1038445.html
07-10-2021||National||India joins High Ambition Coalition for Nature and People||India on Thursday officially joined the High Ambition Coalition for Nature and People, a group of more than 70 countries encouraging the adoption of the global goal to protect at least 30 per cent of the world's land and ocean by 2030. India is the first of the BRICS bloc of major emerging economies (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) to join the HAC, the Union Environment Ministry said in a statement. India's announcement comes in the lead up to a high-level biodiversity meeting in China from October 11 to 15. Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, handed over the signed HAC agreement to Ambassador of France to India Emmanuel Lenain in a ceremony on Thursday. Gupta said resource mobilization will always be the cornerstone for implementation of policies and programmes for conserving biodiversity and India would ensure all support in meeting the global biodiversity targets. Lenain said India joining the High Ambition Coalition is a "real game changer and will boost our multilateral efforts".  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-joins-high-ambition-coalition-for-nature-and-people-1038446.html
07-10-2021||National||Tirumala brahmotsavams begin; Kannada channel to be launched on October 12||The Dwajarohanam ceremony held in Meena-lagnam on Thursday evening marked the beginning of the nine-day Lord Venkateshwara Swamy's brahmotsavams in Tirumala. The Garuda Dhwajapatham was hoisted later on the Dwajasthambham, the temple pillar, amidst the chanting of Vedic hymns. The most awaited celestial event is being held in ekantham (solitude) this year too because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the place of Swarna Ratham on October 12 and wooden chariot on October 14, temple officials said that Sarvabhoopala Vahana seva would be held. As per the suggestion of agama-sastra pundits, Chakrasnanam on the last day of brahmotsavam i.e., October 15 will be held at the Aina-mahal. Officials said that either a two-dose vaccination report or a Covid-19 test negative report is a must for the devotees, along with their darshan tickets, for entering Tirumala. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy would offer silk vastrams (robes) to the lord, on behalf of the state government, on the most significant Garuda Seva day falling on October 11. On October 12, Reddy along with his Karnataka counterpart Basavaraj Bommai would launch Sri Venkateshwara Bhakti Channel in Kannada. Hindi SVBC would also be initiated at the same time. A new Boondi complex constructed with a Rs 12 crore donation from India Cements; Saptha Go Pradakshina Mandiram built with Rs 15 crore donation from a Chennai based devotee and the Alipiri footpath renovated with Rs 25 crore donation from the Reliance Industries are some of the other projects to be inaugurated by the CM. A pediatric cardiac care hospital set up at BIRRD exclusively for children with heart ailments would also be opened during the CM's visit. Meanwhile, the newly reconstituted Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams board met on Thursday at the Annamaiah Bhavan in Tirumala and has sanctioned tenders for Rs 17.40 crore towards the construction of Sri Venkateshwara Swamy temple at Jammu. Tenders were approved for the beautification of the Alipiri footpath at Rs 7.50 crore. The board has authorised a plan to establish a TTD corporation to offer job security to contract, outsourcing employees. The board also gave its nod to a health fund for the TTD employees. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tirumala-brahmotsavams-begin-kannada-channel-to-be-launched-on-october-12-1038453.html
07-10-2021||National||Part-time employees not entitled to seek regularisation: SC||Part-time employees are not entitled to seek regularisation as they are not working against any sanctioned post, the Supreme Court said on Thursday. The apex court also said the regularisation can be only as per the regularisation policy declared by the State/government and nobody can claim the regularisation as a matter of right "dehors" (outside the scope of) the regularisation policy. "Part-time employees are not entitled to seek regularisation as they are not working against any sanctioned post and there cannot be any permanent continuance of part-time temporary employees as held. "Part-time temporary employees in a government-run institution cannot claim parity in salary with regular employees of the government on the principle of equal pay for equal work," a bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by the Centre challenging an order of Punjab and Haryana High Court which had modified an order passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal. The tribunal had directed the Centre to re-examine the whole issue, complete the exercise to reformulate their regularisation/absorption policy, and take a decision to sanction the posts in a phased manner. The top court said that the High Court, in the exercise of the powers under Article 226 of the Constitution, cannot direct the government and/or its department to formulate a particular regularisation policy. "The High Court cannot, in the exercise of the power under Article 226, issue a Mandamus to direct the Department to sanction and create the posts. The High Court, in the exercise of the powers under Article 226 of the Constitution, also cannot direct the Government and/or the Department to formulate a particular regularisation policy. "Framing of any scheme is no function of the court and is the sole prerogative of the Government. Even the creation and/or sanction of the posts is also the sole prerogative of the government and the High Court, in the exercise of the power under Article 226 of the Constitution, cannot issue Mandamus and/or direct to create and sanction the posts," the bench said. The bench said even the regularisation policy to regularise the services of the employees working on the temporary status and/or casual labourers is a policy decision and in judicial review, the Court cannot issue Mandamus and/or issue mandatory directions to do so. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/part-time-employees-not-entitled-to-seek-regularisation-sc-1038455.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||Congress failed to fight BJP, onus now on TMC: Mamata||As the Congress has miserably failed to put up a fight against the BJP, the people of India have put the onus on the Trinamool Congress to create a new India by ousting the "fascist" saffron party, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee claimed. The TMC has earned the trust of the people across the country after its resounding victory against the BJP in the assembly polls held in the state earlier this year, Banerjee asserted in an article titled "Dilli r Daak (Call of Delhi) in the puja edition of the party mouthpiece "Jago Bangla". "The BJP has failed to digest its defeat in the assembly polls and is pursuing vendetta politics. Right now, there is a new challenge before the TMC - the call of Delhi. The people of this country want respite from the anti-people policies and politics and defeat of the fascist forces," she said in the article. After defeating the BJP in the assembly polls, Banerjee visited Delhi in July and held parleys with opposition leaders to explore ways to cobble together an alliance of anti-BJP parties ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. "The people of the country are now dreaming of a new India around the TMC. Crossing the boundaries of Bengal, the TMC is getting calls from various states. They want that Bengal should lead the fight for a new India. That is why we are saying we have to respond to people's calls. We have to fulfil the wishes of the people and bring together all anti-BJP forces on one platform," she said. Veteran Congress leader and former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro recently joined the Trinamool Congress. The party is also eyeing to dislodge the BJP from power in Tripura. Assembly elections in Goa and Tripura are due in 2022 and 2023. Noting that she has never considered keeping the Congress out of a united platform of anti-BJP forces, the TMC boss said such a platform should be based on policies. "But the fact is, in the recent past, the Congress has failed to put up a fight against the BJP. In the last two Lok Sabha polls, it was proved. If you can't provide a fight at the Centre, it breaks the confidence of the masses, and the BJP gains a few more votes in states. We cannot allow this to happen this time. "We don't want the leadership of this alliance. But the Congress has to understand and accept the reality or else there will be a gap in the alliance. There should not be any gap, any lacunae in forming an anti-BJP force at the all-India level this time," Banerjee said in the article. However, hinting that the TMC is ready to be the driving force to oust the BJP government at the Centre, she claimed that the TMC's development model has defeated the saffron party's juggernaut. "The people of the country have faith in this (TMC) model. We have to present the most workable model which can meet the aspirations of the people of India. The TMC will not move a step backwards in fulfilling the aspirations of the people," she said. Referring to how her party had once emerged as the main opposition face against the CPI(M) regime in West Bengal by outsmarting the Congress, Banerjee said in the article the TMC in recent times has become the "real opposition against the BJP". The article came a week after the TMC's national general secretary and her nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, accused the Congress of 'sitting idle" and indulging in armchair politics and advised it to hit the streets to fight the BJP. The bonhomie between the Congress and the TMC was strained recently after the latter's mouthpiece claimed that party supremo Mamata Banerjee, and not Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-failed-to-fight-bjp-onus-now-on-tmc-mamata-1038128.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi completes 20 years in public office: How BJP plans to celebrate||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has completed a total of two decades in public office on Thursday, making him the longest-serving head of an elected government after Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi.  In the last two decades, Modi, currently serving his second term as PM, has gone from being a stalwart chief minister to one of the most popular leaders in the world. Narendra Modi, first sworn in as the chief minister of Gujarat in 2001. Modi served 12 years and 227 days (4,607) as the chief minister of Gujarat from 2001 to 2014. He was elected as the 14th PM of India in 2014 and since then he has been in office for 2,671 days. To mark the occasion, the ruling BJP has planned a series of events which includes spreading awareness about PM Narendra Modi's works in public office with a focus on cleanliness, in line with his “Swachh Bharat” vision. “Party workers will mark the day by cleaning the rivers, spreading awareness among the public about the work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on booth level and other such social programmes,” the ANI news agency reported earlier this week. The cleanliness drive comes after PM Modi launched the Swachh Bharat 2.0 mission earlier this month. He said that the plan is to make every city in India “water-secure” to ensure that the rivers are not polluted by sewage. Party workers will hold events to make people aware of the policies at every booth in the country. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-completes-20-years-in-public-office-how-bjp-plans-to-celebrate-1038156.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||BJP releases list of candidates for bypolls to Lok Sabha, Assembly seats||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday released its list of candidates for bypolls to three Lok Sabha seats in UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh and 16 Assembly seats of various states scheduld to be held on October 30.  The saffron party has fielded Shivaraj Sajjanar for Hangal Assembly bypolls in Karnataka and Brigadier Khushal Thakur for Mandi Lok Sabha seat from Himachal Pradesh.  Here's the full list of BJP candidates for bypolls:  More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-releases-list-of-candidates-for-bypolls-to-lok-sabha-assembly-seats-1038159.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||PM Modi completes 20 years in public office, BJP leaders laud him||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday completed 20 years as the head of a government, including over 13 years as Gujarat chief minister, with top BJP leaders lauding his leadership and crediting him for ushering in good governance and development.  Home Minister Amit Shah, who has been a close aide of Modi for over three decades, said the journey of good governance and development that started on this day in 2001 when he took oath for the first time as chief minister has continued uninterrupted.  The prime minister has worked day and night for the people and country's progress, he said.  Modi served as Gujarat CM between 2001 and 2014. BJP president J P Nadda said Modi pulled the country out of an atmosphere of disappointment and put it on the path to progress and becoming "vishwa guru" (world leader).  The prime minister has worked like a "karma yogi" and infused people with self-confidence about making a new India, Nadda said.  Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also congratulated the prime minister, saying these 20 years have not only been dedicates to people's welfare but have also been untainted.  May his popularity keep rising, he said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-completes-20-years-in-public-office-bjp-leaders-laud-him-1038195.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||NGT can act suo motu in environmental matters, can't be left toothless: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday declared that National Green Tribunal has been vested with the power to take suo motu cognisance on issues pertaining to the environment, saying the role of the watchdog can't remain only ornamental due to procedural nitpicking and hairsplitting. "It is vital for the wellbeing of the nation and its people, to have a flexible mechanism to address all issues pertaining to environmental damage and resultant climate change so that we can leave behind a better environmental legacy, for our children, and the generations thereafter," a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy, and C T Ravikumar said. Justice Roy, who authored the 77-page judgement on the issue of NGT's jurisdiction arising out of a civil appeal filed by Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai, said the NGT Act gives much leeway to the tribunal to go beyond a mere adjudicatory role and act as a sui generis institution with the capacity to provide redressal for environmental exigencies. "Institutions which are often addressing urgent concerns gain little from procedural nitpicking, which are unwarranted in the face of both the statutory spirit and the evolving nature of environmental degradation. Not merely should a procedure exist but it must be meaningfully effective to address such concerns," the bench said.  Referring to a play 'Waiting for Godot' written by Samuel Beckett, Justice Roy said the National Green Tribunal must act, if the exigencies so demand, without indefinitely waiting for the metaphorical 'Godot' to knock on its portal. The court did not agree to contention by a battery of senior advocates that the NGT was a statutory body and could not act suo motu like a constitutional court, saying the tribunal with the distinct role envisaged for it, can hardly afford to remain a mute spectator when no-one knocks on its door.  "The forum itself has correctly identified the need for collective stratagem for addressing environmental concerns. Such a society centric approach must be allowed to work within the established safety valves of the principles of natural justice and appeal to the Supreme Court. The hands-off mode for the NGT, when faced with exigencies requiring immediate and effective response, would debilitate the forum from discharging its responsibility and this must be ruled out in the interest of justice," it said. Maintaining that the role of such an institution cannot be mechanical or ornamental or a mute spectator, the bench said, "We must therefore adopt an interpretation which sustains the spirit of public good and not render the environmental watchdog of our country toothless and ineffective."  The court rejected a contention by the Union government that the NGT does not have power to take cognisance of a matter on its own on the basis of news reports but can act on a letter sent to it. "It would be procedural hairsplitting to argue that the NGT could act upon a letter being written to it, but learning about an environmental exigency through any other means cannot trigger the NGT into action. To endorse such an approach would surely be rendering the forum procedurally shackled or incapacitated," the bench said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ngt-can-act-suo-motu-in-environmental-matters-cant-be-left-toothless-supreme-court-1038219.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||Congress, BJP announce candidates for bypolls in Rajasthan||The Congress and BJP on Thursday announced the names of candidates for bypolls in Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad assembly seats of Rajasthan. The bypolls have been necessitated due to the demise of Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar in Udaipur, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, and BJP MLA from Dhariawad in Pratapgarh, Gautam Lal Meena. The Congress gave ticket to Shaktawat's wife Preeti  Shaktawat in Vallabhnagar and fielded Nagraj Meena in Dhariawad against BJP's Khet Singh. Instead of giving ticket to the family member of Gautam Lal Meena in Dhariawad, the BJP has fielded Khet Singh Meena, who has the backing of the RSS, party sources said.  In Vallabhnagar, the saffron party has given ticket to Himmat Singh Jhala, who will be contesting against Preeti Shaktawat of Congress. The last date of filing nomination is October 8. Polling will take place on October 30 and counting of votes will be held on November 2.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-bjp-announce-candidates-for-bypolls-in-rajasthan-1038232.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||Cong MLA demands PM to remove Gandhi's photo from notes, says they are being used for corruption||A Congress MLA has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding that Mahatma Gandhi's portrait be removed from Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 currency notes as they are being used in cases of corruption and in bars. Drawing attention to cases of corruption in Rajasthan, Bharat Singh Kundanpur, the MLA from the ruling party in the state, said a total of 616 graft cases were registered between January 2019 and December 31, 2020, with an average of two cases registered per day. In a letter sent to Modi on the 152nd birth anniversary of Gandhi on October 2, he urged the prime minister to replace Gandhi's portrait on high-value currency notes with a picture of his iconic spectacles. The Sangod MLA said Gandhi's portrait should be retained only on the notes in the denominations of Rs 5, Rs 10, Rs 50, Rs 100 and Rs 200 as they are widely used by the poor and Gandhi throughout his life worked for the destitute. "It is my suggestion that a picture of Gandhi's spectacles can be used on Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 currency notes. Ashok Chakra can also work effectively for this purpose," Kundanpur said in the letter. The Congress MLA said that corruption has spread all over the country in the last seven-and-a-half decades. "Mahatma Gandhi symbolises truth and Gandhi's picture is printed on Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes, which are generally used in practices of corruption and in exchange of bribes," he added. He said that the high-value currency notes are used in bars, bringing "disgrace" to Gandhi. "Gandhi's portrait should be removed from Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 currency notes and it should be used only on small currency notes which are used by the poor," the MLA said in the letter. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-mla-demands-pm-to-remove-gandhis-photo-from-notes-says-they-are-being-used-for-corruption-1038303.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||Lakhimpur violence: Navjot Singh Sidhu, party workers detained at UP border||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu along with Cabinet ministers and leaders were detained on Thursday on the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border in Saharanpur as they were heading towards Lakhimpur Kheri where nine people were killed in violence that erupted during farmers' protests on Sunday (October 3). They have been staging a sit-in protest at the border. The leaders have been demanding the arrest of Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra's son Ashish Mishra in connection with the death of farmers during the violence. Sidhu threatened to go on hunger strike if action is not taken against the minister's son by Friday. He was accompanying Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and cabinet ministers Pargat Singh and Vijay Inder Singla, besides former ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Kangar and Sunder Shyam Arora and other leaders. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi also joined Sidhu for a brief period when the vehicular march started in the morning from Mohali, near here. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lakhimpur-violence-navjot-singh-sidhu-party-workers-detained-at-up-border-1038313.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||After Lakhimpur violence, Congress to gain more advantage in Punjab than in UP?||Congress may have outmanoeuvred other opposition parties in seizing upon the opportunity to showcase itself as the messiah of the farmers following the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district hoping for a boost to its electoral fortunes in Uttar Pradesh. Political analysts say that the grand old party might gain more advantage in Punjab, where it was saddled with factionalism and faced a rebellion from one of its old guards, than in UP. Lakhimpur Kheri district was part of what was known as the 'Terai' region of UP, which also included Shaajahanpur, Pilibhit, Sitapur and Baharaich districts in the state. The area was also known as 'mini Punjab' owing to the presence of a large number of Sikh farmers in the region. The Sikhs, who were mostly from Malwa, Doaba and Majha regions of Punjab, had migrated to the 'Terai' about five-six decades back after the state government invited them to settle there and turn the barren lands into agricultural farms. One can see these agricultural farms while travelling from Sitapur to Pilibhit and Bareilly. One can also see a large number of gurudwaras on the roads.  It was no wonder that the videos, which have surfaced on social networking sites showing vehicles running over the farmers, clearly reveal that the crowd mostly consisted of Sikhs. Incidentally, the Sikh farmers from the 'Terai' region were also at the forefront of the agitation against the three farm laws. Farmers from the other eastern districts in the state were not that vociferous in their protest. "The violence (Lakhimpur) will not have any significant impact on the forthcoming assembly polls in UP and Uttarakhand....it may reverberate more in Punjab,'' says political analyst and veteran journalist J.P.Shukla. Another political analyst, echoing a similar sentiment, said that Congress might find it difficult to gain electoral mileage out of the incident as it did not have an organisational base in UP and its limited effect in other parts of the state.  Punjab chief minister Charanjeet Singh Channi's visit to Lakhimpur Kheri and announcement of financial compensation to the families of the four farmers indicated that he expected that the incident could impact the assembly polls there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-lakhimpur-violence-congress-to-gain-more-advantage-in-punjab-than-in-up-1038320.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||Congress announces candidates for assembly bypolls in Haryana, Rajasthan||The Congress Thursday announced its candidates for the October 30 assembly by-elections in Rajasthan and Haryana. While Preeti Shaktawat will contest from the Vallabhnagar seat in Rajasthan, the party has fielded Shri Nagraj from the state’s Dhariawad-ST seat. In Haryana, Congress has fielded Pawan Beniwal for the by-election to the Ellanabad assembly constituency. Beniwal had recently joined the Congress from the BJP. He was the BJP's candidate from the Ellananbad constituency in the last assembly elections when he lost to Indian National Lok Dal’s Abhay Chautala. Chautala's resignation over farm laws in January has necessitated the October 30 bypoll to the Ellenabad assembly seat. The polling will be held on October 30 and the results will be announced on November 2. Also, Gobind Kanda, brother of Haryana Lokhit Party chief Gopal Kanda has been announced as the BJP-JJP candidate for the bypoll to Ellenabad assembly seat in Sirsa district. Gopal Kanda's party is supporting the BJP-JJP government. Gobind Kanda, who joined the BJP a few days back, filed his nomination papers Thursday. Talking to reporters, Kanda exuded confidence that he would win the poll. Meanwhile, a group of farmers held a protest outside the Sub-Divisional Magistrate office in Sirsa against the BJP leaders and also showed black flags to them. Kanda was accompanied by Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar, state minister Ranjit Chautala, Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal and some other leaders. Abhay Chautala, who was his party's lone representative in the 90-member Haryana Assembly, had in January resigned as an MLA over the three central farm laws in solidarity with protesting farmers. He represented Ellenabad, a rural constituency.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-announces-candidates-for-assembly-bypolls-in-haryana-rajasthan-1038342.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||Discussions with US underway on S-400: India||India on Thursday said that discussions are going on with the US on the S-400 missile defence deal, a day after US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman expressed unease over New Delhi's procurement of the Russian weapons system. "This has been under discussion between our two countries for some time. It was raised and we have discussed it and explained our perspective. And discussions on this are ongoing,"  External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. He was replying to a question on Sherman's comments on Wednesday on the India-Russia deal. Sherman, on a three-day visit to India, told journalists that any decision on possible sanctions on the S-400 deal will be made by President Joe Biden and Secretary of State Antony Blinken. The issue of India procuring the S-400 missile system from Russia figured in Sherman's wide-ranging talks with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Wednesday and both sides hoped to find a way out on the issue through dialogue. "We've been quite public about any country that decides to use the S-400. We think that is dangerous and not in anybody's security interest. That said, we have a strong partnership with India," Sherman said. "We want to be very thoughtful about the ways ahead, and discussions between our countries try to solve problems and I hope we will be able to in this instance as well," she said. Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhary on Tuesday said that the first batch of the S-400 missile defence system will arrive in India from Russia by this year. The US has already imposed sanctions on Turkey under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for the purchase of S-400 missile defences from Russia. In October 2018, India had signed a $5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, despite a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions. India made the first tranche of payment of around $800 million to Russia for the missile systems in 2019. The S-400 is known as Russia's most advanced long-range surface-to-air missile defence system. Following US sanctions on Turkey, there have been apprehensions that Washington may impose similar punitive measures against India. Russian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev said in April that both Russia and India do not recognise bilateral sanctions as they are "illegal tools" of "unlawful and unfair" competition and pressure. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/discussions-with-us-underway-on-s-400-india-1038370.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||Never imagined I would reach here: PM Modi on completing 20 years in public office||Reminiscing his journey over the last 20 years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said he had never imagined that he would reach such heights. After inaugurating 35 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants, established under the PM CARES fund, across 35 states and Union Territories in an event at AIIMS Rishikesh, Modi said on this day 20 years ago, he got the responsibility of serving the public. Modi completed 20 years as the head of a government, including over 13 years as Gujarat chief minister, on Thursday, with top BJP leaders lauding his leadership and crediting him for ushering in good governance and development. "My journey to serve the people had begun many decades ago but 20 years ago, I got a new responsibility as the chief minister of Gujarat," he said addressing a gathering here. He served as Gujarat CM between 2001 and 2014. Modi said coincidentally, Uttarakhand was formed on November 9, 2000 and his journey began a few months later in 2001. "I had never imagined that as the head of the government, I would become the chief minister and then the prime minister of the country," he said. The prime minister expressed happiness that he is beginning his 21st year of service at a place which has given him constant affection and support. "After visiting this land of Himalayas, my resolve to serve the people has become stronger. New PSA oxygen plants were inaugurated across the country from a place which has given a solution to make life healthy with the help of yoga and ayurveda," he said. Modi said Uttarakhand has been 'tapobhoomi' of saints and seers, and has always attracted people from all over the world. He said the state has played a big role in changing the course of life of many people like him. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/never-imagined-i-would-reach-here-pm-modi-on-completing-20-years-in-public-office-1038397.html
07-10-2021||National Politics||Homeopathy is a 'science': Sarbananda Sonowal||AYUSH Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Thursday said homeopathy is a "science" and students of it should work hard to prove that it is the best method of treatment. Experts of the more popular allopathy do not consider homeopathy as a science. Sonowal, who was addressing a programme at the National Institute of Homeopathy in the city, asked the students to prove that alternate medicine is the best way of treating diseases. “I ask all the students to work hard to show the strength of homeopathy and AYUSH. We have to prove that these too are science." “To take homeopathy forward we will have to work very hard and prove to the people this is the best method of treatment,” he added. The central minister urged the students of homeopathy to work in a way in any place in the world they may be so that people begin to respect homeopathy. Sonowal had tabled the National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha this August. It proposed to amend the National Commission for Homoeopathy Act, 2020 to provide a medical education system that improves access to quality and affordable medical education. Sonowal, who was accompanied by Minister of State Mahendra Munjapara at the programme, inaugurated a hostel for girl students of the institute and announced increment in the stipends of the internees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/homeopathy-is-a-science-sarbananda-sonowal-1038423.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||DH Toon | Lakhimpur violence: Didn't Modi call for 'Sabka Prayas', dad?||Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra alias Monu was sitting in the car that mowed down protesting farmers and he also opened fire at them, according to an FIR lodged by the Uttar Pradesh Police. According to the first information report (FIR) lodged on a complaint of Jagjit Singh, a native of Bahraich district, the episode was "premeditated" for which the "conspiracy was hatched" by the minister and his son. It also alleged that "provocative" statements of the Union minister of state for home had led to the farmers' protest here during which violence erupted and claimed the lives of eight people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-lakhimpur-violence-didnt-modi-call-for-sabka-prayas-dad-1038134.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan HC quashes FIR against 12, including ex-MP, minister, over family property sale||The Rajasthan High Court has quashed an FIR lodged by former Nagaur MP Jyoti Mirdha against her uncle and 12 others, including former state tourism minister Usha Poonia, accusing them of keeping her in the dark about selling a part of the family property. Justice Arun Bhansali, while allowing the petition by the petitioners praying for quashing of the FIR, on Wednesday said the allegations in the case, even if taken on their face value, neither prima-facie constitute any offence nor does it disclose the commission of any offence and makes out a case against the accused. The case made by the complainant was that the property was sold by her uncle former MP Bhanu Prakash Mirdha without the notice of the complainant's father. But the court concluded that the complainant was in knowledge of the sale of the property executed in 1988. It further stated that challenge to the sale deed executed back in 1988 and which was in notice of the complainant when the partition suit was filed in 1999, is clearly an abuse of the process of law. With this observation, the court said the complaint is clearly a misadventure on the part of the complainant to claim half share in the property sold by her uncle and which was in her notice prior to filing of the suit for partition. The court further stated, "The present complaint has been lodged after an inordinate delay and the explanation given in the FIR for the delay is that the fact of committing forgery and selling of the disputed property came to the notice of the complainant only in the year 2018 during the proceedings in the partition suit." "This assertion in the FIR at the face of it is untrue, as in the partition suit itself, it is mentioned that the disputed property has been sold and the purchasers are in possession and for that reason, the prayer for partition of Khasra Nos.103 and 106 is not being made," it said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-hc-quashes-fir-against-12-including-ex-mp-minister-over-family-property-sale-1038174.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Commission set up to probe Lakhimpur Kheri incident||The Uttar Pradesh government has constituted a one-member Commission to probe the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people were killed, a senior Home Department official said on Thursday. "A notification for the constitution of the Commission has been issued. The commission has been given two months time to probe the matter," the official said. "In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Commissions of Enquiry Act, 1952 (Act no. 60 of 1952), the Governor is pleased to appoint Justice High Court, Allahabad (retd) Pradeep Kumar Srivastava as a single-member Commission of enquiry with Headquarters at Lakhimpur Kheri," the notification dated October 6 said. "The Commission shall complete the enquiry within a period of two months from the date of the issue of this notification. Any change in its tenure shall be at the behest of the Government," it added. Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. Of the eight killed, four were farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and a journalist working for a private television channel.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/commission-set-up-to-probe-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-1038179.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||J&K Delimitation Commission seeks suggestions on 290 queries||The Delimitation Commission set up by the Centre to redraw Assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir has sought suggestions/replies on 290 memorandums received by it during its four-day visit to the Union Territory (UT) in July. The Commission, headed by Justice (Retired) Ranjana Prakash Desai, had received 290 representations from political parties and stakeholders, ranging from partially unfreezing 24 seats falling in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, postponing the exercise till after statehood is restored and ensuring every region gets its due among others. Sources said the panel has forwarded all the representations to the State Election Commission (SEC) which, in turn, referred them to deputy commissioners of the UT, who also happen to be the district electoral officers (DEOs). “Most of the deputy commissioners have replied to the suggestions/queries while some are in the process of doing so,” they said. The Commission, set up by the Centre in March 2020, met representatives of all major political parties in Srinagar and Jammu in July, except the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which boycotted the process. The Commission has its term till March 7, 2022 and is trying to meet the deadline. It will be redrawing assembly segments based on the 2011 Census. Once the delimitation exercise is completed, the number of Assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir will go up from 83 to 90. Twenty-four seats of the Assembly continue to remain vacant as they fall under PoK. Assembly seats in J&K were earlier delimited in 1963, 1973 and 1995. The last delimitation exercise was conducted in J&K under President’s rule in 1995 by the retired Justice K K Gupta Commission. The next exercise was due in 2005, but in 2002, the then state government chose to freeze delimitation until 2026. The decision was in line with the pan-India freeze on delimitation of Lok Sabha constituencies till the first census after 2026. However, as the August 5, 2019 decision annulled J&K’s constitution, the freeze on delimitation till 2026 also became irrelevant. In fact, J&K Reorganisation Act, which came into force on October 31, 2019, mandates delimitation of constituencies in the UT. The elections in J&K have been due since the PDP-BJP alliance fell apart in June 2018, after which the erstwhile state was brought under governor’s rule. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is said to have assured all the leaders of J&K in June this year that the election process in the UT will begin once the delimitation process is completed. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-delimitation-commission-seeks-suggestions-on-290-queries-1038183.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Nine killed in road accident in Barabanki||A bus collided with a sand-laden truck near Baburi village in the district on Thursday, leaving nine people dead and 27 injured, police said. The bus carrying 70 passengers was going to Bahraich from Delhi when the accident took place, Superintendent of Police, Yamuna Prasad, said, adding the accident took place when the bus driver tried to avoid hitting a stray cow. The injured have been rushed to a trauma centre in Lucknow. While condoling the loss of lives in the accident, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the family of victims and Rs 50,000 for the injured. Adityanath has asked the local administration to provide best possible medical care to the injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nine-killed-in-road-accident-in-barabanki-1038184.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Every year, Delhi breathes its worst air from November 1 to 15: DPCC data||People in the national capital breathe the "worst" air between November 1 and November 15 every year, an analysis of data collated by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) over the last five years showed. The capital's average PM2.5 level oscillates between “very poor” and “severe” categories from October 16 to February 15. It records an average PM2.5 concentration of 285 micrograms per cubic metre from November 1 to November 15. PM2.5 level from 61 to 120 is considered “moderate to poor”, 121 to 250 is “very poor”, 251 to 350 is “severe” and more than 350 is “severe plus”. “A major increase in pollution levels is seen from October 15 to November 1. The average PM2.5 level reaches 285 micrograms per cubic meter from 80 micrograms per cubic metre,” an environment department official said. “All sources of pollution are active during this period. It is the time when stubble burning peaks. There is smoke from firecrackers and dust pollution,” he said. December 16 to December 31 is the second-most polluted period in Delhi. The average PM2.5 concentration during this period stands at 218 micrograms per cubic metre. The main reason for the high air pollution level is waste burning because this is the time when Delhi records its lowest temperatures and festivals, the official said. The third-most polluted fortnight stretches from January 1 to January 15. The average PM2.5 concentration during this period is 197 micrograms per cubic metre. “Based on the data, the government will make interventions as part of the winter action plan to curb pollution,” the official said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/every-year-delhi-breathes-its-worst-air-from-november-1-to-15-dpcc-data-1038185.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Modi inaugurates 35 PSA oxygen plants established under PM CARES fund||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated 35 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants established under the PM CARES fund across 35 states and union territories in an event at AIIMS Rishikesh in Uttarakhand. With this, all districts of the country will now have commissioned PSA oxygen plants, the PMO has said. Till now a total of 1,224 PSA oxygen plants have been funded under the PM CARES fund across the country, it added, noting that of these, more than 1,100 plants have been commissioned providing an output of over 1,750 MT oxygen per day. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya were also present on the occasion and hailed Modi's efforts in boosting health infrastructure across the country Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-inaugurates-35-psa-oxygen-plants-established-under-pm-cares-fund-1038190.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Two teachers shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar||Less than 48 hours after three civilians were shot dead in Srinagar and Bandipora, unidentified militants killed two government school teachers, including a female principal, in the old city Safa Kadal area of Srinagar on Thursday. A police official said unidentified gunmen fired upon the duo at around 11:15 am, leaving them critically injured. They were shifted to super-specialty SKIMS hospital where they were declared dead on arrival. The deceased were identified as Supinder Kour, a Sikh who worked as the principal of the school where the incident took place, and Deepak Chand, a Kashmiri Pandit who was a teacher there. A witness said three militants on motorbikes arrived at the school and asked the staff to move inside the principal’s room. “After establishing identities, the Muslim staff was asked to go out of the room. The assailants then got them out of the room and shot them mercilessly,” he said on the condition of anonymity. The Resistance Front (TRF), floated after the Centre ended J&K's special constitutional position, has purportedly claimed responsibility for the attack on the social media platforms. "The Shaheed Gazi Squad carried out the targeted attack on two non-locals who were domicile holders and had harassed the parents of the students to salute the occupier's flag on August 15," a TRF spokesman said. The Resistance Front is believed to be the frontal organisation of Pakistan-based Lashker-e-Taiba (LeT). On Tuesday evening, 68-year-old Makhan Lal Bindroo, a prominent businessman and the owner of a pharmacy in Srinagar's Iqbal Park, was shot at from point-blank range. Just an hour later a street vendor from Bihar was shot dead in similar circumstances in Lal Bazar area on the outskirts of Srinagar. One more civilian was shot dead the same evening by the militants in Hajin area of north Kashmir’s Bandipora district. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh said that the killing of civilians is a move to damage and attack the age-old traditional communal harmony in Kashmir. “This is an attempt to defame Muslims of Kashmir. Killing innocent civilians including teachers is a move to attack and damage the age-old tradition of communal harmony and brotherhood in Kashmir,” he told reporters outside Government Boys Higher Secondary School Sangam, Eidgah. The police chief said that they had got some clues and leads about the killers in previous cases and that the fresh case will be probed too. “The killing of innocent civilians reflects frustration and barbarism,” he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-teachers-shot-dead-by-terrorists-in-srinagar-1038192.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||SC asks UP govt to give details of action taken in Lakhimpur Kheri incident||The Supreme Court on Thursday told the Uttar Pradesh government to file a status report as to who were the persons named as accused in the case related to "murder of eight people" in Lakhimpur Kheri case and whether they have been arrested or not. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli sought all details by Friday, even as Uttar Pradesh counsel senior advocate and Additional Advocate General Garima Prasad said it was an "extremely unfortunate incident" and the investigation was already on in the matter. She also submitted that a special investigation team and a judicial commission of inquiry have been set up by the state government. "There is a grievance that you are not properly investigating. It is in the petition that eight persons, farmers and a journalist have been murdered. We need to know who are accused against whom FIR has been filed and if they have been arrested," the bench asked her. She sought time to file a status report by Friday. The court also asked her to give details of PILs filed in this regard in Allahabad High Court. The top court, which had earlier on Wednesday registered 'In Re Violence in Lakhimpur Kheri (UP) leading to loss of lives' as a suo motu case, directed its registry to treat the matter as a PIL, since it was taken up on a letter petition sent by advocates Shiv Kumar Tripathi and C S Panda. In a joint letter, they sought CBI probe into the matter. The Sunday incident at Lakhimpur Kheri has come under vociferous attack from the Opposition leaders. Farmers' outfits have claimed that a car ferrying Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish ran over a group of protesters gathered to oppose a programme attended by Uttar Pradesh's deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Farmers in Punjab, Haryana and Western UP have been protesting for over one year demanding repeal of three contentious farm laws, already stayed by the top court on January 12. During the hearing, on a request by advocate Amritpal Singh Khalsa, the court directed the state government to give immediate medical care to mother of Lovepreet Singh, one of the deceased farmers, who was in a state of shock after the October 3 incident.   "We received a message right now that mother of the deceased is in critical condition, due to shock of loss of son and is in need of urgent medical attention. Immediately communicate to the state government and take care and provide all medical facilities," the bench told Prasad. Petitioner Tripathi, who could barely connect to the virtual hearing due to technical glitches, complained that the state government did not act properly to prevent the "ghastly incident". The top court put the matter for consideration on Friday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-up-govt-to-give-details-of-action-taken-in-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-1038201.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi courtroom shootout: Gangsters Tillu Tajpuriya, Navin Balli arrested||Gangsters Tillu Tajpuriya and Naveen Balli have been arrested in connection with the killing of Jitender Gogi in a shootout inside a courtroom in Delhi's Rohini last month, officials said on Thursday. A few days ago, the Crime Branch had taken jailed gangster Tillu Tajpuriya -- one of the prime conspirators -- in its custody to grill him about Gogi's killing. Followed by his interrogation, jailed gangster Naveen Balli was also taken into custody on Tuesday for two days in connection with the incident. According to police, Balli was involved in the conspiracy to kill Gogi. It was on his instructions that one of his associates Naveen Hooda had brought a Nepali citizen to Rohini court in a lawyer’s dress armed with weapons on the day of the incident to join Rahul and Jagga, the other assailants. Both Tajpuriya and Bali were lodged in jail number 15 of Mandoli prison. Jailed gangster Sunil Rathee is also suspected to have played a role and is under the scanner. A preliminary investigation into the case had revealed that the instruction to kill Gogi was given on phone by Tajpuriya. Tajpuriya was in touch with his associates over VoIP call directing them on how to execute the plan, police had said. The Special Cell of the Delhi Police had also arrested Umang Yadav and Vinay from a flat in northwest Delhi's Haiderpur area in connection with the shootout and their custody was later handed over to the Crime Branch which is probing the case, police officials had said. Two assailants shot dead Jitender Gogi inside the Rohini court on September 24. Both then were killed in retaliatory firing by the police. The Gogi and Tillu gangs are reportedly at war for years and their rivalry has claimed dozens of lives. To attain supremacy, these two gangs have formed alliances with other inter-state gangsters. Gogi gang has allied with gangster Kala Jathedi, Lawrence Bishnoi, Sampat Nehra, Ashok Pradhan, Hashim Baba while the Tillu gang is being supported by Neeraj Bawana, Sunil Rathee, Naveen Bali, and Nasir, according to the police.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-courtroom-shootout-gangsters-tillu-tajpuriya-navin-balli-arrested-1038207.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Accused not yet arrested as they are associated with BJP: Akhilesh on Lakhimpur incident||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son has not yet been arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case even though evidence pointed to his role in the incident. "As fingers are raised towards MoS (Ajay Mishra) in the BJP government, the accused in Lakhimpur case are not yet sent to jail," Yadav said while speaking to reporters at his residence in Lucknow before heading to Lakhimpur to meet the aggrieved families. "Those named in the FIR should go to jail. Government should take immediate action and the matter should be probed by a sitting judge of the High Court. There are videos clips, statements of eyewitnesses, the statement (of minister) in which he is threatening. As he (accused Ashish Mishra) is the son of the MoS, action has note been taken yet," he said. "Do you think farmers can get justice till he (father of accused) is MoS?" he asked. The UP government has constituted a one-member commission headed by retired judge of Allahabad High Court Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava to probe the incident, a senior Home Department official said on Thursday. When asked about the BJP's allegation that the opposition is doing politics on the matter, Yadav said, "The BJP is doing politics and it is a clever party. We want to know what was done in the Kanpur Manish Gupta case. Why are policemen still absconding. Why is an absconding IPS officer not arrested?" Kanpur-based businessman Manish Gupta had died under suspicious circumstances inside a hotel in Gorakhpur on Monday and six policemen were booked on charges of murder. After meeting family members of Lovepreet Singh (19) in Lakhimpur, Yadav said the family wants justice. "People from all political parties are here so that the families get justice. The son of a minister will not be arrested as there is a BJP government both in UP and at the Centre," he said demanding Rs 2 crore compensation to the victims' families. "The Supreme Court has taken suo motu cognisance of the matter. It has generated hope among the poor families for getting justice," the SP president said, adding that the minister and his son are guilty and all the reality will come out in the open in the apex court. The former chief minister assured that if the BJP government did not help them, he will do all that is possible when his party is voted to power in the upcoming state assembly elections. He also met the family of deceased journalist Raman Kashyap and will also pay a visit to the kin of Nacchatar Singh (65) during his visit. Yadav had tried to visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday but was stopped outside his home by the police. On October 3, eight people were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri with four of them being farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and a journalist working for a private television channel. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/accused-not-yet-arrested-as-they-are-associated-with-bjp-akhilesh-on-lakhimpur-incident-1038208.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||BJP releases 80-member National Executive list; Maneka, Varun Gandhi dropped||BJP President J P Nadda on Thursday announced an 80-member National Executive Committee with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi as members and excluded critics such as Subramanian Swamy, Maneka Gandhi and Varun Gandhi. Senior leaders Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal found a place in the 80-member Committee, which is set to meet here on November 7. The Committee will also have 50 special invitees and 179 permanent invitees which include leaders of legislative parties, current and former chief ministers and deputy chief ministers, national spokespersons, frontal organisations presidents, state in-charges and co-in charges, state presidents, state general secretaries (organisation) and sanghataks. Besides the mother-son Gandhi duo and Swamy, senior leaders Vinay Katiyar, C P Thakur, Vijay Goel, Sheshadri Chari, Tarun Vijay, Prahlad Singh Patel, Hukumdev Narayan Yadav have been dropped from the Committee. Varun Gandhi, a three-term Lok Sabha member, has been critical of the BJP government's handling of the farmers' protests, while his mother Maneka was dropped from the Council of Ministers after Modi's re-election in 2019. Lateral entrants into the BJP – External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, Mithun Chakraborty, Ashwini Vaishnaw, Dinesh Trivedi find a place in the 80-member committee. The 80-member Committee has 14 women members that include veteran Bijoya Chakraborty, Smriti Irani, Nirmala Sithraman, Meenakshi Lekhi, Darakhshan Andrabi, Chitra Kishor Wagh. Goa Health Minister Vishwajeet Rane, who has been in a power-tussle with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, has been named as a special invitee to the Committee. Former Delhi Metro chief E Sreedharan and lateral entrants Khusbu Sundar, Vijayashanti, Eatala Rajendra have found a place as special invitees to the committee. Senior leaders Prakash Javadekar, Ravishankar Prasad, Santosh Gangwar who were dropped from the Council of Ministers in July also found a place in the Committee. Sithraman and Pralhad Joshi represent Karnataka in the 80-member Committee, while Kalaburgi Lok Sabha member Umesh Jadhav has been made a special invitee. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-releases-80-member-national-executive-list-maneka-varun-gandhi-dropped-1038210.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||IIT student held for stalking school girls, teachers, uploading morphed pictures online||A 19-year-old IIT student was arrested from Bihar on Thursday for allegedly stalking girl students and teachers of a reputed school here and uploading their morphed pictures on social media, police said. Mahavir, who hails from Patna, is pursuing B.tech from IIT-Kharagpur. According to the police, he harassed over 50 girl students and teachers of a reputed school in north Delhi. They said Mahavir used apps for fake caller ID and virtual numbers on WhatsApp to contact the victims. To hide his identity, he also used a voice changing app. He posted morphed photos of the victims on fake Instagram profiles created by him in their names, the police said. The matter came to light after a complaint was received from the school administration on Wednesday regarding cyber stalking. According to the complaint, the accused stalked minor girls on social media and sent them messages on WhatsApp. He called the teachers from various international numbers and harassed them. The IIT student joined the WhatsApp groups created for online classes and also entered the classes, the complaint stated. Several morphed photos of the school students were circulated on social media platforms, it added. A case was registered under section 354-D (stalking) of Indian Penal Code at Civil Lines police station and the district’s cyber cell unit was roped in for technical assistance and later relevant sections of the POCSO Act and IT Act were added in the case, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi said. As part of the investigation, the police questioned the school students, their parents and teachers. Police officials said they managed to identify 33 WhatsApp virtual numbers, five Instagram profiles and several calls made using fake caller ID apps by the accused. "Our team analysed details of IP logs of WhatsApp, Instagram and fake mail ID used for creating social media accounts and identified the accused as Mahavir. He was then traced to Patna in Bihar from where he was arrested,” Kalsi said. While analysing the mobile numbers, the police found out that the accused had contacted one of the victims three years ago and had been stalking and harassing her since then, he said. "Mahavir is pursuing B. Tech from one of the IITs. He came in contact with one of the students of the school and started contacting her friends on Instagram and other social media platforms. Since he had good knowledge of apps, he used it to stalk and harass minor girls,” the DCP said. Several obscene videos and photographs were also found in the mobile phone of the accused, the police said, adding that his phone and laptop were seized. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iit-student-held-for-stalking-school-girls-teachers-uploading-morphed-pictures-online-1038228.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Will give befitting reply, says L-G Manoj Sinha as two teachers killed in Jammu and Kashmir||He said the terrorists and their patrons will not succeed in disturbing peace in the Union Territory. "I strongly condemn the barbaric killing of two of our teachers, Supinder Kour and Deepak Chand by terrorists. A befitting reply will be given to the perpetrators of the heinous terror attacks on innocent people," Sinha wrote on Twitter. "The terrorists & their patrons will not succeed in disturbing peace, progress & prosperity of J&K UT. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family, friends and colleagues," he added. The two teachers were shot dead by terrorists inside their school at Sangam in the Eidgah area of the city on Thursday. The killing of the teachers took the number of civilians killed in the last five days in the Kashmir Valley to seven, including four from the minorities. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-give-befitting-reply-says-l-g-manoj-sinha-as-two-teachers-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1038231.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan Congress leaders set to march towards Lakhimpur Kheri in UP||Congress leaders led by state party president Govind Singh Dotasra on Thursday assembled at Uncha Nagla area near the border with Uttar Pradesh in Bharatpur district to march to UP's violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri. Addressing a gathering at Uncha Nangla, Dotasra said farmers were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri and when Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi was going to raise the voice of farmers, she was detained by police who misbehaved with her. “We decided to go to Lakhimpur Kheri in solidarity with the farmers who should get justice. Those who murdered the farmers have not been arrested,” he said. “UP police misbehaved with Priyanka Gandhi despite being a woman. We strongly condemn this,” he said. He said the Narendra Modi government at the Centre came to power by making false promises in 2014 and after five years, the government again returned to power hiding behind the Army. The state Education Minister said Prime Minister Modi did not give an account of works he did in five years and again came to power by misleading people. Dotasra said farmers have been agitating for the last 10 months against the Centre's farm laws but PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah have no time to meet them. “Who had demanded the laws? No farmer leader, no political party had raised the demand for the agriculture laws,” he said. Minister in-charge of Bharatpur and chief whip Mahesh Joshi, former minister and sitting MLA from Deeg-Kumher Vishvendra Singh and other leaders of the party were present in the meeting. Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday with four of them being farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome UP Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and a journalist working for a private television channel.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-congress-leaders-set-to-march-towards-lakhimpur-kheri-in-up-1038247.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Temples in Delhi open for Navratri under strict Covid rules||The nine-day Navratri celebrations began in temples across Delhi on Thursday with government-mandated Covid-19 protocols in place. Temple authorities said they have made provisions for proper sanitisation of the premises and to ensure social distancing among visitors. “Our temple has lakhs of visitors during Navratri, which is why we will be allowing two thousand visitors at a time to ensure proper social distancing. “The devotees will be allowed to do ‘darshan’ from outside the main temple area. The exit and entry points have been clearly demarcated and the visitors will be expected to follow the designated route within the temple,” said Surendra Nath, the chief priest of the Kalkaji temple. The Delhi government last week allowed the reopening of religious places in the city with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines and standard operating procedures. At the Birla Mandir too, celebrations are being held amidst strict Covid-19 protocols. “We have spoken to the police and all kinds of government-instructed precautions are being followed. Sanitisation facilities will be available at the gate, and no devotee will be allowed without a mask. “Circles have been made within the premises to ensure that people stand six feet away from each other,” said Ram Gopal Shukla, media-in-charge, Birla Mandir. Religious places in the national capital were closed for devotees since April 19 under a lockdown imposed due to the severe second wave of coronavirus infections. Although the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order allowed entry there, it prohibited large gatherings. It also directed the district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to ensure strict compliance with Covid-19-appropriate behaviour in view of the upcoming festivals. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/temples-in-delhi-open-for-navratri-under-strict-covid-rules-1038263.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Sitting SC or HC judge should probe Lakhimpur Kheri violence, not retired judge: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday demanded a probe by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court or a high court into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and said Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose son is among those booked, should resign to ensure an impartial probe. Priyanka Gandhi, who had on Wednesday met the families of three of the eight people killed in the violence, told reporters here, "In my view and that of the victims' families as well, the case should be probed by a sitting Supreme Court or high court judge, and not the retired judge." The Uttar Pradesh government has constituted a one-member commission of retired high court judge Pradeep Kumar Srivastava to probe the violence during a farmers' protest rally that claimed eight lives on Sunday. Before leaving for Bahraich, Priyanka Gandhi said, "I don't want to comment on the probe as it has not started yet. But I can say that for unbiased probe, the minister should resign as he has the Home portfolio and all this comes under him." The Congress leader said the families of the victims she had met told her that they were not interested in the compensation announced by the government, but "want justice". The minister should be "sacked" and those involved in the act should be arrested. "All the police force was deployed to stop us and it surrounded victims' families so that no one could reach there to meet them. But you (government) did not deploy your force to arrest the criminal. Where was the police on the day the incident took place. Is police only to stop leaders," she said. She said that the copies of post-mortems given to the families of the dead were illegible. "I will continue my fight till the minister is sacked and his son is arrested. I have pledged this before the families," she said. The Uttar Pradesh Police has lodged a case against the minister's son Ashish Mishra in connection with the violence, but no arrest has been made yet. Four of the dead were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel. While the first three were allegedly lynched by the agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Ajay Kumar Mishra's native place. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sitting-sc-or-hc-judge-should-probe-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-not-retired-judge-priyanka-1038273.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Unabated civilian killings belie govt’s normalcy narrative in Kashmir||The unabated killing of civilians in Kashmir by militants has dented the Central government’s 'normalcy narrative' after the revocation of special status of the erstwhile state under Article 370 in August 2019. Seven civilians have been shot dead by the militants in the last five days alone. Overall, 28 civilians have been gunned down this year in the Valley. 20 security personnel also lost their lives in the line of duty in Kashmir during the same period. Last year, 33 civilians and 46 security forces personnel were killed in Kashmir while in 2019 36 civilians and 78 security personnel died. What is worrisome is that the latest attacks are coming at a time when security in the Valley is already on high alert as a battery of Union ministers are visiting Jammu and Kashmir as part of the Centre’s outreach programme. Union Home Minister Amit Shah is expected to visit Kashmir from October 23 to 25. While the 20 slain civilians belonged to a majoritarian community, eight were from the minority community.  Capital city Srinagar witnessed 12 civilian killings followed by six from south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, five from Pulwama district, two each from Baramulla and Anantnag and one each from Budgam and Bandipora. A police spokesperson said in all such cases militants used pistols. “These acts are committed by newly recruited terrorists or those who are about to join terrorist’s rank. In some cases, over ground workers (OGWs) have been found directly involved,” he said. The Resistance Front (TRF), believed to be the frontal organization of Pakistan-based Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit, has claimed responsibility for most of the civilian killings this year. After killing three civilians, including a prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman Makhan Lal Bindroo, on Tuesday, TRF in a purported statement claimed the trio was killed for working with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological fountainhead of the Bharatiya Janata Party, and intelligence agencies. However, J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh while rejecting these allegations said, “It's a malicious propaganda by TRF that Bindroo was working with the RSS. TRF is run from Karachi and we will soon expose this nexus from across (the border).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unabated-civilian-killings-belie-govt-s-normalcy-narrative-in-kashmir-1038283.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Ajay Mishra's son 'untraceable'; UP govt sets up judicial commission||Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra's son Ashish, who was accused of running over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, was stated to be 'untraceable' on Thursday. A senior police official said that the cops wanted to quiz Ashish, who was the main accused in the incident and was booked for murder, and were looking for him. "The whereabouts of Ashish Mishra is not known," the official said. Interestingly, Ashish, who had denied the allegations and claimed that he was not in the vehicle which allegedly ran over protesting farmers, killing eight people, including four farmers and a local scribe in the Tikonia area of the district on Sunday, had been giving interviews to the local media until Tuesday. Ashish was not quizzed by the cops even after a case of murder was lodged against him and the emergence of at least two videos showing vehicles speeding through what looked like a crowd of farmers on a dusty village road. The opposition parties slammed the state government for not being able to arrest the main accused in the matter. "The arrogant BJP government has contracted cataract...it cannot see what is very clear.....several videos have surfaced, which show the involvement of the accused but the government is yet to act," Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav said. Akhilesh, who met the families of some of the victims of the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on Thursday, demanded sacking of union minister Ajay Mishra. Meanwhile the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday set up a one man judicial commission to probe the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district. According to the official sources here, the commission, which was headed by retired High Court judge Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, would submit its report within two months. The commission was likely to start its probe in the next few days. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-ajay-mishras-son-untraceable-up-govt-sets-up-judicial-commission-1038286.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi launches web portal for self-assessment of dust control norms||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday launched a web portal for self-monitoring of compliance of dust control guidelines at construction and demolition sites in the capital. The city government also launched the anti-dust campaign on Thursday. It will continue till 29, he said. “It is difficult to monitor all construction sites manually…We will try to bring all such sites to this web portal. The project proponents have to self-audit their compliance of dust control norms and upload a self-declaration on the portal on a fortnightly basis,” Rai said. The Centre's Commission for Air Quality Management had earlier asked Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh to develop an online mechanism for monitoring of compliance of dust mitigation measures by project proponents in NCR.   All project proponents are required to mandatorily register on the web portal. The project proponents will be given scores based on their self-assessment. Action will be taken based on the scoring. A notice will be served through the portal itself, he said. There is also a provision to deposit a fine, if imposed, through the portal. Starting next week, the government will train all state-run and private agencies engaged in construction and demolition in this regard, the minister said. The training will be completed by October end and the DPCC will start monitoring the compliance of dust control guidelines at construction sites through the web portal from November 1. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-launches-web-portal-for-self-assessment-of-dust-control-norms-1038291.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Kashmiri families with kin outside Valley worried after killing of minority community members||The targeting of members of a minority community in Kashmir by militants has worried families whose kin are studying or working outside the Valley. The families fear that their kin may be targeted in retaliation by extremist elements in various parts of the country just like after the February 14, 2019 fidayeen (suicide) attack in a CRPF convoy in southern Pulwama district in which 40 paramilitary personnel were killed. After reports of students and other residents of Kashmir experiencing threats and intimidation in the wake of the Pulwama attack, the Ministry of Home Affairs had issued an advisory to all states to take necessary measures to ensure their safety and security. Mohammad Ishaq, whose son is working in Noida, is anxious -- as are hundreds of parents whose wards are outside -- after the killing of four members of a minority community in less than 48 hours. “I told my son to try to stay indoors as I don’t want him to get into unnecessary trouble. In recent years, every time there is some incident in the Valley, Kashmiri students and others living outside have to pay the price,” Ishaq told Deccan Herald. He said Kashmiris often face vicious verbal and physical abuse particularly in mainland India after any incident in the Valley. “Many end up returning home more alienated than they were to begin with. This hate and anger is not spontaneous but has been building up for years now,” Ishaq said while strongly condemning the killing of members of the minority community in Kashmir. Jaleel Ahmad from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district is worried for his two younger brothers studying in Uttar Pradesh. “Most ordinary Indians have not travelled to Kashmir or know much about the problem. Their impression of us is based on media reports, which are adding fire to this hate,” he said. Ahmad said that in recent years the anti-Kashmiri sentiment has amplified and latest killings of members of minority communities will further aggravate their miseries. “Kashmiris in one voice have condemned the brutal killings of minority community members by the militants. However, unfortunately most of the media outlets don’t portray this picture of Kashmir and brand everybody living here as a terrorist which is unfortunate,” he rued. “People driven by hate see no distinction between militants and ordinary Kashmiris. Everyone becomes the target because of their ethnicity.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-families-with-kin-outside-valley-worried-after-killing-of-minority-community-members-1038321.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||SC directs Centre to allow induction of girls into Rashtriya Indian Military College||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Union government to allow induction of girls into the Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) by permitting them to take the examinations, scheduled on December 18, 2021. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul rejected a plea by Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati that the induction of girls into the RIMC and Rashtriya Military School should be allowed for the term beginning from January 2023 and not June 2022. “You are effectively postponing everything, why do you want to postpone for a year?,” the bench asked Bhati, who said that October 30, 2021 is the last date for submission of applications for the December exam and not much time was left for preparation. "We are not saying that there are no difficulties…just take one step more," the bench said, acting on a PIL filed by Kailash Udhav Rao More against exclusion of girl candidates from RIMC and other schools run under the aegis of Ministry of Defence. After pushing the government to allow women candidates to appear in National Defence Academy, the court asked the government to publish the modified advertisement seeking applications from girls for RIMC and Rashtriya Military School. The court said six months' time was sufficient time to make all arrangements. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-directs-centre-to-allow-induction-of-girls-into-rashtriya-indian-military-college-1038327.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Two arrested; cops summon minister's 'untraceable' son||Ashish Mishra, the son of union minister Ajay Mishra, who was accused of running over the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, was stated to be 'untraceable' even as the police on Thursday arrested two others, who were named in the FIR lodged in connection with the violence. A senior police official said in Lakhimpur Kheri on Thursday that Ashish, who was the main accused in the incident and was booked for murder, had been summoned for questioning. ''The whereabouts of Ashish Mishra is not known,'' the official added. Interestingly Ashish, who had denied the allegations and claimed that he was not in the vehicle, which allegedly ran over the farmers killing four of them at Tikonia area in the district on Sunday, had been giving interviews to the local media until Tuesday. Ashish was not quizzed by the cops even after a case of murder was lodged against him and the emergence of at least two videos showing vehicles speeding through what looked like a crowd of farmers on a dusty village road. Sources in the government, however, said that Ashish Mishra's arrest was imminent after the supreme court took suo motu cognisance of the incident and sought to know about the arrests of the accused persons. Sources quoted by the local media in Lakhimpur Kheri also said that Ashish could soon 'surrender' Two other youths, identified as Ashish Pandey and Luvkush, have been arrested in connection with the violence. The opposition parties slammed the state government for not being able to arrest the main accused in the matter. ''The arrogant BJP government has contracted cataract... it can not see what is very clear... several videos have surfaced, which show the involvement of the accused but the government is yet to act,'' Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav said. Akhilesh, who met the families of some of the victims of the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on Thursday, demanded to sack union minister Ajay Mishra. Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday set up a one-man judicial commission to probe the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday in which eight persons, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed and many others injured. According to the official sources in Lucknow, the commission, which was headed by retired High Court judge Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, would submit its report within two months.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-two-arrested-cops-summon-ministers-untraceable-son-1038336.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Unions protest against national monetisation plan||A joint forum of central trade unions organised a nationwide protest on Thursday against the National Monetisation Pipeline Project.  The National Monetisation Pipeline Project envisages leasing out various government assets for various durations of lease. The funds so generated will be invested in expanding infrastructure.  A statement by the joint forum of trade unions stated that the Joint Platform, independent federations/associations organized Nationwide Protest Day - 7th October 2021, against the so called ‘National Monetisation Pipeline’ (NMP) project announced by the Union Finance Minister on 23 August 2021, claiming to raise Rs 6 lakh crore over the next four years.  "Our accusation is that this is nothing but a nefarious design to hand over all infrastructural assets to private hands virtually free for revenue generation by them without any obligation of capital cost and share a small part of that huge revenue with the government," it said.  The immediate effect of this latest government move will be price-rise for the common man for all the infrastructural services being leased out to private players.  Because the private operators, as per the official NMP document, have been empowered to increase the user/service charges of all those infrastructures and make windfall profit at the cost of common people, it stated.  Contrary to the argument by the government, that jobs would be created, thousands of workers will lose their jobs worsening the already alarming unemployment situation.  Quality of jobs would further deteriorate. The SC/ST sections would be among the worst-affected, as there is no reservation in jobs in the private sector, it stated.  "Add to this the government’s announcement to sell 100 profit making PSUs. This means that the profit flowing into government coffers will stop and start flowing into private corporate’s coffers. Again, it does not require deep economic knowledge to know that government’s ability to provide social security to people will be curtailed due to these steps," it said.  "The Government can fill its coffers by taxing the rich and super-rich in India. But the Government refuses to tax their friends, rather their masters-- the rich and the super-rich.This would further deepen the inequalities leading to more miseries for common man," it added.  The trade unions would intensify their struggle in the coming days for role back of this policy in the national interest, it stated. The joint forum includes INTUC, AITUC, HMS CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC and also Independent Sectoral Federations/Associations. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unions-protest-against-national-monetisation-plan-1038364.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi chants development mantra in Uttarakhand ahead of Assembly polls||Ahead of elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday chanted the development mantra in Uttarakhand, by inaugurating a PSA oxygen plant at AIIMS, Rishikesh and highlighting the building of highways and supply of piped drinking water to remote households in the hill state. On a visit to poll-bound Uttarakhand, Modi, during the inauguration of the pressurised swing adsorption oxygen plant at AIIMS in Rishikesh, said that all districts in the country now have such plants that have been sanctioned by the PM-CARES Fund. “Over the past few months, 1,150 oxygen plants sanctioned by the PM-CARES Fund have become functional. Each district of the country is now covered by oxygen plants built under PM-CARES. In addition to this, through the efforts of the central and state governments, the country will get nearly 4,000 oxygen plants,” Modi said. With an eye on the upcoming elections in Uttarakhand, Modi cited initiatives such as the implementation of one rank, one pension for ex-servicemen, development of highways for tourism, building a war memorial and supply of piped drinking water to more than seven lakh households in the hill-state as achievements of his government. The Prime Minister also had special praise for “energetic” Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, the son of an ex-serviceman, who took over the reins of the state in July. Modi's endorsement of the young chief minister was seen as a signal to the faction-ridden state unit of the BJP against destabilising the government ahead of the elections early next year. BJP had to change two chief ministers in a short span of time in the hill state. The Prime Minister asked the people of Uttarakhand to think of where the state will be heading when it completes 25 years of its existence in 2025. Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000. “Yahi samay hai, sahi samay hai (This is the time, this is the right time),” he said, adding that the shared efforts of the Centre and the state government were a big basis for realising the dreams of people. "Yahi samay hai, sahi samay hai (This is the time, this is the right time)," he said, adding that the shared efforts of the Centre and the state government are a big basis for realising the dreams of people and cited a number of development measures undertaken in Uttarakhand, which was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000. The state will face assembly polls early next year along with four other states.  Patting Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's back twice during the event, Modi addressed him as "my friend" and described him as an enthusiastic CM. He said Dhami, who is the son of a soldier, told him that people of Uttarakhand have benefited from the implementation of 'one rank, one pension scheme'. The ruling BJP will face the challenge from the opposition Congress in its bid to retain power. The party had recently changed two chief ministers in the state in a short span of time. Modi cited a number of measures taken by the government, including one rank one pension for veterans, creation of a war memorial and infrastructure boost across the state, which has a sizable number of households having members serving or retired from the military. In just two years, over six lakh houses in the state have got piped water connections, he said, noting that only 1.3 lakh households had the supply in 2019 while now 7,10,000 houses of Uttarakhand are getting piped water. He also highlighted the efforts made by the government to boost health infrastructure ranging from production of masks and protective kits to development of a vaccine and its roll out across the country, and asserted that their development in such a short span of time shows India's capabilities. It now has over 3,000 testing labs from only one when the pandemic struck the country, he added. As the demand for medical oxygen increased, India increased the production of medical oxygen by more than 10 times, Modi said. With the new plants, over 1,150 oxygen plans funded by PM CARES are working and every district in the country has now been covered by them, he said. The prime minister said it will be a matter of pride for every citizen that over 93 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered so far and the figure will soon cross 100 crore. India is now carrying out the world's largest and fastest vaccination campaign, he noted. The government, he said, now goes to citizens and does not wait for them to approach it with their problems. As he completed 20 years as the head of a government, including 13 years as Gujarat chief minister between 2001 and 2014, on Thursday, Modi also recalled his old association with the state known for its religious and spiritual heritage, and said his relation with its land is not only of the heart but also of action. Noting that the state was created by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government, Modi said the former prime minister believed that connectivity is directly related to development. Due to his inspiration, work is being done now for improving connectivity infrastructure in the country at an unprecedented speed and scale, he said. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Dhami also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-chants-development-mantra-in-uttarakhand-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1038368.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Those who perpetrated violence in Valley in last few days will pay dearly, says BJP national vice-president||Those who perpetrated violence in the Valley in the last few days, and their "sponsors in other countries", will have to pay dearly, BJP national vice-president Baijayant Jay Panda said on Thursday. He made the comment in response to a question after releasing a report prepared by a think-tank on Prime Minister Narendra Modi completing 20 years in public office. Modi completed 20 years as the head of a government, including over 13 years as Gujarat chief minister, on Thursday. Extolling Modi's career as "transformational", Panda said one of his many achievements was the abrogation of Article 370. Many had raised concerns over its aftermath, but there has been a "drastic change" and "stone-pelting incidents are now things of the past", the BJP leader said, alleging that these incidents were "orchestrated earlier". "In the last few days, there have been a few incidents of violence, killing of Kashmiri Pandits and non-Muslim people. Thirty years ago, when there was an ethnic cleansing against the Kashmiri Pandit community, it was downplayed at many places. This time, a daughter of one of the victims has spoken out so powerfully. That is the right spirit," Panda told reporters. Neither the Kashmiri Pandit community nor others "are cowed down by this. Everybody is clear that this is a different India, this is a New India", he said. "And, I can assure you that people who have committed this outrageous acts of violence and murders in the last 2-3 days, and their sponsors in other countries, they will pay dearly for it," the senior BJP leader said. A woman principal and a teacher were shot dead at point blank range inside a government school in the heart of Srinagar on Thursday, taking to seven the number of civilians killed by militants in Kashmir Valley in five days. Of the seven, four were from minority communities and six of the deaths took place in Srinagar, the main urban centre of the Valley. Supinder Kaur, the principal of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Eidgah in downtown Srinagar, and Deepak Chand, were gunned down around 11.15 am just when the school had settled down to another day of online classes. There were no students in school. Kaur, a Srinagar-based Sikh, and Chand, a Hindu from Jammu, were killed two days after The Resistance Force, a shadow outfit of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba, claimed responsibility for the deaths of three people on Tuesday. The report Panda released was prepared by Delhi-based think-tank Public Policy Research Centre, and it took about six months to do it, its director Sumeet Bhasin said. The nearly 90-page report charts the milestones in Modi's career in public office, first as the chief minister of Gujarat and then as the country's prime minister, including his various key policies and the Covid-19 vaccination programme run by India under his leadership. Narendra Modi had taken oath as Gujarat chief minister on this day in 2001 and relinquished the chair in 2014 after an uninterrupted stay at the helm as he led the BJP to victory in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and became prime minister. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/those-who-perpetrated-violence-in-valley-in-last-few-days-will-pay-dearly-says-bjp-national-vice-president-1038402.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Our daughter asked him not to leave home: Wife of schoolteacher killed in Kashmir||"Our daughter had asked him not to go. See what has happened," says Sangeeta, the distraught wife of Deepak Chand, a schoolteacher who was shot dead by militants in the Kashmir Valley on Thursday. "He had dropped us home in Jammu and returned to Kashmir just a few days back. My life and family have been ruined," she says. Chand, a teacher at the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Eidgah in downtown Srinagar, was shot dead at point-blank range by militants around 11.15 am just when the school had settled down to another day of online classes. The school principal, Supinder Kaur, was also killed. With this, seven civilians have been killed by militants in the Kashmir Valley in five days. Scores of people gathered at Chand's residence in Patoli area here as his family members, including his parents, struggled to come to terms with their loss. The grief quickly turned into anger for some of the family members. "The government says Kashmiri Hindus can return to the valley. Deepak had gone back to his homeland as a teacher... In return, he got this reward," Chand's cousin brother Ashwani Kumar said. "They (militants) have killed my brother. He has a 3-year-old daughter... The government should give us justice," said Chand's brother, Vijay. Vijay demanded that the government provide security to all Hindus working in the Kashmir Valley before it is too late. The family members said that the spate of civilian killings -- the worst since Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 was revoked in August 2019 -- reminded them of the 1990s when minorities, especially Kashmiri Pandits, were targeted by militants, triggering their exodus from the valley. Chand, a Hindu, and Kaur, a Srinagar-based Sikh, were killed two days after The Resistance Force, a shadow outfit of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba, claimed responsibility for the deaths of three people on Tuesday. Makhan Lal Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit and owner of Srinagar's most famous pharmacy, was shot dead at his shop on Tuesday evening. Minutes later, a 'chaat' vendor, Virendra Paswan from Bihar, was gunned down elsewhere in the city. Almost simultaneously, another civilian, Mohammad Shafi Lone, was killed at Naidkhai in Bandipora. Three days before that, militants shot dead Majid Ahmad Gojri, at Srinagar's Karan Nagar locality. Later that Saturday night, they gunned down Mohammad Shafi Dar at Batmaloo. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/our-daughter-asked-him-not-to-leave-home-wife-of-schoolteacher-killed-in-kashmir-1038403.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah reviews Kashmir situation after terrorists kill civilians||Union Home Minister Amit Shah reviewed the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday in the wake of terrorists killing seven civilians in the last five days, officials said. During the hour-long meeting, the home minister was given a presentation on the overall security situation in the Union Territory and the border areas by top officials. He was briefed about the latest modus operandi of the terrorists in carrying out attacks on soft targets and the steps taken to tighten the security arrangements, an official said. Shah is believed to have directed the officials to ensure that those involved in the killings are nabbed and to check further occurrence of such incidents. Later, Director of Intelligence Bureau Arvind Kumar held a separate meeting, which was also attended by top officials of Jammu and Kashmir. A woman principal and a teacher were shot dead at point-blank range inside a government school in Srinagar on Thursday, taking the number of civilians killed by terrorists in the Kashmir valley to seven in the last five days. Of the seven, four were from minority communities and six of the deaths were reported from Srinagar. Supinder Kaur, the principal of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School at Eidgah in Srinagar, and Deepak Chand were gunned down at around 11.15 am on the school premises. There were no students in the school. Makhan Lal Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit and the owner of Srinagar's most famous pharmacy, was shot dead at his shop on Tuesday. A "chaat" vendor, Virendra Paswan from Bihar, and another civilian, Mohammad Shafi Lone, were also killed on Tuesday in Srinagar and Bandipora respectively. On Saturday, terrorists shot dead Majid Ahmad Gojri in Srinagar and Mohammad Shafi Dar at Batamaloo. According to official statistics, a total of 28 civilians have so far been killed by terrorists in 2021. Of the 28 civilians killed, five belonged to local Hindu or Sikh communities while two were non-local Hindu labourers. Officials said due to the killings of a large numbers of terrorists of all outfits, especially their leadership, and the destruction of their support systems, the Pakistan-based handlers of the terrorists have got frustrated and changed their strategy. They have started targeting unarmed policemen, politicians and innocent civilians from minority communities, including women. In all such cases, the terrorists used pistols, which they can carry easily, the officials said. Most of these crimes are committed by newly-recruited terrorists or those who are about to join terrorist ranks, they added. According to official data, 97 terror attacks have so far been reported in Jammu and Kashmir this year -- 71 on security forces and 26 on civilians. In 2020, a total of 105 such attacks were reported -- 80 on security forces and 25 on civilians. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-reviews-kashmir-situation-after-terrorists-kill-civilians-1038404.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Centre sending message that those in power can do anything: Priyanka on Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who arrived here on Thursday to meet the families of two farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, said by allowing Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra to continue on the post, the Centre is giving the message that those in power can do anything. The Union minister's son, Ashish Kumar Mishra, and others have been booked in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that erupted during a farmers' protest on Sunday. "If the minister of state for home does not resign nor is he sacked, then it means that the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is giving a message to the public that if someone is in power, if he is a minister, he can do anything," Gandhi told reporters in Moharnia, where she met the family members of Gurvinder Singh, one of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. "The message that is coming out of it is that if someone is in power, is a minister or a BJP leader, he can do anything. There is no justice for the common people, the poor, farmers, Dalits and women. I want to tell Narendra Modiji that this is the message that he is giving to people," she said. "Why is a minister who has a criminal record and whose son has been charged for a serious crime not dismissed so far?" Gandhi asked after meeting the family members of Daljit Singh in Banjaran Tada village. Referring to the ban on opposition leaders from visiting the bereaved families earlier, she said "the farmers' families are the victims and your entire force is busy stopping opposition leaders and keeping the victims' families under vigil so that they cannot talk to anyone". "We came here like thieves and the one who has committed the crime is giving interviews on television, his father has not resigned and is still our home minister. Yet you say that Uttar Pradesh is the number one state in the country when it come to law and order. Where is law and order?" she asked. The Congress leader said on Wednesday, when she visited the family members of journalist Raman Kashyap, who was among the eight people killed in Sunday's violence, they told her that the post-mortem report is unreadable. On her meetings with the bereaved families since Wednesday, when the Uttar Pradesh government released her from detention and allowed her to go to Lakhimpur and Bahraich, Gandhi said, "We have met the families of all the deceased farmers. Everyone says they are not bothered about the compensation, they are only concerned about the dismissal of the minister of state for home and the arrest of the criminals." She also said the families of the victims have some video clips that show what transpired in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. "The family members have said they want justice," she stressed. Gandhi's convoy of vehicles was stopped by the district administration near the Ghaghra Ghat bridge as soon as it entered Bahraich from Barabanki as section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was in force and the Congress workers accompanying her raised slogans against the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh in protest. The magistrate and the police officers present on the spot subsequently allowed only Congress leaders Naseemuddin Siddiqui and Tanuj Punia, who had come with Gandhi, to proceed along with her to meet the families of the deceased farmers. The Congress general secretary, who has met the family members of five of the eight people killed in Sunday's violence, said she also wanted to meet the kin of the BJP workers who lost their lives. "I had asked the IG to enquire if they (the BJP workers' families) were ready for the same but was outrightly told that they do not want to meet me. I asked for conveying my sympathy to them," she added. On her way to Bahraich, Gandhi also performed a "puja" at a temple in the Arjunganj area of Lucknow. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-sending-message-that-those-in-power-can-do-anything-priyanka-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-1038405.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Civilian killed in CRPF firing in Kashmir's Anantnag||A civilian was killed in firing by paramilitary CRPF after a vehicle driver “failed to stop” despite signal in South Kashmir's Anantnag district on Thursday evening, officials said. They said personnel of 40 Battalion CRPF had laid a naka at Manghall Bridge in Anantnag. “A silver colour Scorpio vehicle was asked to stop, but it did not following which CRPF men fired in which one person was killed,” they added. A police official while confirming the death said the identity and credentials of the slain person were being ascertained. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civilian-killed-in-crpf-firing-in-kashmirs-anantnag-1038452.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt allows use of loudspeakers for Ramlila, Dussehra from 10 pm till midnight||The Delhi government on Thursday permitted organisers of Ramlila, Durga Puja, Dussehra and other religious functions to use loudspeakers and public address systems between 10 pm and 12 midnight up to October 16 “in public interest”. However, the organisers will still require a permission from the Delhi Police. "Lt Governor of Delhi has considered the request in public interest and has accorded permission to use loudspeakers and public address systems between 10 pm and 12 midnight with immediate effect up to October 16," an order issued by the environment department read. It mentioned that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has also relaxed the restriction on gatherings and large congregations for celebrations of upcoming festivals till November 15. According to the latest DDMA guidelines, fairs and food stalls will not be permitted during festivals in Delhi. No standing or squatting is allowed at festive events in Delhi, and only sitting on chairs with social distancing is permitted. No Chhath celebrations will be allowed in public places and river banks in the city, the guidelines stated.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-allows-use-of-loudspeakers-for-ramlila-dussehra-from-10-pm-till-midnight-1038458.html
07-10-2021||North and Central||Kashmir civilian killings: Omar Abdullah appeals to minority community members not to leave Valley||National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah on Thursday appealed to members of minority communities in Kashmir not to leave the valley, saying that the perpetrators of the recent civilian killings can't be allowed to succeed in their "evil designs". Taking to Twitter hours after a woman principal and a teacher belonging to minority communities were shot dead by militants here, Abdullah said terror can't be allowed to dictate who will live in Kashmir and who won't. "On my part, I am making a heartfelt appeal to all those who will be thinking of leaving the valley out of fear. Please don't. We can't let the perpetrators of these terror attacks succeed in their evil designs by driving you out. The overwhelmingly majority of us don't want you to go," Abdullah tweeted. The primary responsibility for security is & will always be the duty of the administration of the day. It can’t be shifted to individuals & political parties to suit political convenience & misplaced loyalties. That said we all have the responsibility to do what we can to help. He said the targeted attacks in Kashmir are designed to create fissures and widen the gap between communities. "We cannot let terror dictate who lives here & who doesn't. It is imperative that all of us belonging to the majority community reach out to those who today fear for their lives," he added. Abdullah further said, "The primary responsibility for security is & will always be the duty of the administration of the day. It can't be shifted to individuals & political parties to suit political convenience & misplaced loyalties. That said we all have the responsibility to do what we can to help." Supinder Kaur, the principal of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Eidgah in downtown Srinagar, and Deepak Chand, were gunned down at point-blank range by militants around 11.15 am just when the school had settled down to another day of online classes. There were no students in the school. Kaur was a Srinagar-based Sikh and Chand was a Hindu from Jammu. Abdullah said that the majority of civilian deaths in Kashmir have been those of Muslims but that does not absolve the community of the responsibility to make the minorities feel safe. "Yes it's true that the majority of civilian deaths in Kashmir have been Muslim but that doesn't absolve us of our responsibility to do everything in our power to help those who belong to religious minorities feel secure," he said. Militants have killed four people from minority communities in Kashmir in the past three days. Besides Kaur and Chand, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit who owned Srinagar's most famous pharmacy and a roadside vendor were among those killed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-civilian-killings-omar-abdullah-appeals-to-minority-community-members-not-to-leave-valley-1038461.html
07-10-2021||Oasis||The symbolism of Bonsai||‘The Potted Trees’ is the title of a Japanese play based on the story of an impoverished Samurai of 14th century. He is desperate to provide warmth to a journeying monk from the cold winter and having exhausted all firewood, uses his cherished potted trees to sustain the fire. The monk is an official in disguise who later rewards the Samurai for his sacrifice and benevolence. Bonsai (literally means ‘Tree in a pot’) has been valued in Japanese households over centuries. Their origin is traced back to Zen Buddhism when Chinese monks developed the dwarfed trees in monasteries as a spiritual practice to inculcate peace and tranquillity. Later in Japan, Bonsai developed into a pleasing art form incorporating Japanese discipline and aesthetics. Mohammad Yunus, the Nobel Laureate economist, finds the Bonsai display intellectually stimulating. While pondering over the philosophy of life, he attributes both the stunted growth of a Bonsai and the poverty of the poor to the lack of an ‘enabling environment’ that would otherwise nurture them. Many celebrated Bonsai masters have likened growing bonsai to raising kids. The initial focus is on the survival of the tree and then with pruning and grooming, the tree emerges displaying its unique character. The labour-intensive battles in shaping a Bonsai have parallels in bringing up a kid. Both the cultivators and the parents have to acquire perseverance and unconditional kindness normally reserved for devout monks. The strength of a Bonsai lies in its roots just like our roots which give us resilience and spirit to face life. The trunk of a Bonsai is a reflection of its personality just like a child evolves and grows into exhibiting a distinctive personality. The American writer Sloane Crosley observes that our brains are like Bonsai trees growing around our private version of reality. The concept of wabi-sabi (wabi – simplicity, sabi – the beauty of age and wear) is implicit in the art of Bonsai. Life’s imperfections are accepted through unwavering appreciation just like the Bonsai trees which are asymmetrical in their design yet impart a sense of harmony. Bonsai stands for serenity, discipline, and beauty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-symbolism-of-bonsai-1038432.html
07-10-2021||Opinion||Lakhimpur: A threat to both BJP and farmers' leaders||The Lakhimpur-Kheri incident, in which four protesting farmers were deliberately run over by an SUV, has shaken India to the bone. It is snow-balling into an adverse event for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) governments in Uttar Pradesh and the Centre. Its fallout could also destabilise the current leadership of the farmers' movement. The BJP leadership is hopeful that the problem will go away by throwing money at the victims. But why has it failed to act against the culprits in what prima facie seems to be cold-blooded murder? Ordinarily, a junior minister like Ajay Misra, father of the alleged accused, would be sacrificed to protect the party's electoral prospects. But Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not yet sacked Misra from his Council of Ministers, nor has the UP police arrested Misra's son. The main culprit is alleged to be Ashish Misra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Misra. The minister is himself a one-time history-sheeter known as "Teni Maharaj" in his pocket borough of Lakhimpur-Kheri. He was accused in a murder case but discharged for lack of evidence 15 years ago. He then joined politics, rising from district panchayat to Parliament. Recently, Ajay Misra flaunted his antecedents in a public speech available on video. He asked the agitating farmers to check out his career before becoming an elected politician and boasted that he could have them evicted "in two minutes". The thuggish bluster does him no credit as the junior home minister in the Modi government, where his primary charge is law and order in the country. Misra, a Brahmin by caste, is believed to be Prime Minister Modi's man rather than a UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath loyalist. His induction into the Council of Ministers in July was seen as a pre-poll gamble to send a positive signal to the Brahmin voters of UP. This was a counterweight to the general perception among Brahmins of the state that UP CM Adityanath, a Thakur (Rajput), favours his caste. Brahmins are an important ideological and numerical constituency making up 10 to 12 per cent of the state's population and in some constituencies accounting for more than 20 per cent of the vote share. The perception of the current chief minister being anti-Brahmin has grown stronger following the custodial death of gangster Vikas Dubey (a Brahmin). It is a commentary on the state's politics that UP Brahmins, who once gave the nation inspirational leaders, like Mangal Pandey, Chandra Shekhar Azad, Ram Prasad Bismil, Swami Sahajanand Saraswati, Jawaharlal Nehru, Govind Ballabh Pant, Mahavir Tyagi and Kamalapati Tripathi, among others, today look to toughs and musclemen as their icons. Consideration of the Brahmin vote might be one reason for the delay in dropping Ajay Misra from the Council of Ministers. Adityanath, too, has his hands tied as action against Misra could be seen as a comment on the prime minister's decision to induct Ajay Misra into his Cabinet. Dismissal would also confirm that the minister was threatening farmers with violence. This is a dangerous acknowledgement that would definitely affect other BJP ruled states like Haryana. The incumbent chief minister in Haryana, Manohar Lal Khattar, like Misra, has been publicly coaxing people into violent confrontations with the protesting farmers. It could also have a negative effect on the BJP's electoral prospects in Uttarakhand, adjoining Lakhimpur-Kheri, which is shortly going to the polls. Perhaps the biggest impact of the Lakhimpur-Kheri incidents will be on the future of Rakesh Tikait, a farmers' leader from Western UP. Once leading from the front against the government, he has morphed into a negotiator on its behalf with the families of the farmers killed. It is unclear whether he had the mandate of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the collective leadership of the farmers' movement. He may have acted in good faith, but his critics could see it as further evidence of his dubious political loyalties. If the current farmers' leadership is unable to handle the anger simmering among the farmers, especially its youth, it would be difficult to predict the future course of the movement. Unless a new leadership emerges, the situation could become anarchic. If a leadership crisis develops, then the prospect of the confrontation between the government and the farmers being tested in the streets could be real. As of now, the BJP governments in the states where it faces the farmers' agitation are wary. In Haryana, after a mere warning by the farmers' leaders, the government has rescinded its decision to delay paddy procurement. In UP, the bucketfuls of cash compensation to victims of the Lakhimpur-Kheri incident show a chief minister trying to avoid confrontation. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court (SC) may influence the course of the farmers' agitation. It is hearing a plea on whether the right to protest is a fundamental right based on a petition by a farmers' organisation based in Rajasthan. The court has questioned the farmers' blocking of highways. An adverse order by the SC could put pressure on the ongoing agitation to disband and disperse. It is important to note that so far, the SKM, representing the collective leadership of the farmers' movement, has not gone before the Supreme Court. In an unprecedented move, the apex court has also taken notice of the Lakhimpur-Kheri incident even before investigations are complete. Even if the SC issues notice to the UP government and asks it tough questions, there is a likelihood that the issue could get diverted into a long-drawn legal process, which may suit the government. These straws in the wind suggest that a confrontation of the government with the farmers could be triggered either by legal pronouncements or provoked by unpredictable incidents such as the one at Lakhimpur-Kheri. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/lakhimpur-a-threat-to-both-bjp-and-farmers-leaders-1038223.html
07-10-2021||Panorama||Here's how NEP can help fix our primary education||How would you react if your child, even after going to school for several years, is unable to read and do simple math? Why have Union and state governments (barring Delhi), even after seeing these shocking statistics, been quiet? Yes, there have been several reform attempts like Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan, Right to Education, etc. Several NGOs have also tried to bring about improvement through several innovative ways of teaching. “Read India” is one such effort by Pratham. Still, why do we continue to see a decline in the quality of education? What’s even more shocking is why we, as a nation, are tone-deaf. One simple explanation is that the rich, upper-middle-class, and political leaders are able to send their children to elite schools; some even send them abroad. It is rare to see government school teachers sending their children to government schools. Not that poorly managed private schools are any better than the government schools, based on ASER surveys. Thus, this special class of citizens who have the voice and power to shape our education policy has no interest or concern. On the other hand, some of them who operate private schools, coaching schools, and tuition centres are the beneficiaries of the current policy. They want the status quo and are the ones who oppose the progressive New Education Policy (NEP). The dysfunctional education system was exposed for the first time when Pratham conducted a nationwide random household survey called ASER (Annual Status Education Report) in 2005. Six lakh children in 3-14 age group in three lakh homes were tested. Close to 35% of children in the 7-14 age group could not read a simple paragraph (grade 1 level difficulty), and almost 60% of the children could not read a simple story (grade 2 level difficulty). This showed the dismal state of learning in rural India. What is more disturbing, however, is that the ASER survey report of 2018, conducted after a gap of 13 years, showed no significant improvement. The closure of schools due to the Covid-19 pandemic has further deteriorated the level of learning. Karnataka, the only state to be surveyed during March 2021, has recorded a further decline. The current situation should have pricked the conscience of the nation. Has it? According to a 2018 report by the National University Education Planning and Administration (NUEPA), primary school teachers only spent 19% of their school hours teaching. That is, only one day in a five-day week! During the other four days, teachers either did non-teaching activities or were simply absent. A few of the reasons were census, disaster relief, and election duties. Frequent teacher training, travel from urban centres to rural schools, and absences also take a toll. Out of the 44,615 primary schools in Karnataka, 4,767 are single-teacher schools, with an average of 20 students. Given the small number of students, the infrastructure is also limited. No teaching takes place in such schools when the teacher is either absent or on government duty. These schools need to be shut down forthwith and combined with the nearest larger schools with an adequate number of teachers and other essential infrastructure required for learning, as suggested in the NEP. Teachers most critical A teacher is the most important component in a school. In Finland, teachers are paid above-average salaries and are held in high esteem. Students in Shanti Bhavan school (close to Bengaluru), which admits only slum children, master foundational skills and complete high school; many of them take professional courses and get recruited by top companies. The commitment and qualifications of the teachers, adequate infrastructure such as libraries, computers, labs, playgrounds, musical instruments, etc., are critical success factors. It is high time we question the need to transfer teachers. A disruption by way of a teacher transfer is likely to cause emotional distress and disrupt a child’s interest in learning. To avoid such disruption, the continuity of the teacher is desirable. As everyone knows, teacher transfer has become an industry to make money. Are teachers in well-run private schools transferred? Only when teachers stay in one place and be part of the community will their productivity increase. In an examination-driven system, marks are the most important driving force. The pressure to score high marks, both from the school and the parents, causes immense stress to students, harming both physical and mental well-being. Rote learning is the outcome. Should we allow just one public examination to shape the destiny of students? Today’s evaluation system does not assess students’ analytical abilities, social concerns, citizenship, etc., but rather memory and information. NEP has the perfect solution to overcome this problem. A Continuous Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) by the teacher is less stressful and provides the teacher with an opportunity to make course corrections in the teaching methods. Decentralisation A curriculum designed and prescribed by a central authority may not be relevant to the location where the child resides. The child may not even comprehend the lesson. A district-level board should have the authority to formulate lesson plans to teach what is important to the local conditions — information that adds value to the child’s life and wellbeing. The teacher should also enjoy the freedom to teach what is relevant to the immediate environment and what he or she feels the child should learn. Closing small schools and merging them with larger ones, stopping the transfer of teachers, replacing rote-driven examination system by continuous evaluation, diverting more resources to the education sector, decentralisation to give more authority to school complexes and teachers, and above all, recruiting the best talents available to be teachers, are critical to transforming our current dysfunctional education system. Introducing these reforms, which are included in the NEP, will require herculean efforts and strong political will. (The writers are associated with Pratham, Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/heres-how-nep-can-help-fix-our-primary-education-1038441.html
07-10-2021||Panorama||Action needed to address growing water scarcity||With increasing population and rapid urbanisation, sustainable development needs to be accelerated multifold to meet the needs of future generations while minimising the impact on climate. In recent times, several corporates, and even countries have committed to becoming carbon-neutral, net-zero emissions, shift to renewable energy, etc. to tackle the effects of climate change. But an important aspect that needs an equally urgent and decisive action is water management. Water is essential to sustain life and water scarcity is expected to severely impact our ecosystems in the future. UN data shows that over 30% of the world’s population lives in water-stressed countries, including India. Water scarcity is expected to cause huge displacement of people globally as early as 2030. A holistic approach to water management is needed to ensure the quality and availability of water at individual, community, and ecosystem levels. At the individual level, water management is about focusing on demand-side measures to reduce water consumption as much as possible. Initiatives such as low flow taps, low flow showers, dual flush Water Closets (WCs) and plugging leakages play an important role in reducing water consumption. Smart water meters enable accurate monitoring of water consumption for various purposes and give an indication of leakages and opportunities for savings. This can lead to a reduction in water-related costs. A normalised measure at an individual level would be to measure the amount of water used per person or per unit of goods/services produced – also called ‘water footprint’.  Tracking the water footprint accurately can help us understand water consumption patterns at an individual level and accordingly implement water conservation measures. Water management on an individual level is important as it involves behavioural change, societal awareness, and transformation towards water conservation. At a community level, water management is about carefully studying the impact of a facility on its surroundings. This can be related to the discharge of rainwater, wastewater, and usage of groundwater. Effective rainwater harvesting in a facility can not only prevent flooding in the surroundings but can also improve the groundwater table, thereby helping the neighbourhood. A large facility with its own sewage treatment plant and reusing the treated wastewater effectively can reduce freshwater demand significantly. Study of existing waterways, canals, stormwater drains, and effective stormwater management during infrastructure development can prevent flooding during rains and make water available at all times of the year. Techniques such as groundwater recharge of rainwater, rainwater tanks for storing rooftop rainwater for potable purposes, and creating ponds/reservoirs for the temporary storage of rainwater can go a long way in ensuring good water management. Data from locations with both excess and scarcity of water show that there are opportunities for better water management and adequacy throughout the year. On a larger scale, water management impacts the ecosystem, and this is clearly visible in our lakes and water bodies. Untreated sewage from residences and effluents from industries entering the lakes can have a devastating effect on the biodiversity of flora and fauna and destroy the ecosystem completely. A clear example is the condition of lakes in our cities, which has deteriorated severely over the past few decades and has affected the ecosystem in a negative way. This needs to be addressed at the municipal or city level. Technologies are available today to achieve the highest quality of treated wastewater that can be used for several purposes. While there are challenges, there are also several opportunities, skills, and technologies available today, that can be harnessed to make good progress in this space. We need bold and urgent commitments, and decisive action to address water scarcity, to implement effective and holistic water management, thereby move towards achieving water availability and clean water access for all. (The writer is Regional Head, Infrastructure, Infosys.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/action-needed-to-address-growing-water-scarcity-1038449.html
07-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Crime and punishment stay constant in an ever-changing world||There is a Hindi song from the fifties, Dekh teri sansar ki halath kya ho gayi bhagwan! Meaning, O Lord, look at the condition of your world! How much have humans changed, nothing in the galaxy has changed. My friend and I were in a tea shop listening to this song from a radio during our college days. He looked at me and said, "Humans have not changed." I didn't give much thought to it, but now, I realise, what he said was true. Handwritten notes to voice-converted text documents, snail mails to emails, gramophones to mobile phones, camera films to digital photography and drones, instant communication and global reach, war modes from primitive arms to sophisticated nuclear to biological weapons, manual to automation to artificial intelligence - every change has taken the civilisation to a whole new level. Human emotions have not changed. Crimes in society have not changed. They existed from time immemorial and will continue until the end of humanity. The crimes and reasons have not changed. There are constant efforts in social science researches with policies, programs, preaches and lectures trying to make society crime-free, but the criminals don't care. We are living with crime and punishment. Criminal laws are clearly spelt out, punishments ranging from imprisonment to death are given. But influences and money help the guilty to go scot-free. An acquaintance, a lady, CEO of a company, told me on the subject of the safety of women in our country: "Safety is a chance. I've been assaulted, once in a foreign country and another time here in India. On both occasions, I have fought and sent them to jail myself. To be victimised has been a traumatic experience. Mind you, those guys were educated, you cannot blame lack of education. There are a lot of risks in life, women should be taught to fight. If you can prevent, well and good. If a crime happens, don't get bogged down, don’t feel ashamed, don't worry about society. Fight them, report, act." Today the lawlessness looks more prominent. There are two reasons. One, the population has multiplied. Second, the information reaches across the globe within seconds, unlike the past where it may not even go beyond the scene of action. The tussle between Dharma and Adharma, the good and the evil, will continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/crime-and-punishment-stay-constant-in-an-ever-changing-world-1038448.html
07-10-2021||Second Edit||Water contamination deaths due to criminal negligence||The death of at least six people and the hospitalisation of about 200 others after drinking contaminated water supplied to their homes by the local gram panchayat in Makarabbi village of Hoovina Hadagali taluk in Karnataka’s newly-formed Vijayanagara district points to official callousness and calls for stringent action against officials guilty of negligence in the matter. Investigations revealed that the existing drinking water pipeline was damaged while laying new pipes under the Jal Jeevan Mission, leading to contamination of clean water. The villagers had no option but to depend on the water supplied by the panchayat as water from all five borewells in the area had been declared unfit for consumption by the health department. Though the problem of contamination was detected about a month ago, with several residents having suffered from ailments like gastroenteritis, diarrhoea and nausea, the panchayat failed to make alternative arrangements and continued to supply polluted water. This is criminal negligence. Mere suspension of the guilty, as is routinely done in such cases, will serve no purpose. The negligent officials should be held personally responsible for the loss of innocent lives.  The Makarabbi incident is neither a one-off incident nor is it surprising. Mixing of sewage with drinking water due to broken pipes is a common problem even in a city like Bengaluru. Karnataka also faces another major challenge — of naturally occurring fluoride contamination of groundwater in about 500 villages, the fourth highest number among all states in the country. While the government has announced various schemes to guarantee food security, much needs to be done to ensure that every individual has access to clean potable water, which at present appears to be a distant dream, the ongoing Jal Jeevan Mission notwithstanding. Governments must take into account the larger picture of the need to ensure supply of clean water to all. The Supreme Court has applied the ‘precautionary principle’ to check potential pollution of drinking water sources and has held that the State is the trustee of all natural resources that are meant for public use. The State cannot shirk from this responsibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/water-contamination-deaths-due-to-criminal-negligence-1038427.html
07-10-2021||South||Vellore village boycotts local polls as seat reserved for SC woman||While the first phase of the rural local body polls in Tamil Nadu concluded with no untoward incident except for some small skirmishes, the residents of Ammundi panchayath in Vellore district boycotted the elections. The boycott was because the panchayath president post had been reserved for an SC woman. No person voted in any of the five polling booths set up in the village. The village has 2,045 voters. The residents of the Village had filed a case in the High Court against the panchayath president post being reserved for Scheduled Caste (Woman). The villagers were protesting against this since September and had wanted to revert the seat to the general category. The village elders said that they boycotted the polls as of the 2,045 voters in the Ammundi panchayath, 2,042 are under the general category and SC women and male voters numbered only 2 and 1 respectively. AIADMK Vellore Urban district secretary, SRK Appu who had brought the discrepancy before the district administration told IANS, "The villagers agitated as they want 'justice' and reclassify the village panchayath under the general category. The district administration was not properly responding even after repeated queries and there was no alternative other than boycott the polls." Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vellore-village-boycotts-local-polls-as-seat-reserved-for-sc-woman-1038154.html
07-10-2021||South||Sri Lankan navy pelts stones on Indian fishermen, damages nets||The Sri Lankan Navy on Wednesday pelted stones on Indian fishermen from here and damaged their fishing nets, Tamil Nadu government officials said. Fisheries Department officials said on Thursday that the incident happened near Katchateevu when the Lankan naval personnel who came in 10 fishing boats pelted stones on the Indian fishermen and damaged the nets in about 20 craft. However, nobody was injured in the incident, even as they warned the Indian fishermen against fishing there, the officials said. A complaint was filed with the Fisheries officials. Fishermen association representatives expressed concern over such recurring incidents and called for a permanent solution to the issue. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sri-lankan-navy-pelts-stones-on-indian-fishermen-damages-nets-1038189.html
07-10-2021||South||Cauvery river is polluted by a range of contaminants, IIT research reveals||A range of emerging contaminants, including pharmaceutically active compounds, plastics, and heavy metals, are found in the waters of River Cauvery in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, making it polluted, research by the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology (IIT-M) has concluded.  Water collected from 22 points – 11 each in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu – were studied by the IIT-M team as part of the research being carried out since 2018 with joint funding from Water Technology Initiatives of the Department of Science and Technology, and the UK Natural Environment Research Council. The study, which was recently published in the reputed peer-reviewed journal Science of the Total Environment, found that the water in River Cauvery is polluted by a range of emerging contaminants that include pharmaceutically active compounds, personal care products, plastics, flame retardants, heavy metals, and pesticides, among many others.   Besides, there was significant contamination by metals such as arsenic, zinc, chromium, lead and nickel, while freshwater intake points were also found to be loaded with “extraordinarily high concentrations of pharmaceutical contaminants.” The IIT-M study observed that one river system in South India that has been subjected to constant human threat is the River Cauvery. This study has been carried out with joint funding from Water Technology Initiatives of the Department of Science and Technology, the Government of India, and the UK Natural Environment Research Council. River Cauvery begins its journey in Talakaveri in Karnataka and flows through the state and neighbouring Tamil Nadu before merging into the sea at Kaveripoompattinam (Poompuhar). DH had published a detailed report on pollution in Cauvery on May 19, 2019, highlighting how governments in both states turn a blind eye to letting industries that pollute the river go scot-free.  Pharmaceutical contamination is serious as these drug compounds when released even in minuscule amounts into water bodies can harm human beings and the ecosystem in the long run, the study noted.  Dr. Ligy Philip, the head of the research, told Deccan Herald that the first collection point of water was Kushal Nagar in Karnataka and the last one was at Alakudi in Tamil Nadu.  “We set up 11 stations each in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu during 2.5 years of the study. Besides this, we also set up 11 sampling stations near discharge points of partially treated or untreated wastewater and 11 locations near intake points of water supply systems,” Dr Philip from the Department of Civil Engineering, IIT-M, said.  She said the study also showed that it was essential to regularly monitor rivers and their tributaries for contamination by pharmaceutical products.  The study also found that water quality and levels of pharmaceutical contaminants in the Cauvery are influenced by the monsoon season. The post-monsoon period showed an increased level of various types of contaminants including pharmaceuticals due to reduced riverine flow and continuous waste discharge from multiple sources.  Dr Philip stressed the need to upgrade wastewater treatment systems to reduce the levels of emerging contaminants in receiving water bodies such as rivers.  “We will be suggesting a slew of measures in the final report we will be submitting to the ministry in 2022. We feel this study and its findings point to the need for more research into assessing the long-term impacts of emerging contaminants on human health and the environment,” she added. Terming the observations found in the study as “alarming”, Prof Philip said the team’s environmental risk assessment has shown that pharmaceutical contaminants pose medium to high risk to the selected aquatic lifeforms of the riverine system. The study also found that the pharmaceutical contaminants included anti-inflammatories like ibuprofen and diclofenac, anti-hypertensives such as atenolol and isoprenaline, enzyme inhibitors like perindopril, stimulants like caffeine, antidepressants such as carbamazepine, and antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cauvery-river-is-polluted-by-a-range-of-contaminants-iit-research-reveals-1038279.html
07-10-2021||South||Heritage school, college buildings to be protected monuments in Kerala||The heritage buildings of schools and colleges, constructed during the pre-independence period, will be declared as protected monuments in Kerala, state Minister for Museum and Archaeology, Ahammad Devarkovil said on Thursday. "Steps will be taken to declare the old buildings in schools and colleges in the state, which had been constructed during the pre-independence period, as protected monuments. At least one century-old building, having historic, archaeological, and artistic significance, will be considered for that," he told the state Assembly. While replying to a question in the House, the minister also noted that 'Kacheri Malika' inside the campus of the Union Christian College at Aluva in Ernakulam District, had already been notified as a protected monument under the State Archaeology Department. Kacheri Malika was an old mansion in which the Alangad Taluk Kacheri was once functioned. Devarkovil said the first phase of the conservation initiatives of the Payyannur Old Police Station, Kannur CSI Church, and Chettuvakotta in Thrissur, the heritage buildings identified as protected monuments, was completed. The steps to protect the Hajur Kacheri building in Malappuram and the Jewish cemetery in Ernakulam were going on, the minister added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heritage-school-college-buildings-to-be-protected-monuments-in-kerala-1038287.html
07-10-2021||South||'Reopen temples in 10 days, don’t impose your ideology', BJP tells Tamil Nadu govt||Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai on Thursday demanded that the state government lift restrictions on week-end worship at the temples, within 10 days and warned that the DMK dispensation's attempt to “impose its ideology” will result in a backlash from the people. Accusing the state government of attempting to “impose its ideology” on the theists by restricting darshan during weekends, Annamalai insisted that there was "no logic” in keeping temples closed from Friday to Sunday citing coronavirus, when it had permitted cinema halls to re-open and is getting ready to restart schools for all classes for children for whom Covid-19 vaccine is yet to be rolled out. He also charged the state government with using the Centre’s advisory on Covid-19 to its advantage. “Navarathri celebrations have begun today but the State government has decided to keep the temples closed from Friday to Sunday claiming festivals could become super spreader of the virus. There is no logic in this argument as the Central government’s circular on restrictions is purely advisory,” Annamalai said. The BJP president, who led a massive protest here to force the DMK-led government to permit darshan at temples, told reporters that his party has been constrained to organise the protest in front of 12 ancient temples today. “The DMK government said it would not rigidly follow the Centre’s advisory and would take independent decisions. But this decision to keep the temples closed citing coronavirus has denied the rights of the people to visit temples to worship the gods,” he said. He expressed hope that the government would concede the demand within 10 days. “Don’t test people’s patience, their faith in God.. If the demand is not met, then there will be massive protests by the people,” the BJP senior warned. "We are giving 10 days for the government to change its mind, or else we don't have an option other than to hit the streets in a massive way. Using the bogey of coronavirus to push their false ideology will be opposed by the BJP tooth and nail," he said. “When TASMAC outlets, theatres and other commercial centres are open, why this approach to temples? is this their way of bringing their ‘no God ideology’ into our personal space?” Annamalai asked. Despite an element of risk involved in it, his party had supported the government in its decision to re-open the schools, as the children have been confined to their homes for nearly one-and-a-half years and that they need to go back to the school for their education. “The DMK government's attempt to impose its ideology on the people was evident when it banned the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations. Not only Hindus, even the Muslims and Christians who have participated in this protest want all the religious places of worship to be re-opened,” he said. A large number of women members of the BJP held 'thee chetti' (fire pots) with neem leaves strung around them, asking the government to allow darshan in temples this Navarathri. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/reopen-temples-in-10-days-don-t-impose-your-ideology-bjp-tells-tamil-nadu-govt-1038295.html
07-10-2021||South||'Fake antiquity' collection of Kerala conman highlights skill of craftsmen||From 'Tipu Sultan's Throne' to 'Staff of Moses', Kerala man's 'fake antiquity' collection highlights the skills of craftsmen of Kerala. Most of the items could be even considered priceless owing to the high skills involved in their making. While many articles in possession of the cheating case accused Monson Mavunkal were suspected to be around 50 years old, some were made recently by craftsmen in Kerala.  While the 'Throne of Tipu Sultan' was made at Cherthala in Alappuzha district on Kerala, some eye-catching wooden idols, including that of Lord Sri Krishna's 'Viswaroopam', were believed to be made in Muttathara, a region in Thiruvananthapuram city which is known for skilled craftsmen. The Kerala Cultural Affairs Department had identified Muttathara as a heritage village for wood carving as part of a project in collaboration with UNESCO. Craftsmen in the locality used to undertake major wood carving work for celebrities but were often exploited by middlemen, who sell the products for fancy prices. The 'staff of Moses' among Mavunkal's collection was suspected to be around 50-year-old walking stick procured from a family in Palakkad district of Kerala, while the controversial copper plate manuscripts that came with bogus claims related to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple's tradition was suspected to be received from an ancient family in Thrissur.  The coins that Judas got for betraying Jesus Christ among Mavunkal's collections was believed to be coins received during an excavation in central Kerala. Chances of real ones too Archaeologists who had a preliminary check of the 'antiquity' collection of Mavunkal were learnt to be assuming that a sword and Nataraja idol found among the collection could be more than 100 years old and hence could be real antiquities. Police sources said that Mavunkal was suspected to have procured most items by assuring fancy prices by displaying it at his home turned Museum. The picture of known personalities, including top police officers, were suspected to be used by him as a 'certificate of his credibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fake-antiquity-collection-of-kerala-conman-highlights-skill-of-craftsmen-1038357.html
07-10-2021||South||Kerala to allow 25,000 pilgrims at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple||Up to 25,000 pilgrims will be allowed at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala during the coming pilgrimage season from November to January. Only those who took both doses of Covid vaccine or those with a negative RT-PCR test would be allowed darshan through the virtual queue system. A review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also decided to allow pilgrims only through Pamba and pilgrims will not be allowed to stay back at the temple premises. Pilgrims would not be allowed through the traditional forest paths of Erumeli and Pulmedu. Vehicles would be allowed only up to Nilackal parking centre and transport bus services would be operated from Nilackal to Pamba. Arrangements would be made to distribute 'prasadams' from the temple to all devotees. During the last pilgrimage also restrictions were imposed in the maximum number of pilgrims allowed in the temple. Initially only 1,000 pilgrims were allowed daily. It was later increased marginally. The temple, managed by the Travancore Devaswom Board, was facing acute financial crisis owing to the restrictions on pilgrims. During the last pilgrimage, many who booked the limited tokens for daily darshan did not turn up, thereby denying opportunity for others. Hence, the Devaswom Board had even proposed a refundable payment system for virtual queue booking this time. But it was not implemented. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-allow-25000-pilgrims-at-sabarimala-ayyappa-temple-1038367.html
07-10-2021||South||Baby elephant reunited with mother in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu foresters reunited a baby elephant with its mother after a rescue operation, even as the department personnel continue their search for the T23 tiger that has killed four persons.  The baby elephant was reunited with its mother in the Mudumalai National Park in the Nilgiris district on Wednesday. A video of the baby elephant blowing a big trumpet while approaching the mother has gone viral on social media.  “A kutty (small) baby elephant was reunited with the family after rescue by TN foresters in Mudumalai. Most heart-warming indeed. Kudos,” tweeted Supriya Sahu, Secretary, Environment and Forests. Sharing a short video of the reuniting of the baby elephant with its mother, the senior bureaucrat further wrote:  The rescue and reuniting efforts come amid an 11-day struggle by forest officials to capture T23 tiger that still remain elusive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/baby-elephant-reunited-with-mother-in-tamil-nadu-1038369.html
07-10-2021||South||Kerala has reputation of 'militant trade unionism' due to nokkukooli: HC||Disappointed by continuing instances of 'nokkukooli' or gawking wages, Kerala High Court on Thursday said such incidents were giving the state a reputation of "militant trade unionism" which was deterring investors from coming here and therefore, such practices should be eradicated. The court said that it no longer wants to hear the term 'nokkukooli' in the state and directed the police to take action against anyone, irrespective of party affiliations, who demands gawking wages as the same was "illegal and unlawful". The observation and directions by Justice Devan Ramachandran came during the hearing of a hotel owner's plea for police protection to carry out his business without intervention from some persons who were allegedly demanding gawking wages. Observing that the state "has a reputation of militant trade unionism", the court said that the situation has to change to make Kerala investor-friendly. The court also said that violence was not the solution or remedy for denial of employment and any head load worker who is denied a job, must approach the labour board for relief. It also reiterated that incidents like the demand for 'nokkukooli' by a section of people to allow a truck of the Indian Space Research Organisation into the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre facility at Thumba in Thiruvananthapuram were a source of embarrassment and disgrace for the state. The court had earlier also said if the state government wants to attract businesses, it should stop the trade unions from extortion. "This practice was banned years ago. But it was not fully implemented. The government should take stern action against those who demand 'nokkukooli'," the court had said. On May 1, 2018, the government banned the practice. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-has-reputation-of-militant-trade-unionism-due-to-nokkukooli-hc-1038375.html
07-10-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh CM initiates YSR Aasara scheme Phase II||The Jaganmohan Reddy government on Thursday initiated the second phase of the YSR Aasara scheme under which nearly Rs 6,440 crore would be credited into the accounts of 78.76 lakh women in the state formed into 7.97 lakh Self Help Groups (SHGs). Addressing a public meeting at Ongole, Chief Minister Reddy said that a total of Rs 12,759 crore was spent in the last 28 months of his administration for YSR Aasara, under which outstanding loans of women SHGs to the tune of Rs 25,517 crore (till April 2019) would be credited into their bank accounts in four phases. Reddy charged that SHG women were betrayed by former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, “who promised to waive off all their loans during the 2014 elections.” “Believing Naidu’s words, SHG women were stuck in debt for not repaying their loans, as the levied interests have blown-up the Rs 14,204 crore to Rs 25,517 crore. Over 18 per cent of SHGs were notified as Non Performing Assets (NPA) and even those under A grade were demoted to C, D due to these outstanding loans. Adding more burden, the zero-interest loan scheme was also stopped from October 2016,” Reddy said. Reddy stated that as promised by him during the 2019 elections to clear these loan amounts in four phases, “his government is already crediting Rs 12,759 crore in the first two phases while also restarting zero-interest loan schemes benefiting nearly one crore women.” “With such measures, only 0.73 per cent SHG are now notified as NPAs and those with C, D grading could also regain their A grade, registering a recovery rate of 99.5 per cent,” the CM said. The disbursal under Aasara will take place in all the districts except Kadapa from October 7-18, considering each mandal as a unit. Kadapa district would be covered from November 6-15 after the Badvel by-elections. Reddy said that under his government’s initiative, over three lakh women have started various businesses and are earning an additional income of Rs 7,000 to Rs 10,000 per month. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-initiates-ysr-aasara-scheme-phase-ii-1038384.html
07-10-2021||South||Sasikala to visit Jayalalithaa's memorial on October 16||Ousted AIADMK interim general secretary V K Sasikala will on October 16 visit the J Jayalalithaa Memorial on the Marina Beach here as part of commemorating 50 years of founding the party. This will be Sasikala’s first visit to her friend’s memorial after her release from Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru following completion of a four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case.  Sasikala had planned to visit Jayalalithaa memorial immediately on her return from Bengaluru. However, the memorial was hurriedly closed by the then AIADMK government led by Edappadi K Palaniswami days after it was inaugurated leading to speculation it was done to prevent Sasikala from visiting the memorial months before the April 6 assembly elections. As AIADMK enters 50 years of existence, Sasikala will pay floral tributes at the memorials of Jayalalithaa, her friend for over three decades, and M G Ramachandran, the founder of the party. MGR founded AIADMK in 1972 after he was thrown out of the DMK then led by M Karunanidhi.  The visit by Sasikala, who has been keeping a low profile after it became increasingly clear that the AIADMK is not too on taking her back, assumes significance in political circles. The visit also comes four days after the results of the elections to rural local bodies in nine districts are announced – the AIADMK hopes to make up for the loss in the assembly elections, but political pundits say the DMK has a clear edge.  Ahead of the visit, Sasikala has appealed to the AIADMK cadres to unite to strive hard to install “Amma’s (Jayalalithaa’s) government. “One who loves Amma or MGR dearly will not leave the party.  I have been seeing the anguish of the party cadres.  None can remain silent watching this.  What happened to AIADMK after MGR’s demise has happened once I have to come back to the party and guide everyone. We must strive hard to bring back Amma’s government.  This is my wish and desire,” she said.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-to-visit-jayalalithaas-memorial-on-october-16-1038395.html
07-10-2021||South||Madras HC orders removal of political leaders' statues from public places||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Tamil Nadu government to remove all statues of political leaders and eminent personalities installed on roads and other public places in three months and create a Leaders' Park to relocate them. Till then no permission shall be granted to install statues in public places, Justice S M Subramanian said. The judge was disposing of a writ petition from advocate M Veeraraghavan of Arakkonam, seeking to quash a notice dated August 21, 2014 of the local authority directing him to remove a statue of Dr B R Ambedkar, which he had erected on a road in a village. Disposing of the petition, the judge observed that to evict the encroachments in public places and remove illegal structures, the government is empowered to initiate eviction proceedings by following the procedures as contemplated under the Tamil Nadu Highways Act, 2001, Tamil Nadu Land Encroachment Act, 1905 and Tamil Nadu Protection of Tanks and Eviction of Encroachment Act, 2007 and by invoking all relevant Act and Rules as the case may be. The court directed the State Home Secretary to identify the statues and structures in all public places, highways, public roads, government lands and others, within three months and thereafter evict/remove all encroachments and unauthorised structures, statues by following the procedures as contemplated under the relevant acts and rules in force. The Home secretary shall not grant any permission hereafter for installing any structure or statues in those places affecting or infringing the rights of the common people. He shall issue comprehensive guidelines for grant of permission for erection of statues or structures. The officials shall identify lands for creation of required numbers of "Leaders Park" across the state for installing new statues and for re-location or replacement of existing ones, for which permission had already been granted, the judge said. He shall maintain the statues/structures after re-locating the same in the “Leaders Park” and the maintenance cost shall be recovered from those who had got permission for installing them. In case of non-payment of maintenance cost, the competent authorities shall recover the same by invoking the Revenue Recovery Act. All these directions are to be complied within six months, the judge added.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-orders-removal-of-political-leaders-statues-from-public-places-1038401.html
07-10-2021||South||Sainik school admits girls cadets as 'boarders' for the first time||The Sainik School at Amaravathinagar in Tamil Nadu's Tiruppur district has admitted into class VI, girl cadets as 'boarders,' for the first time in its history. The school, located at Udumalpet, commenced online classes for these cadets on September 21 and on Thursday the first batch of 'boarder' girl cadets visited the institution along with their parents and underwent the orientation and the mandatory document verification, a PIB (Defence) release said. "For the first time in the history of Sainik School Amaravathinagar, girl cadets have been admitted into class VI as ‘'boarders' in the academic year 2021-22 based on their performance in the All India Sainik Schools Entrance Examination," it said. As per the directive of the Flag Officer Commanding in Chief, Southern Naval Command, a hostel has been made ready with all requisite amenities for the girls. The accommodation facility has been named the 'Rani Velu Nachiyar’ Girls' hostel in honour of the queen of Sivaganga who defeated the British in a battle in 1780, and the first Indian queen to have done so, it said. "On this occasion, when the girls have been admitted for the first time to this school as 'boarders', the portrait of this brave warrior, also known as 'Veeramangai' (Brave Woman) was also unveiled," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sainik-school-admits-girls-cadets-as-boarders-for-the-first-time-1038456.html
07-10-2021||South||Rift Kerala BJP may widen||The rift in the BJP in Kerala is likely to intensify further as prominent leader Sobha Surendran was excluded from the party's national executive committee. Sobha had expressed her differences with the leadership earlier after K Surendran was made the party's state president, while she was made the state Vice-President along with two others. Sobha was also not cooperating with the state leadership till the recent Assembly elections. Later national leaders were learnt to have intervened and she was also made a candidate at Kazhakkoottam in Thiruvananthapuram. But the present developments in the party indicate that Surendran still has an upper hand despite the setback faced by the party in the Assembly election. Earlier, there were reports that Sobha may be given some responsibilities at the national level, which too did not happen. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rift-kerala-bjp-may-widen-1038463.html
07-10-2021||State||Second set of school uniforms arriving after two years in Karnataka||The second set of uniforms for government school children in the state are arriving finally after two years. The Samagra Sikshana Abhiyan (SSA) has issued a circular directing School Development and Monitoring Committees (SDMCs) to purchase uniform cloth, stitch and supply them to students of grades 6 to 10 as the schools have completed resumed the classes. Even the freedom to choose the colour of the uniform has been given to SDMCs. This second set of uniforms were due in the 2019-20 academic year and the supply was delayed due to a fund crunch. In March 2020, following the decision taken in a cabinet meeting, the SSA had transferred Rs 100 crore to the SDMCs but again directed the authorities to stop procuring the second set of uniforms as the state government declared holidays for schools following the Covid-19 outbreak. However, the circular dated October 4, 2021, has directed the SDMCs to utilise the funds released for the purchase of the second set of uniforms. "To utilise the funds released, the SDMCs have to consider the students' strength based on the data available on Students Achievement Tracking System (SATS) as per 2019-20 academic year," the circular read. Even now, the supply of the second set of uniforms will be only for children of grades 6 to 10 and the SSA has asked authorities concerned to initiate procurement for grades 1 to 5, only after the resumption of physical classes for these students. Each pair of uniforms costs Rs 250 per student. "The fund has already been transferred to the joint account of the school headmaster and SDMC in two instalments. As the schools were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the SDMCs were directed to hold the process," said a senior official from SSA Karnataka. The second set of uniforms were supposed to be distributed at the beginning of the academic year. But the same was delayed due to a lack of funds. The first set of uniforms will be supplied by the department of public instruction and the second set by SSA with funds from the Union Ministry for Education. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/second-set-of-school-uniforms-arriving-after-two-years-in-karnataka-1038412.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Experts fear Delta Covid-19 variant could be evolving to beat vaccines||There may not be any new variants of the novel coronavirus at the moment, but experts are worried as evidence building from breakthrough infections point to the virus potentially acquiring vaccine evasion abilities. This comes at a time when projections made on behalf of the state Genomic Surveillance Committee show that there is a possibility that Covid-19 cases could increase from the third week of October. “At the moment, we have not found any new variants of the novel coronavirus. The major lineages in Karnataka continue to be AY.4 and AY.12 Delta variants. The good news is that vaccinations are largely keeping these under check. However, there is now concern that breakthrough infections being recorded will hasten the emergence of a new variant that could have the means to evade a vaccine response in the body,” explained Dr Vishal Rao, member of the state’s Genomic Surveillance Committee. As of August 26, the state had recorded 14,421 breakthrough infections. The overall number has now risen to about 15,000, said Dr Thrilok Chandra, Commissioner of Health. Dr Rao added that the Delta already has the potential for escape and that the committee is looking closely for mutations in the spike protein of the virus. “There is evidence that the spike proteins are changing,” he said. Changes to the spike protein are closely monitored worldwide as they can make the virus more infectious. While Dr Thrilok Chandra said that some breakthrough cases are already subject to genome sequencing, the committee is said to have asked for a ramping up of the number of sequences being done. In total, 500 samples are being sequenced per week at present, including from non-breakthrough cases. “We have had a random approach to genome sequencing because for the most part, Delta is still manageable. Now there is a need to look at samples from breakthrough cases because the guard of the public is down at present and there is an opportunity for new variants or sub-lineages to emerge,” Dr Rao said. Potential case increase Reduced public vigilance could also prompt a rise in cases, which has been predicted using Artificial Intelligence (AI) by a private firm supplying trend information to the committee. “We see a potential increase in caseload in the third week,” said Sri Yilapavanam, co-founder of city-based private firm BlockAppsAI Pvt Ltd. Yilapavanam explained that this conclusion was arrived at by factoring in the possible increase in the value of contact parameter. “This system of equations is similar to the famed SUTRA model, but our model considers several other compartments and effects of vaccination,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/experts-fear-delta-covid-19-variant-could-be-evolving-to-beat-vaccines-1038070.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||President Kovind arrives for three-day visit to Karnataka||President Ram Nath Kovind arrived in Bengaluru on Wednesday, as part of his three-day tour to the state.  The President will arrive in Mysuru for a one-day visit to Chamarajanagar on October 7 (Thursday). Kovind will land at the Mysuru airport in Mandakalli, in a special flight at 10.40 am and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will receive him. The President will proceed to Biligiri Rangana (BR) Hill, by helicopter and offer special puja at Biligiri Ranganatha temple. The Chamarajanagar district administration has made elaborate arrangements for the President’s visit and a helipad is readied at Vadagere village in Yalandur taluk. The Indian Air Force team inspected the helipad near Yedabetta in Chamarajanagar town on Tuesday. IGP (Southern range) Pravin Madhukar Pawar also inspected the arrangements. Kovind is the first President to visit Biligiri Ranganatha temple and the second to visit Chamarajanagar district after A P J Abdul Kalam, who celebrated his 76th birthday with the tribals at BR Hill, in 2006. The President will visit the temple on Thursday morning and will inaugurate the Super Speciality Hospital at Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences at Yedabetta at 3.30 pm. All arrangements have been made at the 450-bed hospital, constructed at a cost of Rs 180 crore. Bommai, Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot and other dignitaries will attend the programme. At Sringeri  The President is also visiting Sringeri in Chikkamagaluru district. Ahead of the visit, restrictions have been imposed on devotees at the Sringeri Sharada temple on October 7 and 8. Security has been strengthened in the temple town. Three helipads have been readied at Gandhi Maidan near Sringeri, Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K N Ramesh told DH. All petty shops and hotels at Gandhi Maidan have been cleared. Two Gulmohar trees were felled near Gandhi Maidan, while readying the helipads. The felling of trees has irked the environmentalists.  Kovind will arrive at the Mangalore airport on the evening of October 7 and will depart for Sringeri in a special helicopter on the morning of October 8. After paying obeisance to the presiding deity at Sringeri, he will return to the city and will later leave for New Delhi. The Mangaluru City Corporation has undertaken a cleanliness drive in the city. The road leading to the Circuit House from the Mangalore International Airport has been repaired.  Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said that security had been tightened in the city ahead of the President's visit. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/president-kovind-arrives-for-three-day-visit-to-karnataka-1038073.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tribunals hold jurisdiction over civil disputes of Waqf properties: HC||The High Court has said that only Waqf Tribunals hold jurisdiction over disputes relating to any Waqf property. The petitioners, who are tenants of structures belonging to Waqf, challenged the eviction orders made under the provisions of Karnataka Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1974. The eviction notices were issued to tenants of Waqf properties in Mysuru city. Justice Krishna S Dixit noted that section 85 of Waqf (Amendment) Act, which came into effect on November 1, 2013, unequivocally indicates that the jurisdiction of “civil court, revenue court and any other authority” is excluded in respect of any dispute, question or other matter inter alia relating to any Waqf property. “Thus, it is an all pervasive bar and everything now falls within the province of the Waqf Tribunal; if the Parliament intended that the State enactments such as the 1974 Act should continue to apply, it would not have employed a broader sweep language of specifically mentioning ‘any other authority’,” the court said. The court said that the authorities are at liberty to initiate proceedings before the jurisdictional Waqf Tribunal and in such proceedings, it will not be open to the petitioners to contend that the Tribunal has no jurisdiction.  The petitioners had contended that notices issued under the 1974 Act suffered from jurisdiction. The authorities defended the action claiming that the 1974 Act being a special legislation and having been assented to by the President of India, over-rides the law enacted inter alia in sections 83 and 85 of the Waqf Act. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tribunals-hold-jurisdiction-over-civil-disputes-of-waqf-properties-hc-1038074.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will restore rain-hit areas, roads in Bengaluru soon: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the government would take measures to restore the rain-affected areas in Bengaluru, and rid the city roads of potholes, once the rain recedes. The chief minister, who arrived in Mysuru to attend the Dasara inauguration, told reporters, “Bengaluru city experiences problems when it rains. Low-lying areas get waterlogged, and layouts on lake beds and areas adjoining Raja Kaluve are badly affected. Relief works during rain is difficult. I have directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner to take up restoration works in the affected areas and provide a permanent solution,” the CM said. “A task force has been constituted to study the roads. Details like, when it was laid, how many times it has been repaired and who is the contractor, will be collected. If the works are sub-standard, action will be initiated against the contractor,” he said. “There is a need to take up relief works immediately. Filling of potholes will be taken up scientifically. Potholes can’t be filled when it rains. All potholes will be cleared, once the rains recede,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-restore-rain-hit-areas-roads-in-bengaluru-soon-cm-bommai-1038079.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||15 Karnataka districts lagging behind in Covid vaccination race||Recalibration of population targets has left districts at the bottom 15 in terms of vaccination coverage, say, district officials, who fared poorly in the first dose drive. The readjusting of targets was apparently done just four days ago because of which targets have been 'inflated', and have lowered their 'percentage covered' in terms of vaccinations, they say. As many as 15 districts are below the state average of 81% in first dose coverage as of October 5, as per data shared by Health Minister K Sudhakar. In a meeting on Tuesday, districts pointed out that the 'projected population estimates' for 2021 are skewed. Yadgir district, for example, was at the bottom of 30 districts in terms of vaccination as it had vaccinated only 57% of its 9,82,594 population with the first dose and 28% of them had received the second dose. Yadgir district health officer Dr Indumati Kamshetty said, "We have already discussed this with the state government. This is a numbers game. This is not our actual target. The population suddenly went up in the targets we received recently and that is why we are standing at the bottom. Our target should be 8.4 lakh. She said the state government also agreed on Tuesday that this is not the ground reality and has agreed to change it. "All our people are on the field even on a government holiday on Wednesday to vaccinate devotees who visit 28 mutts in the district for Mahalaya Amavasya. We have requested the gurus to help us encourage the devotees to get jabs," she said. Dr Rajshekar Patil, district immunisation officer, Bidar, echoed a similar problem and said his district figures at the bottom five because the population estimate was increased from 12,25,000 to 13,16,103 on Monday. "We have sent a letter to the state government that they have increased the target suddenly. We had a first dose coverage of 70% till Friday but now it has dropped to 66%. We don't believe there was undercounting of around a lakh people in the district. Even the second dose coverage is reflected wrongly by the state. "We have covered 44% but it shows 29%. It should be calculated against 8,60,000 but they are calculating it against the revised population target which we are already contesting," Patil said. Koppal district is at the bottom six with 68% first dose coverage and 27% second dose coverage. Deputy commissioner Suralkar Vikas Kishor said the population numbers were recently changed to 10,98,210. "Recently, there has been a change and the percentage calculation has been revised. Our ASHAs have a list of unvaccinated people and we are only concerned with getting those jabbed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/15-karnataka-districts-lagging-behind-in-covid-vaccination-race-1038115.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 523 fresh Covid-19 cases, nine deaths||Karnataka recorded 523 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections to 29,79,331 and the death toll to 37,854.  The day also saw 621 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,29,629. Bengaluru Urban topped the list in the number of infections with 205, as the city saw 230 discharges and two deaths.  The total number of active cases in the state is 11,819.  While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.39 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.72 per cent. Out of nine deaths reported on Wednesday, five were from Mysuru, two from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Dakshina Kannada and Tumakuru.  Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 205 infections, Mysuru 62, Hassan 50, Dakshina Kannada 43, followed by others.  Cumulatively, a total of 4,83,39,815 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,31,898 were on Wednesday alone.  Owing to the government holiday on Wednesday for Mahalaya Amavasya, only 79,845 Covid vaccine doses were administered, taking the total doses given so far to 5,75,10,871. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-523-fresh-covid-19-cases-nine-deaths-1038116.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||JD(S) trying to help BJP in bypolls: Siddaramaiah||Claiming that the Congress is the target for the JD(S) and not just BJP, Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday charged that the JD(S) fielded minority community candidates in Assembly bye-elections from Hangal and Sindagi constituencies just to help the BJP. "JD(S) did the same thing in Basavajalyan bypolls and it is not fielding minority community candidates where it should. JD(S) is not fielding minority candidates in Mandya and Hassan. It targets the Congress which is strong in Old Mysuru region, also where the JD(S) has its base," he said. Clarifying that Congress chief Sonia Gandhi did not invite him for national politics, Siddaramaiah stated that he discussed only state affairs with her. Attack on RSS Continuing the attack on RSS, Siddaramaiah said that RSS is a communal organisation which divides the society in the name of Hindutva. "BJP is the face-mask of the RSS. RSS is on backseat driving and BJP does what the RSS says," he added. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is responsible for price rise, and BJP governments in states just beat 'tamate' with him. People are fed up with the BJP government, and Congress would win both the seats for which bye-elections are being held," Siddaramaiah said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jds-trying-to-help-bjp-in-bypolls-siddaramaiah-1038225.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Private state board schools demand syllabus cut for 2021-22 academic year||Private school managements affiliated to state board have requested the state government to trim the syllabus for the current academic year considering the number of academic days lost due to the lockdown. In a letter to Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh, the Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka requested to trim the syllabus in the interest of students. "During the previous academic year the syllabus was reduced by 30 per cent and it is needed this year too. The classes have resumed in a full-fledged manner recently and it would be difficult for the students to study the entire syllabus and face examinations," the letter reads. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/private-state-board-schools-demand-syllabus-cut-for-2021-22-academic-year-1038409.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP's postcard campaign to mark Modi's 20 years in power||The state BJP unit carried out a postcard campaign to commemorate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 20 years in power. While Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai participated in the campaign from Mysuru, several events under the leadership of local BJP MLAs were carried out throughout the city. The party also celebrated the day as Good Governance Day. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwathnarayan visited the residences of BJP workers at Aramane Nagara ward and urged supporters to write congratulatory letters to the prime minister. CM wishes PM Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai sent wishes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for successfully completing 20 years as an elected representative on Thursday. The CM wished the PM by sending a postcard to the PM from the post office in front of the Raghavendra Mutt on Narayana Shastri Road in Mysuru. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjps-postcard-campaign-to-mark-modis-20-years-in-power-1038424.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Maintain status quo on Balabrooie Guest House: HC||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday passed an interim order to maintain status quo on the proposal to convert the iconic Balabrooie Guest House into a Constitution Club for legislators. A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma restrained the authorities from felling or even pruning any tree on the premises without obtaining express permission from the court. The interim order was passed on an interlocutory application (IA) filed by Dattatreya T Devare and the Bangalore Environment Trust. The petitioners moved the IA in their pending PIL seeking a direction for the tree census in Bengaluru. The process is still under way in the city. The petitioners said that the Balabrooie Guest House, constructed in 1850, is one of the iconic heritage sites of Bengaluru. Several personalities such as Rabindranath Tagore, Indira Gandhi and M Visvesvaraya had stayed in the guest house during their visits to the city. The campus also has a large number of heritage trees, some even over 100 years old. Owing to their massive root systems spread across 40 feet, the trees can absorb large quantities of rainwater and prevent flooding in the area. The petitioners contended that the proposal for putting up structures for a Constitution Club would result in the felling or cutting of heritage trees. They said the trees on the campus act as ‘lungs’ to the traffic around the heart of the city and are by themselves large ecosystems. The bench directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which is conducting the tree census, to file a detailed report about the trees in and around the guest house. The court also directed the Horticulture Department to file a similar report by the next date of hearing. Speaker of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri had announced on October 4 that the government has revisited its decision to have a Constitution Club at the Balabrooie Guest House. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/maintain-status-quo-on-balabrooie-guest-house-hc-1038431.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||I won't link I-T raid with politics: Yediyurappa||Reacting to the raid by a team of officials of Income Tax Department on the premises of his former personal assistant Umesh, former chief minister B S Yediyurappa said he would not link it with politics. The raid and elections are poles apart, he added.  Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, he said, "Such raids are quite common in political circles and this is also one such incident. I will react to it in detail after knowing the ground reality." He also made it clear that Umesh had worked with him during his tenure as chief minister. He came to know about it through the media. "Let the law take its own course." Referring to the by-elections, he said the BJP would emerge victorious in Hanagal and Sindhagi assembly constituencies. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-wont-link-i-t-raid-with-politics-yediyurappa-1038436.html
07-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NIMHANS to launch MindNotes app, online peer support forum||The National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) will mark the World Mental Health Day on October 10, with the theme 'Mental healthcare for all: Let's make it a reality', by launching MindNotes app, and an online peer support forum. Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister for Health and Family Welfare, and President of NIMHANS, will be the Chief Guest. Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary to the union health ministry, will also take part in the event as a special guest. NIMHANS has come up with MindNotes app to help individuals in the community who may be experiencing distress/common mental health concerns but are unsure or ambivalent about seeking professional help. The app has been developed by a team of mental health professionals from the Department of Clinical Psychology and Centre for Public Health at NIMHANS, and International Institute of Information Technology, Bengaluru (IIIT-B) in collaboration with and funding support from Microsoft Research India. It contains multiple sections with interactive exercises aimed at enhancing self- awareness, gaining clarity about the nature of common mental health concerns, recognising and dealing with barriers that prevent individuals from seeking professional help, and picking up self-help tools along the way. The app thus helps people navigate their mental wellness journey by serving as a bridge between self- awareness, self- help and professional help as per the need. The app would be made available on Play Store for controlled release/early access and testing on October 10, and subsequently would be accessible to the public, free of cost after six weeks. Online Peer Support Forum Psych-Care Online Peer Support Forum for mental health will also be launched to provide a safe space for youth to anonymously share their thoughts, feelings and concerns impacting their mental wellbeing, and receive support from trained peer-volunteers. Responses will be offered by youth volunteers trained at NIMHANS and their responses would be moderated by a panel of experienced mental health professionals. The first batch of peer support providers have already been trained for this purpose. The online forum, currently available in English, is a collaboration between NIMHANS and IIIT-B. It is an extension of MANAS, an initiative by the Office of the Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India. This forum is a step towards empowering Indian youth, helping them to engage in conversations on their wellbeing and offer first-line of basic mental health support to each other.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nimhans-to-launch-mindnotes-app-online-peer-support-forum-1038444.html
07-10-2021||West||Religious places reopen in Maharashtra; CM Uddhav Thackeray visits Mumbai temple on first day of Navratri||After remaining closed for nearly six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, religious places reopened in Maharashtra on Thursday, with devotees seen visiting various temples and mosques in Mumbai and other places since early morning. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray along with his wife Rashmi Thackeray and two sons Aaditya and Tejas visited the Mumba Devi temple here around 8.45 am and offered prayer to the Goddess, as the reopening of religious places coincided with the beginning of the nine-day Navratri festival. Since early morning, devotees were seen visiting various temples in the state capital Mumbai while adhering to the mask and social distancing norms. Mosques in the city also witnessed a steady stream of the faithful since morning. The CM and his family members, all wearing masks and following the social distancing rule, were there in the Mumba Devi temple premises for about half an hour. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar was also present there along with the CM. After offering prayers, the chief minister extended greetings to citizens on the occasion of the Navratri festival. "It is the responsibility of all to observe health protocols at the places of worship in view of the Covid-19 pandemic," he said. The CM said he prayed to Goddess Mumba Devi to eradicate the coronavirus completely. He said the trustees and priests of all places of worship should ensure that devotees follow discipline while offering prayers, and the shrine premises are cleaned and sanitised frequently and proper social distancing is followed. "We can set an example in this regard," he said. He also praised places of worship like the famous Siddhivinayak temple here for using QR codes and other technologies to facilitate online darshan for devotees. After the first coronavirus wave waned, places of religious worship were reopened in Maharashtra in November last year, but they have closed again for people after the second wave started in the state in March 2021. For a long, the opposition BJP had been demanding the reopening of temples and other places of worship in Maharashtra. The party staged protests in August in several cities of Maharashtra in support of its demand. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and BJP leader Ram Kadam also paid separate visits to the Mumba Devi temple in the afternoon. Targetting the Uddhav Thackeray-led dispensation, Kadam said, "While the state government allowed beer bars to resume their operations around three months back, it took another 105 days for it to reopen the places of religious worship. The ruling Shiv Sena has lost its Hindutva agenda. The government reopened the religious places due to our (BJP's) hard work." Deputy Chief Minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar and his party colleague Jayant Patil visited the Siddhivinayak temple, dedicated to Lord Ganesha, while two state ministers - Nawab Malik of the NCP and Aslam Sheikh of the Congress - visited the Mahim dargah and Haji Ali dargah in the city. The Maharashtra government had last month announced the reopening of all religious places from October 7 in the state with Covid-19 protocols, a move that comes amid indication that the second wave of the pandemic is ebbing. Besides Mumbai, religious places in other parts of the state also reopened on Thursday. In neighbouring Thane city, BJP MLC Niranjan Davkhare visited the famous Ghantali Devi temple and offered prayers to the Goddess. A number of devotees, mostly women, dressed in traditional attire, were seen visiting the temple. The Kopineshwar temple in the main market area of Thane city and the Lord Shiva temple in Ambernath town also reopened their doors for devotees early in the morning. The temple managements provided sanitisers to visitors and ensured that social distancing was followed. In the adjoining Palghar district, the reopening of the Mahalaxmi temple at Dahanu and the Vajreshwari temple in Vasai were marked by musical performances arranged by the temple management. Flower vendors and those selling other items for prayers expressed happiness at the reopening of religious places. Sapna Mali, whose family earned a living by selling flowers outside a Ganesh temple in Thane city, said, "It is good that the temples have reopened, otherwise it would have been difficult for us to survive in these times." Devotees queued up at places of worship in Maharashtra's Pune division, home to some of the famous temples in the state. People were seen lining up outside some of the major temples in Pune city. "Since morning, devotees have been coming in good numbers to visit Lord Ganesha here. We are taking all precautions and following all Covid-19 rules and regulations while allowing entry to people inside the sanctum sanctorum," said Mahesh Suryawanshi, one of the trustees of Shreemant Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati Mandal. Arrangements have been made for hand sanitisers and thermal screening at the entrance of the temple, he said, adding that people are not allowed to take garlands inside the temple. In the neighbouring Solapur district, the Vitthal-Rukmini temple in Pandharpur saw a good number of visitors. Balaji Padulwad, one of the trustees of the temple, said, "Devotees are being allowed inside the temple in compliance with physical distancing norms and Covid-appropriate behaviour." The famous Sai Baba temple in Shirdi allowed entry to devotees who carried passes for their visit, which they applied for online. At least 15,000 devotees, who procure passes online, will be allowed inside the temple on a daily basis, a district official said. In Kolhapur, too, people who had passed were allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the Mahalaxmi Ambabai temple. However, in Nagpur, temples, churches and other religious places did not see a lot of footfalls, as citizens exercised caution on the first day. "We have not witnessed the kind of rush we used to before. While we are permitting 200 devotees at a time, only 50 to 60 are showing up," said Avinash Shegaonkar, the secretary of Shree Sai Baba Seva Mandal, which runs the famous Sai Temple in Nagpur. Thermal screening is being done before permitting devotees to enter the temple premises and only people who have taken both vaccine jabs were allowed entry. Citizens above 60 years of age and children below 10 years are not permitted, he said. Meanwhile, Reverend Anthony D'Souza of SFS Cathedral Nagpur Archdiocese said the Christian community welcomes the decision to reopen places of worship. Last month, while announcing the reopening of religious places, Chief Minister Thackeray had urged people not to drop guard and continue Covid-19-appropriate behaviour in view of a possible third wave of the pandemic. The government had issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for devotees and officials managing places of worship to ensure strict implementation of coronavirus-related protocols and curb the spread of the infection. These strict measures include non-distribution of 'prasad' (offerings), no sprinkling of holy water, no touching of statues, idols or holy books and staggering the number of visitors to maintain social distancing, a government order earlier said. A face mask or covering of the face is mandatory while visiting religious places, it said, adding the minimum distance between two persons should be six feet. The state government advised senior citizens, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age to remain at home. The management of shrines should provide separate entry and exit points for devotees, if possible, to avoid crowding, said the order. People should avoid physical contact while greeting each other, it added. The Mumbai civic body issued an order last week capping the number of visitors to places of worship to 50 per cent of total capacity. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/religious-places-reopen-in-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-visits-mumbai-temple-on-first-day-of-navratri-1038202.html
07-10-2021||West||I-T department raids against realtors in Maharashtra||The Income Tax Department on Thursday conducted searches at multiple locations connected with some realtors in Maharashtra on charges of alleged tax evasion, official sources said. They said the raids are being conducted in Mumbai, Satara and Goa. It is understood that the action is being undertaken as part of an investigation taken up by the department against associates of a state politician. rSome entry operators are also being covered as part of theaids, sources said. Further details are awaited||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-t-department-raids-against-realtors-in-maharashtra-1038217.html
07-10-2021||West||No problem with raids on companies linked to me, but why drag my sisters: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said he has no problem with the Income Tax department raiding companies linked to him, but he was upset that his three sisters were dragged into this. Pawar, who is also the state's finance minister, said some entities linked to him were raided. "We pay taxes every year. Since I am the finance minister, I am aware of the fiscal discipline. All entities linked to me have paid taxes," Pawar told reporters. Entities linked to three of his sisters -- one residing in Kolhapur and two in Pune -- were also raided, he said. "I am upset because (premises of) my sisters, who got married 35 to 40 years ago, have been raided. If they were raided as Ajit Pawar's relatives, then people must think about it...the way the agencies are being (mis)used," he said. The NCP leader, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra, said before the 2019 Assembly polls, his party chief Sharad Pawar's name was dragged into a bank case. On Thursday's raids, he said, "The I-T department is in a better position to say whether there was a political motive behind the raid or they found something else." The Income Tax Department on Thursday raided some businesses linked to family members of Ajit Pawar and some real estate developers on charges of alleged tax evasion, according to official sources. They said the searches are being conducted in Mumbai, Pune, Satara and a few other cities in Maharashtra and Goa. The premises linked to business groups such as DB Realty, Shivalik, Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sugar Karkhana (Jarandeshwar SSK) and businesses linked to Ajit Pawar's sisters are being covered under the ongoing operation, the sources said. Jarandeshwar SSK was in the news recently, after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in July attached over Rs 65 crore worth of land, building, plant and machinery of its sugar mill at Chimangaon-Koregaon in Satara under the anti-money laundering law. The ED had claimed that the cooperative-run sugar mill was linked to Ajit Pawar and his family.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-problem-with-raids-on-companies-linked-to-me-but-why-drag-my-sisters-ajit-pawar-1038257.html
07-10-2021||West||Maharashtra govt targets 15 lakh Covid-19 vaccinations daily||In a bid to move forward towards herd immunity, the Maharashtra government will undertake Mission Kavach Kundal from October 8-14 targeting 15 lakh Covid-19 vaccinations daily.  India is expected to cross the 100-crore mark on October 15 coinciding with the Dussehra festivities.  “We would like to have a big contribution in these figures,” state’s public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday coinciding with the commencement of the Navratri festival. According to him, the State government has a stock of 75 lakh vials and another 25 lakh will be available during this period.  “If we carry out 15 lakh vaccinations during the week-long drive all the stock will be utilised,” Tope told reporters. He said a couple of days ago, he had a detailed telephonic discussion with union health minister Mansukh Mandviya on the state’s vaccination programme. He said Maharashtra has a target to vaccinate 9.15 crore people out of which about 6 crore people have taken the first dose of the vaccine.  “Around 2.5 crore people have taken both doses of vaccine... about 65 per cent of the (eligible) population have taken the first dose while 30 per cent have taken the second dose. Our priority will be the first dose to reduce the fear of the third wave,” he said.  Tope pointed out that the process of unlocking the state is because of the fact that 65 per cent have taken the first dose.  "While the process of unlocking has started in stages in the state on the one hand. However, there is still a risk of a third wave and experts say it is necessary to vaccinate the entire population as soon as possible,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-targets-15-lakh-covid-19-vaccinations-daily-1038281.html
07-10-2021||West||Surla becomes first village in Goa to inoculate entire adult population against Covid-19||Surla, a small hamlet in North Goa, has become the first village in the coastal state to fully inoculate its entire adult population against Covid-19, an official from the state health department said on Thursday. A total of 400 eligible beneficiaries in the village, located in Sattari taluka, have taken both jabs of the Covid-19 vaccine, the official said. A special drive was conducted in the village to cover the entire eligible population and vaccination was undertaken door-to-door, he said. Surla is in the Valpoi Assembly constituency, represented by Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, and is a part of the Thane-Dongurly village panchayat. “We have managed to inoculate the entire population actually residing in the village,” said Suryakant Gawas, the deputy sarpanch of Thane Dongurly Panchayat and panch member of the village. In June, the village was the first to inoculate all eligible beneficiaries with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, he said. “The success of covering the entire population goes to the residents of the village who are always ready to give their 100 per cent,” he said, while thanking local MLA and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane for his support. The health department had set up a vaccination camp in the village to help people, as they otherwise would have had to travel through the ghat section to Valpoi Health Centre, it was stated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/surla-becomes-first-village-in-goa-to-inoculate-entire-adult-population-against-covid-19-1038311.html
07-10-2021||West||Maharashtra: Woman smothered to death for resisting rape bid; one held||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly killed by a man while resisting a rape bid in Maharashtra's Nagpur district, police said on Thursday. The incident took place at Katol town, around 60 km from here, on Wednesday, an official said. The police have arrested Amlesh Kumar Shambhu, a resident of Dongargaon, who allegedly entered the victim's hut in a bid to rape her, but smothered her to death when she tried to fight him off, he said. The accused has been booked under section 302 (murder) and other relevant provisions of the IPC, the official said, adding that further probe is underway. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-woman-smothered-to-death-for-resisting-rape-bid-one-held-1038391.html
07-10-2021||West||Gujarat court gives man 6-year jail term for killing Dalit youth watching garba||A special trial court in Anand district on Thursday held an upper-caste man guilty of killing a Dalit youth for watching a village garba dance during the Navratri festival in 2017 and sentenced him to six years of imprisonment. The court acquitted six others who were accused of being part of the mob that lynched the victim.  The special atrocity court pronounced the order holding Sanjay Patel alias Bhimo guilty of killing the 21-year-old Jayesh Solanki on October 1, 2017. The court acquitted others accused including Chintan Patel, Dhaval Patel, Pinkesh Patel alias Jignesh, Rutvik Patel alias Tejas and Ripen Patel alias Bachu for benefit of doubt as the prosecution couldn't prove their involvement as being part of the mob which thrashed the victim Solanki, leading to his death.  Solanki was a resident of Vankarvas, a Dalit locality, in Bhadraniya village in Anand district, who had gone to watch garba dance at the village temple. According to court documents, at 4:30 am on October 1, Jayesh and his relative Prakash Solanki were sitting near the temple, watching village garba, when the primary accused, Sanjay, approached them and said, "why are you sitting here watching garba and hurled casteist remarks." Records say that Sanjay brought a group with him (comprising the others accused), who caught hold of Jayesh by his neck and banged his head on the nearby wall, which led to his death. "The court has found accused no. 1 guilty of murder under section 304-1 and several sections of atrocity act and sentenced him to six years jail," said government pleader R N Solanki. He said that he was awaiting a copy of the order for more details.  The accused had been charged with murder under section 302, unlawful assembly, sections of atrocity acts, among others. The court found the main accused guilty under section 304-I as the accused had intention of causing bodily harm which would have resulted into death. Advocate Gopal P Patel, who assisted the prosecution on behalf of the victim's family, said that "The court has sentenced Sanjay Patel, the main accused, to six years simple imprisonment under section 304 (1) of IPC with a fine of Rs 3,000. The legal assistance was provided by an NGO Peace and Equality Cell." Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-court-gives-man-6-year-jail-term-for-killing-dalit-youth-watching-garba-1038457.html
