08-10-2021||Comment||Gandhis, show some Gandhigiri||At some point in life, most people realise whether they are on the side of the problem or on the side of solution. The Gandhi family today is at a cusp where they must realise this existential truth soon. Else, they will end up destroying the 136-year-old Indian National Congress. The immediate trigger for the rising despair is the party’s crisis in Punjab, which was entirely self-inflicted.  The departure from office of Capt Amarinder Singh, an octogenarian, may not be such a big blow to the Congress electorally, but the way it was done — by bringing in his bête noir, Navjot Singh Sidhu, who repeatedly humiliated Amarinder Singh — was certainly lacking in grace and tact. The ensuing crisis, with Sidhu squabbling with the new CM and resigning from his post, may have come as a rude shock to his ardent supporters and patrons — Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. The fact that Sidhu came in and immediately staged a revolt against Amarinder Singh and then scooted without taking any responsibility for the crisis amply proved the latter’s assessment of him as an ‘unstable man’. A clever sub-editor would probably have headlined the whole episode: ‘Nut screws and bolts’  Turning to the internal crisis in the party, it was indeed laudable of Rahul Gandhi to resign from party presidentship, owning up responsibility for its poor show in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Since then, his mother Sonia Gandhi has been the interim president. Yet, for all practical purposes, Rahul Gandhi behaves like he’s the party president. Sonia Gandhi has the ‘old guard’ as her advisers and Rahul had his younger group that initially consisted of Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin Pilot, Jitin Prasad and a few others. The fact that he could not meet their aspirations, whether justified or not, led to the departure of both Scindia and Prasad from the party while Pilot tried and failed. During the Punjab crisis, it seemed that mother and son were not on the same page. The mother now wants her son to take over, but he seems unwilling to step up. An unsettled family issue has become a crisis for the party, and the nation waits, with hope and despair, for the major opposition party to stand up as a viable political force. For the last one year or so, several senior members of the party, including some from the Congress Working Committee (CWC), have been agitating for certain urgently needed reforms within the party, such as greater internal democracy including elections for all the top posts, retiring the deadwood within the CWC, and infusion of young and fresh blood, strengthening the rank and file, and generally preparing the party for a good fight against the BJP in 2024.  A perfectly sound and unequivocal idea. But the nub is that most of them want the dynasty to continue its rule. They are beseeching Rahul Gandhi to take back the mantle of leadership that he has so firmly and resolutely rejected. Like Caesar, he was offered the crown thrice and thrice hath he refused. So, where do they go from here? The fact is that the Congress party matters more to the nation than the Gandhi family. Presently, neither the ‘high command’ nor the G-23 want to split and go their own way. They all realise that Congress remains the only viable alternative to the BJP in almost 200 seats at the national level. Can this disjointed outfit really take on the mean electoral machine of the BJP? Is it organisationally strong at the grassroots level? Is it ideologically consistent?  As for the ruling BJP, it couldn’t have been in a worse situation. Failures in governance on the economic front (increasing unemployment, usurping rates of taxes on fuel and food items, etc.), and on the health front in handling the Covid pandemic should cost the ruling party severely. But is the Congress in a position to capitalize on any of it? Is the ‘high command’ ready for it? Rahul Gandhi’s tweets are not enough to mobilise people.  Yet, Congress is the only party that sustains the ‘Centrist Consensus’ in the political spectrum and safeguards the constitutional promise of equality, secularism, liberalism and democracy against the bigotry of Hindutva and its hate politics that has deeply polarised the country. But it continues to lose power in state after state, either by design or default.  Thirdly, the minorities feel safer and protected under Congress rule than under the BJP, which has relentlessly pursued an anti-minority agenda through Hindutva mobs, through legislation meant to disadvantage them, through the political choice of denying election tickets to Muslim candidates, and by encouraging vigilante forces to brazenly assault and lynch Muslims in the name of cow protection, etc. Has the Congress stood firmly behind the minorities or is Rahul Gandhi keen on proving that he is ‘a sacred thread-wearing Brahmin’?  Fourthly, the outstanding performance of Manmohan Singh as prime minister in the spheres of economy — lifting over 270 million people out of poverty in his 10-year tenure – and foreign policy is a remarkable success story in modern India. Why is the Congress shy of projecting its proven track record from 2004 to 2014?   Finally, most regional parties do look up to the Congress to provide leadership at the national level so that they can join a coalition to defeat the incompetent, authoritarian rule of the present regime. Will the Congress be pragmatic enough to not demand disproportionate shares of seats from regional parties and let them win and rule in their strongholds?  The mowing down of four farmers on October 3 by a car belonging to a Union minister’s son in Lakhimpur Kheri has suddenly electrified the political atmosphere in UP by highlighting the relentless brutality of the Yogi Adityanath government in dealing with such tragic incidents. With Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reaching there ahead of the rest of the Opposition and the police arresting her, while letting the alleged killer remain free, the Congress seems to have been galvanised. It is possible that the optics of her act may change the fortunes of the party in the upcoming polls. Perhaps it is for election strategist Prashant Kishor to do the rest.   (The writer is a former Cabinet Secretariat official)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/gandhis-show-some-gandhigiri-1038733.html
08-10-2021||First Edit||A deterioration in Kashmir||Violence in Kashmir has taken on a new dimension, with increasing cases of targeted killing of civilians, citizens belonging to the minority communities and people from other states. Seven civilians have been killed in the past week, including a Kashmiri Pandit businessman who was shot dead in his pharmacy. He had refused to migrate from the Valley when many others had left for Jammu and other places in the 1990s. Others who were killed included a Bihari street-food vendor, a taxi driver, and the principal and a teacher of a school. The principal was a Pandit who had returned to the Valley from Jammu and the teacher was a Sikh. More civilians than security personnel have fallen victim to terrorist violence this year, reversing a trend in the previous years when the security forces or those connected with the government were the main targets.  The Resistance Front (TRF), said to be a front organisation of Lashkar-e-Taiba and controlled from Karachi, has claimed responsibility for most of the killings. While it is too early to decide that these are repercussions of the developments in Afghanistan, the incidents belie the government’s claims about the return to normalcy in Kashmir. After the scrapping of Article 370, it had said that Kashmir was on way to the end of militancy. It had resorted to tough security measures and curbs on the freedoms and rights of people. Political activity had been curbed and many leaders held under detention for a long time. Some are still under house arrest and other curbs. But the increasing numbers of violent incidents show that the situation has not improved much in the last two years.  If there is more militant activity inspired by Pakistan, or with direct involvement of elements from there, it is for the government to curb it. It also has the responsibility to increase the participation of people in its efforts to restore peace and normalcy. This has not happened and the people have been more alienated than before in the last two years. Its outreach to political parties and leaders has not been seen as sincere, and the trust deficit between the government on the one side and the political parties and the people on the other has only widened. It should be noted that militancy and terrorism cannot be eliminated unless the reasons that give rise to them are eliminated. The spurt in civilian killings has taken place when a number of Union ministers are on an outreach programme in Kashmir. The minority community and outsiders are scared now. The government should reassure them and ensure their security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-deterioration-in-kashmir-1038735.html
08-10-2021||In Perspective||Pandemics come and go, but art survives||“You may write me down in history/With your bitter, twisted lies/You may tread me in the very dirt/But still, like dust, I rise.” These words come to mind when we see and hear artists in this country innovating and reviving their art in different ways to bring it back to life after the pandemic struck their world two years ago. Dancers continue to dance online for their students and audiences. Artists continue to draw and paint themes relevant to the times. Musicians continue to sing, conduct classes, perform in public. Maybe not in grand sabhas or in designated public spaces. They have taken their audiences right into their homes or classrooms. Social media platforms have been alive and buzzing with activity since 2019 with their conversations, online classes, lecture demonstrations. Instead of listening to your favourite singer or ghatam player within the confines of an auditorium, sabha or theatre, all we have to do now is to switch on the TV and listen to their music on YouTube in a cosy, friendly living room. Sometimes, it may be a private garden or public park or any other exotic location where you can feast on Narayana Guru’s compositions, rendered in the open air with the birds chirping in the background. Then, you know for sure that Covid-19 could not kill the human spirit. Some of these musical efforts by the best of musicians are short and crisp, suiting the times we live in. Whether it is Sanjay Subramanian’s On that note or Vijay Siva’s Vande Sangeetham, these minute offerings are a delight for their homeliness and informality. T M Krishna’s Friends in Concert, scheduled for a world premiere on December 4, promises to reach music lovers in other countries as well. Since they will be ticketed concerts, our Carnatic musicians who lost their annual earnings abroad will be compensated. These efforts by our popular musicians and dancers to carry on their artistic pursuits with courage and conviction after the onset of Covid-19 vindicate Angelou’s words: “But still, like dust, I rise.” It has not been easy for them nor the organisations associated with them, or the hundreds of peripheral workers and their families. Make-up artists, light and sound technicians, stage crew and professional tailors without whom dance and other performing arts cannot survive, were all thrown out of jobs when the pandemic struck. Then, how about the sabha itself? There were at least 20 prominent sabhas in Bengaluru that organised music and dance festivals all year round. They practically collapsed, with no audiences. Their performing spaces like schools, clubs, temples and public parks became empty and desolate. But some of them still managed to go online and entertain invisible audiences. The most commendable was the Marghazi festival in Chennai, which held its head high and went ahead despite lockdowns and other restrictions. All the sabhas came together under one banner to showcase India’s art scene to the world. Tickets were sold for online events in all the major venues where the old schedules were followed and concerts relayed. The audiences too seemed happy with no pain of transportation or the prospect of tickets being sold out. This cultural loss is not restricted to India. According to UNESCO, more than 30 million persons connected with art globally have been affected by the pandemic. The film industry alone accounts for a loss of 10 million jobs; art galleries have cut staff drastically; the music industry has lost billions of dollars in cancelled sponsorships; the publishing market has shrunk beyond description. Even today, half the world’s population cannot access cultural events online due to lack of internet connectivity. An art like music is all the more essential in these pandemic times. Researchers at Stanford University have discovered that music can change brain functioning more than medication. Since it is so easily accessible to people, doctors can use it easily as a stress-relieving tool. Indian music is outstanding in this respect and Indian musicians have used it effectively, not only to entertain but to generate positive vibes in their listeners during these stressful times. The very sound of rain creates a harmony in the listener, said the late Pandit Jasraj whose description of Indian music says it all. “Depending upon the air, the temperature, you can feel the rishabh,” he told this writer once. “In the morning rishabh, the notes rise higher because the sun is rising. In the evening rishabh, they go lower and lower to describe the setting sun.” Our stringed instruments like the veena or violin are excellent stress busters. So is vocal music when sung to soothe and relax, like that gentle Malayalam lullaby Omanathingal kidavo nalla… rendered to perfection by the Trichur Brothers. Covid-19 may have rendered our musicians and other artists invisible. But their presence is felt through their efforts to keep their art alive. As Mozart said: "The music is not in the notes, but in the silence in between.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/pandemics-come-and-go-but-art-survives-1038736.html
08-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two die in separate rain-related incidents||A 48-year-old man died, and another man sustained injuries at Naraganahalli in the taluk on Thursday, when a wall of their house collapsed due to heavy rains accompanied by strong winds and lightning that lashed the region. Kumblara Manjappa is the deceased. Parashuram has sustained injuries. The wall of their house was in a pathetic state following heavy rains that had been lashing the region for the past six days. The family members of Manjappa have escaped unhurt. Mayakonda police have registered a case. In another incident in Shivamogga, a 36-year-old woman was washed away in a stream near Maradi village in the taluk which was in spate due to heavy rains that lashed the region. According to police, the victim is Justin Machado (36), wife of Gerald Machado. The incident took place while she was heading towards her farm field. Her son Joel aged 10 years escaped unhurt in the incident. According to eye-witnesses, the woman was cautioning her son not to step into the stream while she was drowning. Thirthahalli police have registered a case. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-die-in-separate-rain-related-incidents-1038512.html
08-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||FDA who went missing after sending suicide note traced||First Division Assistant Giriraj (39) serving in the deputy commissioner’s office in Shivamogga City, who had gone missing after forwarding a detailed suicide note on WhatsApp to his colleagues last month, had been traced to Dharmasthala in Dakshina Kannada district. After sending a suicide note to his colleagues via WhatsApp on September 28 morning, he had gone missing. His mobile phone was also switched off and this had triggered panic among his family members and colleagues. He was in charge of MLA/MLC Local Area Development Fund in deputy commissioner's office. In the message, he had accused a senior IAS officer of not releasing funds in time, and that her apathy instigated him to take the extreme step. He said, “without releasing the complete funds, the officer used to ask me to utilise the existing funds. Despite writing a letter to the officer seeking directions on how I have to utilise the inadequate funds for the implementation of developmental works, I did not receive any response from the higher official." He had even asked his colleagues and family members not to search for him. Following the missing person complaint lodged by his family members, Superintendent of Police B M Laxmi Prasad and others initiated search operation. Sources in deputy commissioner's office stated that police and the officials of revenue department are making arrangements to bring him home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fda-who-went-missing-after-sending-suicide-note-traced-1038586.html
08-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 43.88 lakh seized at Mangaluru International Airport||Officers of Mangaluru Customs at Mangalore International Airport (MIA) seized 920 grams of 24-carat purity gold from a passenger on Friday. According to officials, the value of the seized gold is Rs 43.88 lakh. It was in the possession of a passenger hailing from Kasargod, who arrived from Dubai by Air India Express flight IX 384. The gold was concealed in powder form inside a specially stitched pocket in the underwear worn by the passenger. A case has been registered.   It may be recalled that the officials had seized 201-200-gram gold from a passenger on October 2 and 310 grams of gold worth Rs 14.69 lakh from a passenger on September 28. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-4388-lakh-seized-at-mangaluru-international-airport-1038611.html
08-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Khanapur interfaith affair: Girl's parents, 10 others held for murder of youth||The Belagavi police on Friday arrested 10 persons, including a girl's parents and a Sri Rama Sene leader in connection with the murder of a 24-year-old Arbaz Aftab Mulla, over his interfaith affair with the girl. Aftab's decapitated body was found near railway tracks on the outskirts of Khanapur town on September 28. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi told reporters on Friday that the probe team had questioned Sri Ram Sena, Khanapur president, Pundalik alias Maharaj Nagappa Mutgekar and based on his confessions, nine more were arrested in the case. Preliminary investigations revealed that the girl's parents Erappa Kumbar and Susheela Kumbar had given a contract to murder Aftab, for having an affair with their daughter. The arrested are: Pundalik alias Maharaj Nagappa Mutgekar, Kutubuddin Allabaksh Bepari, Irappa Basavanni Kumbar, Sushila Irappa Kumbar, Maruti Pralhad Sugte, Manjunath Tukaram Gondhali, Ganapati Dnyaneshwar Sugte, Prashant Kallappa Patil, Praveen Shankar Pujeri and Sridhar Mahadev Doni, all residents of Khanapur. Nazima Mohammad Shaikh, a native of Khanapur and a resident of Azam Nagar in Belagavi, had filed complaint with Railway Police on September 29. The Khanapur police are investigating. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/khanapur-interfaith-affair-girls-parents-10-others-held-for-murder-of-youth-1038770.html
08-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||President Kovind visits Sringeri temple||President Ram Nath Kovind paid obeisance to the presiding deity Sharadamba at Sringeri in the district on Friday.  He arrived at the temple town at 11.45 am and was accorded a warm welcome by the Sharada Peetha. He took part in the puja rituals in the temple with his wife.   He met Sharada Peetha seers Sri Bharathi Theertha Swami and Sri Vidhushekhara Bharathi.  He had meals at the guest house and had rice, sambar, rasam, 'huli thove', 'majjige huli', 'kosambari,' 'palya', dry jamoon and cashew burfi. By 4 pm, he left Sringeri for Mangaluru.  He left for Delhi from the Mangalore International Airport.  Government Thawar Chand Gehlot, Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje were present. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/president-kovind-visits-sringeri-temple-1038777.html
08-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||I-T raids a 'signal' for Yediyurappa camp in BJP?||The ongoing income tax raids as part of which I-T sleuths have raided the residence of Umesh, a close of aide of former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, has sparked discussions within the BJP about whether the party is sending a “signal” to Yediyurappa’s allies in an effort to snub them.  A section of the party workers believes that there is a systematic approach to sideline Yediyurappa and his son Vijayendra. Not just that, the party wants to eventually sideline all of their supporters, some BJP leaders opine. It is believed that the party wants to snub anyone trying to exert undue pressure on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.  That Vijayendra was not initially included in the list of incharges for the Sindagi and Hangal bypolls, has also caused disgruntlement and added to suspicion among a section of leaders. A BJP leader told DH, “There is no doubt that the BJP has begun targeting Yediyurappa’s supporters by sidelining several of them. Also, notice how the party did not allow Vijayendra to campaign in Belagavi, Dharwad or Kalaburagi corporation polls. Even for the Hangal and Sindagi bypolls, they included him in the list of incharges only after his supporters raised a hue and cry.” The BJP was targeting Yediyurappa’s supporters in the name of “cleaning” the party but this would have ramifications in the days to come, according to this leader.  However, senior BJP leaders have maintained that the raids have nothing to do with Yediyurappa and are in no way linked to the bypolls. Chief Minister’s political secretary Renukacharya told DH, “B S Yediyurappa is a respected leader. Everyone knows that he is indispensable to the party. There is no question of sidelining him.”   Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, who spoke to mediapersons in Bagalkot, also took a similar stance. “What is the link between I-T raids and Yediyurappa? The IT officials have raided someone who was with Yediyurappa. That doesn’t immediately even make the accused guilty. Officials will investigate. It is not right to cast aspersions on Yediyurappa for this,” he said.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-t-raids-a-signal-for-yediyurappa-camp-in-bjp-1038763.html
08-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||There would have been more Pakistans, but for RSS: Shettar||Former chief minister Jagadish Shettar has said that four-five more Pakistans would have been carved out of India by now, but for the Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh. "Congress and JD(S) might have changed their ideals, but the RSS' principles of unity and harmony in the country have remained same," Shettar said. He was speaking to reporters here on Friday.  "Congress leader Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy of JD(S) are competing with each other in targeting RSS - just for appeasement politics to get minority community votes. It has become a fashion for them," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/there-would-have-been-more-pakistans-but-for-rss-shettar-1038784.html
08-10-2021||Mysuru||I-T raid will not affect Karnataka assembly by-polls: B S Yediyurappa||Former Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa stated that the raid by a team of officials of Income Tax department on the premises of his former personal assistant Umesh will not have any impact on assembly bypolls for Hanagal and Sindhagi constituencies. Speaking to media persons on Friday, he said., "It is not politically motivated.The officials have called him for interrogation and will take action as per the law". Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/i-t-raid-will-not-affect-karnataka-assembly-by-polls-b-s-yediyurappa-1038598.html
08-10-2021||National||SC grants bail to wife, daughters of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted interim bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s wife Bindu Kapoor and thier two daughters — Radha and Roshni — in an alleged case of forgery for the purpose of cheating and other offences. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh granted the relief to the petitioners with no specific conditions at this stage. The court said the bail, however, would be subject to the same terms and conditions which were imposed by the trial court when they were granted interim bail in the original case. Senior counsel Harish Salve, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that all three accused were granted bail in the serious offences including Section 409 (carrying life sentence) of the IPC mentioned in the original charge sheet, but they were incarcerated on the basis of the supplementary charge sheet, containing lesser offences like Section 468 (carrying seven-year sentence) and others. He argued that Bindu is in her 60s and her daughter Radha had a breastfed infant to take care of. Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, also appearing for the family, said the general principle was that women accused can be granted bail even in non-bailable offences. The counsel submitted that the charge sheet had already been filed in the matter. If the accused were not arrested during the investigation, there is no need to arrest them after the charge sheet is filed, they said. After hearing the counsel, the court allowed a plea by Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the CBI, to file a counter affidavit within four weeks. It also gave time to the petitioners to file their rejoinder within two weeks thereafter and put the matter for consideration after six weeks.  Bindu and her daughters were remanded to judicial custody when they appeared before the CBI court on September 18. The special CBI court had rejected their bail pleas. The Bombay High Court had on September 28 rejected their bail applications. In their plea before the top court, the petitioners said that Rana was the real owner/manager of the bank and they only signed documents and in some cases, Rana “forged” their signatures. “Petitioners were not in management at Yes Bank or at DHFL, so no knowledge of quid pro quo can be attributed to them. Signing documents in support of loan for DOIT Urban Venture (India) Pvt Ltd (DOIT) is by itself a benign circumstance,” their plea said. The economic offences wing had in March 2020 registered an FIR against DHFL, DOIT and some other entities, their directors and promoters. It had named Rana as the prime accused. The CBI had alleged that Yes Bank had invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL between April and June, 2018. In return, DHFL allegedly paid a kickback of Rs 600 crore to Rana in the form of loans to two firms – DoIT Urban Ventures, a firm controlled by Kapoor's wife and daughters, and Morgan Credits, which is controlled by Bindu. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-bail-to-wife-daughters-of-yes-bank-founder-rana-kapoor-1038480.html
08-10-2021||National||India, US have parallel views on how to deal with major global challenges: Jaishankar||The views of India and the US in dealing with major global challenges like terrorism, pandemics and climate change are along parallel paths, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. In an address at the India Ideas Summit organised by the US-India Business Council (USIBC), he said the benefits of India being a major defence partner of the United States are becoming evident. "When it comes to defence and security, the benefits of India being a major defence partner of the US are becoming evident. Our collective Quad commitment to maritime security is equally relevant," Jaishankar said. "On many of the big challenges of the day — terrorism, pandemics or climate change — our thinking is along parallel paths. We not only work together on global issues but are dedicated to the well-being of the global commons. That provides the basis for coordinated action," he added. Jaishankar also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's description of India-US ties in terms of five Ts: tradition, technology, trade, trusteeship and talent. "The tradition, of course, is one of our democratic values and ethos. This has not only brought our people much closer but has helped create a powerful bridge between our societies," he said. "In many ways, it is the basis for a sixth T: that of trust. The technology T is something that we all know very well. At one level, it is an expression of the creative urges of both our societies," Jaishankar said. He said it is equally a powerful driver of business between the two sides. "Not least, it has been the reason for deepening the connect of our two nations. And increasingly, a domain for us to work closely with the rest of the international community. The technology T, of course, derives directly from the talent T," the external affairs minister said. "We have both encouraged our best minds to freely address the challenges of our contemporary era. In that process, they have generated ideas, innovations and products that have transformed the nature of our lives. And consequently, the next T — that of trade — has flourished between us," he said. Jaishankar said the quality of commerce between India and the US testifies to the progress of the respective societies and indeed to the deeper partnership between the two sides. "In business as much as in strategy, we are endeavouring to overcome the hesitations of history. All of this has to be conducted keeping in mind the long-term future of our environment. Therefore, the relevance of the trusteeship T: a conviction in the well-being of our planet and in securing it for future generations," he added. Jaishankar said the relevance of advanced technologies is captured by Quad initiatives ranging from artificial intelligence, 5G and beyond to critical minerals, space and blockchain. "Our trade potential is being more aggressively explored, bilaterally through the Trade Policy Forum and in a larger group, through additional supply chains. The importance of infrastructure is similarly being discussed in terms of high quality and market-viable initiatives," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-have-parallel-views-on-how-to-deal-with-major-global-challenges-jaishankar-1038498.html
08-10-2021||National||Signature of 1971 war memories in Air Force Day flypast||Fifty years after the historic Tangail Airdrop that decidedly changed the course of the 1971 war in India's favour and leading to the creation of Bangladesh, the Indian Air Force will remember one of the defining moments of the Bangladesh war in a unique manoeuvre on Friday. At the 89th Air Force Day parade at Hindon, a Dakota aircraft will fly in a “Tangail formation” allowing two paratroopers from the IAF and one from the Indian Army to jump from the aircraft in memory of one of the most unforgettable moments of the 1971 campaign. In December 1971, the 2 Para regiment of the Indian Army was inserted behind enemy lines to capture Poongli bridge on Jamuna river to cut off Pakistan’s 93 Infantry Brigade that was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka. Subsequently, the para commandos advanced towards Dhaka with troops from the Maratha Light Infantry through the unguarded Manikganj-Dhaka link. The flypast at Hindon will also witness a drill named “Meghna” involving a Mi17 and two Chinook helicopters to remember a crucial helibridge established across the mightly Meghna river in 1971 by Mi4 choppers to ferry tanks, artillery and men. A formation called “Pratap” involving a Dakota and two Dornier aircraft will fly in the memory of then IAF Air Chief Marshal Pratap Chandra Lal, who planned and oversaw the east Pakistan campaign, sources in the IAF told DH. Flying half-a-dozen formations named after milestone events of the 1971 war is a part of the golden jubilee celebration by India and Bangladesh to mark the surrender of the Pakistan Army and liberation of Bangladesh. Five top IAF fighter pilots would fly LCA Tejas, Rafale, Mirage-2000, Jaguar and MiG-29 combat jets in a missing man formation named Sekhon in the memory of Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Sekhon, the only IAF recipient of the Param Vir Chakra for his lone defence of Srinagar Air Base against a Pakistan Air Force air raid during the 1971 war. Another 1971 war linked drill in the flypast would be “Vinash” with five Hawks, which would fly in “L” formation to signify the role the IAF played in the Battle of Longewala, depicted on celluloid in the film Border. There would also be a formation named “Tiranga” involving a C-17 and nine Hawks from the Surya Kiran team in which the C-17 will make a Gnat formation after the Hawks peel off to remember the role played by the sub-sonic Folland Gnat aircraft flown by the IAF and the heroic dogfight at the Battle of Boyra. The IAF flypast comes towards the fag end of the year-long celebrations by the two nations. During this year’s Republic Day parade, a 122-member proud contingent of the Bangladesh Armed Forces marched on the Rajpath carrying the legacy of legendary Muktijoddhas of Bangladesh, who fought against oppression and mass atrocities and liberated Bangladesh in 1971. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/signature-of-1971-war-memories-in-air-force-day-flypast-1038521.html
08-10-2021||National||Fuel rates on fire! Petrol, diesel prices hiked again||Fuel prices continued their upward streak on a fourth straight day to touch fresh lifetime highs across the country on the back of a rally in international oil prices.   Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise in Delhi to reach Rs 103.54 per litre, while diesel price was increased by 35 paise to Rs 92.12 per litre. Mumbai saw petrol price soaring to Rs 109.54 per litre, up 29 paise, while diesel costs Rs 99.92 a litre in the financial capital. In Kolkata, petrol surged to a record Rs 104.23 per litre and diesel Rs 95.23 a litre, while in Chennai, petrol price stood at Rs 101.01 per litre and diesel at Rs 96 a litre. Petrol prices, which is dictated by the incidence of local taxes and freight, had already crossed the Rs 100 mark in several places in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat.   The international benchmark Brent crude has soared to over $82 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are being increased by a larger proportion. A month back, Brent was around $72 per barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 3.5 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 2.35. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. (Inputs from PTI)  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-rates-on-fire-petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-again-1038536.html
08-10-2021||National||India reports 21,257 new Covid-19 cases||With 21,257 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of cases rose to 3,39,15,569, while the number of active cases declined to 2,40,221, the lowest in 205 days, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,50,127 with 271 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 14 straight days. The number of active cases has declined to 2,40,221, accounting for 0.71 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.96 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,977 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 13,85,706 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total number of tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 58,00,43,190. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.53 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 39 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.64 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 105 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,32,25,221, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has crossed 93.17 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid-19 cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 271 new fatalities include 141 from Kerala, and 49 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,50,127 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,411 from Maharashtra, 37,861 from Karnataka, 35,734 from Tamil Nadu, 25,952 from Kerala, 25,088 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,876 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-21257-new-covid-19-cases-1038537.html
08-10-2021||National||The curious case of NCB cruise bust||The high-profile Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) bust in the financial capital of the country has left a series of difficult conundrums for the public to understand, further deepening the mystery. The NCB has so far arrested around 18 people in the drugs case, including, Bollywood megastar Shah Rukh Khan's son -- Aryan Khan who has been sent to 14 days of judicial custody. But even as the case is progressing further, there are some layers, when unearthed, raise eyebrows. The first thing which comes into our mind is how was the contraband taken to the luxury ship? The NCB had said that during the raid, it recovered various popular party drugs like cocaine, MDMA, ecstasy, mephedrone and charas. Of all the contraband, the cocaine was 13 grams, charas 21 grams, 22 pills of MDMA and five grams MD. It is yet 'unanswered' as to how the starkids were able to procure these drugs. The NCB's swoop, which shook the Bollywood's core as the future potential superstar-kid of the one of the reigning actors was involved, almost sounded unbelievable till a picture of a dazed Aryan sitting on a bench inside the agency's office in south Mumbai emerged from nowhere. A bald man, who was later identified as an alleged Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kiran Gosavi, clicked a picture with the starkid on the ship deck triggering a row that BJP activists were involved in the October 2 raid conducted by the NCB on the luxury ship Cordelia Cruise. Another BJP leader Manish Bhanushali was seen hauling out some of the accused, including Aryan and Arbaaz Merchant. How did a private person who is a BJP activist hand over the accused? -- another unanswered question. Of the eight people that were the first detained by the NCB, three -- Mohak Jaswal, Nupur Sarika and Gomit Chopra are from Delhi. Mohak and Nupur are both fashion designers, while Gomit is a hair stylist. Sources earlier confirmed to IANS that both Mohak and Nupur had come to Delhi with Gomit but still there is no further details about them. Did they go to Mumbai to attend the party or were they already residing there? It is yet to be answered. It is being said that the luxury ship, the Cordelia Cruises, which was raided by the sleuths of NCB when it was preparing to lift anchor for a fun-filled two-night gala voyage to Goa, had around 1,300 affluent passengers on board. Were only eight of these 1,300 people, consuming or carrying drugs with them? Is NCB going to question the remaining voyagers....? Coming back to the centre of attraction of this drug-bust, Aryan Khan, due to which this case became a high-profile case. The NCB had clearly stated that drugs was not recovered from the possession of the megastar's lad, while only six grams of charas was found in the possession of Arbaaz Merchant. If the quantity was so low, why was the NCB wdemanding another four days of his custody? Aryan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde, too, fired several questions at the drug probe agency, as the NCB said it needed custody extension so they could confront him with other accused. On Wednesday, the NCB arrested Achit Kumar whose name popped up from WhatsApp chats. "Why did the NCB not confront Aryan and Arbaaz with Achit yesterday only? NCB is well equipped, they have more than 100 officers," the lawyer asked posing another question that was not answered. "Confrontation cannot be grounds for custody," he quipped. Last but not the least, two days ago, the NCB made four more arrests in connection with the case. All the four arrested were employees of Namas'cray, a Delhi-based event management company that organised the 'rave party' onboard Cordelia Cruises' Empress ship. But wait, why are we forgetting that the Covid-19 pandemic is still ravaging the country. The country is still witnessing nearly 300 fatalities every day. Then how come under pandemic-induced restrictions, such a party was allowed. Another unanswered question! Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-curious-case-of-ncb-cruise-bust-1038538.html
08-10-2021||National||PM Modi greets air warriors on Air Force Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday extended greetings on Air Force Day, and said the Indian Air Force is synonymous with courage, diligence and professionalism. The Indian Air Force was raised on this day in 1932. In a tweet Modi said, "Greetings to our air warriors and their families on Air Force Day. The Indian Air Force is synonymous with courage, diligence and professionalism. They have distinguished themselves in defending the country and through their humanitarian spirit in times of challenges."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-air-warriors-on-air-force-day-1038544.html
08-10-2021||National||Why are you silent on Lakhimpur incident: Sibal to Modi||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Friday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's silence over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, and said just "one word of sympathy" was needed from him. In a tweet, Sibal said, "Lakhimpur Kheri Horror. Modi ji, Why are you silent? We need just one word of sympathy from you. That should not be difficult!" Lakhimpur Kheri Horror Modi jiWhy are you silent ? We need just one word of sympathy from youThat should not be difficult ! Had you been in opposition how would you have reacted ? Please tell us "Had you been in opposition how would you have reacted? Please tell us," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Earlier this week, Sibal had urged the Supreme Court to act suo motu on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. He later thanked the Chief Justice of India after the Supreme Court took cognisance of the incident and had said courts in India are temples of justice that can restore the faith of the voiceless. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya.  Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. The UP police on Thursday made the first arrests in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence taking into custody two people and also summoned Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, an accused, for questioning. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-are-you-silent-sibal-asks-modi-on-lakhimpur-incident-1038547.html
08-10-2021||National||E-auction of PM's gifts: Neeraj Chopra's javelin gets top price, Sardar Patel sculpture earns max bids||At the end of the e-auction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mementos on Thursday, the maximum number of bids were received for the sculpture of Sardar Patel (140), while the highest bid value was for Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra's javelin (Rs 1.5 crore), the culture ministry said. Among the items that received the most bids was a wooden Ganesha with 117 bids, a memento of the Pune metro line which got 104 bids and a memento of Victory flame which received 98 bids. Following close on the heels of Chopra's gold winning javelin, which received the highest bid in terms of value, were the autographed fence of Bhavani Devi (Rs 1.25 cr), Sumit Antil's javelin (Rs 1.002 cr), Angavastra autographed by the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic contingent (Rs 1 cr) and Lovlina Borgohain's boxing gloves (Rs 91 lakh). The highlight items of this round of e-auctions included the sports memorabilia of the medal winning Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games and the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games; models of Ayodhya Ram mandir; Varanasi's Rudraksh auditorium and many other precious and interesting collectibles. In the e-auction, 1,348 mementos were put up and around 8600 bids were received. This third round of e-auction of the gifts and mementos presented to Modi was held from September 17 to October 7. The proceeds of the e auction will go to the Namami Gange Mission. At the last such auction, in September 2019, as many as 2,770 objects went under the hammer. These included paintings, sculptures, shawls, jackets and traditional musical instruments. The proceeds were also donated to the Namami Gange Mission. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/e-auction-of-pms-gifts-neeraj-chopras-javelin-gets-top-price-sardar-patel-sculpture-earns-max-bids-1038548.html
08-10-2021||National||High Covid-19 rate in 0-19 age group in India; frequent post-jab infections with Delta variant: Study||A cross-sectional study conducted in India among Covid-19 cases has found an increased number of infections among the younger age group of 0-19 years and women, higher mortality rate and more frequent incidences of post-vaccination infections with Delta variant as compared to a non-Variant of Concern lineage. The Covid-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update, released by the World Health Organisation (WHO) this week, said a cross-sectional study, which is not yet peer reviewed, focussed on demographic characteristics, including severity of the illness and mortality rate. It was conducted in India among Covid-19 cases caused by the non-Variant Of Concern (B.1) variant and the Delta variant (B.1.617.2). “Using viral genomic sequences from 9,500 Covid-19 patients, the study found an increased number of infections among younger age groups (0-19 years) and women, a lower mean age for infection and symptomatic illness/hospitalisation, higher mortality and more frequent incidences of post-vaccination infections with Delta variant compared to the non-VOC (B.1) variant,” the WHO update said. The update said that globally, the number of weekly Covid-19 cases and deaths continued to decline, a trend that has been observed since August. Over 3.1 million new cases and just over 54,000 new deaths were reported during the week of September 27 to October 3, 2021. The cumulative number of confirmed cases reported globally is now over 234 million and the cumulative number of deaths is just under 4.8 million. Cases this week decreased by 9 per cent as compared to the previous week, while the number of deaths remained similar to that of the past week. All regions reported a decline in the number of new cases this week apart from the European Region. The largest decrease in new weekly cases was reported from the African Region (43 per cent), followed by the Eastern Mediterranean Region (21 per cent), the South-East Asia Region (19 per cent), the Region of the Americas (12 per cent) and the Western Pacific (12 per cent). The update said that the number of new weekly deaths reported showed an over 10 per cent decline for all regions except for the Regions of the Americas and Europe. The largest decline in weekly deaths was reported from the African Region, with a 25 per cent decline as compared to the previous week. The highest numbers of new cases were reported from the US (760,571 new cases; similar to the number reported in the previous week), the UK (239,781 new cases; similar to the number reported in the previous week), Turkey (197,277 new cases; similar to the number reported in the previous week), Russia (165,623 new cases; 13 per cent increase) and India (161,158 new cases; 21 per cent decrease). The South-East Asia Region reported over 2,78,000 new cases and over 4,300 new deaths, decreases of 19 per cent and 18 per cent respectively as compared to the previous week. This sustained regional decline in both cases and deaths has been observed since late July. This week, only one country - Bhutan - reported an increase in cases - although absolute numbers reported remain low. Similarly, Nepal was the only country to report an increase in the number of new deaths this week (68 new deaths; a 21 per cent increase). The highest numbers of new cases were reported from India (161,158 new cases; 11.7 new cases per 100,000; a 21 per cent decrease), Thailand (75,794 new cases; 108.6 new cases per 100,000; an 11 per cent decrease) and Indonesia (11,271 new cases; 4.1 new cases per 100,000; a 35 per cent decrease). The highest number of new deaths were reported from India (1,899 new deaths; a 9 per cent decrease), Thailand (746 new deaths; an 18 per cent decrease), and Indonesia (706 new deaths; a 29 per cent decrease). Globally, cases of the Alpha variant have been reported in 195 countries, territories or areas, while 145 countries have reported cases of the Beta variant; and 99 countries have reported cases of the Gamma variant. The Delta variant has been reported in 192 countries (seven new countries since last week) across all six WHO regions as of October 5.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-covid-19-rate-in-0-19-age-group-in-india-frequent-post-jab-infections-with-delta-variant-study-1038554.html
08-10-2021||National||IAF touches the sky with glory at Hindon airbase||As the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Friday marked its 89th anniversary, the air force displayed their might in the sky.  The celebrations are under way at Hindon Air Force Station in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad. Sukhoi Su-30 and Rafale were seen during the air display.  The 2021 IAF Day parade is being held as a tribute to the heroes of the 1971 war in which India defeated Pakistan, resulting in the birth of Bangladesh. Earlier, Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari inspected the parade. He also presented Vayu Sena Medal (Gallantry) to officers on the occasion. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane also attended the 89th Air Force Day parade at Hindon airbase. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-touches-the-sky-with-glory-at-hindon-airbase-1038556.html
08-10-2021||National||Dera Sacha Sauda chief convicted for murder of former sect manager||Tainted chief of Dera Sacha Sauda sect, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, was on Friday convicted by a special CBI court in Panchkula for the murder of a Dera follower, Ranjit Singh, in the year 2002. The quantum of punishment will be pronounced on October 12 by the special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg. The sect chief is currently behind bars since 2017 in a jail in Haryana’s Rohtak. He is serving a 20-year jail term for raping two of his disciples. Gurmeet Ram Rahim has also been sentenced to life imprisonment by the CBI court for the murder of a journalist, Ram Chander Chattarpati. His life imprisonment will start after he completes his 20 years in jail for rape. “The special CBI court has convicted Gurmeet Ram Rahim under Section 302 of the IPC for murder,” CBI special prosecutor HPS Verma said on Friday. Krishan Lal, Jasbir Singh, Avtar Singh and Sabdil are the other accused who have been convicted. A follower of Ram Rahim, Ranjit Singh was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002 at his native in Haryana’s Kurukshetra. The Dera chief and his accomplices suspected that Ranjit Singh was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter that brought to fore the sexual exploitation of women disciples inside the Dera complex in Sirsa. The anonymous letters opened a Pandora box leading to a case being registered.  The Punjab and Haryana High Court had recently dismissed a petition seeking the transfer of the Ranjit Singh murder case from the special CBI court in Panchkula to any other special CBI court in Punjab, Haryana, or Chandigarh. Dera Sacha Sauda remained a popular sect in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and other states, inviting millions of followers. It wielded sizable political clout across party lines.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dera-sacha-sauda-chief-convicted-for-murder-of-former-sect-manager-1038559.html
08-10-2021||National||Haven’t attended a meeting in 5 years: Varun Gandhi on being removed from NEC||In what is being seen as a response to his critical statements about the Lakhimpur violence, BJP MP Varun Gandhi was left off BJP’s 80-member national executive list, featuring PM Narendra Modi, L K Advani and other top leaders, but he seemed unfazed. Gandhi and his mother Maneka Gandhi were excluded from the list, along with other leaders like Subramanian Swamy, who has been supportive of the farmers agitation against the government’s contentious Bills. Varun Gandhi was the only BJP leader who slammed the Lakhimpur violence on Twitter saying that protestors can’t be “silenced through murder” and called for accountability in the case. While it was said to be a routine shuffle, a senior BJP leader told ANI that Gandhi projected as if “the entire fault lies at the doorsteps of the leaders” and he should’ve been patient when the opposition is already targeting the party. The Supreme Court has now stepped in and asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a status report as to who were the persons named as accused in the case. Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra and his son have denied that they were present at the spot where eight, including four farmers, were killed by an SUV belonging to their family. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haven-t-attended-a-meeting-in-5-years-varun-gandhi-on-being-removed-from-nec-1038562.html
08-10-2021||National||Guwahati airport's operations handed over to Adani Group||The Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport in Guwahati was handed over to the Adani Group for operations, management and development responsibilities on Friday. Beginning the process of developing and modernising the Northeast's foremost airport, the symbolic key of the airport was handed over by Ramesh Kumar, Airport Director of the Airports Authority of India (AAI). to Utpal Baruah, Chief Airport Officer of the new airport operator at an event held midnight, a press statement said. In 2018, the government of India included the Guwahati airport in the group of six airports — Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Mangalore, Jaipur and Thiruvananthapuram — set for privatisation for operations, management and development (OMD) for a period of 50 years. Adani Enterprise Limited emerged as the successful bidder for all six airports. The concession agreement between the AAI and Adani Enterprise Limited was signed on January 19 this year in New Delhi. From Friday onwards, the operations, management and development responsibilities of Guwahati's Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport will be handled by the new airport operator -- Adani Guwahati International Airport Limited (AGIAL) -- the statement said. Amidst the sonorous traditional tune of 'taal-khol' and 'Bihu', in presence of the Adani Group's representatives, the charge handover moment was witnessed by several staff and officers of the airport with their families.  In the initial three years, the new airport operator will be supported by the employees of the AAI. Speaking on the occasion, Kumar wished luck to the new operator and assured his support in the initial phase. Baruah, in his address, thanked the AAI for bringing in noticeable changes to LGBI Airport. He appealed to each individual at the airport and public at large for wholehearted support to make the airport a world class facility which will bring pride to the nation, the statement said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/guwahati-airports-operations-handed-over-to-adani-group-1038574.html
08-10-2021||National||Supreme Court 'not satisfied' with steps taken by Yogi Adityanath government in Lakhimpur violence case||The Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government, saying it is "not satisfied" with the steps taken by the state in the case of Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which eight people were killed, including four farmers. The top court also expressed its displeasure over the non-arrest of accused Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, while asking "Is this the way you treat the accused in other cases as well? (You are) sending notice!" "It is a brutal murder of eight persons. Law must take its course against all accused," a bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli said, hearing a PIL registered on the basis of a letter by two advocates for action and CBI probe into the October 3 incident. Representing the Uttar Pradesh government, senior advocate Harish Salve submitted that Ashish, who allegedly mowed down protesting farmers, had been asked to appear by Saturday 11 am. "Since post mortem did not show any bullet injury. That is why a notice under Section 160 CrPC was sent. But the manner in which car was driven and if allegations are true, there is a case of murder," he said. To this, the bench asked Salve, "When there is a serious allegation of murder...how the accused in other parts of the country are treated. Please tell us." Salve admitted the case is extremely serious.  "If it is an extremely serious case that's not how things are taking place. It is only in words and not in action," the bench said. The bench further asked Salve if the state government has made a request to give the case to the CBI. He said that it was entirely in the court's hands.  To this, the bench said, "CBI is also not a solution and you know the reason why...You find out better mode". Salve said all the shortfalls would be addressed in two days. The court said it expected the state government, system and police would act in a responsible manner.  Salve asked the court to take up the matter for hearing immediately after the Dussehra vacation. During the hearing, the court also took a strong objection to SIT formed in the matter, comprising local officers. The bench said it may not be required to keep the SIT anymore, but they should not destroy evidence or do anything negative.  The court said that it would take up the matter after Dussehra vacation. "It does not mean the state holds its hands," the bench said, seeking immediate steps. "You have to inspire confidence. Because of the sensitivity of the issue, state should understand, we aren't saying anything more," the bench said, listing the case for hearing on October 20. The court directed the state government to ensure all pieces of evidence were preserved till another agency took over the probe.  On Thursday, the court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a status report as to who were the persons named as accused in the case in the Lakhimpur Kheri case and whether they have been arrested or not.  Farmers' outfits and Opposition leaders claimed that a car ferrying Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish ran over a group of protesters gathered to oppose a programme attended by Uttar Pradesh's deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-not-satisfied-with-steps-taken-by-yogi-adityanath-government-in-lakhimpur-violence-case-1038576.html
08-10-2021||National||India becoming $5-trillion economy by 2025 'impossible' due to pandemic: Rangarajan||India becoming a $5-trillion economy by 2025 is impossible under the current circumstance and the country needs to grow at 9 per cent per annum for the next five years in order to achieve that, former Reserve Bank Governor C Rangarajan said on Friday. Delivering his address at 11th Convocation of ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education, Rangarajan said attempts should be made to curb the adverse impact of a third wave of Covid-19 if it happens and both the coverage of vaccination and the pace of investment in health infrastructure should be accelerated within the strategy of expanding the overall infrastructure investment. "A few years ago, there was the hope that India would become a $5-trillion strong economy by 2025. That has become impossible. India's economy was $2.7 trillion strong in 2019. At the end of March 22, we will still be at the same level. To go from $2.7 trillion to $5 trillion, the economy has to grow at 9 per cent for five consecutive years," Rangarajan said. In order to achieve the $5-trillion economy, growth which is the answer to many socioeconomic problems should therefore become the undivided concern of the government and equity which is equally important will be a distant dream unless it is supported by high growth spurred by reforms. As revenues improve, expenditures can be increased even as there is no need to reduce the fiscal deficit below the budgeted level of 6.8 per cent of GDP and fiscal consolidation may start from the next financial year, he opined. India indeed needs a faster rate of growth to make up for the loss of output in the previous two years from the trend rate and must lay the foundation for a faster growth in this year itself, the economist said. Stating that the economic activity had come to a grinding halt due to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19, he said in 2021, India's GDP fell by 7.3 per cent, USA by 3.5 per cent, France by 8.1 per cent and the UK by 9.8 per cent. It is only with the relaxation of lockdown restrictions, the economy has started looking up, the former Chairman of Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister said. "While the economic impact of the first wave was severe, the health impact of the second wave was serious. The contraction of the economy has hit hard the daily wage earners and migrant labour. Life Versus Livelihood has emerged as a serious issue," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-becoming-5-trillion-economy-by-2025-impossible-due-to-pandemic-rangarajan-1038585.html
08-10-2021||National||Shameful politics: Raveena Tandon's cryptic post on Aryan Khan's arrest||Actor Raveena Tandon on Friday took to Twitter to criticise the "shameful politics being played out" as superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and seven others, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drugs case, were to appear for a bail plea hearing. The NCB busted a drugs party onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and arrested Aryan and seven others on Sunday.  A court here on Thursday sent Aryan and seven others in 14-day judicial custody in connection with the alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Their bail applications will be heard on Friday, the court said. Without naming anyone, Tandon took to Twitter and wrote, "Shameful politics being played out... It's a young man's life and future they toying with... heartbreaking." Shameful politics being played out.. it’s a young mans life and future they toying with … heartbreaking . Filmmaker Farah Khan, who worked with Shah Rukh on a number of movies, praised his wife, Gauri Khan's strength in the moments of turmoil as she wished the interior designer on her 51st birthday. "The strength of a mother is second to none! The prayers of a parent can move mountains & part seas... HAPPY BIRTHDAY to the strongest mother and woman I've personally witnessed this past week... @gaurikhan here's wishing you the best birthday present today," Farah Khan wrote on Instagram. On Thursday, actor Hrithik Roshan, a good friend of Shah Rukh, took to Instagram and posted a letter addressed to Aryan, saying that the tough times will only make him stronger.  Earlier this week, Roshan's former wife, interior designer Sussanne Khan, also came out in support of Aryan and said she stands by Shah Rukh and Gauri. Before Hrithik and Sussanne Khan, Bollywood personalities like filmmaker Hansal Mehta, actors Pooja Bhatt and Suchitra Krishnamoorthi expressed their solidarity with Shah Rukh. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shameful-politics-raveena-tandons-cryptic-post-on-aryan-khans-arrest-1038587.html
08-10-2021||National||EAM S Jaishankar speaks to UK counterpart Liz Truss on travel related issues||Asked about the vaccine certification row at the India Today conclave, Jaishankar said he was glad that the issue has been sorted out. "To me, this was a problem which should not have arisen in the first place. So we did what we had to do," he said referring to India's reciprocal action. "I am glad we have sorted out the situation. I had a very very cordial talk with my (UK) counterpart this afternoon. Both of us agreed that we should find ways by which travel happens more freely and naturally and without quarantine between our countries," he said in response to a question. The UK on Thursday announced that Indian travellers fully vaccinated with both doses of Covishield or any other vaccine approved by it will not require to undergo a 10-day mandatory quarantine on arrival from October 11. India strongly protested the quarantine rule and imposed reciprocal action under which all British nationals arriving in India from the UK needed to undergo a mandatory 10-day quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated. "Good to talk to UK Foreign Secretary @trussliz. Agreed to facilitate travel between our two countries. This will help to implement the Roadmap 2030," Jaishankar tweeted after the conversation with the British foreign secretary. The Roadmap 2030 was adopted at a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson at a virtual summit in May. The roadmap is aimed at elevating bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and guide cooperation over the next decade in the key areas of trade and economy, defence and security, climate change and people-to-people connect among others. The announcement on lifting quarantine rule for Indian travellers was made by British High Commissioner to India Alex Ellis on Thursday evening. "From Monday, a traveller from India to the UK, double jabbed with Covishield or another vaccine recognised by the UK regulator does not have to quarantine. It will be easier and cheaper to enter the UK. This is great news," Ellis said in a video statement.   Separately, the UK issued a fresh travel advisory and said the "red list" will reduce to seven countries and "proof of vaccination will be recognised from 37 new countries and territories including India from 4 am on Monday. Under the new British rules that came into effect on October 4, Indians, fully vaccinated with Covishield, were required to undergo 10-day quarantine as the UK had issues with India's Covid-19 vaccine certification. In its latest travel advisory, the UK said the government extended the inbound vaccinated arrivals system to a further 37 countries and territories across the globe including India, South Africa and Turkey, which meant eligible vaccinated passengers arriving from the rest of the world countries only need to take a "day two test in England". People familiar with the matter said Indian travellers who have received both doses of Covishield or another UK-approved vaccine will not also be required to take a pre-departure test nor take a day eight test following their arrival. The UK initially refused to recognise Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII). However, following India's strong criticism of the decision, the UK on September 22 amended its new guidelines and included the vaccine. The move did not provide any relief from quarantine rules for Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield. Later, British officials said the UK has issues with India's vaccine certification process and not with the Covishield vaccine. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-s-jaishankar-speaks-to-uk-counterpart-liz-truss-on-travel-related-issues-1038592.html
08-10-2021||National||Will gherao PM Modi's residence if Lakhimpur incident culprits not arrested in seven days: Bhim Army chief||Azad Samaj Party chief and Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad on Friday said he and his supporters will gherao the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi if the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are not arrested within seven days. The prime minister should talk to farmers, go to Lakhimpur Kheri and meet family members of slain farmers, he demanded. "The prime minister tweets on every issue but he is yet to react on the killing of the farmers. The culprits are roaming free. We will gherao the PM's residence if the culprits are not arrested within seven days," Azad said at a press conference. The Dalit leader compared the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, and asserted it will have huge repercussions in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Elections next year. Azad alleged there is no law and order in Uttar Pradesh and demanded that the CM tender his resignation. He also supported the demand for a caste census, saying it will help ascertain the percentage of neglected sections of society. Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Sunday. Of the eight, four were farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. The other four were two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private television channel. An FIR under section 302 of IPC (murder) has been registered against the Union minister's son, Ashish Mishra, and others in connection with the incident at the Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-gherao-pm-modis-residence-if-lakhimpur-incident-culprits-not-arrested-in-seven-days-bhim-army-chief-1038612.html
08-10-2021||National||Thanks to PM Modi, festive spirit has faded, says Rahul Gandhi over price rise||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, saying thanks to him the "festive spirit has faded" due to sustained inflation. In a tweet, Gandhi quoted a news report that price rise has hit the common people hard with petrol becoming dearer by Rs 2.35 and diesel by Rs 3 in 11 days. "The prices of petrol, diesel and food items and LPG are continuing to rise. Thanks to Modi Ji, the festive spirit has faded," he said in a tweet in Hindi with the hashtag "price hike". Rahul Gandhi and his Congress party has been attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the rise in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG and of essential food items. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thanks-to-pm-modi-festive-spirit-has-faded-says-rahul-gandhi-over-price-rise-1038615.html
08-10-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: Jab hesitancy at lowest level but Delta breakthrough surge dims cheer||Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-jab-hesitancy-at-lowest-level-but-delta-breakthrough-surge-dims-cheer-1038621.html
08-10-2021||National||Olympic champion Neeraj Chopra wants to continue with current coach in 2024 Games||Describing his German coach Klaus Bartonietz as the "best" for him, Olympic gold-winning javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra on Friday said he would like to continue their spectacular partnership in the 2024 Paris Games as well. During a panel discussion at the 'India Today Conclave', Chopra said Bartonietz's methods suit him as the bio-mechanical expert cracks jokes even during intense sessions making training thoroughly enjoyable. "At times, I don't like to be very serious during training sessions. Koi coach aise hote hey, danda pakadke pichhe khade hote hain (There are some coaches who stand with a stick). But Klaus sir is different," the 23-year-old said as he sat flanked by India's first individual Olympic gold-medallist Abhinav Bindra. "When we have to be serious and intense, we are serious but sometimes he cracks jokes during sessions and that makes training enjoyable," "His training methods suit me and I have great bonding with him. I want to continue training with him for the next Olympics also," added the young star, who created history by winning the first athletics medal for India in the Olympics in Tokyo. Chopra has been training with Bartonietz since 2019. He was earlier training under another German in former world record holder Uwe Hohn, who was recently released by the Athletics Federation of India due to several differences, including his salary and training methods . Chopra also disclosed that he did just a couple of warm-up throws before the Olympic final in Tokyo as he wanted to preserve himself for the actual competition. "Most of the finalists came out one and a half hours to two hours before the final for warm up and they were having lots of throws. But I did only two or three warm up throws. "I wanted to do my best during the actual competition and preserve energy. The medal was in the actual competition only. My coach was looking for me and he told me why I was not having warm up throws," he said. "It was very hot in Tokyo that day and I told him that before qualification round (three days before) I did a lot of warm up throws and that left me with less energy during the actual event." Chopra became the toast of the nation after his historic achievement in Tokyo but he faced uncertain times in 2019 after having to undergo a surgery on the elbow of his throwing arm. "It was a very difficult time for me when I had that surgery. I had to take complete rest for 30-45 days. I overdid things in a bid to come back quickly. I was told to do slow cycling exercise but I did so much that my legs got hurt. "I missed World Championships in which the medal winners did distances which I could have done. But I was happy that I could qualify for the Tokyo Olympics in my first international event in South Africa (early 2020)," he recalled. Asked why he cut his long hair before the Tokyo Olympics, Chopra said, "I was taking part in competitions (in Portugal and Finland) before the Olympics wearing caps and bandanas. Sometimes, when I attacked for the final throw, the cap would fall down and it was affecting my throw. "So, I was kind of losing focus because of that (long hair)," Chopra said in the panel discussion which also had Olympian and former tennis player Manisha Malhotra who talked about the Haryana youngster's nonchalant and easy-going nature. Bindra said India winning an Olympic gold through Chopra 13 years after his trend-setting triumph in 2008 Beijing Games pointed to the slow development of sport in the country. "Taking 13 years (to win another gold) is a slow progress but nonetheless Indian sport is making progress and the next decade could be India's decade in sporting development. "Moreover, today's generation of Indian athletes are fearless, self confident and Neeraj is one among them. The kind of resources the current athletes are getting access to are comparable with those in any country." Talking about himself, Bindra said, "I am basically a darpok (timid) and shy person, I have had self doubt all through my career, did crazy things to conquer it." His battle with mind full of doubts is chronicled in his biography and he shared several anecdotes from it, including his decision to calm himself with a couple of Jack Daniels whiskey a night before the final in Beijing. Chopra, on the other hand, said he can't do without good sleep before big finals. "For me also, mental fitness and physical fitness is important. But I need good sleep before events though I could not do that before the Tokyo final," he recalled. Chopra's social media valuation and brand value skyrocketed after the Tokyo Olympics gold, reportedly placing him second behind Virat Kohli. Asked about his social media presence, Chopra said, "It's only in spare time. When I am resting I make these videos of earlier training and post them. My main focus is my sports." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/olympic-champion-neeraj-chopra-wants-to-continue-with-current-coach-in-2024-games-1038624.html
08-10-2021||National||SC unhappy over false tweet claiming CJI met victims of Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Expressing displeasure over a tweet posted by a media organisation which falsely claimed that Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana had met the kin of victims of Lakhmipur Kheri violence, the Supreme Court Friday said it respects the media and their independence but this is “not at all fair”. The apex court, which was hearing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence matter, termed the tweet “very unfortunate” and said the media should verify the facts. “We are sorry to observe that somebody is exceeding the limit of freedom of speech. They should verify the facts. These are all false representations which is being done,” said a bench, comprising the CJI and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. The issue cropped up when an advocate told the bench that on Thursday, a media organisation had posted a tweet which said the CJI had met the kin of victims of Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “All of us are at the receiving end of irresponsible tweets. I have seen some about myself also,” said senior advocate Harish Salve, who was appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government. CJI Ramana said, “They must have some sense because I was sitting in the court. How can I go to Lucknow and visit the family.” “Leave it there. We should not bother about these things. In public life, we have to receive..,” the CJI said. Justice Surya Kant said the court expects they should come out with a bona fide and voluntary report to say “this is what we have done”. “We respect the media and their independence but this is not the way to cross it. This is not at all fair,” Justice Kohli said. “It is part and parcel of public life. Let it be,” the CJI said. The top court said it is not satisfied with the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight persons were killed on October 3. The bench told Salve to communicate to the top most police official that evidence and other relevant materials in the case are not destroyed. The court has posted the matter for hearing on October 20. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. An FIR under section 302 of the IPC has been registered against the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station but no arrest has been made so far. Farmer leaders have claimed that Ashish was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down the protesters but the minister has denied the allegations. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 since last November. The apex court had stayed the implementation of these laws in January. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-unhappy-over-false-tweet-claiming-cji-met-victims-of-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-1038631.html
08-10-2021||National||Govt intends to have EV sales penetration of 30% for private cars by 2030, says Nitin Gadkari||The government intends to have EV sales penetration of 30 per cent for private cars, 70 per cent for commercial vehicles and 80 per cent for two and three-wheelers by 2030 as there is an immediate need to decarbonize the transport sector, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Friday.       Gadkari further said if electric vehicles penetrate to 40 per cent in the two-wheelers and cars segment and close to 100 per cent for buses by 2030, India would be able to reduce crude oil consumption by 156 million tonne worth Rs 3.5 lakh crore.         "There is an immediate need to decarbonize the transport sector and make it sustainable with the economy, ecology, and environmental point of view ," he said while addressing an event organised by industry body FICCI virtually.           "The government intends to have EV sales penetration of 30 per cent for private cars, 70 per cent for commercial vehicles, 40 per cent for buses, and 80 per cent for two and three-wheelers by 2030," he added.                The road transport and highways minister pointed out that in the EV mission, NITI Aayog has inspired 25 states to come up with EV policies, out of which 15 have already announced state EV policy.   He said a potential pilot project is being planned to install an electric highway between Delhi-Mumbai expressways which will facilitate the movement of heavy-duty trucks and passenger buses on electricity.                     Noting that transport plays a crucial role in the overall development of a country, Gadkari said,"Globally India has the highest rail-line length and the second-largest road network which carries millions of passengers and tonnes of goods every day."           To fulfill everyday transport needs of a large population, he said his ministry is focusing on the development of efficient and affordable public transport systems such as metro rail, rapid rail transit, mono-rail, BRT, intra and intercity bus services. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-intends-to-have-ev-sales-penetration-of-30-for-private-cars-by-2030-says-nitin-gadkari-1038643.html
08-10-2021||National||IAF Day: 75 aircraft take part in air show marking platinum jubilee year of Independence||Celebrating its 89th anniversary, the Indian Air Force on Friday put up a dazzling show with 75 aircraft, drawn from its vintage and modern fleet, performing skilful manoeuvres also marking the platinum jubilee year of India's Independence. The air show at the Hindon airbase showcased Dakota, Dornier, LCA Tejas and Rafale fighter jets among other aircraft. Some of the routines performed were a nod to the country's victory in the 1971 war. "A total of 75 aircraft took part in the air show today at Hindon airbase as part of the 89th IAF Day celebrations. The number is significant as it marks the 75th year of India's Independence. "This was not announced earlier and we had kept it as a surprise package," a senior IAF official said. Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhary in his address before the show, hailed the contributions of previous IAF chiefs for their visionary leadership and also saluted the brave warriors who have laid down their lives in the line of duty. Touching on the modernisation plans of the IAF, the Chief of Air Staff pitched for "creative and skilful" employment of new-age capabilities through the development of unique tactics and "out-of-the-box" operational plans and training programmes to gain mastery over modern trends of aerial warfare. India is marking the 75th year of Independence as 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' and a huge tricolour made of Khadi was displayed on the side of the tarmac. This year is also being celebrated as 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' which marks the 50th anniversary of the victory of the Indian armed forces in the 1971 war against Pakistan, which eventually led to the birth of Bangladesh. During the aerial manoeuvres, some of the segments were a tribute to the valour of the Indian armed forces and supreme sacrifices made by many soldiers. The air show began with an Aakash Ganga team of paratroopers delighting the spectators, after ejecting out of an AN-32 aircraft. This was followed by a flight of a vintage Dakota from which three paratroopers emerged, in a nod to the Tangail airdrop during the 1971 war. Six Hunter aircraft made a 'Vinaash' formation to signify the decisive victory of India in the Battle of Longewala in 1971. Other air displays that drew cheers from the crowd included aircraft flying in 'Rudra' formation, 'Meghna' formation that included two Chinooks, 'Eklavya' that included four Apaches, and a show by 'Sarang' helicopters and Surya Kiran flying team, and C-130J Super Hercules. C-17 Globemaster, Su-30, Hawk, Jaguar, Mi-29 also took part in the dazzling show at the airbase that was decked up for the occasion. In another nod to the 1971 war victory, 'Pratap' formation -- named after then IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Pratap Chandra Lal -- was flown with a Dakota and two Dorniers. Many vintage and modern aircraft were put on static display on side of the tarmac, facing the saluting dais. These included Gnat, a single-sea interceptor and an air-defence and ground attack fighter, Chinook, Mirage-2000, ALH Mk3, LCA Tejas, Rafale, MiG-21 Bison, Apache attack helicopter, Jaguar, Su-30 and C-130J Super Hercules. A 'Sekhon' formation named after IAF' Flying Officer Nirmal Jeet Sekhon who was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra -- India's highest gallantry award -- was also flown. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-day-75-aircraft-take-part-in-air-show-marking-platinum-jubilee-year-of-independence-1038646.html
08-10-2021||National||My comparison of Lakhimpur incident to Jallianwala Bagh led to I-T raids on Ajit Pawar's kin: NCP chief||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Friday reiterated that the Income Tax Department's raids on Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar's relatives and aides came after his comparison of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre during the British rule. Speaking at a meeting of his party in Solapur, Pawar wondered if people had the right to express their views freely in the country. "The I-T raids were carried out because I likened the Lakhimpur Kheri violence to Jallianwala Bagh massacre...Don't we have the right to air our views in democracy?" he asked. The I-T department on Thursday raided some businesses linked to family members of Ajit Pawar and some real estate developers on charges of alleged tax evasion. The premises linked to business groups such as DB Realty, Shivalik, Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sugar Karkhana (Jarandeshwar SSK) and businesses linked to Ajit Pawar's sisters were raided during the operation, official sources had said. On Tuesday, Pawar had drawn a parallel between the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which eight persons were killed, and the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, and said people would show the BJP its place. The former Union minister on Friday alleged that the BJP-led central government was leaving no stone unturned to trouble the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government (of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) in Maharashtra. "The state government is not being given its rightful share in the central funds," he added. "We need to remove the BJP from our path. In the recent bypolls of local bodies, the MVA allies, which contested separately, won 70 per cent of the seats. There is no doubt in my mind that if we fight together we will get better results. We have to now figure out how to contest the future elections," he said. Pawar accused the BJP of being "anti-farmer" and indulging in "misuse of power". He said that a complete shutdown should be observed during the October 11 'Maharashtra bandh' and it should be carried out in a peaceful manner. "Nothing should be open except the essential services," he said. The Maharashtra Cabinet had on Wednesday expressed regret over the death of farmers in the violence at Lakhimpur Kheri, while the ruling allies here called for a statewide bandh on October 11 to protest against the incident in the Uttar Pradesh district as they sought to corner the BJP over the tragedy. The Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress, allies in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), gave the call for Maharashtra bandh to protest against the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, four of them farmers, were killed on Sunday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-comparison-of-lakhimpur-incident-to-jallianwala-bagh-led-to-i-t-raids-on-ajit-pawars-kin-ncp-chief-1038649.html
08-10-2021||National||CEA K V Subramanian to step down, return to academia||Chief Economic Advisor (CEA) K V Subramanian will be leaving the finance ministry and returning to academia on completion of his three-year term. The government had appointed Subramanian, an ISB Hyderabad professor, as the CEA in December 2018. He had succeeded Arvind Subramanian, who quit the position close to a year ahead of his extended tenure. Subramanian's three-year term would have come up for renewal in December but he decided to return to academia. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet wished him the very best for his future endeavours, saying, "Its been a delight to work with @SubramanianKri. His academic brilliance, unique perspectives on key economic as well as policy matters and reformist zeal are noteworthy." The government will have to look for a new person for the crucial post at a time when the economy is coming out of the pandemic-induced decline. Another important task before the new CEA would be to prepare the Economic Survey to be tabled in Parliament on the last working day of January. Subramanian's projection that the economy will stage a V-shaped recovery after registering a sharp decline in 2020-21 on account of the impact of COVID-19 pandemic is proving to be correct. According to Reserve Bank estimates, the GDP is likely to register a growth rate of 9.5 per cent during the current financial year. The Economic Survey 2020-21 authored by him had projected GDP growth of 11 per cent during the current financial year ending March 2022. In a statement, K V Subramanian thanked the Prime Minister as well as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for their support and inspiring leadership. "I have decided to return back to academia following the completion of my 3-year fulfilling tenure as the Chief Economic Adviser, Government of India," he said. Subramanian, who authored three Economic Surveys, said, "In close to three decades of my professional life, I am yet to encounter a more inspiring leader than the Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modiji. His intuitive understanding of economic policy combines with an unmistakeable determination to use the same to elevate the lives of common citizens." The momentous change in India's economic thinking post the pandemic -- inter alia embracing ethical wealth creation by empowering the private sector and economic recovery driven by government capital expenditure -- bears testimony to his leadership, he said. Considered as one of the youngest CEAs, he said given the passion for research, bringing new ideas and disseminating them through the Economic Survey has been an unadulterated pleasure. "This process has taught me to carefully pick a team of talented and motivated professionals in a way that Sourav Ganguly exemplified, remaining calm while continually paddling underneath as (M S) Dhoni epitomised, and always putting the nation first in a way that Rahul Dravid demonstrated. "The way my incredibly committed and capable team of Indian Economic Service officers responded to the responsibility and the freedom entrusted to them -- a sine qua non for a creative team -- has been so wonderful to observe," he said. Thanking the finance minister, he said she has been instrumental in the Economic Surveys carrying their free spirit. "Her feedback has been as committed as her support. Whether it was in taking the draft chapters to read on a cross-country flight or in suggesting changes that better incorporated India's institutional features, these are but two examples of her commitment and support," he said. Former CEA Arvind Subramanian was the second key economic policy adviser in the Modi government to quit the job mid-way to return to the US. Previously, the then NITI Aayog vice chairman Arvind Panagariya had stepped down in August 2017, nearly two years before his term was to end. Incidently, both were handpicked after the BJP government came to power in May 2014 and cited personal reasons for quitting ahead of tenure. K V Subramanian, 50, obtained his MBA and PhD in financial economics from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, under the advice of Professor Luigi Zingales and Professor Raghuram Rajan, former RBI Governor. In previous academic roles, Subramanian served on the finance faculty at Goizueta Business School at Emory University in the US. Before beginning his academic career, Subramanian worked as a consultant with JPMorgan Chase in New York. He also served in a management role in the elite derivatives research group at ICICI Ltd, which at the time was India's top project financing institution. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cea-k-v-subramanian-to-step-down-return-to-academia-1038672.html
08-10-2021||National||Rahul, Rajnath visit Chirag Paswan on his father's first death anniversary; spark speculation||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi visited LJP leader Chirag Paswan on Friday on the occasion of the first death anniversary of the Bihar MP's father (Ram Vilas Paswan), prompting renewed speculation about the opposition's efforts to reach out to the Dalit leader. Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Rajnath Singh and RJD president Lalu Prasad Yadav also met the young leader to pay their tributes to his father. Gandhi visited Paswan's Janpath residence, home to his father Ram Vilas Paswan for over three decades, and spent time with him and his family members as people paid homage to one of the tallest Dalit leaders who had died last year. Gandhi's visit to the LJP leader comes amid a growing distance between him and the BJP after the ruling party dumped him for another LJP faction, now given the name Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party, headed by his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, a Union minister. Opposition leaders in Bihar, including RJD president Yadav and his son Tejashwi Yadav, have been urging Chirag Paswan to switch over to their camp. Sources, however, added that not much should be read into Gandhi's visit to Paswan's residence as he had invited leaders of various parties. At a commemoration event he had held in Patna last month, leaders from various parties, including the BJP and the RJD, had attended it. Chirag Paswan has, however, kept his cards close to chest, stressing that his immediate priority is to build his party. A trenchant critic of Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar, he has been less vocal in attacking the BJP and has, at times, even praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-rajnath-visit-chirag-paswan-on-his-fathers-first-death-anniversary-spark-speculation-1038684.html
08-10-2021||National||Digital divide produced stark consequences for poor school children from rural and tribal areas: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said that the digital divide following the Covid pandemic, has produced "stark consequences" as right to education was virtually denied to children of economically weaker sections and other disadvantaged groups due to unavailability of computer-based equipment and access to internet for online classes. The top court asked the Centre and state governments to work jointly to develop a realistic and lasting solution to ensure children were not denied education due to lack of resources. Schools in rural and tribal areas have seen a large drop out rate owing to the lack of access to online education, it said.  The court was hearing a plea by Action Committee Unaided Recognised Private Schools in connection with the access to technology. "We are merging EWS with mainstream and on the other hand, there is such disparity. The mother who is a maid and the father is a driver, where will they get the laptop from? You have to upload homework on the laptop," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna said. The court directed the Delhi government to develop a plan to help children of EWS category. "It is necessary for Delhi government to come with a plan to uphold the salutary objective of RTE act. Centre shpuld also coordinate with state governments and share concurrent responsibilities for the purposes of funding," the bench said. The court said needs of young children who are future of the country cannot be ignored. It suggested the government to tap the corporate social responsibility funds for the purpose. It ordered to tag the matter with special leave petitions against the Delhi High Court's September, 2020 judgement, directing Delhi government to provide computer-based equipment and internet package, free of cost to EWS children in private and government schools. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-divide-produced-stark-consequences-for-poor-school-children-from-rural-and-tribal-areas-sc-1038687.html
08-10-2021||National||Will speak after I-T searches get over: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said he will speak about the Income Tax department's raids on the properties of his relatives and aides once the action is over. He did not want to obstruct the I-T department's work, he told reporters here. "The department is doing its job. The officials are still there. Once they leave, I will issue my statement. By speaking while the searches are on, I do not want to obstruct their work," said the senior NCP leader. He also appealed the NCP workers who had gathered outside the Council Hall here to express support for him to leave, Pawar added. "Let I-T officials leave and I will answer all questions. I have answers for your questions," said Pawar, who holds finance portfolio in the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government. "My stand is always clean and transparent. I am disciplined about financial matters. I always appeal people to pay their taxes....tax should be paid by everyone including me and the firms linked to me," he said. He will also speak about the controversial sale of defunct cooperative sugar mills in the state by providing proof, Pawar said. Earlier in the day, NCP president Sharad Pawar had alleged that the Income Tax raids came after he compared the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. "The I-T raids were carried out because I likened the Lakhimpur Kheri violence to Jallianwala Bagh massacre...Don't we have the right to air our views in democracy?" asked the senior leader who is Ajit Pawar's uncle. The I-T department on Thursday raided some businesses linked to family members of Ajit Pawar and some real estate developers on charges of tax evasion. The premises linked to business groups such as DB Realty, Shivalik, Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sugar Karkhana (Jarandeshwar SSK) and businesses linked to Ajit Pawar's sisters were raided during the operation, official sources had said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-speak-after-i-t-searches-get-over-ajit-pawar-1038689.html
08-10-2021||National||India will be among top 5 global bio-manufacturing hubs by 2025: Jitendra Singh||India will be among the top five countries to be recognised as a global bio-manufacturing hub by 2025, Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Friday, noting that India's bio-economy is on way to achieve $150-billion target from the current $70 billion. He was speaking here after releasing the Genetic Version of Indian rice and chickpea (DNA panArray) developed by National Institute of Plant Genome Research (NIPGR). The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Science & Technology said India will be within the top five countries to be recognised as a Global Bio-manufacturing Hub by 2025. "India's Bio-Economy is on way to achieve 150-billion-dollar target from the current 70 billion-dollar to contribute effectively to the Prime Minister's vision of a 5 trillion-dollar economy by 2024-25," he said. Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 75th Independence Day Speech from the Red Fort, Singh said the roadmap for the next 25 years will be determined by scientific and technological innovations and scientific prowess in all walks of life and called upon young scientists to walk the talk. He said, this will be possible through a very well-articulated vision, mission and goals, driven through a set of well-defined strategies and a clearly laid out implementation Action plan put forth by the government. Singh said the two DNA chips for rice and chickpea, IndRA and IndiCA are the first Pan-Genome genotyping arrays in these two crops and will tap the huge potential of Indian plant biodiversity and genomic diversity towards food and nutritional security of the nation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-be-among-top-5-global-bio-manufacturing-hubs-by-2025-jitendra-singh-1038695.html
08-10-2021||National||Nitin Gadkari favours raising speed limits on expressways to 140 km/hour; Bill in Parliament soon||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said that he is in favour of increasing the maximum speed limit on expressways to 140 km per hour, and added that a Bill will soon be introduced in Parliament to revise the speed limits for vehicles for different categories of roads. The road transport and highways minister added that there is a mentality regarding speed that if the speed of the car increases then there will be an accident. "My personal view is that the speed limit for vehicles on expressways should be increased to 140 km per hour," he said while addressing the 'India Today Conclave 2021'. Gadkari added that while the speed limits on national highways should be at least 100 km per hour on four-lane roads, the respective speed limit for two-lane roads and city roads should be 80 km per hour and 75 km per hour. He said the parameter of the speed limit for vehicles in India is one of the big challenges. "There are some decisions by the Supreme Court and high courts regarding car speed, due to which we are not able to do anything," he said. Gadkari added that today, such expressway has been built in the country that not even a dog can come on those roads because barricading has been done on both sides of the road. He said he has prepared a "file to revise the maximum speed limits for vehicles for different categories of roads". "In a democracy, we have the right to make laws and judges have the right to interpret the law...a Bill will soon be introduced in Parliament to revise the speed limit for vehicles on Indian roads," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-favours-raising-speed-limits-on-expressways-to-140-km/hour-bill-in-parliament-soon-1038706.html
08-10-2021||National||Not mandatory for CBI to conduct preliminary enquiry in corruption cases: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday held that it is not mandatory for the CBI to launch a preliminary enquiry before lodging the FIR in all cases of corruption. The CBI can directly register a regular case instead of conducting a preliminary enquiry on receiving source information disclosing the commission of a cognisable offence, it said. "The precedents of this court and the provisions of the CBI Manual make it abundantly clear that a preliminary enquiry is not mandatory in all cases which involve allegations of corruption. The decision of the Constitution Bench in Lalita Kumari case holds that if the information received discloses the commission of a cognisable offence at the outset, no preliminary enquiry would be required," a three-judge bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. In its 64-page judgement, the court said to issue a direction for conducting preliminary enquiry in all cases will be tantamount to stepping into the legislative domain.  The bench, also comprising Justices Vikram Nath and B V Nagarathna, however, pointed out registration of a regular case can have disastrous consequences for the career of an officer, if the allegations ultimately turned out to be false. In a preliminary enquiry, the CBI is allowed access to documentary records and speak to persons just as they would in an investigation, which entails that information gathered can be used at the investigation stage as well, the court pointed out. Hence, conducting a preliminary enquiry would not take away from the ultimate goal of prosecuting accused persons in a timely manner, it said. "However, we once again clarify that if the CBI chooses not to hold a preliminary enquiry, the accused cannot demand it as a matter of right," the bench said. The court gave this ruling while setting aside a Telangana HC judgement which quashed a 2017 FIR against civil servant turned politician, state Education Minister Audimulapu Suresh and his IRS wife, T N Vijayalakshmi, in a case of possessing assets disproportionate to their known sources of income. Among other reasons, the High Court had on February 11, 2020 said the CBI should have conducted preliminary enquiry into the matter as per its manual before registering a regular case, i e, the FIR. The CBI challenged the validity of the High Court's saying it had gone far beyond the ambit of its jurisdiction by virtually conducting a trial in an effort to absolve the accused. The CBI claimed the couple was found in possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 1,10,81,692/- which is 22.86 per cent more than the known sources of income. The CBI's ACB Chennai registered an FIR on September 20, 2017 against 1992-batch IRS officer Vijayalakshmi and YSRCP MLA Suresh, alleging they they have acquired assets to the tune of Rs 5,95,58,322 against the income of Rs 4,84,76,630 during check period of April 1, 2010 to February 29, 2016. Therefore, it was alleged they had acquired disproportionate assets to a tune of Rs 1,10,81,692 which is 22.86 per cent of their income. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-mandatory-for-cbi-to-conduct-preliminary-enquiry-in-corruption-cases-sc-1038709.html
08-10-2021||National||Tej Pratap Yadav attends function hosted by Pashupati Paras, raises eyebrows||Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav on Friday turned up at a function hosted by Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, triggering speculations about the maverick RJD leader, who wears his religious fervour on the sleeves, cosying up to BJP-led NDA which his father has always fought tooth and nail. Tej Pratap raised many eyebrows when he walked down to the Patna office of the Lok Janshakti Party’s faction headed by Paras, to attend the first death anniversary of the LJP’s late founder and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. Warmly received by Paras, the Hasanpur MLA took the mike to express his full support to the Union minister’s demand that his deceased elder brother be given the Bharat Ratna. While Tej Pratap chose to honour the invitation extended by Paras, younger brother Tejashwi, who lives just a few hundred metres away, preferred to pay floral tributes at his residence where a portrait of Paswan was placed alongside that of Jayaprakash Narayan, whose death anniversary falls on the same date. Lalu Prasad, who is in Delhi, visited the residence of Paswan’s son Chirag to take part in the function organised on the same occasion. The RJD supremo has been trying to woo the Jamui MP, isolated in the LJP since the split, stressing the close relations he shared with the deceased Dalit leader. Tej Pratap was also conspicuous by his absence at a meeting of RJD MLAs convened by Tejashwi to discuss the strategy for by-elections to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly segments. The development came a day after Tej Pratap’s name was omitted from the list of the party’s 20 star campaigners. “Names of Tej Pratap, Misa (Prasad's eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha MP) and Rabri Devi (wife, ex-CM) do not figure in the list as they had expressed their inability to take part in the campaign,” a senior party leader who is known to be close to Prasad’s family said on condition of anonymity. “Not much should be read into the matter. These are just by-elections,” he insisted. However, the BJP, which is the RJD’s principal rival, was quick to fish in troubled waters with the remark that omission of their names signalled “time is up for Misa and Tej Pratap”. Although younger to Misa and Tej Pratap, Tejashwi, a favourite of his father, has overshadowed his elder siblings in terms of clout in the party. A former Deputy CM who is at present leader of the opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi emerged as the party’s de facto leader while his father was in jail, serving sentences in fodder scam cases. Tej Pratap, who likes to dress up like Hindu deities, has often compared himself to Lord Krishna and Tejashwi to Arjuna, in a bid to send across the message that far from being an adversary, he was a protector of his younger brother. The state’s political firmament has, nonetheless, been witness to many an outburst of the volatile leader, who floated an outfit named after his parents when some of his confidants were not considered for party tickets in the Lok Sabha polls. Recently, another close aide of his walked over to the party headed by Paras upon being sacked as the chief of the RJD students’ wing. Tej Pratap reacted by forming a parallel students’ body, leaving the party rank and file flustered. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tej-pratap-yadav-attends-function-hosted-by-pashupati-paras-raises-eyebrows-1038721.html
08-10-2021||National||'Indian, Chinese troops briefly engaged in face-off in Tawang sector last week'||Nearly 200 soldiers of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of late made an attempt to transgress into the territory of India in Arunachal Pradesh – just weeks after making a similar bid at Barahoti in Uttarakhand. The incursion attempts by the PLA soldiers in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh in the recent weeks triggered concerns in New Delhi about the possibility of the 17-month-long military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the western sector of the disputed boundary spreading to the middle and eastern sectors too. The Indian Army soldiers intercepted the Chinese PLA personnel after they transgressed into the territory of India between Bum La and Yangtse near Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh last week. The situation was resolved after the local commanders intervened, sources in New Delhi said on Friday. A similar transgression attempt by about 100 PLA soldiers at Barahoti in Uttarakhand had been reported a few weeks back, although they too had returned after a few hours. The PLA’s incursion bids in the eastern and middle sector of the disputed China-India boundary took place even as New Delhi and Beijing of late agreed that the senior military commanders of the two nations would hold another round of talks between the senior military commanders of the two nations soon to resolve the stand-off in the western sector. The stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh had started in April-May 2020 after China had deployed a large number of troops along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh, apparently to push the line westward – thus flouting the border peace pacts signed by the two neighbouring nations in 1993 and 1996. The LAC marks the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector, although the two sides have differences over the alignment of the line. They also have similar disagreements about the alignment of the de facto boundary in the middle and eastern sectors too. The officials in New Delhi on Friday sought to play down the recent incursion bid by the Chinese PLA personnel in Arunachal Pradesh, stating that such incidents kept on happening due to differences in perceptions about the alignment of the lines, which serve as the de facto boundary in the absence of a demarcated boundary. The military stand-off in eastern Ladakh had reached a flashpoint with the Galwan Valley clash on June 15, 2020, when the Indian Army had lost 20 of its soldiers and the Chinese PLA four of its personnel. After long negotiations over months, the two sides mutually withdrew frontline troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso as well as from the face-off point at Gogra Post earlier this year. But the stand-off remained unresolved in other locations along the LAC, even as one-and-a-half years passed since it had started. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-troops-briefly-engaged-in-face-off-in-tawang-sector-last-week-1038730.html
08-10-2021||National||Dedicated corridors & hubs: Jyotiraditya Scindia announces new helicopter policy||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia Friday announced a new helicopter policy under which dedicated hubs and corridors would be established and landing charges and parking deposits abolished to boost commercial operations. "Today, I want to announce a new helicopter policy for the whole country. We have ten steps that are going to be part of this policy," Scindia stated during his speech at the 3rd Helicopter Summit organised by industry body FICCI in Dehradun. Under the new policy, the government is going to put together a dedicated helicopter-acceleration cell in the Civil Aviation Ministry that will look at helicopter industry's issues, the minister mentioned. "It is going to be a resource that you can use to facilitate your growth," he added. The minister stated that according to the new policy, there will be no landing charges or parking deposits for heliports or helicopter companies from now onward. Officers of Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Air Traffic Control (ATC) will engage with the helicopter industry stakeholders so that adequate training is given to all individuals regarding helicopter issues, the minister noted. Under the new policy, an advisory group has been set up in the Civil Aviation Ministry to discuss any pain points of the industry, he mentioned. Heli-Disha, a booklet that was released on Friday in Dehradun, would be given to every collector of every district of the country, he said. The booklet contained all regulations and issues related to helicopter size, weight, operations, etc, and it would be distributed so that awareness about them is created in the district administrations across the country, he added. As per the new policy, a centralised Heli-Seva portal will be upgraded to a level so that all permissions for a helicopter flight could be granted online, the minister mentioned. He said the government is going to make four Heli-hubs to start with -- one at Juhu in Mumbai, second in Guwahati, third in Delhi and fourth at HAL airport in Bengaluru. The minister said 10 cities and 82 routes have been identified to develop helicopter corridors. "As a beginning, we are going to start with three dedicated corridors for helicopters -- Juhu-Pune-Juhu, Mahalakshmi race course-Pune-Mahalakshmi race course and Gandhinagar-Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar," Scindia noted. He said the government has chosen three expressways -- Delhi-Bombay expressway, Ambala-Kotputli expressway and Amrisar-Bhatinda-Jamnagar expressway -- where the heliports would be set up along the expressway so that evacuation of accident victims can be done immediately. In the health sector, it is said that the first seven minutes are the golden minutes when we have to evacuate victims of a road accident, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dedicated-corridors-hubs-jyotiraditya-scindia-announces-new-helicopter-policy-1038739.html
08-10-2021||National||UPSC selects 31 private sector specialists as joint secretaries, directors, deputy secretaries||Thirty-one private sector specialists were on Thursday selected as joint secretaries, directors and deputy secretaries in central government departments, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) said. Those selected include three joint secretaries, 19 directors and nine deputy secretaries, it said. Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said it is a major step to place the right talent for the right role. "As a major step to place the right talent for the right role, #DoPT announces 31 lateral entry recruitments, after due selection process by UPSC, as Joint Secretary/Director/Deputy Secretary in different ministries/departments of government of India," Singh tweeted. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) had requested the commission on December 14, 2020, and February 12, 2021, to select suitable people to join the government at the level of joint secretary, director or deputy secretary in various ministries and departments of the government of India on contract or deputation basis. The UPSC launched online recruitment application for joint secretary and director level posts on February 6 and for deputy secretary level posts on March 20. In response, a total of 295 applications for joint secretary level posts, 1,247 applications for director level posts and 489 applications for deputy secretary level posts were received. Of these, 231 candidates were shortlisted for the interviews which were conducted from September 27 to October 8. The UPSC finally recommended 31 candidates for the appointment as joint secretaries, directors and deputy secretaries. Three joint secretaries would be joining finance ministry, commerce and industry ministry and agriculture and farmers welfare ministry. As many as 19 directors would be joining commerce and industry ministry, agriculture and farmers welfare ministry, finance ministry, law and justice ministry, consumer affairs ministry, food and public distribution ministry, education ministry, jal shakti ministry, health and family welfare ministry, road transport and highways ministry, civil aviation ministry and skill development and entrepreneurship ministry. Nine deputy secretaries have been selected for posting in education ministry, environment, forests and climate change ministry, statistics and programme implementation ministry, steel ministry, corporate affairs ministry, mines ministry, ports shipping and waterways ministry, heavy industries and public enterprises ministry and housing and urban affairs ministry. The personnel ministry had in June 2018 invited applications for 10 joint secretary-rank posts through ‘lateral entry’ mode -- that is appointment of private sector specialists in the government -- for the first time. Usually, the posts of joint secretary and director are manned by officers selected through the civil services examination and other tests conducted by the UPSC and other organisations. Niti Aayog, in its three-year action agenda, and the sectoral group of secretaries on governance, in its report submitted in February, 2017, have recommended for induction of personnel in the middle and senior management level in the government with the twin objectives of bringing in fresh talent as well as augment the availability of manpower.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-selects-31-private-sector-specialists-as-joint-secretaries-directors-deputy-secretaries-1038740.html
08-10-2021||National||Air India is nostalgic airline for most TCSers: CEO||Air India is a "nostalgic airline" for most TCS employees and the IT services major will offer its complete support in whatever form it can, to contribute to the revival of the airline to its former glory, TCS CEO Rajesh Gopinathan said on Friday. The comments by the TCS top honcho come on a day when Tata Sons won the bid for acquiring Air India. Tata Sons will retake Air India - the airline it founded nearly 90 years back - as the government accepted its winning bid of Rs 18,000 crore to acquire 100 per cent of the debt-laden state-owned carrier. "Air India is quite a nostalgic airline for most TCSers. Almost all of us took our first international trip on Air India, and we used to go with this return ticket and that used to be our safety guard that if all else fails, we just have to get to an Air India office somewhere, and we'll get back home," Gopinathan recalled. He added that TCS will do its best "to contribute in whichever form we can, to revive it (Air India) to the glory that it had as one of the best airlines in the world". Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of the holding company of Tata group, made the winning bid of Rs 2,700 crore cash and Rs 15,300 crore in debt takeover. The transaction is targeted to be closed by December. Tata Sons Chairman N Chandrasekaran, who previously served as TCS CEO, termed this a "historic moment". "This is a historic moment, and it will be a rare privilege for our group to own and operate the country's flag-bearer airline," he said. Air India will be the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable - it holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd. Jehangir Ratanji Dadabhoy (JRD) Tata founded the airline in 1932. It was called Tata Airlines then. In 1946, the aviation division of Tata Sons was listed as Air India and in 1948, Air India International was launched with flights to Europe. The international service was among the first public-private partnerships in India, with the government holding 49 per cent, the Tatas keeping 25 per cent and the public owning the rest. In 1953, Air India was nationalised. Tata Sons chairman emeritus Ratan Tata tweeted an old photograph of company's former chairman JRD Tata getting down from an Air India aircraft, minutes after Tata Sons regained control of the government airline - nearly 70 years after its nationalisation. "Welcome Back, Air India," he said. "The Tata Group winning the bid for Air India is great news. While admittedly it will take considerable effort to rebuild Air India, it will hopefully provide a very strong market opportunity to the Tata Group's presence in the aviation industry." Tatas, he said, will have the opportunity of regaining the image and reputation it enjoyed in earlier years. "On an emotional note, Air India, under the leadership of Mr JRD Tata had at one time gained the reputation of being one of the most prestigious airlines in the world," Tata said. "Mr JRD Tata would have been overjoyed if he was in our midst today," he said thanking the government for its opening of select industries to the private sector. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-is-nostalgic-airline-for-most-tcsers-ceo-1038741.html
08-10-2021||National||Navjot Singh Sidhu starts fast in Lakhimpur Kheri, seeks arrest of MoS Ajay Mishra's son||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday began a fast in UP's Lakhimpur Kheri, declaring that he will continue it till Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra’s son is not arrested. Sidhu on Friday met the kin of the farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, a day after he was detained along with Punjab Congress leaders in Saharanpur. The minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, is an accused in the case and was told by police to appear before it for questioning on Friday but he skipped it. Sidhu, who met the family of 28-year-old journalist Raman Kashyap, one of the eight people killed in the violence, proceeded on a fast and could be seen lying on a cot at the scribe’s house in Lakhimpur Kheri. Sources said Sidhu is also observing a "maun vrat" (silent fast). Punjab Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla, who is among the Congress leaders from Punjab accompanying Sidhu, said they too will sit on a fast with him. Sidhu had earlier demanded the arrest of the minister’s son, saying he would go on hunger strike if action is not taken against him by Friday. Sources said Sidhu has said he will continue his fast until Ashish Mishra does not join investigation and is not brought to Kashyap's house by police after taking him into custody. Meanwhile, in a tweet, Sidhu while tagging photos of his meeting with one of the families, said, "Justice delayed-justice denied." During his meeting, Sidhu consoled family members of Lovepreet Singh. Sidhu later said, "What has happened is a barbaric crime. Entire India is asking for justice. Loss of human life can never be compensated." Lovepreet's father said he wants justice, said Sidhu. "There is evidence, video evidence is there. There is name in the FIR, witness account is there. But the arrest is not being made because he (Ashish) is a Union minister's son," said Sidhu. There cannot be two yardsticks for justice, he said. While assuring the victim families of every possible help, Punjab minister Singla said justice must be ensured and they would keep putting pressure on the Centre to immediately sack Ajay Mishra and arrest his son. Singla said farmers are the backbone of the country "and their murder in broad daylight was heart wrenching and extremely distressing". Sidhu, who is accompanied by Punjab ministers and MLAs, was allowed to head towards Lakhimpur Kheri hours after they were detained at a police station in Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. Earlier in the day, a delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal led by Harsimrat Kaur Badal met the families of the farmers and the journalist. Badal, a former Union minister, demanded immediate dismissal of Ajay Mishra besides the arrest of his son, a party statement said here. Harsimrat Kaur Badal was accompanied by senior party leaders Balwinder Singh Bhundur, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Bikram Singh Majithia, Manpreet Singh Ayali and SGPC chief Jagir Kaur. "The video footage of Ashish Mishra's vehicle is available. There are eye witness accounts that Ashish Mishra fled from the scene. He should be arrested on murder charges immediately," said Badal. Similarly, there was a video footage of the Union minister allegedly threatening farmers and even inciting violence against them, she alleged. "It is wrong to keep him in the Union cabinet and the central government should take immediate action against him," she added. SGPC president Jagir Kaur handed over a cheque for Rs 5 lakh to each of the victim families besides assuring them that they will look after educational needs of next of the kin of the victims. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-singh-sidhu-starts-fast-in-lakhimpur-kheri-seeks-arrest-of-mos-ajay-mishras-son-1038747.html
08-10-2021||National||Hospitals are not police stations, can't direct for CCTV cameras in every ward: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said that hospitals are not police stations and it cannot direct for installing CCTV cameras in every ward of all the hospitals in the country as issues of privacy are also involved. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna dismissed a plea filed by an NGO ‘All India Consumer Protection and Action Committee’ and asked it to come up again with better and specific prayers. “Hospitals are not police stations. We cannot direct the installation of CCTV cameras all over the hospitals in the whole of the country. There may be privacy issues. Suppose a woman is being operated on or for that matter any other patient is being operated on. This cannot be done. There is a patient privacy issue also involved,” the bench said. The top court after perusing the PIL said, “problem with you people is that when you approach this court under Article 32, you try to make all sorts of prayers. See, you have asked that directions be issued to doctors all over the country to write prescriptions in the local language apart from English. Is this possible? Suppose the doctor does not know the local language or English then what would happen”. The top court said that the petitioner wants reservations in hospital beds for economically weaker sections and other reliefs. The bench, however, said that the petitioner has one prayer which may be considered like the Ayushman Bharat card shall be accepted in a private hospital. “You should come with this only prayer and we may look into it. "This is an important issue and we may consider it. You withdraw this petition and file a plea with specific relief,” it said. The petitioner has contended that many people have lost their lives due to the lack of adequate services provided by the hospitals and doctors during the second wave of the pandemic. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hospitals-are-not-police-stations-cant-direct-for-cctv-cameras-in-every-ward-sc-1038766.html
08-10-2021||National||PM Modi will be 'elected again' in 2024: Amit Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be "elected again" in 2024, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said here on Friday. Addressing a function at Pansar in Gandhinagar district, Shah said no other leader in the world has achieved the feat of getting elected continuously for 20 years. "Yesterday, Narendra-bhai completed 20 years in public office. Not a single leader in the world has so far achieved this feat of getting elected continuously for 20 years and serving people without a break for 20 years," he said. "In democratic countries, where people can change their elected representatives, you will not find a single leader who has served continuously for such a long period. Narendra Modi assumed the office (as Gujarat chief minister) on October 7, 2001, and yesterday was October 7, 2021. He is prime minister today and he will be elected again in 2024," Shah said. The Union minister, who represents Gandhinagar in the Lok Sabha, was on a one-day visit to Gujarat. After inaugurating a tea stall run by a women self-help group at Gandhinagar Railway Station, he reached Pansar village near Kalol town to inaugurate a Primary Health Centre. The Union home minister also performed a ground-breaking ceremony for a lake beautification project at Pansar. During the subsequent function, he launched 143 small projects worth Rs 11 crore. Modi could remain in office for so long because he always cared for people, Shah further said in his speech. "I have always seen him focusing on things which are incomplete. You will hardly find such concern for the nation, state, people and the poor in any other leader," the Union minister added. The Modi-led Union government's achievements in the last seven years would outweigh those of Congress governments in 70 years, he claimed. He listed various achievements of the Modi government such as opening of 60 crore bank accounts, construction of 10 crore toilets and providing electricity to five crore people. Shah later left for his native town of Mansa in the district to perform puja at the Bahuchar Mata temple on the occasion of Navratri, a tradition he has been following for the last many years.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-will-be-elected-again-in-2024-amit-shah-1038768.html
08-10-2021||National||Lakhimpur Kheri: Farmers call 'rail roko' on October 18||Farmers' organisations on Friday announced a nation-wide 'rail roko' agitation on October 18 to protest the Lakhimpur Kheri killings and rejected the Uttar Pradesh government judicial probe into the matter. The decision was taken at a meeting of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella organisation steering the agitation against the three farm laws since November last year on the borders of the national capital. The SKM condemned the Modi government's refusal to remove Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish is among those accused of mowing four farmers to death in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The farmers' organisations also called to observe October 12, the 'antim ardas' rituals of the four farmers who were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, as 'Shaheed Kisan Diwas'. They also appealed to people to organise prayer meetings in temples, gurudwaras, churches and mosques and observe candlelight vigils across the country. “If the demand for arrests of the accused for the killings and sacking of the Minister of State is not met by October 11, SKM will go ahead with a call for all-India rail roko on October 18,” Darshan Pal, leader of SKM said. The SKM also welcomed the apology tendered by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar over his remarks urging BJP cadres to use force against the protesting farmers. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhimpur-kheri-farmers-call-rail-roko-on-october-18-1038776.html
08-10-2021||National||Rafale deliveries to India ahead of schedule, says French Ambassador Lenain||Aerospace major Dassault Aviation is expected to deliver all 36 Rafale jets well before the schedule despite lockdown for a few days to contain the spread of Covid-19 in France, French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain said on Friday. Speaking on the sidelines of the fourth edition of Indo-French Investment Conclave here, organised by the Indo-French Chamber of Commerce & Industry (IFCCI), Lenain said firms belonging to the European country have invested over €10 billion in India providing employment to 2.50 lakh Indians. "It (delivery of aircraft) will be ahead of the schedule. We are very proud of that. In spite of Covid it has not been disturbed at all on the contrary," the envoy told PTI. India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 for the procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets at a cost of around Rs 58,000 crore. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29 last year "The factory producing Rafale was closed (during lockdown). We had a commitment to India. After the lockdown teams worked extra shifts working nights and weekends to make sure that these planes were delivered on time. And so right now Dassault has delivered to India 29 and 26 have already been ferried to India," he said. Describing the recent developments in Afghanistan as "worrying" , the Ambassador said some of the countries including France have asked the Taliban regime to allow free flow of humanitarian assistance to the beleaguered country besides not to provide shelter for terrorists. "Today they have not fulfilled any and that is deeply worrying. They can't ask us any form of recognition until they fulfilled some of these commitments," he further said. On the Indo-French trade, the Ambassador said the trade volumes are not big as most of the companies from his country prefer investing in India rather than exporting. "We are doing local investment a lot. So far French companies have invested more than €10 billion in India and it is going very fast and they are employing 250,000 Indians," he explained. In 2020, the India-France bilateral trade stood at €9.04 billion (-21.99 per cent) as compared to the previous year. India's exports to France were valued at €4.80 billion, down by 22.9 per cent during this period. Indian imports from France also decreased by 20.95 per cent to €4.23 billion, according to Indian official figures. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rafale-deliveries-to-india-ahead-of-schedule-says-french-ambassador-lenain-1038779.html
08-10-2021||National||Situation in Afghanistan still unfolding, hard to take 'very definitive position': Jaishankar||It is hard to take a "very definitive position" on Afghanistan as the situation there is still unfolding and there are "live issues" such as whether there will be an inclusive government in Kabul and whether Afghan soil will not be used for terrorism in other countries, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. In an interactive session at the India Today conclave, when referred to the spate of targeted killings in Kashmir and whether there could be an impact of the Afghan developments on India's internal situation, Jaishankar said he would not like to draw some connections with Afghanistan without any evidence. About the possibility of resumption of dialogue with Pakistan, he said the prospect does not look good and asserted that there is no other situation in the world where a country actually runs "this kind of scale of terrorism" against the neighbours. "...When do you see Pakistan becoming a normal country. And for me, a normal country is a country that does not sponsor terrorism against its neighbours. Right now the prospects do not look good," he said. Asked about Islamabad's support to various terror groups operating from Afghan soil, the external affairs minister said the role of Pakistan in what happened in Afghanistan is not a secret and it is very public now. On the growing perception that the Pakistan spy agency succeeded in its design in Afghanistan and what happened in Kabul was a strategic setback for India, Jaishankar said New Delhi has to deal with whatever the situation is. At the same time, he added that "sometimes, we all tend to make very sweeping sort of statements or judgements or assessments. I think the picture is a little more complex, more granular than that". "It has been less than two months since the Taliban took Afghanistan and it is quite obvious that things are far from settled even in Kabul. I would urge some patience, some deliberations and some caution," he said. To a question on whether India is adopting a wait and watch approach on engagement with the Taliban after Indian envoy to Qatar Deepak Mittal's meeting with Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai in Doha in late August, Jaishankar did not give a direct reply and generally replied that he would prefer to make due diligence on issues of policy making. He said there could be things happening which he may not be able to speak about and that India's primary contact has been in Doha. "That's where it is," he said. On the overall situation, Jaishankar said it is still unfolding and India is responding to the evolving situation as it is hard to take a "very definitive position" beyond that because of lack of clarity. "There is still a lot of lack of clarity. Obviously, some of the more visible changes are apparent. So you have to take your positions, make your decisions on the basis of what you have. Now the general sense in the international community is that there are some basic expectations which the world has of Afghanistan," Jaishankar said. "The most basic of them is actually the fact that Afghan soil will not be used for terrorism against other countries. There are also expectations about the nature of the government that it will be inclusive in some form," he said. He also noted that there are questions over how the minorities, women and children are dealt with. "These are all live issues and we are actually quite involved in shaping the thinking of the international community on that, partly because we also happen to be at this time a UN Security Council member," Jaishankar said. On Thursday, speaking at a conclave of the DD News, Jaishankar had said the Afghan people know "what India has done for them, what kind of friends we have been." "I am sure they're contrasted with what Pakistan did for them in the same period. And I think the differences are obvious. And in terms of where our relationship with Pakistan goes, everybody wants to be friends with their neighbours', but you want to be friends on terms which a civilized world will accept," he said. The external affairs minister said, "terrorism is not one of those terms". "So, you know, neighbours' are supposed to trade with you, neighbours' are supposed to give you connectivity, neighbours' are supposed to promote contacts, to increase travel," he said. "Now, all of that hasn't happened with this neighbour. So, I think they have an important choice whether to be a normal neighbour, to us, a lot of it the next 75 years would depend on the choice that they make," he added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/situation-in-afghanistan-still-unfolding-hard-to-take-very-definitive-position-jaishankar-1038796.html
08-10-2021||National Politics||BJP leader's brother-in-law among two let off by NCB after cruise ship raid, claims NCP||Stepping up its attack on the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the NCP on Friday alleged that the anti-drug agency let off two persons after a raid on a cruise ship off Mumbai coast recently, with one of them being the brother-in-law of a "high-profile" BJP leader. Targeting NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede, NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik also raised questions on the conduct of the agency's officials. "After the raid, NCB officer Sameer Wankhede said 8-10 people were held. How can an official who conducts an entire operation give an indefinite answer? If 10 people were held then why were two people let off. And of the two, one was brother-in-law of a high-profile BJP leader," Malik alleged. The allegations by the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) against the NCB, a central agency, comes a day after the I-T department raided the premises of commercial entities linked to its party leader and state Deputy Chief minister Ajit Pawar. Malik said he would address a press conference on Saturday to reveal the name of the BJP leader whose brother-in-law was let off by the NCB. He said the motive behind the I-T department's raids on entities linked to Pawar was to malign him. On Wednesday, Malik had dubbed the NCB's October 2 raid on the cruise ship as "fake" and alleged that no narcotic drugs were found during it. The NCB has so far arrested 18 people, including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, after allegedly seizing drugs from the Goa-bound ship on Saturday. Notably, Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan had been arrested by the NCB on January 13 in an alleged drug case. He got bail in September. The NCP shares power with the Shiv Sena and the Congress in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leaders-brother-in-law-among-two-let-off-by-ncb-after-cruise-ship-raid-claims-ncp-1038591.html
08-10-2021||National Politics||No quick-fix solutions to Cong's deep-rooted problems: Prashant Kishor||Election strategist Prashant Kishor on Friday targeted the Congress, the party which he was speculated to join and negotiations were on, saying those looking at the Grand Old Party are set for a "big disappointment". "People looking for a quick, spontaneous revival of GOP led opposition based on #LakhimpurKheri incident are setting themselves up for a big disappoinment. Unfortunately there are no quick fix solutions to the deep-rooted problems and structural weakness of GOP," Kishor tweeted.  Unfortunately there are no quick fix solutions to the deep-rooted problems and structural weakness of GOP. Congress sought to dismiss the remarks with party's chief spokesperson saying that he will not react to a comment of a "consultant". A senior leader said Kishor is a "racketeer of politics" and he is making such statements as he was not going to get what he wanted. There has been speculation that Kishor would join the Congress after he met Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi in a series of meetings, which were also attended by senior party leaders like KC Venugopal and others. However, there was no forward movement as the party appeared unwilling to give him the position he sought. There was also opposition within the party about inducting Kishor and giving him senior positions.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-quick-fix-solutions-to-congs-deep-rooted-problems-prashant-kishor-1038605.html
08-10-2021||National Politics||Centre’s wrong policies responsible for deteriorating situation in Kashmir: Mehbooba Mufti||Regional PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Friday alleged that wrong policies adopted in Jammu and Kashmir by New Delhi post August 5, 2019 were directly responsible for the fast deteriorating situation in the Valley. “The situation is worsening day by day and the BJP government is responsible for it. Its wrong decisions taken since August 5, 2019, (abrogation of Article 370) and before that as well, are directly responsible for the fast worsening situation in Kashmir,” she told reporters outside the residence of school principal Supinder Kour, who was killed by militants in Srinagar on Thursday. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief visited Kour's family to express her condolences and sympathies. “It is very painful to see two little kids of slain Kour. What was their fault? Our Sikh brethren has been with us, supported us, all these years in our tough times. They have also been attacked which is highly condemnable” Mufti said. She also denounced the killing of a civilian by CRPF personnel in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Thursday evening stating that “it’s an irony that it was stated by the government the slain youth was trying to attack forces.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-s-wrong-policies-responsible-for-deteriorating-situation-in-kashmir-mehbooba-mufti-1038634.html
08-10-2021||National Politics||There is difference between what PM Modi says, does: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying people have understood that there is a difference in what he says and does. He also targeted the Centre over farm laws and price rise while accusing the BJP of provoking people in the name of religion. People have understood that there is a difference between words and deeds of the prime minister, Gehlot said at a rally in Udaipur's Vallabhnagar Assembly segment, where bypolls are scheduled for October 30. Petrol and diesel prices have been constantly increasing and instead of focusing on financial management, the government is earning money from these, Gehlot said. Hitting out at the Centre over farm laws, the CM said, "What is going on in the country is in front of all. Farmers have been sitting on a dharna for one year against the agriculture laws. It has never happened in 70 years." "We passed bills to counter the laws but the governor has not forwarded them to the president," Gehlot added. Gehlot accused the BJP of not acting in a democratic manner. They are not secular and provoke in the name of religion, he alleged. Referring to the UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Gehlot said farmers were mowed down and when Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra went to meet their kin, which is the duty of the opposition, she was prevented. Congress general secretary Ajay Maken too targeted the Centre over price rise, saying an LPG cylinder has become expensive by Rs 305 in one year but the government is not seeing this because of its utter arrogance. He said a minister's son was involved in mowing down the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. He was not arrested but the UP Police arrested Priyanka Gandhi when she was going to wipe tears of farmers, Maken alleged. Addressing the rally, former deputy CM Sachin Pilot said when the BJP was in power in the state, it betrayed people and now as an opposition party, it failed to fulfil its responsibility. What sentiments the BJP has for farmers, people of the country have seen this, he said Transport minister Pratap Singh also attacked the Modi government on inflation. He said the victory of the Congress in the Vallabhnagar bypolls will be a slap on Modi. After Vallabhnagar, the Congress leaders addressed rallies in Pratapgarh's Dhariawad in support of party candidate Nagraj Meena. The bypolls to Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad have been necessitated due to the demise of the MLAs there. The polling will take place on October 30 and the counting will be held on November 2. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/there-is-difference-between-what-pm-modi-says-does-ashok-gehlot-1038658.html
08-10-2021||National Politics||Priyanka picks up broom in Dalit hamlet as Yogi says people have made Cong worth doing that only||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday paid a surprise visit to a Dalit locality here and picked up a broom, reacting to CM Yogi Adityanath's dig at her for sweeping the floor at the Sitapur guest house where she was detained. Taking on the chief minister for his "casteist comment", Priyanka later in a tweet announced that all district committees of the party will clean Valmiki temples on Saturday. In a reply to a query over Gandhi's act of sweeping the floor during her detention, Adityanath earlier in the day had said people want them to be fit only for this and they reduce them to it (janata unko usi layak banana chahti, aur usi layak bana diya). These people have no work except spreading nuisance and negativity, he said during a programme at a private TV news channel. In response to the chief minister's remark, Gandhi descended on a Dalit colony and picked up a broom, saying it is a symbol of simplicity and self-respect. While mingling with inhabitants of Luv Kush Nagar, the Congress general secretary cleaned the premises of a Maharshi Valmiki temple there, saying crores of women and sanitation workers in the country use brooms daily for cleaning, a Congress spokesman said. She also prayed at the temple. Priyanka also told people, "He has not humiliated me by saying so, he has humiliated you all as crores of Dalit brothers and sisters are safai karamcharis and they do this work." "I have come here for the cleaning work along with you all and let Yogiji know that cleaning and using a broom is an act of self-respect," she said. आज उप्र के मुख्यमंत्री ने जातिवादी बयान देकर अपनी दलित विरोधी मानसिकता दिखाई। कल उप्र की सभी जिला कांग्रेस कमेटियां भगवान वाल्मीकि मंदिर में सफाई करेंगी। "Today, the chief minister of UP showed his anti-Dalit mentality by giving a casteist statement. Tomorrow, all district Congress committees of UP will clean the Lord Valmiki temples. India will not tolerate the insult of crores of Dalits and women of the country," Priyanka said in a tweet tagging a video of her cleaning a premises in the Dalit colony. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-picks-up-broom-in-dalit-hamlet-as-yogi-says-people-have-made-cong-worth-doing-that-only-1038720.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||SC to hear matters in physical presence of lawyers on Wednesdays, Thursdays from October 20||In a step towards resumption of physical hearings, the Supreme Court on Thursday said that from October 20, all the matters listed on Wednesdays and Thursdays would be heard in physical presence of lawyers and litigants in courtrooms only. The top court has been hearing cases through video-conference since March last year due to the pandemic and several bar bodies and lawyers have been demanding that physical hearings should resume immediately. In a fresh standard operating procedures (SOP) issued on late evening, the apex court said the decision was taken in view of the encouraging response from the Bar and with a view to further facilitate hearing through physical mode. "In view of the encouraging response from the Bar and with a view to further facilitate hearing through physical mode, all the matters listed on Wednesday and Thursday, as non-miscellaneous days, would be heard only in physical presence of the counsels/parties in courtrooms," the apex court said in a circular issued on Thursday. It said all the matters listed on Tuesday, as a non-miscellaneous day, would also be heard in physical mode, however, on prior application by the AOR (advocate-on-record) for the party, appearance through video/tele-conferencing mode will be facilitated. An AOR is a lawyer entitled to act as well as to plead for a party in the Supreme Court. It said that unless directed by the court, all matters, irrespective of their nature, listed on miscellaneous days shall continue to be heard through video/tele-conferencing mode till further orders. "There may be break(s) for a period of about 15 minutes at the discretion of the bench during the hearings in courtroom in physical mode so that courtroom may be sanitized, for which it is necessary that the entire courtroom be vacated," it said. It said if the bench is of the view that in a particular matter listed on non-miscellaneous days, the number of counsels are more than the working capacity of the courtroom, according to Covid-19 norms, the Registry will facilitate hearing of such matters through video/tele-conferencing/hybrid mode. In a matter listed for hearing through physical mode, one AOR or his nominee, one arguing counsel and one junior counsel per party will be allowed entry into the courtroom, it said. It further said that one registered clerk per party, as may be chosen by the AOR, shall also be allowed to carry paper books/journals etc. up to the courtrooms. "The entry of the counsels into the High Security Zone to appear for hearing through physical mode will be through Proximity Cards/Photo entry passes and for party in person through photo entry passes which will be issued by the Registry as per the practice followed before the onset of Covid-19 pandemic," it said. It further clarified that the guidelines and protocols for prevention of Covid contagion, including wearing of masks, frequent use of hand sanitizer and maintaining safe distancing norms are mandatory for all the entrants into the Supreme Court premises. Earlier on August 29, the SC had issued the SOPs to accord final hearing of cases in physical mode from September 1, and employed a hybrid option from Tuesday to Thursday amid strict observance of Covid appropriate norms. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-hear-matters-in-physical-presence-of-lawyers-on-wednesdays-thursdays-from-october-20-1038488.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||UP woman duped of Rs 32 lakh by 'Instagram friend from UK', probe underway||A woman from Uttar Pradesh has allegedly been duped of over Rs 32 lakh by a person whom she befriended on Instagram and who identified himself as a resident of the United Kingdom, officials said on Thursday. The woman, who lives in Raebareli district of the state, alleged that she got trapped after she was informed that a "gift" and some "foreign currency" worth Rs 45 lakh have arrived in Delhi for her from the UK and she would have to pay a fee to collect them, the officials said. Raebareli Superintendent of Police Shlok Kumar said the police have taken cognisance of the matter and the cyber cell is investigating the case. "Efforts are on to trace the culprits and bring back the money duped online from the victim," Kumar told PTI. According to officials, the woman had come in contact with the man in September on Instagram where he identified himself as "Harry", a resident of the UK, and exchanged phone numbers, starting off regular conversations over social media. "Recently, she got a call over Whatsapp from a woman, who informed her that a gift box and some UK currency which amounts to Rs 45 lakh have arrived for her in Delhi. In order to collect it, she would have to pay a processing fee," an official said. "She was asked to make the payments online and in several instalments. Eventually, she ended up transferring around Rs 32 lakh after which there was no communication from the other side," the official said. The woman then reached Delhi to inquire about the "gift" sent for her from the UK but realised she had been conned. She returned Raebareli and approached the district police chief on Tuesday. Kumar, meanwhile, cautioned people against falling trap to lucrative online offers and schemes, and asked them to confirm the authenticity of the persons they are dealing with in order to stay safe from cyber criminals. The Uttar Pradesh police, as part of national initiative, had in May this year started a dedicated helpline number 155260 where people can report online frauds and cyber crimes. People can also call 112 immediately to report any online fraud, UP Cyber Police chief Triveni Singh had told PTI recently, adding early reporting of frauds helps the police start the process of blocking the duped money. Till September, the UP police had brought back over Rs 2 crore that cyber criminals had conned from state residents and had got another Rs 5 crore frozen in bank accounts that were duped by thugs. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-woman-duped-of-rs-32-lakh-by-instagram-friend-from-uk-probe-underway-1038499.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Battleground Lakhimpur: After Raul-Priyanka, Akhilesh, BSP leader visit UP violence victims' kin||A day after Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh to meet the families of the victims killed in violence during a farmers' protest on Sunday, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and BSP's SC Mishra travelled to their homes on Thursday. After the Uttar Pradesh government allowed the leaders of various political parties to visit Lakhimpur Kheri in groups of not more than five people on Wednesday, a steady flow of opposition leaders to the homes of the victims of Sunday's violence is being witnessed. With the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls due early next year, Lakhimpur Kheri has emerged as a focal point of politics with top leaders of anti-BJP parties rushing to the area in a bid to push the saffron party to the corner. While Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders visited the homes of two of the four deceased farmers and journalist Raman Kashyap on Wednesday, Thursday saw Yadav and Mayawati's close confidante Mishra registering their attendance there. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, who was detained at a police guest house in Sitapur since Monday and was released only on Wednesday, went to Bahraich on Thursday to meet the kin of the two other farmers killed in the violence. Congress leaders Harish Rawat and Navjot Singh Sidhu were headed towards Lakhimpur on Thursday. However, both were stopped at the Uttar Pradesh border. Priyanka Gandhi met the families of deceased farmers Gurvinder Singh and Daljit Singh in Bahraich and called for the dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose son has been named in the FIR lodged in connection with Sunday's violence. "If the minister of state for home does not resign nor is he sacked, then it means that the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is giving a message to the public that if someone is in power, if he is a minister, he can do anything," she told reporters in Moharnia, where she met the family members of Gurvinder Singh. Questioning the intention of the government that constituted a one-member judicial commission of retired Allahabad High Court judge Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, the Congress leader said besides Mishra's dismissal, the case should be probed by a sitting Supreme Court or high court judge and not by a retired judge. The commission, with its headquarters in Lakhimpur, has been given two months' time to conclude its probe. Priyanka Gandhi, who have met five of the eight people killed in Sunday's violence, said she also wanted to meet the families of the BJP workers who lost their lives. "I had asked the IG to enquire if they (the BJP workers' families) were ready for the same, but was outrightly told that they do not want to meet me. I asked for conveying my sympathy to them," she added. Senior Congress leader and former Uttarakhand chief minister Rawat and others were stopped by the local administration at the Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand border in Bareilly. In a tweet, the Uttar Pradesh Congress said, "In the face of every tyranny struggle is our slogan. Cowardly government @sherryontopp G has been arrested. Stopped from going to Lakhimpur." It also posted pictures on Twitter of Sidhu with policemen. With the Supreme Court seeking a status report on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident that left eight people, including four farmers, dead, BSP president Mayawati tweeted that this has given "hope to people for justice, for relief and for proper justice as the attitude of the BJP government in this matter appeared mostly biased". "Although a delegation of BSP is meeting the victims' families today under the leadership of party general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP SC Mishra after government permission, but due to the involvement of a Union minister and some other influential people in the case, the anger of people is still there," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in another tweet. Yadav met the kin of the farmers and a scribe killed in the incident and stressed that the bereaved families want justice. "There is a lot of arrogance in the government. Why have the named accused not been arrested so far? We have hopes from the Supreme Court. Only the Supreme Court will help the poor. The truth will come out. The accused will definitely get punishment. The Samajwadi Party is with the families of the victims. When the Samajwadi Party forms its government in Uttar Pradesh, maximum help will be extended to the victims," he said. Yadav is expected to visit Bahraich on Friday to meet the families of the two other farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/battleground-lakhimpur-after-raul-priyanka-akhilesh-bsp-leader-visit-up-violence-victims-kin-1038507.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||DH Toon | Lakhimpur Kheri violence – 'This too shall pass'||The Uttar Pradesh government has constituted a one-member Commission to probe the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people were killed, a senior Home Department official said on Thursday. "A notification for the constitution of the Commission has been issued. The commission has been given two months time to probe the matter," the official said. "In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Commissions of Enquiry Act, 1952 (Act no. 60 of 1952), the Governor is pleased to appoint Justice High Court, Allahabad (retd) Pradeep Kumar Srivastava as a single-member Commission of enquiry with Headquarters at Lakhimpur Kheri," the notification dated October 6 said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-this-too-shall-pass-1038511.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Minister's son yet to appear before police||Union Minister of State for Home Kumar Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who was asked to appear before the police at 10 am on Friday in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, did not reach the police lines till 10.30 am, sources said. Deputy Inspector General (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal who is heading the probe team arrived at the office on time, they said. "Ashish Mishra has not turned up till now," an official source said around 10:30 am. After two men were arrested on Thursday, the police pasted a notice outside his house asking him to appear before it in connection with the violence that claimed eight lives. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers said that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. A nine-member team headed by DIG Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-ministers-son-yet-to-appear-before-police-1038551.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||'Photo-op politics': Yogi Adityanath slams Opposition over Lakhimpur visit||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched a scathing attack on the Opposition for making a beeline to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, accusing them of doing 'photo-op politics'. Dubbing Congress leader's Lakhimpur visit 'shameful', Adityanath said that Chhattisgarh was 'burning' while its CM Bhupesh Baghel was in Uttar Pradesh.  Claiming that the Opposition have 'vested interests', Yogi said, "The UP government is not hiding anything." The CM said arrests have been made in connection with the incident in which four protesting farmers were mowed down by an SUV belonging to BJP leader Ajay Mishra in Lakhimpur. The Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra's son Ashish is one of the key accused in the case. Assuring that the culprit will be arrested, he said, "There is no space for violence in a democracy. It doesn't matter who is doing it." Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/photo-op-politics-yogi-adityanath-slams-opposition-over-lakhimpur-visit-1038570.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Punish the killers: Slain J&K school principal Supinder Kour's kin seek justice||Relatives, neighbours and friends of Supinder Kour, a school principal who was shot dead by militants along with her colleague in Srinagar on Thursday, staged a sit-in outside civil secretariat here on Friday, demanding justice and punishment for the killers. The mourners were also joined by some members of the majority community. Reports said a few hundred people, mostly from the Sikh community, silently walked by foot from Aloochibagh to the civil secretariat along with the body of the deceased. “The family of Kour carried her body on a stretcher and when they reached the civil secretariat, they staged a silent-sit-in,” witnesses said. Senior police officers reached the spot and persuaded them to take the body to Batamaloo cremation ground for her last rites. Before proceeding to the cremation ground, the protestors demanded stern punishment for her killers. In the wake of four targeted killings of minorities in Srinagar in the last three days, some Kashmiri Pandit organisations have alleged that the administration did not take adequate measures to ensure their safety despite intelligence inputs. 50-year-old Kour, principal of Government Boys Higher Secondary school in Eidgah area of Srinagar, and Deepak Chand, a teacher at the same school, were shot dead inside the school premises by terrorists on Thursday. The Resistance Front (TRF), which police say is the frontal organisation of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), claimed responsibility for the attack saying the teachers were killed for their role in getting students to participate in a “function at school” on Independence Day. On Tuesday evening, 68-year-old Makhan Lal Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman and the owner of a pharmacy in Srinagar's Iqbal Park, was shot at from point-blank. Just an hour later, a street vendor from Bihar was shot dead in similar circumstances in Lal Bazar area on the outskirts of Srinagar. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh termed these attacks as an attempt to defame Muslims of Kashmir. “Killing innocent civilians including teachers is a move to attack and damage the age-old tradition of communal harmony and brotherhood in Kashmir,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punish-the-killers-slain-jk-school-principal-supinder-kours-kin-seek-justice-1038584.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Unvaccinated Delhi govt employees will not be allowed to attend office from October 16: DDMA||Unvaccinated Delhi government employees will not be allowed to attend office from October 16, according to a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order on Friday. All such unvaccinated Delhi government employees, including teachers and frontline workers, will be treated as "on leave" till they get the jab, the order stated. The employees "who do not get vaccinated (at least first dose) by October 15 shall not be allowed to attend their respective offices/healthcare institutions /educational institutions with effect from October 16 till they have obtained the first dose vaccine," it said. The heads of departments concerned will verify vaccinated employees through Aarogya Setu app or vaccination certificate, it stated. The order, issued by Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, stated that the central government "may consider issuing similar directions in respect of its employees working in Delhi." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unvaccinated-delhi-govt-employees-will-not-be-allowed-to-attend-office-from-october-16-ddma-1038601.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi airport to resume flight operations at T1 terminal from October 31||The Delhi airport will resume flight operations at its T1 terminal from October 31 onwards after almost 18 months of closure, said its operator DIAL on Friday. The T3 terminal and the T2 terminal of the Delhi airport resumed handling flight operations from May 25, 2020, and July 22, 2021, respectively, the GMR group-led DIAL mentioned. With the resumption of operations at the third terminal, Delhi Airport will be functional completely. "After almost 18 months of closure, the operations at T1 terminal will resume with pre-Covid operators, i.e. IndiGo and SpiceJet," said the statement by Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL). The first flight scheduled from T1 after its reopening would be an Indigo flight which will depart for Mumbai at 0105 hours, it mentioned. The T1 terminal did not handle any flights since March 25, 2020, when scheduled domestic flights were suspended for a two-month period due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. "With the resumption of the third terminal, Delhi Airport will be functional completely. We would like to assure passengers that at Delhi airport, they would be in a safe and healthy environment,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL.  According to aviation industry sources, carriers are currently operating around 70 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic passenger flights within India and approximately 20 per cent of pre-Covid international passenger flights from India. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-to-resume-flight-operations-at-t1-terminal-from-october-31-1038603.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||HC grants time to Delhi govt to reconsider prohibition on herbal hookahs due to Covid-19||The Delhi High Court Friday granted two days' time to the Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government to reconsider its order prohibiting the use of herbal hookah in public places to contain the spread of Covid-19. Justice Rekha Palli, hearing a batch of petitions by restaurants seeking a direction to authorities to not interfere with the sale of herbal flavoured hookahs, directed that an affidavit be filed by the department after reconsideration. The matter would be heard next on October 18. Last month, the court had directed the Delhi government to ask the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to reconsider the issue. Delhi government counsel Santosh Tripathi informed the court that since the August 3 order which prohibited the use of herbal hookah in public places was passed by the Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, DDMA could not have reconsidered it. The court, however, responded that the direction for reconsideration was issued to the Delhi government which was now taking a “technical stand”.  “This court is unable to appreciate the stand as GNCTD (Delhi government) is the first respondent and was expected to reconsider the issue,” the judge stated as it granted further time to the Delhi government to take a decision. “The matter has been adjourned from time to time. The court granted time with the expectation that the DDMA would reconsider whether the prohibition in the order was required to be continued. In the interest of justice, two days' time is granted to the department to reconsider the order,” the judge said. “You are opening Ramlila. You are opening everything,” the court remarked. Delhi government counsel stated that removing restrictions on hookahs was “not the same” as masks are required to be taken off to use them. On September 17, the high court had asked the Delhi government why DDMA's order prohibiting the use of herbal hookah in public places to contain the spread of Covid-19 be not re-considered when breath analyser test was being allowed now. The high court had issued notice and sought a response from the Delhi government on five separate pleas by restaurants and bars seeking to direct the state and police not to interfere with the sale of herbal flavoured hookahs or take coercive steps against them. Separate petitions were filed by Breath Fine Lounge and Bar, TOS, R High Speedbar and Lounge, Verandah Moonshine, and Sixth Empirica Lounge in West Punjabi Bagh, challenging the order of the Joint Commissioner of Police (Licensing Unit) prohibiting and excluding the sale or service of herbal flavoured hookahs in restaurant/ bar being run by them. The pleas said the petitioners are serving herbal hookahs for which no licence is required as they are totally without tobacco but the police are still conducting raids, seizing equipment, and issuing challans. The Delhi government has been opposing the pleas saying for a single mistake, the entire Delhi would have to pay a heavy price, and allowing hookah consumption in public places may spread Covid-19 since people would be sharing it. The Delhi government has said the use of hookah, be it with or without tobacco, in all public places including hotels, restaurants, eatery houses, bars, pubs, and discotheques, in the national capital is strictly prohibited as the use or sharing of hookah may further increase the spread of Covid-19. Delhi government counsel had referred to the August 3, 2020 order passed by the Health Department which observed that in public places, use and sharing of hookah with and without tobacco (herbal hookah) may further increase the spread of coronavirus. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-grants-time-to-delhi-govt-to-reconsider-prohibition-on-herbal-hookahs-due-to-covid-19-1038606.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||NGT directs closure of restaurants in forest area of Nahargarh Fort in Rajasthan from Dec 1||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Rajasthan government to shut down all restaurants operating in the notified area of Nahargarh Wildlife Sanctuary/ Fort from December 1, saying that no non-forest activity can be allowed there without the Centre's approval. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said restaurants as well as light and sound programmes are non-forest activities, not congenial to the objects of the Wildlife Act and have to be closed. "We direct that all restaurants operating in the notified forest area of Nahargarh Wildlife Sanctuary/ Nahargarh Fort be discontinued with effect from December 1, 2021. In case of any dispute the boundaries be verified jointly by the Forest Department and Collector Jaipur," the bench said. "We also direct that the light and sound programme in the area of wildlife sanctuary be discontinued from the said date. It is however made clear that this will not affect parking and entry of visitors in the Fort/Museum. However, the Forest Department will install noise barriers at appropriate locations to mitigate the impact of noise generated by the vehicles," it added. The NGT also directed the Forest Department to regulate number of vehicles and locations of parking. The Forest Department may also undertake and regulate such other activities as may be consistent with object of the Wildlife Act and FC Act in the notified forest and wildlife area, including Fort, the NGT said while directing the Collector, Jaipur to ensure compliance with its order. "It is well settled and is statutorily provided that no non-forest activities can be allowed in the forest area without approval of the Central Government," the bench said. The green panel, in the October 4 order, said that the order of the Collector does not change the legal position as far as forest land is concerned. It said the order of the Collector has to be consistent with the objects of the Wildlife Act. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Rajasthan native Rajendra Tiwari against non-forest activities being carried out in Nahargarh Wildlife Sanctuary including Nahargarh Fort near Jaipur in Rajasthan. According to the applicant, as per judgment of the Supreme Court no non forest activities is permissible in forest area yet non-forest activities have been allowed in the form of restaurants and Excise Department has issued license of Bar to the resorts/ hotels cafeterias situated in the Nahargarh Wildlife Sanctuary without prior permission of Forest Department. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-closure-of-restaurants-in-forest-area-of-nahargarh-fort-in-rajasthan-from-dec-1-1038607.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Minister's son doesn't show up before police, issued fresh summon for Saturday||Union Minister Ajai Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who was accused of running over four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and was called for questioning by the cops, failed to appear before the police on Friday as Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath appeared to defend police's failure to arrest Ashish saying that no one could be held without proof. According to the police sources here, Ashish has sought a day's time for appearing before the cops citing health conditions and has informed them that he will appear on Saturday. There were, however, conflicting reports on Ashish's whereabouts. Some reports claimed that he had fled to Nepal, which shares a border with Lakhimpur Kheri district while other reports, citing police sources, said that he was in the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand. Police officials said that they were looking for Ashish. While both Ashish and his father Ajai Mishra had claimed that the former was not present in any of the vehicles, one of which ran over a crowd of farmers killing four of them, sources in the police in Lakhimpur Kheri said that the Minister's son was in one of the SUVs with a friend. Meanwhile, in his first remarks on the violence, Adityanath on Friday appeared to defend Ashish saying that no arrest would be made without proof. ''We can not arrest someone merely on the basis of allegations.....arrest can only be made on the basis of evidence....the police is investigating the matter and action will be taken based on proof,'' Adityanath said while speaking to a private TV news channel. Adityanath's remarks came on a day, when the Supreme Court, which had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident, expressed its dissatisfaction over the investigation of the incident by the UP government and sought to know why the accused had not yet been arrested. Eight people, including four farmers and a local scribe, were killed in the violence at Tikonia in the district when hundreds of farmers held protests against Ajai Mishra. The Minister had earlier made remarks threatening the farmers of dire consequences if they continued to oppose the new farm laws. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-ministers-son-doesnt-show-up-before-police-issued-fresh-summon-for-saturday-1038625.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers' stir: Khattar withdraws his 'tit-for-tat' remark, says was 'misconstrued'||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday retracted his controversial "tit-for-tat" remark, saying it was "misconstrued" and he did not have any ill-intention against anyone. The CM also said he won't be attending a programme of the Aggarwal community in Kaithal as farmers had objected to his visit. Khattar had made the remark at a BJP Kisan Morcha meet, a video of which had surfaced on social media, with farmers bodies alleging that he was telling party supporters to "pick up sticks" against farmers protesting the Centre's agriculture laws. Apparently referring to the agitation, Khattar had said, "Form groups of 500, 700, 1,000 farmers and make them volunteers. And then at every place, 'sathe sathyam samacharet'. What does it mean--it means tit for tat (jaisa ko taisa)." "Do not worry...when you remain there (in jail) for a month, three months or six months, you will become big leaders, your names will be etched in history," he added. Withdrawing his remark on Friday, Khattar said it was publicised that he suggested "picking up sticks". The statement had been "misconstrued", he told reporters in Panchkula after paying obeisance at the Mata Mansa Devi temple on the occasion of Navratras. The remark had been made in the "context of self-defence" and not out of ill-intention towards anyone, Khattar said. "I want to tell my farmer brothers who are hurt that I am taking back my statement," said Khattar, who was accompanied by Speaker Gian Chand Gupta. The CM further said he does not want any breach of peace or law and order problem in the state. "Everyone has a right to hold protest in a peaceful manner but only thing is that no one should cross the limit. No one should be harmed, vehicles should not be damaged," he said. Khattar also said he won’t be attending a programme of the Aggarwal community in Kaithal as farmers have said they will oppose his visit. The protesting farmers have said they have no objection if a BJP leader from the community attends the event, the CM said. "Speaker Gian Chand Gupta will attend the event on my behalf," he said. Khattar also said his government has been taking pro-farmer initiatives. Referring to reports of crop damage due to recent showers in parts of Haryana, Khattar said a special "girdwari" has been ordered to assess the extent of damage.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-stir-khattar-withdraws-his-tit-for-tat-remark-says-was-misconstrued-1038635.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: My son innocent, will appear before police on Saturday, says MoS Ajay Mishra||The Uttar Pradesh Police issued a fresh notice to Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish asking him to appear before it by 11 am Saturday in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that left eight dead, after he missed his summons for Friday. Declaring his son "innocent", Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra said Ashish could not appear on Friday as he was "not well", but he will record his statement on Saturday. The latest notice, pasted on the wall of Ajay Mishra's house Friday afternoon, warned that legal action will be initiated against Ashish if he fails to appear on Saturday. Deputy Inspector General (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal who is heading the team probing Sunday's incident waited for him at the police lines but he didn't show up, after which the fresh notice was issued. In Lucknow, the Union minister, whose son faces a murder case in connection with the October 3 violence, said, "We have full faith in law. My son is innocent. He got a notice on Thursday but he said he was not well. He will appear before the police tomorrow and give his statement and evidence as he is innocent." He was talking to reporters outside Chowdhary Charan Singh airport in Lucknow. On Opposition relentless attack on him and demand for his resignation, the minister said, “Vipaksh to kuch bhi mangta hai (Opposition can demand anything)." "This is a BJP government which works in an unbiased manner. Action will be taken against those found guilty," he said. As Ashish did not show up, reports emerged that he may have fled to Nepal. Asked about it, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said, “If this is true, the Centre should intervene and get the accused arrested from Nepal.” In a statement issued here, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said, "...there is no trace of him (Ashish Mishra). News reports indicate that he is changing locations and is absconding, with several Uttar Pradesh Police teams searching for him.” The morcha expressed its "serious concern and shock" at Mishra not yet being arrested. After two men were arrested on Thursday, the police pasted a notice outside Ajay Mishra's house asking Ashish to appear before it at 10 am on Friday. The arrested men were identified as Luvkush of Banbirpur village and Ashish Pandey of Nighasan tehsil, two of the seven people mentioned in an FIR lodged by the police in connection with the violence. A nine-member team headed by DIG Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others. Four of the eight people who died on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. In its statement, the morcha alleged that two other men -- Sumit Jaiswal and Ankit Das -- were also involved in the violence, but they are not being arrested by the police. "There is only information on a notice issued to Ashish Mishra summoning him for questioning. The UP government and Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra are adopting protective tactics to ensure that Ashish Mishra roams free," it said. It alleged that Sumit Jaiswal was in the Thar vehicle that mowed down the farmers and was clearly seen escaping from the vehicle. Similarly, a video clip where a police official was seen questioning a person caught during the incident revealed that Ankit Das was in the Fortuner vehicle that was also involved in the violence, the morcha said. The morcha demanded immediate arrest of Ashish, Sumit and Ankit. The minister's son is named in the FIR in the Lakhimpur violence.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-my-son-innocent-will-appear-before-police-on-saturday-says-mos-ajay-mishra-1038640.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan’s Congress leaders put up a show of unity before assembly bypolls||In a show of unity ahead of bypolls on Rajasthan’s two assembly seats, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot and other leaders travelled together and addressed rallies in poll-bound Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad. Bypolls are to be held on Udaipur’s Vallabhnagar and Pratapgarh’s Dhariawad seats for which the party candidates filed nomination on Friday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Rajasthan’s in-charge AICC general secretary Ajay Maken, party’s state chief Govind Singh Dotasra and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot flew together to both the constituencies in a helicopter for the campaign. They reached Vallabhnagar and addressed a meeting in support of party candidate Preeti Shaktawat, the wife of late MLA Gajendra Shaktawat who died of COVID-19. Both Gehlot and Pilot, who were at loggerhead last year over the issue of leadership, said in their addresses that all the leaders have unanimously chosen Preeti Shaktawat as the Vallabhnagar candidate. In the address, the duo sought to convey to the people that the party is united. Addressing the rally, Gehlot said the Congress party will return to power even in the next assembly elections. “The party in Rajasthan is united. Sometimes news (contrary to it) is published in newspapers but do not pay heed to what is published in the papers. Sometimes they make stories,” he said. Gehlot said all the leaders unanimously chose Preeti Shaktawat as the Vallabhnagar candidate. He said the ticket can be given to only one candidate. The chief minister said the true soldier of the party is the one who respects its decisions and works for it (despite not getting the ticket). Those who keep patience too get opportunities, he added. Former deputy CM Pilot also said all the leaders unanimously agreed on the name of Preeti Shaktawat and Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi gave her the ticket. He said all the leaders have come to Vallabhnagar together. Maken and Dotasra also addressed the rally. After Vallabhnagar, they addressed the second rally in Dhariawad in support of the party candidate Nagraj Meena. Gehlot had recently said in a programme that his government will not only complete a full term of five years but will also get repeated, and he will allot Urban Development and Housing (UDH) Minister Shanti Dhariwal the same portfolio in the next government. Gehlot, who underwent angioplasty in August, also said he was not going to go anywhere for the next 15-20 years even if it makes someone unhappy. In a remark which is seen as a rejoinder to the chief minister’s statement, Sachin Pilot on Thursday said he (Pilot) will be here for the next 50 years and will complete unfinished works. During the launch of a book of journalist Rasheed Kidwai on Thursday evening in Jaipur, organiser Pramod Sharma urged Pilot to write a book and said that if he (Sharma) stayed for long, he would hold a similar programme to launch the book of Pilot. “Don't worry, I will be here for 50 years,” Pilot had said in reply. The comment is being seen as a veiled reply to Gehlot. It was in July last year that Pilot had revolted against Gehlot, triggering a political crisis in the state. The month-long crisis had ended after the intervention of party leader Rahul Gandhi. Due to the rebellion, Pilot was removed as the PCC president and deputy CM. Two other ministers were also sacked. This year, leaders from the Pilot camp started raising voices that the promises made to Pilot by the party high command have not been fulfilled even after one year following which the demand for a Cabinet reshuffle gained momentum. The Cabinet reshuffle is awaited in the state. The four leaders had also travelled together in a helicopter and addressed farmers 'mahapanchayat' in Bikaner and Chittorgarh in February this year, ahead of the bypolls on four seats.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-s-congress-leaders-put-up-a-show-of-unity-before-assembly-bypolls-1038647.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Collegium approves 11 names, including four from Karnataka, for elevation as HC judges||The Supreme Court Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has approved names of 11 advocates, including four from Karnataka, for appointment as High Court judges. In its meeting held on October 6, it has recommended for elevation of Anant Ramanath Hegde, Cheppudira Monnappa Poonacha, Siddaiah Rachaiah, and Smt Kannankuzhyil Sreedharan Hemalekha, for appointment as judges in the Karnataka High Court. It also approved the proposal for elevation of advocates Kuldeep Mathur, Maneesh Sharma, Rekha Borana, and Sameer Jain and judicial officer Shubha Mehta as judges of the Rajasthan High Court. The Collegium also recommended for appointment of advocate Soubhik Mitter as judge at the Calcutta High Court; advocate Manu Khare as judge in the Allahabad High Court, and advocate J Sathya Narayana Prasad as judge in the Madras High Court. Besides, on Friday, the Collegium, on reconsideration, resolved to reiterate its earlier recommendations for elevation of advocate Sakya Sen as judge in the Calcutta High Court. Among others, the Collegium has on Thursday approved the proposal for appointment of 10 additional judges as permanent in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Their names are Justices Suvir Sehgal, Alka Sarin, Jasgurpreet Singh Puri, Ashok Kumar Verma, Sant Parkash, Meenakshi I Mehta, Karamjit Singh, Vivek Puri, Archana Puri, and Rajesh Bhardwaj. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/collegium-approves-11-names-including-four-from-karnataka-for-elevation-as-hc-judges-1038651.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Attacks on civilians in J&K aimed at dividing communities: Omar Abdullah||The recent attacks on civilians in Jammu and Kashmir were aimed at creating a wedge between communities and it is the responsibility of the majority community to give a sense of security to our brothers, National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah said on Friday. He made an earnest appeal to members of the minority communities in Kashmir to not allow a repeat of what happened in the 1990s by leaving their homes. Speaking to reporters after visiting the residence of slain school principal Supinder Kour at Aloochi Bagh here, Abdullah also criticised the administration for failing to apprehend the attacks. “The attacks are taking place back-to-back and no one feels secure here today. The Muslims here have also been targeted, Kashmiri Pandits and Sikh brethren also. They do not feel safe," he said. "This is no time for politics, and I have not come here for politics, but it is the responsibility of the rulers to make people understand where the failure lies," Abdullah added. The former chief minister of the erstwhile state of J&K said even as he was not part of the government, he had “been hearing since the last month or so that minority communities will be targeted here”. “I heard it from very responsible people. When this information could reach me, did it not reach the responsible persons in the administration? Why did they not do anything about it?" "There is an atmosphere of fear, everyone is thinking of leaving from here. It is our responsibility, especially of the majority community, to try to give a sense of security to our brothers and neighbours so that we will not see a repeat of the 1990s-like situation,” he said. When asked if the attacks were done to disrupt the communal harmony in J&K, Abdullah said the militants always had such an agenda. “They have had this agenda from the start. Yesterday also, they separated these two teachers and then killed them. The aim is to disrupt the traditional communal harmony here and worsen the situation. “That is why I said it is the responsibility of the majority community. When we look for safety of Muslims and Sikhs in other parts from our Hindu brethren, so, in Kashmir also where Muslims are in majority, it is our responsibility to provide them a sense of security,” he said. Appealing the minority communities not to leave Kashmir Valley, Abdullah said it is easy to pass a judgment in his position but “it will be extremely unfair because I can well imagine the sense of fear that they must be living under”. “All I can do is make an earnest appeal to all of them. The aim of these attacks is to drive a wedge between the communities and is to try and drive these communities out of Kashmir. We cannot let these attacks succeed, and therefore, I am making an earnest appeal to all of them to not consider leaving from here,” he said. The NC leader said his party will continue to press the administration to make sure that all these people feel secure and they are given security. “But there should not be a pick and choose approach like the government's decision after these attacks to give a 10-day holiday to Kashmiri Pandit employees, but not to Kashmiri Sikhs. In this attack, if a Pandit as well as a Sikh were attacked, why only holiday for Pandits? Why not for them,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/attacks-on-civilians-in-jk-aimed-at-dividing-communities-omar-abdullah-1038679.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police personnel to get leaves to celebrate birthdays, wedding anniversaries with family||Delhi Police personnel will now get leaves to spend time with their families to celebrate birthdays and wedding anniversary among other important occasions of their lives, an official order has said. Officials said the move has come into immediate effect after the order dated October 7 was issued with the approval of Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana. With this order, around 80,000 police personnel of the force will henceforth get leaves to spend time with their families to celebrate the importance occasions of their lives, officials said. "It has been observed that on several occasions, police personnel are unable to spend time with their family members on important landmark occasions eg. birthdays of police personnel, spouse and their children as well as on their marriage anniversary," said the order undersigned by Mahesh Batra, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Information Technology). According to the order, police personnel will be granted 'a day rest' on their birthday, wedding anniversary, birthday of spouse as well as birthday of their children. A senior police officer said, "The order is for the entire Delhi Police force and has been implemented with immediate effect. Each one of them will be definitely given a day off to celebrate the important events of their lives as per the order issued." Welcoming the move, another senior police officer said "Every person has specific days in their lives which they would want to celebrate it with their respective families but due to emergencies or nature of the job, police personnel miss out on these occasions. "But this is indeed a very good step especially for the field functionaries who will also now get a days off for important occasions." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-personnel-to-get-leaves-to-celebrate-birthdays-wedding-anniversaries-with-family-1038680.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Killings create fear among migrant workers in Kashmir||The latest targeting of minority community members and non-locals by militants in Kashmir has created a sense of fear among migrant workers, who come to the Valley for labour jobs. Kashmir’s economy is intricately linked with the migrant workforce despite years of turmoil and violence. A few lakh migrant construction workers, vendors and labourers come to Kashmir to earn their livelihood. They are also hired during the sowing and harvesting of crops. However, after the recent killing of Virender Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar's Bhagalpur district in Srinagar, these migrant workers are living in fear. “We feel scared as there is a lot of uncertainty and fear,” said Vikas, who has been travelling to Kashmir for seasonal work for years now. Vikas along with his three colleagues are planning to leave Srinagar as soon as possible. This group of painters, who are putting up in Alamgari Bazar area of Srinagar have no idea why Paswan was killed. “Our families back home are insisting that we return immediately, but we have a lot of pending work. Till we don’t finish the pending work, we can’t claim the full money from our customers,” Vikas added. His views were echoed by Zameer Ahmad, a mason from Bihar. “I have been coming to Kashmir for the last 25 years, but I was never as scared as I am now. We are poor people who have come here to earn their livelihood. But terrorists don’t care and can attack anybody,” he added. Just two months after the revocation of J&K’s special status under Article 370, five Muslim labourers from West Bengal were killed by militants in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district in October 2019. Fear and phobia of demographic change in Kashmir has driven the spate of attacks on minorities and non-local residents in the Valley in the last two years. “There’s a high probability that attacks on minorities and non-locals will happen again. The fears of demographic change that appear to be driving these killings, are unfounded as Pakistan is trying to incite violence in Kashmir,” a senior police officer told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/killings-create-fear-among-migrant-workers-in-kashmir-1038700.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Congress names Navjot Singh Sidhu star campaigner for Himachal bypolls, days after he put in papers as Punjab unit chief||The Congress has included Navjot Singh Sidhu among its star campaigners for the October 30 bypolls in Himachal Pradesh, just days after he created a fresh crisis in the Punjab unit by submitting his resignation as its chief. In a letter sent to the Election Commission of India Friday, Congress General Secretary KC Venugopal has submitted a list of 20 star campaigners -- which also includes new inductee Kanhaiya Kumar -- for the by-elections to Mandi Lok Sabha and Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly seats of Himachal Pradesh. Sidhu had submitted his resignation as the Punjab Congress chief last month, saying he could not compromise on his state's future and its welfare. However, it was not yet clear if the party high command has accepted or rejected his resignation. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Chaani, actor-turned-politician Raj Babbar, Shimla (Rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh, former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Punjab minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli have also been included in the list of star campaigners for the by-polls. Chhattishgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel, senior Congress leaders Anand Sharma, Rajeev Shukla, Asha Kumari, Dhaniram Shandil, Sachin Pilot, Sanjay Dutt, Thakur Kaul Singh, Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu have also been named among the star campaigners. Others in the list are Kuldeep Singh Rathore, Mukesh Agnihotri, Rajender Rana, Dharamvir Singh Rana and Kanhaiya Kumar. The Congress general secretary KC Venugopal has also sent the copy of its star campaigners to Himachal Pradesh Chief Electoral Officer. Sidhu was made the Punjab Congress chief after a bitter feud with then chief minister Amarinder Singh. The infighting in the Punjab Congress also saw Singh resign as the chief minister. However, Sidhu later put in his papers as the Punjab unit chief of the party, igniting a fresh crisis in the state's ruling party. The party high command has not made it clear yet if his resignation has been accepted. Sidhu, meanwhile, led a delegation of Congress leaders from Mohali to Lakhimpur Kehri to meet the families of farmers who were killed in violence in the Uttar Pradesh district on October 3. He met the families Friday. The Congress has been attacking the government over the issue.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-names-navjot-singh-sidhu-star-campaigner-for-himachal-bypolls-days-after-he-put-in-papers-as-punjab-unit-chief-1038725.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Govt wants to hide truth, run state on might of police, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday met family members of two farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and alleged that the BJP government wants to hide the truth by strangling democracy and run the state on the might of police. He, however, said the days of the BJP government in the state are numbered and questioned why the government is delaying justice despite videos of the incident surfacing and witnesses recording statements. He also took a dig at Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, saying he is "sleeping" despite people being killed in the state. The former CM's statement came on a day the Uttar Pradesh Police issued a fresh notice to Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra after he failed to appear before it for questioning over the violence, which claimed lives of eight people, including four farmers. The former CM alleged that the state has been served the maximum notices of human rights violation under the current regime. The poor are not getting justice and democracy is being strangled by killing the truth, he alleged. "This government wants to hide the reality and run the state on the might of police," the SP chief told reporters after meeting families of the two victims. "Now, only about 100 days of the Uttar Pradesh government are left. Remember the date of January 4. All these policemen who are being seen here will undergo a change of attitude," Akhilesh said, apparently basing his calculation on the 2017 Assembly polls, whose code of conduct had come into force on that date. Yadav also took a dig at CM Yogi Adityanath, saying he is "sleeping" despite crime taking place in the state. Yadav said this reacting to a statement by the CM, who claimed that the SP chief sleeps till 12 in the morning. The chief minister knows everything about my waking up and sleeping but the government of the CM, who calls himself a Yogi, is "sleeping", Yadav said. "In his home district Gorakhpur, six criminals killed a businessman and left but 'baba' chief minister kept sleeping. Criminals are absconding after crushing farmers and the chief minister is sleeping. The speech of the (Union) Minister of State for Home is viral, which everyone is watching but the eyes of the CM are shut. Perhaps, after the remarks by the Supreme Court, his eyes may open," Akhilesh said. The SP President said the Samajwadi Party is standing solidly with the farmers' movement and the victim's family.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-govt-wants-to-hide-truth-run-state-on-might-of-police-says-akhilesh-yadav-1038731.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur incident: Kin of killed BJP men, driver too get Rs 45 lakh||A sum of Rs 45 lakh each was given to the families of two BJP men and a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, killed in the violence here after a car in the BJP convoy allegedly ran over protesting farmers, killing two of them on the spot. A total of eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist besides two BJP men and their driver were killed in the ensuing violence on Sunday. The families of the killed farmers and the journalists too had been given the compensation of Rs 45 lakh earlier by the Uttar Pradesh government. The compensation cheque to families of slain BJP man Shubham Mishra and minister's driver Hariom Mishra was given BJP’s Lakhimpur (Sadar) MLA Yogesh Verma, away from the media glare on Thursday, said sources. The compensation cheque to the kin of the second slain BJP man Shyam Sundar was given by local tehsildar (revenue official), they added. The state government had initially announced an ex gratia each of Rs 45 lakh for the families of four farmers but the kin of local journalist Raman Kashyap too was given the cheque later. Nighasan tehsil SDM O P Gupta accompanied by other civil and police officials had handed over the money to the family of the journalist two days ago. Relatives of the two killed BJP workers and Mishra’s driver confirmed receiving the money with the photographs of the MLA handing over the cheques to two families also doing the rounds on social media. The MLA could not be reached for the confirmation but a government official said on Friday that the compensation money has been given to families of all eight persons by the government. Following the preliminary probe into the Sunday violence, the two killed BJP men and Mishra’s driver too have been included among the originally unnamed six accused in the FIR as responsible for triggering the violence. The sole accused named in a complaint filed by a Bahraich farmer is the Union MoS (Home) Mishra's son Ashish Mishra. Among the four deceased farmers, while Lovepreet Singh and Nachatar Singh were from Lakhimpur, Daljeet Singh and Gurvinder Singh hailed from Bahraich. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-incident-kin-of-killed-bjp-men-driver-too-get-rs-45-lakh-1038737.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Unidentified militant killed in Srinagar shootout||A local militant affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) outft was killed in a brief shootout with Jammu and Kashmir police at Natipora area of Srinagar while a second militant managed to flee on Friday evening. In a tweet, police said: “Militants fired at Srinagar Police team (at Natipora). Police also retaliated. During the ensuing chance #encounter, one militant got neutralised but one escaped. Arms & ammunition recovered. Identification being ascertained (sic).” In another tweet police said: "As per the I/Card recovered from the killed (militant), he has been identified as Aqib Bashir Kumar of Trenz Shopian affiliated with (militant) outfit LeT. " Reports said immediately after the incident, security forces rushed reinforcements to the area and launched a manhunt to nab the second militant who managed to escape from the spot, taking advantage of darkness. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unidentified-militant-killed-in-srinagar-shootout-1038746.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||BJP embraces rivals in Uttarakhand ahead of elections||Feeling the heat of farmers' protests, BJP has embarked on a mission to expand its influence by embracing rivals in Uttarakhand. Independent MLA from Bhimtal Ram Singh Kaira, who had defeated BJP's Govind Singh Bisht in the 2017 assembly elections, joined the BJP in the presence of Union Minister Smriti Irani. Kaira is the third sitting legislator to join the BJP in recent times, as the party navigates the treacherous terrain of anti-incumbency in the hill-state. Last month, Rajkumar, the Congress MLA from Purola, and Pritam Singh Panwar, the Independent MLA from Dhanolti, had joined the BJP. The agitation against the farm laws finds resonance in the plains as farmers from the region have taken part in the 10-month-long protests at the borders of the national capital. Senior BJP leader and Sports Minister Arvind Pandey felt the heat as farmers' prevented him from attending a function to lay the foundation stone of a stadium in his Gadarpur constituency in Udham Singh Nagar district. Farmers pitched tents near the venue to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri killings as they got wind of Pandey's programme in his assembly constituency on Thursday. The minister's son said Pandey participated in the function through video conferencing as he had to be present for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the state on Thursday. Uttarakhand is set to witness a triangular contest in the assembly elections next year as the Aam Aadmi Party has put its hat in the ring and eyeing support of voters in the Terai region or the plains of the state. Congress, under the leadership of former chief minister Harish Rawat, has launched a campaign to return to power in Uttarakhand, which is yet to re-elect an incumbent government. BJP has announced that it will contest the elections under the leadership of Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami who assumed office in July. His predecessors – Trivendra Singh Rawat and Tirath Singh Rawat – had to be shunted out as they had become unpopular. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-embraces-rivals-in-uttarakhand-ahead-of-elections-1038749.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Ensure no teacher, staff allowed without at least 1 Covid vaccine dose: Delhi govt to private schools||The Delhi government has directed all private schools to ensure that their teaching and non-teaching staff are not allowed to attend school if they have not received the first dose of Covid-19, and treat their absence as being 'on leave', according to officials. The Directorate of Education has asked all private schools to ensure that all teachers and school staff including transportation staff who have not received their jabs so far should be vaccinated by October 15, a senior DoE official said. "Further, teachers and school staff who have not got themselves vaccinated, may not be allowed to attend the school and their absence may be treated as on leave," the official said. It is necessary to take all effective measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 as the country is threatened by the pandemic, the official said. "In view of this, it is imperative that all private schools functioning in Delhi should ensure the vaccination of all their teachers, staff and other supporting staff immediately," the official added. Last week, the DoE had directed all government schools to ensure that unvaccinated teachers and non-teaching staffers will not be allowed to attend school. The Delhi Diaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday notified that all Delhi government employees and teachers not having at least one shot of Covid-19 vaccine will not be allowed to attend their offices and workplaces from October 16. All such unvaccinated Delhi government employees, including teachers and frontline workers, will be treated as "on leave" till they get the jab, it said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-no-teacher-staff-allowed-without-at-least-1-covid-vaccine-dose-delhi-govt-to-private-schools-1038762.html
08-10-2021||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi demands justice for Lakhimpur violence victims, shares video of UP visit on Twitter||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday demanded justice for the Lakhimpur Kheri violence victims as he shared on Twitter a YouTube video showing his and other party leaders' visit to Uttar Pradesh to meet the families of the farmers killed in the incident. He and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had met the family members of farmers killed in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday and promised them all assistance. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel had accompanied them in another car, while Congress leaders Randeep Surjewala and Deepender Singh Hooda travelled in a separate vehicle. On Friday, Rahul Gandhi shared posted on Twitter the over 10-minute YouTube video and said, "Justice must be given to the victims of Lakhimpur." The video titled, 'The Lakhimpur Murders: Justice for our Farmers' was also posted on Rahul Gandhi's YouTube channel. The video description read. "This video is about the murder of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and the fight for justice by their families." "A delegation of Congress leaders and workers travelled to Lakhimpur to meet the families of the victims. The UP Government tried its best to stop us from going, but in the end, it had to relent in the face of the Congress party's refusal to back down. We will not rest till we have secured justice for the families of the victims in Lakhimpur Kheri," it read. On Wednesday, a high-voltage drama had played out at the Lucknow airport where Rahul Gandhi staged a dharna briefly to protest the administration's decision to take him to Lakhimpur in a police vehicle instead of his own. Later, the administration relented and the former AICC president reached the Sitapur guest house in his vehicle on his way to Lakhimpur Kheri. At the PAC guest house, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi other party leaders stayed for nearly one hour before setting off for their journey to Lakhimpur. Eight people, including a journalist, were killed in the violence that had broken out on Sunday after two SUVs allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at Tikonia-Banbirpur road in Lakhimpur Kheri. Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son has been accused of hitting farmers with his vehicle in Lakhimpur Kheri. The UP Police has lodged a case against Ajay Mishra's son Ashish but no arrest has been made so far. Ashish was asked by the police to appear before it at 10 am Friday, but he skipped the summons. The MoS Home has, however, claimed that neither his son nor he was present at the site when the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri erupted leading to the death of eight people, including four farmers. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-demands-justice-for-lakhimpur-violence-victims-shares-video-of-up-visit-on-twitter-1038797.html
08-10-2021||Opinion||For Indian junk bonds, it’s love in the time of Evergrande||There are no takers in India for corporate notes with even a whiff of credit risk. But such is the fear among global investors around China’s overleveraged property developers that money can’t stop pouring into Indian high-yield dollar bonds.   Domestic debt issuances by all except the top-rated borrowers have shrunk since the collapse of the IL&FS Group, a major infrastructure financier, in September 2018. Firms rated below AA have managed to garner just Rs 38,200 crore ($5.2 billion) this year, a far cry from their 2017 haul of Rs 2.1 lakh crore. The situation in the international market is the exact opposite. Junk-rated nonfinancial firms from India have scooped up a record $9 billion this year, almost three times the year-earlier period. JSW Steel Ltd. alone raised $1 billon last month. Tycoon Gautam Adani has pipped even historically trusted public-sector issuers, such as Power Finance Corp. and Export-Import Bank of India. Firms linked to Asia’s second-richest man have raised $9 billion in the past five years, more than any other Indian borrower. For investors wary of China, looking at India makes sense. At more than $300 billion, China Evergrande Group’s liabilities alone are more than twice the size of India’s entire corporate bond market. While nobody knows which sector or private business in the People’s Republic will get punished next by Xi Jinping’s “common prosperity” campaign, overseas investors have a fair idea which Indian corporate groups have a good relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government. Still, policy makers in New Delhi and Mumbai would prefer fund-raising to take place locally, in their home currency. After all, they’re running a fully stocked liquidity bar, with the surplus in the banking system ranging between $90 billion and $130 billion since end-June. It’s a risky ploy. With the Federal Reserve close to reining in generous monetary support for the pandemic-hit US economy, India’s happy hours can’t go on indefinitely. To boost anemic investment and jobs, the authorities want credit to perk up. But how long can they wait when easy money is only going into overpriced equities? Leaving aside the local bond market, even bank lending to the corporate sector is refusing to budge. The central bank can point to 5.3 per cent inflation, within its target range, to postpone the inevitable tightening in its monetary-policy meeting today. Granted, soaring global oil prices will bring discomfort to a country that imports most of its energy. An acute coal shortage at power plants may push inflation higher as steelmakers pay more for the commodity. It may also add to the record September trade deficit of nearly $23 billion. The reassuring news is that India isn’t living hand to mouth, having nearly $650 billion in foreign-exchange reserves, and an overall balance-of-payments that HSBC Holdings Plc expects to remain in surplus for years. Knowing they’re unlikely to lose money from a sudden rupee depreciation, foreigners may keep coming for India’s stocks and bonds. But the extra dollars arrive with a cost. A rupee that’s too strong compared with trading partners’ inflation-adjusted currencies leads to a loss of competitiveness. That’s probably what’s going on in India. “In a version of the Dutch disease, an overvalued rupee could impede growth in domestic manufacturing and jobs,” says Observatory Group analyst Ananth Narayan. Surging gold imports often signal nervousness. Some of the heightened demand can be attributed to jewelers. With the virus in retreat, they’re stocking up for the Hindu festive season, which has just begun. But could it also be that having made their money in stocks, rich Indians are buying the yellow metal and Bitcoin because they know that the ultimate source of demand in the economy is weak, and that the currency is artificially high? As long as the rupee doesn’t roll over, India will get some of the capital fleeing China. But love in the time of Evergrande isn’t forever. The local credit market needs to turn a little less grumpy. Once the Fed starts tapering its balance sheet, the moment may be lost. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/for-indian-junk-bonds-it-s-love-in-the-time-of-evergrande-1038534.html
08-10-2021||Opinion||Advantage BJP in TMC vs Congress||A week, as the Trinamool Congress proved recently, is a long time in politics. We can safely assume that Mamata Banerjee was relieved when the Election Commission, upon the Bengal chief secretary's request (for which the Calcutta High Court has reprimanded him), opened the door for her to go to the assembly by announcing the bypoll in Bhabanipur. There was little doubt that Banerjee would win from her old fortress, but the Congress party decided not to field a candidate against her as a courtesy. The TMC's actions within days of this told us why a week is a long time in politics. The party started gunning for the Congress, and it is now turning bitter. So much so that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, when prevented from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri with his sister and other Congress leaders, questioned the Uttar Pradesh administration for allowing MPs from Mamata Banerjee's party and leaders from the Bhim Army. The TMC's reaction to Rahul Gandhi's comment was acerbic. Its spokesperson Kunal Ghosh tweeted, "Rahul Gandhi should not try to confuse people by distorting facts. The TMC will not accept any loose non-political comment from any part-time politician who has failed to combat the BJP." Ghosh added for good measure, "The INC is a loser in their traditional UP, including Amethi." It was a reminder that Rahul Gandhi lost to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s Smriti Irani in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. However, Rahul Gandhi merely repeated, albeit indirectly, his party leader Adhir Chowdhury's allegation. Chowdhury, the Congress's leader in the Lok Sabha, had said that the TMC has a "secret understanding" with the BJP. He said the two reached this understanding after the central agencies tightened the noose around "the nephew", a reference to Abhishek Bannerjee, who was the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had summoned repeatedly. Chowdhury had retaliated against the recent onslaught of the TMC against the Congress. The Congress could ignore it when Abhishek Banerjee, the undisputed number two in the TMC, started snatching away their leaders in Tripura. But Rahul Gandhi and the rest could not be similarly indifferent when Sushmita Dev and Luiziho Faleiro joined the TMC. Sushmita Dev, a popular leader of the Bengalis in Assam, was a president of Congress's women's wing and daughter of old Congressman Santosh Mohan Dev. Faleiro is a seven-term Congress MLA and formerly two-time chief minister of Goa. The TMC also started saying that at the national level, Mamata Banerjee should lead the opposition. And now Mamata Banerjee herself has echoed the view. In the festival issue of her party's mouthpiece, she has written that the party is getting invited from different states to come and take up leadership. "The Trinamool Congress has become the face of the real fight against the BJP. The people of the country are now dreaming about a new India centered on the Trinamool Congress," she stated. Of course, every party should dream big, expand itself at the cost of other parties. If the Congress cannot keep its flock united against the onslaught of the TMC, that is entirely its problem. But the fallout of these skirmishes within the opposition camp, and the TMC's new adventurism in states where it has no existence, like in Goa, can be manifold. First, a message gets relayed that the opposition is busy in an internecine fight to clip Rahul Gandhi's wings. Given the context that Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar's preference in UP is for Akhilesh Yadav over Priyanka Gandhi, it would seem a coordinated move is on against the Gandhi siblings. But if Mamata Banerjee or Sharad Pawar believe they can pressurise the Congress to give up its claim on the prime ministerial chair, it is equivalent to daydreaming.  Second, since it is still a long two-and-a-half-year to go before the Lok Sabha elections, a divided opposition in Parliament will signal that Narendra Modi is still the beneficiary of the TINA (there is no alternative) factor.  Lastly, it is too early to judge if Sushmita Dev or Luiziho Faleiro are using the TMC to raise their bargaining chips with the Congress in the future. If it so happens, it will be a significant loss of face for the TMC. In short, it is all to the BJP's advantage at the moment. And that is the tragedy of the opposition of India, and the country too. Even if for nothing else but the sake of a strong democracy, India badly needs a stronger opposition presence in the Lok Sabha.  (The writer is a journalist based in Kolkata)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/advantage-bjp-in-tmc-vs-congress-1038589.html
08-10-2021||Opinion||Gandhinagar results: Ominous national implications for Opposition||Rulers revel in victories while the observant evaluate echoes. Thus, trampled farmers and a bagful of bodies in far-off Uttar Pradesh failed to elicit a reaction from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. But the two were prompt in their praise after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) swept the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation elections. The farmers were crushed on October 3; the Gandhinagar poll results came two days later, and Modi and Shah's reactions within hours of it. A little past with a sprinkling of the present can help decipher a fair amount of the future. It can also provide an insightful window into the thought process of those at the helm in the power pyramid. Gandhinagar, the state capital, has one of the smallest municipal corporations in Gujarat. It was the only state capital without an elected local self-government body until a High Court judgement of 2009 forced the Narendra Modi government in the state to constitute one in 2010.  The Congress won the first civic polls in 2011 with 18 seats to the BJP's 15. But the BJP secured power through the backdoor when three corporators, including the mayor, defected. In 2016, the two principal rivals came up equals with 16 each in a house of 32, though the BJP came to power through a Congress defector who was rewarded with the mayor's post. The BJP has cause to be happy since it is the first time that it has swept the Gandhinagar civic body outright. It is part of Shah's parliamentary constituency, which party veteran LK Advani represented earlier. The enlarged municipal corporation now has 44 seats. The BJP has bagged 41 of these in a triangular contest leaving the Congress and Aam Admi Party (AAP) to mop up the remaining two and one seats, respectively. The state BJP leadership sees a vindication of the Modi-Shah strategy that dispensed with the entire state cabinet, chief minister Vijay Rupani included, and a similar repeat exercise in the selection of the party's new candidates for the local civic body polls. State BJP president C.R. Patil said, "Not repeating candidates has worked for us." The devil, however, lies in the detail. Gandhinagar has 2,81,898 voters, of which 1,58,532 cast their votes, making for the 56.24 per cent voting. In terms of percentage, the BJP got 46.49, the Congress 28.02 and AAP 21.77. Thus, the Congress-AAP combined vote share was 49.79 per cent to the BJP's 46.49. The BJP is happy it won a steamroller victory. The AAP takes solace that it was second in 16 of the 44 seats, and the Congress stamps AAP as the 'B' team of the BJP, which has divided opposition votes. From the voters perspective, it twice voted Congress, and that party's candidates fell pray to blandishments betraying the mandate, so it punished them. The fact is that the entire opposition here now constitutes just an auto-rickshaw load. The results of a minuscule municipal corporation would not merit a national political interpretation were it not for the timing and the reaction of the duo that rules India and its implications for the rest. As things stand in the BJP, Modi is both the party and the government. And after this, he now firmly believes that the paint job of replacing entire cabinets, including the chief minister with a new set of fresh faces, papers over the inherent inadequacies, poor governance and beats anti-incumbency of an almost whole term. And the BJP has been in power in Gujarat for over a quarter-century, barring a 17-month break when the Congress piggybacked on rebel Shankersinh Vaghela's regional outfit.  This poll also confirms that whitewash works even at the grassroots level. So one can expect liberal doses of this cosmetic treatment in the other poll-bound states, principally Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. However, Uttar Pradesh under Yogi Adityanath remains impervious to change and is paying the price for it. Six chief ministers in five states have been changed over six months, with the Congress also joining the bandwagon in Punjab lately. Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and West Bengal elected new governments in 2021, and seven other states are gearing up for elections in 2022. These are Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa earlier, and Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh in the latter part of the year. One of the immediate implications of the tiny Gandhinagar civic poll results is the renewed confidence that cosmetics work, leading to the BJP giving serious consideration to moving the ensuing Gujarat Assembly elections alongside that of UP. This will divide Congress and AAP's attention and handicap the two principal opponents and their leaders in terms of logistics, human and material resources to benefit the BJP. The BJP is glowing with glee at the results in Gujarat and will mark it out for nationwide replication in the ensuing elections. In Surat, considered the state's commercial capital, civic polls held in February this year had thrown up unexpected results. The BJP bagged 93 of the 120 seats, with the AAP picking up 27 and the Congress getting wiped out. It was then considered a fluke but is now a phenomenon after the Gandhinagar results. The AAP has grievously wounded the Congress by picking up 21 per cent of votes. And therein lies a warning and a piece of advice for the Congress and the squabbling regional rulers vying to impress their footprints in each others' strongholds. Get your combined act together, as if your life depends on it. If you fail to unite, the BJP (read Modi) will string you out to dry separately. (The writer is an Ahmedabad-based veteran journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/gandhinagar-results-ominous-national-implications-for-opposition-1038660.html
08-10-2021||Right in the Middle||The necessary adjustments we make in our lives||In life, we are forced to adjust our style statements as per the available clothes. Call it compromise or adjustment; many of us are not blessed with many choices. The forced incarceration at home has made many of us adjust to the unforeseen difficulties and advantages. One fine morning, the wife said, “The cooker gasket is out of order and not in shape. Steam is leaking. Please order a new gasket.” I placed an order using an online platform for spare ones with the original equipment manufacturer. Promptly came the reply by email that their store was closed due to shut down. I was given the choice of cancellation and refund or waiting indefinitely for lockdown relaxation. The wife said she would adjust without the cooker. She started cooking like olden days and drained excess water from the vessel after the rice was cooked. Most matrimonial advertisements seek well-educated, well-employed and fair-complexioned brides or grooms for wedded bliss. In reality, all prerequisites may not be fulfilled. A dark-skinned groom may have a good education and a golden heart which will be revealed only in real life. The skin cannot help come to a conclusion about the person’s soul. In most arranged marriages, the man and the woman start adjusting with each other after their wedding oath. “On rare occasions, one does hear of a miraculous case of a married couple falling in love after marriage, but on close examination, it will be found that it is a mere adjustment to the inevitable,” said Emma Goldman, famously labelled as a feminist and anarchist. At a wedding reception, the caterer cooked for 500 guests but ended up serving 600 of them. “How did you manage?” I asked. “That is a professional secret,” he smiled and refused to discuss the matter. Later, I learnt that some caterers add hot water and salt to the sambar to stretch it to the last plate. Guests may be forced to search for paneer in the so-called paneer masala. The servers also keep a distance from the diners so that they cannot ask for a second helping of tasty dishes of their liking. Students dream of becoming doctors and engineers. Their marks do not always help them get the subjects of their choice in universities. Some end up adjusting to the courses available against their marks and still succeed in a new field. Thus, adjustment is inevitable in life. The only thing we need to see is, whether it affects the quality of life adversely, and make fewer such adjustments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-necessary-adjustments-we-make-in-our-lives-1038732.html
08-10-2021||Second Edit||A damning indictment of Facebook||Facebook has faced tough Congressional hearings in the US and strong public criticism all over the world over various aspects of its functioning, but last week’s testimony of Frances Haugen, a former employee of the social media giant and a whistleblower, at a Senate panel hearing stood out for its directness, authority and credibility. Haugen’s views are important because of her inside knowledge of Facebook, where she served in a senior position, and for the documents she made public. The points she made are important: that Facebook puts profit over moral responsibility, and that its products “harm children, stoke division and weaken democracy.’’ She mentioned the lack of safeguards against the spread of hatred and mischief and gave examples of many such failures of the organisation.  Haugen cited two examples. She said that Facebook removed the safeguards against polarising political content after the 2020 US Presidential elections and that may have been partially responsible for the riots at the Capitol in Washington on January 6. In a reference to India, she said that despite being aware that “RSS users, groups, and pages promote fear-mongering, anti-Muslim narratives”, Facebook could not take action or flag this content, given its “lack of Hindi and Bengali classifiers (hate speech detection algorithms)”. She said that “We have yet to put forth a nomination for designation of this group (RSS) given political sensitivities.” She also blamed Facebook for the mass killings in Myanmar. Haugen said that the company seemed aware of the role it has played in inciting ethnic violence in certain parts of the world. There are documents detailing how Instagram, which Facebook owns, increases notions of shame around the body and depression among teenage girls. She said 20% of young Instagram users are mentally affected negatively.   Haugen’s view is that the company is agnostic about the nature of its content and its impact on users. This could be very damaging for users in the young and sensitive age groups and could create social strife and conflict in societies through divisive and polarising content. Much of this happens because information is commerce, and as Haugen says, the company chooses profit over the public good. Though Haugen was highly critical of Facebook, she had constructive suggestions to improve it. Her views and revelations have come at a time when there are rising demands for greater regulatory scrutiny and control over Facebook. She believes Facebook has the potential for good and should be given a chance to “declare moral bankruptcy and move forward”. Her accent on ethically upgrading technology will also attract much attention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-damning-indictment-of-facebook-1038734.html
08-10-2021||South||Kerala's Pokkali farmers want Neela Kozhi bird to be declared 'vermin', approach HC||Rats, mice, fruit bats and crows have been termed as 'vermin' for destroying crops and now the Grey-headed swamphen or 'Neela Kozhi', as it is called in Kerala, may also be added to that list if the farmers of pokkali rice have anything to say on it. The grey-headed swamphens are usually found in uncultivated paddy fields or swampy areas of wetlands where they roost and breed. However, experts say that the bird is a protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act and that it can be declared as a vermin only by the Forest department of the state. Bugged by the persistent invasion by these birds of their paddy fields, where a special salt resistant variety of rice called 'pokkali' is being cultivated, an Ernakulam-based association of farmers has moved the Kerala High Court urging it to declare this particular species of swamphen as vermin. Pokkali cultivation is a form of mixed farming, where five months are devoted to growing rice, another five months for prawn or fish breeding and remaining 60 days are a transient period between the two, the petition has said. The state government, on the other hand, opposed the plea saying the bird was migratory and this was the first time such a complaint had come. It said the farmers ought to have first approached the forest department before approaching the court. The court, however, asked the state government not to take such a technical objection, saying if the farmers did not have a problem, they would not have filed a writ petition. The court asked the state government to inform it whether the grievance of the farmers, represented by advocates T R S Kumar, Mithun C Thomas and Akshay Joseph, was genuine and if not, then what was the motive behind filing the instant plea. In July this year, the high court had permitted farmers to hunt down wild boars attacking farmlands in certain parts of the state and had asked the state government to declare the animal as vermin in those specific areas. A similar relief is being sought by the pokkali rice farmers for their fields in Ernakulam. Besides urging the court to declare the bird in question as a vermin as far as their fields are concerned, the farmers have also sought that they be protected from any action under the Wildlife Act if they kill, injure or trap the grey-headed swamphen while trying to protect their crop, which is primarily grown in Thrissur, Ernakulam and Alappuzha districts of the state. The grey-headed swamphen is a water bird which commonly inhabits dense marshy areas, rice fields and wetlands in Kerala and it lives as a large community in these areas. Experts, like Dr P O Nameer, say that while the swamphens are not an endangered or migratory species, they are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act. Dr Nameer, the Dean of College of Climate Change and Environmental Science at Vellanikkara, which comes under the Kerala Agricultural University, said that while these birds have been found to cause damage to crops in various parts of the state, the loss to farmers was not as huge as was being claimed. He said that generally the farming community would prefer to put all animals and birds in the vermin category. Dr Nameer said if farmers have suffered losses, they can seek compensation from the government. With regard to the instant case, he said the grey-headed swamphens were usually found in uncultivated paddy fields or swampy areas of wetlands where they roost and breed and therefore, if such areas are cultivated the birds might move out of the area. The farmers, however, claim that a major reason for the intrusion of the bird into their paddy fields is "scarcity of food and unsuitable habitat" and they use it for shelter and reproduction "due to the high coverage generated by the pokkali rice plant". In their plea, the farmers have said that these birds arrive after sowing of the seeds in June and remain there till harvest time -- which is in November -- and during the intervening period they wreak havoc on the growing crops by feeding on the buds and cutting the paddy stems to build nests. It also results in bald patches in the fields, the farmers have claimed. The activities of the bird have caused huge damage to the pokkali rice crops, whose cultivation area has dropped to less than 1,000 hectares in Kerala where in the past it was being grown on more than 25,000 hectares of land, the plea has said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-pokkali-farmers-want-neela-kozhi-bird-to-be-declared-vermin-approach-hc-1038572.html
08-10-2021||South||Sabarimala airport to be constructed in time-bound manner: Kerala CM||Even as the DGCA raised objections over the Sabarimala airport project proposal by Kerala government, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the state assembly on Friday that the airport would be set up in a time-bound manner by including in the projects of priority of the state government. Vijayan said that a reply would be given to the DGCA with the additional information sought by the regulatory body. The site for the proposed airport at Cheruvally, about 50 kilometres from Sabarimala, was identified after considering various locations based on the parameters for the airport. The Chief Minister was replying to a calling attention motion on the airport project. The DGCA recently raised a series of queries over the Sabarimala airport project proposal submitted by Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation, which is the nodal agency for the project. The main objection was that the Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi international airports were only 110 kilometres and 88 kilometres respectively from the proposed site for the Sabarimala airport. As per Green Field airport policy, new airports should be 150 kilometres away from existing international airports. Special officer for the airport project V Thulasidas had said that the queries by central agencies were only part of the normal process for approval for airports. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-airport-to-be-constructed-in-time-bound-manner-kerala-cm-1038590.html
08-10-2021||South||Kerala HC sets aside preventive detention of gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh under COFEPOSA||The Kerala High Court on Friday set aside the preventive detention imposed on Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the sensational gold smuggling case, under the COFEPOSA (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act). The Division Bench of the High Court comprising justices A K Jayasankaran Nambiar and Mohammed Nias C P gave the order in a plea filed by Suresh's mother seeking to quash the continuous detention of her daughter under the COFEPOSA. However, she will continue to remain in jail as she has not secured bail in the case registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). She had been undergoing continuous jail term since her arrest by the NIA in connection with the case of gold smuggling allegedly using diplomatic channel. The Customs probing the gold smuggling case had invoked provisions of the COFEPOSA against her in October last year. The national advisory board of the COFEPOSA had approved the proposal submitted by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate probed the case. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), the ED and the Customs conducted separate investigations into the racket that was busted with the seizure of gold worth Rs 15 crore from the diplomatic baggage of the UAE Consulate at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5, 2020. Several people including Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to the Kerala Chief Minister, former employees of the UAE consulate, Suresh and Sarith P S, were arrested in connection with the case. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-sets-aside-preventive-detention-of-gold-smuggling-accused-swapna-suresh-under-cofeposa-1038604.html
08-10-2021||South||Kerala Congress issues show cause notice to 97 leaders for lapses in electioneering||The Congress leadership in Kerala has issued show cause notices to 97 party leaders for alleged lapses in the Assembly election works. Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran said that stringent action would be taken against those who worked against the party and those who were not willing to work for the party at the local level would not be considered for any posts in the party. The show cause notices were issued on the basis of reports by enquiry commissions appointed by the party following the setback faced in the elections. The Congress-led United Democratic Front faced defeat for the second consecutive time in Kerala Assembly elections earlier this year. In the 140 member Kerala Assembly, the UDF got only 41 seats, which was six seats lesser that 47 seats it won in 2016 elections. Subsequent to the election defeat, a leadership change was already effected in the state by replacing Mullappally Ramachandran with Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran as the PCC president and Ramesh Chennithala with V D Satheesan as leader of opposition. Sudhakaran said that the party would also specifically look into 58 complaints pertaining to organisational issues and acts that caused defamation to the party among the people. A three member committee was also appointed to have detailed evaluation of the reasons for defeat of the UDF candidates in nine constituencies where there was high victory chances. Stringent action would be taken against leaders who had worked against the official candidates and kept off from electioneering. Those who were now willing to work for the victory of the party candidates at the local level would not be considered for any posts in the party. Loyalty to leaders for favors would not be entertained, said Sudhakaran. Meanwhile, the selection of office bearers for the Kerala PCC and the party district committees were in the final stages. The party is already facing internal rifts after the selection of the district committee presidents. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-issues-show-cause-notice-to-97-leaders-for-lapses-in-electioneering-1038661.html
08-10-2021||South||Develop mindset to accept women as equal, says Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan||Expressing concern over incidents of dowry harassment in Kerala, Governor of the State Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday said the atrocities against women can be addressed only if a mindset is created which does not consider them as inferior and accept them as equal. "We have laws, we have very good police yet these things are happening, why? Because laws and police come into picture only after crime has been committed," the Governor told reporters after visiting the house of Moosakkutty of Mampad, Malappuram, whose suicide was allegedly due to harassment his daughter faced from her husband in the name of dowry. Moosakkutty's 20-year-old daughter and her family had alleged that the dowry harassment she had to suffer from her husband drove her father to end his life. Before ending his life, Moosakkutty, 46, recorded a video narrating the brutal domestic violence his daughter faced at her husband's residence. Visiting his home on Friday, Khan consoled the family members. "Only if you create a mindset which does not consider women inferior, when we accept women as equal, when we accept that women are entitled to the same dignity, only then these things can be solved," Khan said. When a series of dowry deaths rocked Kerala in July this year, Governor Khan observed a fast on July 14 to create social awareness against the social evil and end atrocities against women. He suggested that prior to taking admission in colleges, students and their parents should sign a bond that they will not engage in the practice of dowry. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/develop-mindset-to-accept-women-as-equal-says-kerala-governor-arif-mohammed-khan-1038683.html
08-10-2021||South||Kerala youth allegedly suffers vision ailment after taking powder given by astrologer||A youth in Kerala allegedly suffered vision ailments after consuming 'Thanka Bhasmam' ('gold powder') prescribed by a local astrologer who assured better prospects in studies, including cracking the civil services exams. The incident took place at Kannur district in North Kerala in August. As per the complaint of the boy's father, the Kannavam police registered a case on Thursday and started investigation. Mobin Chand, a native of Kottali in Kannur, alleged that an astrologer in the locality had prescribed the 'gold powder' to his son for consumption with milk assuring that he would fare well in studies and even clear the civil services. The youth later suffered vision problems and it was suspected to be due to side-effects of consuming the 'Thanga Bhasmam'. The astrologer also allegedly collected Rs 11.75 lakh from Chand for the powder as well as some 'precious stones' as remedy to the bad fortunes of the family. The complainant first consulted the astrologer for finding ideal time for starting home construction. The astrologer then said that the family may suffer some misfortune and hence recommended the stones. Later he prescribed the 'gold powder' for his son. Chand approached the court and based on court's intimation the Kannavam police registered a case for cheating against the astrologer. Kannavan sub-inspector said that the investigation was just beginning and hence the veracity of the allegations could not be ascertained yet. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-youth-allegedly-suffers-vision-ailment-after-taking-powder-given-by-astrologer-1038685.html
08-10-2021||South||ISB and AP government ink pact to offer business literacy and behavioral skills courses||The Andhra Pradesh government has partnered with the Indian School of Business to offer certification courses in business literacy and behavioral skills. The courses are intended to make the state's students gain competitive advantage, making them more employable and industry ready. On Friday, ISB officials signed an MoU with Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) and Andhra Pradesh Information Technology Academy (APITA) to provide these skilling programmes. As part of the initiative, ISB is offering two joint certification courses in Business Literacy and Behavioural Skills through APSSDC and Digital Literacy and Entrepreneurial Literacy through APITA. “ISB is offering these programmes as foundational elective courses in an asynchronous format, keeping in mind the changes coming up through the National Education Policy,” the B-school officials said. “To drive the expected pace of development in the state, its citizens need to be smarter communicators, effective workers, good negotiators, savvy decision-makers as well as be digitally empowered. The programmes designed and delivered by our world-class faculty shall contribute towards this,” Professor Madan Pillutla, Dean ISB said. Professor Hemachandra Reddy, chairman, AP State Council of Higher Education said that such courses would function as confidence-building measures among the students. Professor Deepa Mani, deputy dean – Executive Education and Digital Learning at ISB said that their courses are designed to cater to the fast-evolving global conditions and expectations. “We will soon expand the portfolio to add many more courses.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/isb-and-ap-government-ink-pact-to-offer-business-literacy-and-behavioral-skills-courses-1038728.html
08-10-2021||South||Kerala's Covid-19 death toll set to witness a spike as over 7,000 deaths underreported||The Covid-19 death tally of Kerala will be witnessing a leap as the state was found to have underreported over 7,000 virus-related deaths. Kerala Health Minister Veena George told the Assembly on Friday that over 7,000 Covid deaths were found to be not included in the state's Covid death tally. It was mainly due to technical lapses like missing vita information regarding the patient. All the deaths were being added to the existing Covid death tally of the state. The opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front alleged that the attempts of the government to keep the Covid death tally to earn goodwill was getting exposed. The opposition also staged a walkout from the Assembly over the issue alleging that the government lacked transparency with regard to Covid death reporting. Kerala had a lower Covid death rate of 0.54 per cent with a total deaths of 25,952 till Saturday. With over 7,000 deaths being added to it, the death rate may also witness slight increase. The health department sources said around 7,300 Covid deaths that remained under-reported were those prior to June this year - before an online death reporting system was introduced. Prior to that Covid deaths were finalised at the state level. But owing to the missing of vital information like Specimen Referral Form identification number (SRF ID), which is generated when a person is tested Covid positive, a a large number of cases were kept in abeyance by the state level committee and this piled up. With the introduction of the online system from June there was no backlog. Meanwhile, the state government is introducing an online systems for submitting application for compensations for the dependents of Covid victims by Oct 10. The list of those eligible for the compensation on the basis of the guidelines issued by the centre and the ICMR as per Supreme Court directives would be also published. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-death-toll-set-to-witness-a-spike-as-over-7000-deaths-underreported-1038729.html
08-10-2021||South||Telangana state assembly adopts resolution asking Centre to count OBCs in census||The Telangana assembly on Friday adopted a resolution unanimously, pleading the Narendra Modi government to include enumeration of the other backward communities as part of the decennial census of India. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao sponsored the resolution at a time when there is a growing chorus across the country to count the people belonging to Other Backward Castes i.e., apart from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. "For the upliftment of the unprivileged sections of the society, it is essential to maintain their accurate demographic data. These statistics help in proper planning of various welfare measures to aid their development,” Rao said while introducing the resolution in the house. 1931 was the last time a caste wise census data was collected in the country. The Modi government had in its previous term favored a OBC headcount. In 2018, the then home minister Rajnath Singh had stated that the 2021 census would collect data on other backward castes. However, the Centre last month told the Supreme Court that holding a caste census of the backward classes would be "administratively difficult and cumbersome." The government also stated that exclusion of such information from the census purview is a 'conscious policy decision." In an affidavit submitted in the SC, the Centre also maintained that the Socio Economic and Caste Census of 2011 was "unusable" for official purposes as the data enumeration was “fraught with mistakes and inaccuracies.” The decennial census exercise this time was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "The Telangana assembly urges the central government for a caste-wise census of the backward class of citizens to be conducted while holding the general census," CM Rao stated in the resolution. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-state-assembly-adopts-resolution-asking-centre-to-count-obcs-in-census-1038780.html
08-10-2021||South||Kerala brings out guidelines for reopening of schools||As the schools in Kerala from Class 1 to higher-secondary are set to reopen from next month, the state government has issued detailed guidelines to be followed by schools. A bio-bubble model is being planned and parents can decide whether to send the students to school or not. Existing online classes would also continue. Initially, schools will function only till noon and will function on Saturdays also. Teachers would ensure that crowding by students was avoided. Various government departments including Education and Health brought out the guidelines. Colleges in the state started functioning in a phased manner from this week and by this month-end, all classes would resume. Meanwhile, the findings of a seroprevalence study among students conducted by the state government would be published soon. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-brings-out-guidelines-for-reopening-of-schools-1038798.html
08-10-2021||State||25,000 vacancies in Kalyana Karnataka to be filled soon: Sriramulu||Minister of Transport and Tribal Welfare B Sriramulu said on Friday that the state government would soon take measures to fill about 25,000 vacancies in various government departments in Kalyana Karnataka region. Speaking to reporters here, the minister said, "The government is committed towards the all-round development of the Kalyana Karnataka. The KKRDB and the government agencies should utilise the grants appropriately. The government is ready to provide additional grants," he said adding that strict disciplinary action would be initiated against the officials if found lax in implementing the provisions of Article 371J. On the conflicting views of JD(S) leaders H D Deve Gowda and his son H D Kumaraswamy on RSS, Sriramulu said, "Deve Gowda praises RSS because he is aware of the Sangh and its activities. But his son's (H D Kumaraswamy) comments on RSS and its legacy has only exposed his ignorance... Kumaraswamy makes such statements for publicity," he charged. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/25000-vacancies-in-kalyana-karnataka-to-be-filled-soon-sriramulu-1038754.html
08-10-2021||State||I-T sleuths continue search operations for second day in Bengaluru||The Income Tax (IT) officials continued their search operations at several locations in Bengaluru for the second day on Friday Joined by additional team of 10 officials, the IT sleuths on Friday seized several documents, bank records and WhatsApp transcripts pertaining to money transaction between various individuals. The IT sleuths again visited Rahul Enterprises in Sahakarnagar and seized several bags of documents. After the preliminary search on Thursday, the officials had locked the office premises. However, they again arrived for a search on Friday. The officials further seized contract and tender-related files pertaining to the projects of Major Irrigation department from the house of Ayanur Umesh, said to be a close confidant of Yediyurappa's family. IT officials visited the house of Aravind, said to be a classmate of Yediyurappa’s son, B Y Vijayendra. However, the officials discovered that Aravind had gone abroad and directed him to appear before the investigation team on his return to India. This apart, officials also carried out search at the Sadashivanagar residence and office of contractor D Y Uppar and recovered several documents and bills and files pertaining to payments and contract details. Chartered Accountant Lakshmikant’s house in Vidyaranyapura was also searched. Sources in the IT department revealed that the entire search operations was monitored and led by the senior officials of the department from New Delhi. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/i-t-sleuths-continue-search-operations-for-second-day-in-bengaluru-1038786.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre assured supply of 42,000 tonnes of DAP, MoP fertilisers to Karnataka: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said he has requested Union Health and Fertilzer Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to allocate 32,000-tonne DAP (Diammonium phosphate) to Karnataka. The CM, who met the Union Minister here, also said that a request was also made to supply 10,000-tonne potash immediately. "Union Minister positively responded to the state plea. He assured to make the additional supply to the state," Bommai said. At present the state has sufficient stock of urea and farmers will not face any problem, he said. On Covid-19 vaccination, the CM said the state planned to vaccinate 90 per cent of population with the first dose and 70 per cent with the second dose by December end. At present, the state has a stock of 51 lakh vaccine doses. State Health Minister K Sudhakar also accompanied the CM. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-assured-supply-of-42000-tonnes-of-dap-mop-fertilisers-to-karnataka-bommai-1038602.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will soon call first meeting of GoM set up to review GST rates: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||The first meeting of the Group of Ministers set up for rationalising GST rates and to shore up revenue will be held soon, its chairman and Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday after meeting with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. "Very soon, I will call the first meeting of GoM. I met her (Finance Minister) in this backdrop," Bommai told reporters after the meeting. The Group of Ministers (GoM) has to submit a report in the next two months, Bommai said, adding he discussed important issues related to rationalisation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) taxes and ways to increase revenue with the Union Minister. Earlier, Bommai was to meet the finance minister late in the evening. However, the meeting was advanced. In September, the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council had decided to set up two Groups of Ministers (GoMs) to shore up revenues. Bommai's seven-member group constituted by the Finance Ministry includes West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra and Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal, as well as GST Council members from Goa, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Asked if the centre has released the pending GST compensation to Karnataka, the chief minister said it has been cleared till 2019-20 fiscal. For 2020-21 fiscal, the state was to get Rs 11,800 crore which is being released in phases. For the current fiscal, the Centre has sanctioned GST compensation of Rs 18,000 crore via loan, he said, adding a higher amount was sanctioned as the state GST collection has improved when compared to the last year. Besides GST, the chief minister also sought more support to Karnataka under programmes implemented by Nabard. "I have sought higher allocation to the state under one of Nabard's infrastructure schemes." He also requested an increase in loan amount from the current Rs 1,500 crore given by Nabard for farmers and rural development. Bommai said the Union Minister will visit the state and attend separate programmes of Nabard and SIDBI. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-soon-call-first-meeting-of-gom-set-up-to-review-gst-rates-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1038613.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Large number of tourists throng Mysuru for Dasara illumination, choke roads||Despite the State government announcing simple Dasara this year in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, thousands of tourists are thronging Mysuru city to enjoy the ‘Naada Habba’. Although the festival and cultural events are limited to Mysuru Palace premises, people are visiting the city to enjoy the illumination. People from various parts of the state are arriving in the city. Compared to Dasara-2020, the tourists’ inflow has increased this year. The city roads are choked with traffic from evening to night as a majority of Mysureans came out of houses driving their vehicles to witness the illumination of the city. All tourist destinations except Chamundi Hill are open for visitors, while the tourist spots were out of bounds for tourists during the last Dasara. A majority of the visitors throng the city from Bengaluru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar to witness the illumination. S H Avinash of Hassan, who visited the city on Friday said that he was a regular visitor to Mysuru during Dasara. “I missed the illumination last year due to Covid. I reached the city at 2 pm and will leave the city at 9.30 pm after enjoying the illumination,” he said. Banupriya from Mandya said that she, along with her husband and children, visited the city to enjoy the lights. “We saw the colourful lighting on social media and children demanded to visit the city,” she said. In 2018, the city had witnessed a record flow of tourists. Mysuru Zoo had received 1.53 lakh tourists during Dasara festival. However, 33,000 people visited the Zoo on Vijayadashami Day alone. With a large number of people visiting the city, it is a big relief for tourism stakeholders, including hoteliers. The tourism stakeholders were under severe loss without business since the Covid crisis set in. A traffic police officer said that the traffic density was high compared to normal days and the density increased by evening. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/large-number-of-tourists-throng-mysuru-for-dasara-illumination-choke-roads-1038708.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will complete term and lead BJP in 2023 assembly polls: Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai exuded confidence on Friday that he will complete his term and lead the BJP in the 2023 state Assembly polls with the backing of the central leadership and strong party principles. Admitting that certain lobbies tried to dominate the southern state's politics with money power in the past and are doing so even now, he said the "silver lining" is that the people of Karnataka have overthrown them with their mandate. While leaders from the Lingayat community have played a key role in building the BJP in Karnataka, a lot of people from other castes like Vokkaliga, SCs, STs and OBCs have also joined the saffron party and are contributing a lot, Bommai said. Addressing the "India Today Conclave" here, he said he is "most secured" since his childhood when asked if he has any fear of his government being toppled overnight like it happened in the state in the past. The BJP leader said his father S R Bommai's tenure as the Karnataka chief minister lasted for only nine months as the Janata Party, which he belonged to, did not have a strong leadership at the Centre. "Now, with my leader Prime Minister Narendra Modi, (Union Home Minister) Amit Shah and (BJP chief) J P Nadda, we have not only got a strong central leadership but also strong party principles. I am sure that with all these factors behind me, I will not only complete this term, I will lead Karnataka upfront and bring the BJP back to power," he said. Stating that the BJP functions in a democratic way, Bommai said, "Our principle is a strong Centre and strong states, and that makes a strong nation. All the timely changes are the need of the hour. It is not a question of any dictatorship." On a question on the BJP-ruled states turning to Delhi for decision making, he said, "For administration, there is no question of looking at Delhi. But there are certain issues, where you have to consult. Consultation does not mean you look upon Delhi or look down Delhi. Consultation is an ongoing process." On the trend of frequent shifting of MLAs from one party to another and yet winning elections in the state, Bommai said "changing sides" and parties has been there since the days of veteran Congress leaders S Nijalingappa and Veerendra Patil. Even leaders like Ramakrishna Hedge and S R Bommai had to quit and join the BJP, he said, adding, "The course of politics and leadership has guided all these changes." Bommai further said spending a huge amount of money in elections and the role of lobbies were always there in Karnataka. "I should admit that there were and there are lobbies in Karnataka politics. Earlier, there was an excise lobby, then came the granite lobby and the education lobby. In between, we had a mining lobby. All these lobbies always try to dominate the state's politics with money power. That has disturbed the right kind of polity in Karnataka. Not only in Karnataka, but in several states," he said. However, the people of Karnataka "have always overthrown them and brought the government back with people's mandate. That is the silver lining in Karnataka's politics. All the credit should go to the people of Karnataka", he added. On frequent changes of chief ministers of BJP-ruled states, including B S Yediyurappa, Bommai said, "Change is permanent.... Yediyurappa is such a strong leader. I think only he could have decided his future course of action." Yediyurappa single-handedly built the BJP in Karnataka, he said, adding, that the veteran leader has fought and won many battles for the saffron party in the southern state. "He is never tired. However, he chose to pave the way for the next generation. When he was at the helm of affairs and strongly placed, he voluntarily made way for the next generation. That is the culture he brought in and that is the culture of the BJP," Bommai said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-complete-term-and-lead-bjp-in-2023-assembly-polls-karnataka-cm-1038743.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bypolls: 37 candidates file nominations for two seats||A total of 37 candidates have filed 57 nominations on Friday, the last day to do so, for Sindagi and Hangal assembly constituencies that will go for by-elections on October 30, poll officials said. While 8 candidates from Sindagi have filed 12 nominations, 45 nominations have been received from 29 candidates in Hangal. Out of total 37, two candidates each from Sindagi and Hangal are women. While scrutiny of nominations will take place on October 11, the last day for withdrawal of papers is on October 13. Counting of votes will take place on November 2. The by-elections have been necessitated as the seats fell vacant following the death of Sindgi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP's C M Udasi from Hangal. While Ramesh Bhusanur, who came second behind Managuli in 2018 polls, is the BJP candidate from Sindagi, Shivaraj Sajjanar is its candidate from Hangal constituency. Congress has named Managuli's son Ashok Managuli, who has joined the party, as its candidate from Sindgi, while former MLC Srinivas Mane is its candidate from Hangal. JD(S), which was the first to announce its candidates, has fielded 33-year-old post graduate Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindagi and 35-year-old B.E, M.Tech (CSE) graduate Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal. Congress leaders including Siddaramaiah have alleged that JD(S) deliberately fielded minority candidates for the Hangal and Sindagi by-elections to help the BJP, resulting in war of words between both parties. This is the first electoral challenge for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after taking charge. Winning Hangal is even more important for him as it is the neighbouring constituency to his Shiggaon assembly segment. On the last day of filing nominations, all the three political parties claimed they will win with a huge margin. State Congress Chief D K Shivakumar, speaking to reporters in Sindagi, expressed confidence that the party will win with a margin of minimum 25,000 votes. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy, defending his party's decision to field Muslim candidates from both seats said the candidates are educated, and accused the Congress of playing "low level politics" by alleging that the regional party was trying to help BJP by fielding minority community candidates. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel claimed his party will win with a huge margin in both Sindagi and Hangal, and teams have been formed to ensure its victory. "All the leaders are together fighting this election unitedly," he said in Hangal.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bypolls-37-candidates-file-nominations-for-two-seats-1038745.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||At 397, Karnataka logs lowest daily Covid-19 cases so far during second wave||Karnataka logged 397 new Covid-19 cases on Friday which Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said are the lowest in the second Covid wave. "Covid cases fall to the lowest level in second wave," the minister tweeted. This took the total number of infection cases to 29,80,170 and five new deaths took the total death toll to 37,866. The day also saw 603 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,30,867. Bengaluru Urban accounted for most of the cases 140. The city also saw 148 discharges and three deaths. The total number of active cases in the state are now 11,408. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.43 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.25 per cent. Out of five deaths reported on Friday, three were from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada districts. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Mysuru accounted for 53, Dakshina Kannada 39, Hassan 27, Udupi and Uttara Kannada reported 27, cases each. The total number of Covid samples tested in the state on Friday stood at 91,772. As much as 8,81,867 doses of vaccine were administered on the day. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-397-karnataka-logs-lowest-daily-covid-19-cases-so-far-during-second-wave-1038752.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Guest lecturers’ services to be continued for 2021-22: Ashwath Narayan||The government has decided to continue the services of the guest lectures for the current year, working under the various state-run universities during the previous year. They will be relieved (discharged) of their duties for a day (single day) and will be continued said, the Minister for Higher Education Dr C N Ashwath Narayan in a press release. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/guest-lecturers-services-to-be-continued-for-2021-22-ashwath-narayan-1038756.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Power generation hit at Karnataka's thermal plants as coal supply dips||Thermal power plants in the Kalyana Karnataka region – Raichur, Ballari and Yermarus Thermal Power Stations (RTPS, BTPS, and YTPS) are facing a shortage of coal to generate power as coal transportation has been hit due to heavy rains in the colliery areas. However, the saving grace is that the demand for thermal power has dome down due to the availability of wind, solar, and hydropower in the rainy season. Due to the shortage of coal, only four units out of eight are generating power in RTPS and two of the three units have been shut at BTPS. Singareni Collieries Company Limited in Telangana and Western Coal Field in Maharashtra are supplying coal to the thermal power stations in Karnataka. RTPS Executive Director K V Venkatachalapathi told DH that the power station requires around 25,000 metric tonnes (MT) of coal a day if all the eight units with a total installed capacity of 1,720 MW run at the optimum level. Due to the shortage of coal, only four units are generating power as coal supply is now around 12,000-13,000 MT a day. “We are able to generate power in four units with the present coal supply. We receive wet coal sometimes,” he said. BTPS Executive Director Shashikanth said two of the three units have been shut due to the shortage of coal.  The present coal supply to the station is around 4,000-5,000 MT. The three units with a total installed capacity of 1,700 MW require around 24,000 MT of coal a day to generate power, he said. One of the two units at YTPS is said to have been shut following the same problem. The installed capacity of each unit is 800 MW. There is not much demand for power generated from thermal plants during the rainy season as hydropower is available. Demand for thermal power increases after February as summer sets in. In recent years, solar and wind power are being tapped in the state to reduce the dependency on thermal power stations. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/power-generation-hit-at-karnatakas-thermal-plants-as-coal-supply-dips-1038758.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New book explores Kannada literary icon Shivarama Karanth's life and works||Rich tributes were paid to Kannada literary icon and thinker K Shivarama Karanth on Friday. The occasion was the soft launch of his new memoir, written by his children Malavika Kapur, K Ullas Karanth, and Kshama Rau. It’s called ‘Growing Up Karanth’. Held at Bangalore International Centre, the event started with a montage on Karanth’s life, followed by speeches. “Karanth had a forbidding public image. But he was affectionate in private life. He also had a dry sense of humour,” former bureaucrat Chiranjiv Singh shared in a panel discussion where he spoke alongside the Jnanpith laureate's children. The book throws light on the intimate side of Karanth’s life and highlights the contribution of his wife Leela Karanth in his illustrious journey. The 90-minute event was attended by his ardent followers, mostly in their silver years. Historian Ramachandra Guha was also present. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-book-explores-kannada-literary-icon-shivarama-karanths-life-and-works-1038760.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vet shortage cripples healthcare for livestock in Karnataka||A pandemic-induced freeze on staff recruitment in government departments has come as a blow to veterinary healthcare in the state. For, owing to a shortage of veterinary doctors in government hospitals, farmers are struggling to avail medical facilities for livestock. With a handful of veterinary professionals available at taluk-level, they are unable to access timely treatment for livestock, farmers said, urging the government to appoint doctors at the earliest. According to veterinary department data, there are at least 1,000 posts vacant for veterinary doctors across the state. Recent data from the department showed that of the 3,317 posts available for veterinary doctors both senior and junior, 1,050 posts were vacant. The department’s recent proposal seeking to hire 600 doctors on contract basis, has not seen any response from the finance department. Speaking to DH and requesting anonymity, an official in the department said, “The crisis is because of the pandemic. Since the government froze recruitment, the department proposed to outsource these jobs. However, the finance department is yet to respond to our request.” While officials maintained that the department was pulling through with available resources and that the services were not hit owing to staff shortage, farmers refuted these claims. Mahadev Madiwal, member of the Athani Raitha Sangha explained, “If there are seven or eight doctors, where all can they cover? When farmers call the doctors, they have to wait for a long time for the doctor to finish prior appointments. In several instances, animals have died waiting for medical attention.” In some places where private clinics are available, farmers have to shell out more than they can afford, according to Kuruburu Shanthakumar, President of the Confederation of Farmers’ Associations. “The government must appoint adequate doctors in the government hospitals,” he said.  JD(S) MLC Srikante Gowda said repeated requests to the government to hire doctors had not yielded any result. “As a long-term solution, the state government needs to increase student intake in veterinary colleges. The number of farmers taking up dairy farming is increasing in the state. The government must ensure there are adequate veterinarians available,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vet-shortage-cripples-healthcare-for-livestock-in-karnataka-1038765.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||9 months on, over 1.3 lakh health workers in Karnataka still unvaccinated||Nine months after Covid vaccination began on January 16, more than 1.36 lakh of 9 lakh-plus health workers in the state are yet to receive their first dose of Covid vaccine. Over 7.63 lakh health workers have received at least the first dose of vaccine, as on October 8. Also, out of 10.2 lakh-plus frontline workers enrolled for the vaccine, more than 9.40 lakh have received at least their first dose, which means 79,478 have remained unvaccinated. While the Health Ministry, in its October 7 media briefing, said 99 per cent of the registered health workers across the country have received their first dose, and 85 per cent of them got both the doses, in Karnataka the numbers tell a different story. Here, while 7,63,301 health workers have only received their first dose, which is 84.81 per cent, as many as 6,60,295 of them got both doses which is 73.36 per cent. Similarly, according to the Health Ministry, 100 per cent frontline workers have got their first dose while 83 per cent of them received both doses. In Karnataka, 92.22 per cent of frontline workers have received their first dose while 72.72 per cent have gotten their second dose. Out of those vaccinated, as many as 2,10,110 health workers, who received the first dose, were in BBMP limits while 1,58,989 of them received the second dose, said BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) D Randeep. There are over 2.5 lakh health workers registered in Bengaluru. Hence, 84.04 per cent of them have received their first dose in BBMP limits while 63.59 per cent have received the second dose. “The health department’s daily bulletin stopped mentioning target beneficiaries in health workers and frontline workers categories after Covid vaccination was rolled out for the 18-44 years category,” said a health department official requesting anonymity. While Health Commissioner Dr K V Trilok Chandra did not respond to DH’s queries, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said as far as private hospitals were concerned, barring two or three para-medical hospital personnel, 100 per cent of hospital staff had been vaccinated. Attrition of hospital staff and duplication of records also causes data to be skewed, said hospital administrators. “Vaccinations might not have got recorded as no one among the staff would have updated it. Are workplace vaccinations being done? At least, if the government takes stock of the percentage of workplaces vaccinated, employers will coax and push employees though we can’t mandate it,” said the head of a hospital. PHANA president-elect Dr Govindaiah Yatheesh said Covid-infected health workers think vaccination is unnecessary with antibodies already in sufficient levels. “Some have fear and phobia of needles. Some housekeeping hospital staff and doctors cited religious reasons for not taking vaccination,” he said. PHANA vice president Dr Shobha Prakash said after the second Covid wave it was proved beyond doubt that vaccination helps and even those who became Covid positive had a less severe infection. “Vaccine acceptance increased a lot, especially after the second Covid wave,” she said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/9-months-on-over-13-lakh-health-workers-in-karnataka-still-unvaccinated-1038771.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only 35% of II PUC students attending classes, data shows||Only 35 per cent of the II PU students are attending classes (including online and offline) in Karnataka, according to the data provided by the Department of PU Education. The offline classes resumed for PU one and half months ago. Though there is an option to attend classes in offline or online mode, surprisingly, 4,02,313 students of second PUC courses are not turning up for classes in any of these modes. According to the data provided by the department of pre-university education, the total number of students enrolled for the second PUC is 6,27,331, of which 70,478 are attending online classes and 1,54,540 are attending offline classes. The physical classes for PUC were started on August 23 and the online classes started before that. Considering the Covid-19 situation, the department gave option for students to attend classes in any one of the modes. According to the department officials, the number of absentees is high mainly because the colleges failed to upload the attendance data of students regularly on the Students’ Achievement Tracking System (SATS). Meanwhile, the department has even warned students that their absence will be taken note of while issuing admission tickets for the board examinations. “Some colleges are not uploading the data regularly. But the students, who are not attending classes in any one of the modes, will definitely face a problem. After Dasara vacation, we are going to be more stringent about the attendance,” said Snehal R, director department of pre-university education. The department has declared Dasara vacation for PU colleges from October 10 to 17. Meanwhile, the department officials have warned the students that there will not be relaxation in attendance this year. In the 2020-21 academic year, the department has waived mandatory 75 per cent attendance considering the Covid-19 situation and issued admission tickets to all students. Class 10 attendance Similarly, the data available from the department of public instruction shows that only 61 per cent of the SSLC students are attending classes. Of the total enrolment of 9,81,236 students to SSLC, 6,01,963 students are attending the classes and the attendance is very poor in Bengaluru North and South - at 29 per cent and 32 per cent respectively. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-35-of-ii-puc-students-attending-classes-data-shows-1038772.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government issues guidelines for Eid-Milad, Valmiki Jayanti||Close on the heels of imposing restrictions on celebration of Dasara festival in various parts of Karnataka, the state government on Friday issued guidelines to be followed during Eid-Milad and Valmiki Jayanti celebrations that are scheduled after Dasara festival. In a fresh order, the state government stated that prayers shall be held only in masjids and dargahs. "Not more than 100 people at a time are permitted to attend religious discourse events at mohallahs either during the day or night. All prayers at religious places shall be held in shifts in case of sudden rush of devotees," the order said. However, no prayers shall be held in any of the open places such as auditorium and shadi mahals. Similarly, during Valmiki Jayanti celebration, the government has imposed a ban on public procession and permitted only 100 persons at a time for prayer and Jayanti celebration. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-issues-guidelines-for-eid-milad-valmiki-jayanti-1038775.html
08-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka seeks additional fertilizer from Centre||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said he has requested Union Health and Fertilizers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to allocate 32,000 tonnes of DAP (Diammonium phosphate) to Karnataka to meet the demand. The CM, who met the Union minister here, also said that a request was also made to supply 10,000 tonnes of potash immediately. "The Union minister positively responded to the state's appeal. He assured to make an additional supply to state at the earliest," Bommai said. At present, the state has sufficient stock of urea and farmers will not face any problem, he said. On Covid-19 vaccination, the CM said the state plans to vaccinate first doses to 90 per cent of the population and second dose for 70 per cent population by December-end. At present, the state has a stock of 51 lakh doses of vaccine. Separately, the CM also met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and requested her to sanction more funds from NABARD to take up agriculture infrastructure works. Bommai said the finance minister assured him of holding a meeting next month in Bengaluru to discuss the issue of giving more funds from NABARD and small-scale industries from SIDBI. Bommai, also head of a group of ministers on GST, said he discussed the agenda of the first meeting with the minister. The CM said he was holding the first meeting of the group soon. On pending GST dues to Karnataka, the CM said the finance minister was aware of this issue and assured of releasing the balance amount at the earliest. Since the collection has improved, all balance dues will come to state soon, he added. Health Minister K Sudhakar also accompanied Bommai. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-seeks-additional-fertilizer-from-centre-1038790.html
08-10-2021||West||Aryan Khan was invited to cruise ship as 'VVIP guest' to 'add glamour', says his lawyer||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was invited to the Goa-bound cruise ship from where drugs were allegedly seized to "add glamour", and he had no connection with its organisers, his lawyer told a court here on Thursday. Khan and seven other accused in the case were remanded in 14-day judicial custody by Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R M Nerlikar, who rejected the Narcotics Control Bureau's plea for their further custody for interrogation. While Aryan, along with Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, was arrested on Sunday following a raid by the NCB on the ship off the Mumbai coast, Nupur Satija, Ishmeet Chadha, Mohak Jaiswal, Gomit Chopra and Vikrant Chhokar were arrested the following day. Opposing the NCB's remand extension plea, Aryan Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde said his client was not connected with any of the other accused. Aryan was on cruise as a "VVIP guest" and "a person connected with Bollywood wanted to add glamour to the cruise and hence invited him," the lawyer claimed. "I (Aryan) am nowhere connected with any other person in cruise, or other arrested accused. I have no connection with the organizers or the other arrested accused," advocate Maneshinde submitted. He, however, accepted that Aryan knew Arbaaz Merchant. "He (Merchant) is my friend, I'm not denying that. But mere knowledge of a person is not enough to keep me in custody," the lawyer said. As to the NCB's contention that it wanted to confront Khan and other accused with Achit Kumar, who was arrested later, Maneshinde said the agency had accessed Aryan's WhatsApp chat "where Achit (Kumar) and I have discussed football about a year back," and "football doesn't contain any drugs." Lawyers of other accused too opposed the remand application, saying no specific role was assigned to them. Advocate Ali Kaashif Khan, representing Munmun Dhamecha, said she was not connected to the other accused and no specific role had been assigned to her in the NCB's remand plea. He also moved a plea seeking CCTV footage of the check-point from where she was arrested. The NCB, seeking extension of the remand of Aryan and others, had said it wanted to confront them with Achit Kumar who was arrested on Wednesday and a foreign national arrested subsequently. Kumar has been remanded to NCB custody till October 9. The judge, after hearing all the submissions, rejected the NCB's plea and remanded Aryan and seven others in judicial custody. They will, however, be kept at the NCB office till Friday as jails do not admit new prisoners without a negative Covid-19 test report. Aryan and other accused have filed bail pleas which will be heard on Friday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aryan-khan-was-invited-to-cruise-ship-as-vvip-guest-to-add-glamour-says-his-lawyer-1038506.html
08-10-2021||West||Chaos at Mumbai airport: Flyers stuck in long queues miss flights||Choas and confusion prevailed at the Mumbai International Airport on Friday morning as passengers got stuck in long queues with many missing flights amidst a massive rush to their hometowns for the festival. Social media platforms were abuzz with posts and photos from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport. "With the onset of the festive season, there has been a surge in passenger traffic and a sudden spike witnessed at #CSMIA this morning. The security and safety of our passengers are of utmost priority and our endeavour is to continue to not compromise on these critical aspects," the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport authority said in a tweet.  Meanwhile, Domestic carrier IndiGo advised passengers "to report early to allow sufficient time for security check". "CSMIA is following all the Covid-19 protocols laid down by the Government to ensure a smoother transition," the airport management tweeted. Several people took to Twitter to share photographs of the rush. “T2 AT CSMIA (Mumbai Airport) is a shambles. Literally feels like we’re in the dark ages. Endless milling crowds, machines breaking down, tempers frayed, chaos everywhere. Staff doing their best but absolutely unable to cope. Who runs this absolute shitshow? Please tag them. (sic)," composer and singer Vishal Dadlani tweeted. T2 AT CSMIA (Mumbai Airport) is a shambles. Literally feels like we're in the dark ages. Endless milling crowds, machines breaking down, tempers frayed, chaos everywhere. Staff doing their best but absolutely unable to cope. Who runs this absolute shitshow? Please tag them. Prakash Gagdani, CEO of 5paisa Capital Ltd, tweeted, “Mumbai airport is a mess and it takes at least one hour to check in and then this crowd for security check. How can one board a flight even after reaching two and half hours before.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chaos-at-mumbai-airport-flyers-stuck-in-long-queues-miss-flights-1038568.html
08-10-2021||West||Aryan Khan, others held in drugs case brought to Arthur Road Jail||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday brought Aryan Khan and other accused in the cruise ship drug raid case to Arthur Road Jail More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aryan-khan-others-held-in-drugs-case-brought-to-arthur-road-jail-1038581.html
08-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs seizure: Mumbai court rejects bail plea of Aryan Khan, others||A metropolitan magistrate here on Friday denied bail to Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and two others in a case pertaining to the alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R M Nerlikar rejected the bail pleas of Aryan Khan (23) and the other two accused. The court on Thursday sent Aryan Khan and seven others arrested in the case in 14-day judicial remand after their NCB custody ended. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, opposed the bail applications of the three accused. After hearing the arguments, the magistrate denied bail to Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant, saying their applications were not maintainable. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had arrested these three along with some others over the last weekend after raiding the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise ship on Saturday evening. The central agency had claimed to have recovered drugs from the ship. A total of 18 persons have been arrested so far in the case.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-seizure-mumbai-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-aryan-khan-others-1038650.html
08-10-2021||West||Covid-19: Gujarat extends night curfew by a month in 8 cities till Nov 10||In Gujarat, the night curfew has been extended by a month in eight cities - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Junagadh & Bhavnagar - till November 10. The curfew timings are 12 am to 6 am. The state reported 19 coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours, taking the state's caseload to 8,26,099, a health department official said on Friday evening. No new fatality was recorded so the death toll remained unchanged at 10,085, he added. The recovery count stood at 8,15,838 after 22 persons were discharged during the day. There are 176 active cases in Gujarat now including four patients on ventilator support. An official release said 6.37 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far, including over 4.30 lakh during the day. The Covid-19 case tally in neighbouring Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu stood unchanged at 10,644. The Union territory has two active cases currently. (With PTI inputs) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-gujarat-extends-night-curfew-by-a-month-in-8-cities-till-nov-10-1038726.html
08-10-2021||West||Invoking Gandhi, Goa governor finally brings Raj Bhavan under RTI ambit||Invoking Mahatma Gandhi and his philosophy of ranking people as supreme in a democracy, Goa Governor PS Sreedharan Pillai on Friday said that the Raj Bhavan would henceforth come under the ambit of the Right to Information Act (RTI). Pillai made the announcement at a public function at the Raj Bhavan, while adding that he would not like to blame past Governors for opposing moves to bring the gubernatorial office under the RTI ambit. “I would like to publicly declare my policy that Governors are bound to furnish information to the people and people are supreme,” Pillai said. “I do not want to blame anybody, but hereafter RTI with respect to Raj Bhavan will be available for all the citizens,” he said. The controversy over bringing the Raj Bhavan under the ambit of the RTI first started in 2011, when the Goa State Information Commission while passing an order after a petition had directed the office of the Governor was a “public authority” and hence came under the ambit of the RTI Act. The Raj Bhavan had filed an appeal against the Commission’s order in the Bombay High Court, which in 2011, had also affirmed the Commission’s order. The Raj Bhavan had appealed against the High Court order in the Supreme Court of India. Pillai, a senior counsel in the Kerala High Court, said that he made the decision after he perused through legal files pending before his office, soon after he took over as Governor of Goa three months back. “I had occasion to see one or two files related to the Right of Information and other concerned cases,” Pillai said. In his speech at the public function, Pillai also quoted Mahatma Gandhi on numerous occasions, underlining the Father of the Nation’s belief that the real power in a democracy rested with the people of the country. “The basis of democracy is that people are (more) supreme than the Governor, Chief Minister, Opposition leader... all are expected to serve the people. They are not the boss of the people,” Pillai said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/invoking-gandhi-goa-governor-finally-brings-raj-bhavan-under-rti-ambit-1038794.html
