09-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||4 children screened under Arogya Nandana test positive for Covid in Dakshina Kannada||Four children tested under ‘Arogya Nandana’, child screening programme, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada district. A total of 2,541 samples of children and students from class VI to II PUC were collected for RT-PCR tests in the district till October 5. According to available statistics from the Health and Family Welfare Department, 168 samples of children from class VI, 183 samples from class VII, 521 samples from class VIII, 463 samples from class IX, 660 samples from class X, 450 students of I PUC and a few students of II PUC were tested under Arogya Nandana. The four children from Mangaluru taluk in class 7 tested positive for Covid. From class 6 to II PUC, a total of 936 students from Bantwal, 334 from Belthangady, 442 from Mangaluru, 668 from Puttur and 161 from Sullia were tested for Covid. With experts cautioning that Covid third wave is likely to affect children, the state Health Department had launched child screening programme, Arogya Nandana. Children with malnutrition, low immunity and other co-morbidities were identified and with the co-operation of Women and Child Welfare Department, steps were taken to ensure children get necessary nutritious food and supplements to boost immunity, said sources. District Covid-19 Nodal Officer Dr Ashok said Health Department was also creating awareness among schoolchildren and college students on adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. “We have noticed schoolchildren strictly following guidelines of wearing masks. Students found without masks outside the college premises were sensitised on the need to adhere to Covid guidelines by authorities,” he added. Decline in positivity The Covid-19 positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada district, which was 4.8 per cent during first week of August, has declined to 0.48 per cent as on October 7. The district has been showing a decline in positivity rate since October 1. The positivity rate on October 1 was 0.89 per cent, October 2 - 0.99Per cent, October 3 - 0.79 per cent, October 4 - 0.60 per cent, October 5 - 0.71 per cent, October 6 - 0.45 per cent and October 7 - 0.48 per cent. On an average 8,000 to 9,000 samples are tested in the district daily for Covid. According to district-wise coverage of vaccination in Co-WIN portal, a total of 15,03,206 beneficiaries had been administered with the first dose of vaccine in Dakshina Kannada while 6,94,241 beneficiaries were administered with second dose of vaccine in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-children-screened-under-arogya-nandana-test-positive-for-covid-in-dakshina-kannada-1038832.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi cops seize 340 kg of ganja worth Rs 34 lakh||In a major operation, the Kalaburagi police seized 340 kg of ganja worth about Rs 34 lakh. Acting on a definite tip-off, the cops attempted to waylay a vehicle near Tavaragera cross on the outskirts of Kalaburagi City. However, the driver of the vehicle stepped on the throttle to escape from them. They chased the vehicle before stopping it at Upaon cross. Upon checking, the cops found 340 kg ganja and seized 170 pockets of ganja. While the three accused were arrested, another accused is absconding. Akram Imandar (22) and Sumer Inamdar of Latur in Maharashtra and Mohan Metre of Bidar have been arrested. The police suspected that the arrested could be transporting ganja to Karnataka from Maharashtra and Telangana. A case has been registered at CEN police station. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-cops-seize-340-kg-of-ganja-worth-rs-34-lakh-1038854.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru firing: Son accidentally shot by father dies||16-year-old Sudheendra Prabhu, who was accidentally shot by his entrepreneur father Rajesh Prabhu, breathed his last in the wee hours on Friday. But Rajesh ended up firing at his son. The bullet got into Sudheendra's skull after piercing through his left eye. The court had remanded Rajesh to four days of police custody, Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-firing-son-accidentally-shot-by-father-dies-1038855.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Girl on way to school gang-raped in Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district||A 16-year-old minor was allegedly gang raped in Bantwal Town Police Station jurisdiction. According to Dakshina Kannada SP Rishikesh Sonawane, the survivor in her complaint said that the incident had occurred when she was walking towards her school on October 8. Further, the complainant said that a man who was known to her family, along with four others, allegedly kidnapped her in a white colour car and took her to a secluded area and sexually assaulted her. The survivor has been admitted to Lady Goschen Hospital in Mangaluru. The Bantwa Town Police have registered cases under various sections of IPC and Pocso Act. The police are in search of the accused and the investigation is in progress, said the SP. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/girl-on-way-to-school-gang-raped-in-karnatakas-dakshina-kannada-district-1038967.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Timings extended for Dasara lights illuminating Mysuru roads||Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) has decided to extend the Dasara illumination timing till 10 pm on October 13 and up to 11 pm on the day of Ayudha pooja and Vijayadashami day on October 15.  A major attraction for tourists, the CESC has illuminated the city for 106 kilometres. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/timings-extended-for-dasara-lights-illuminating-mysuru-roads-1038986.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Action sought against Hindutva groups for issuing threats to college over Stan Swamy park||Several organisations and activists have urged the Dakshina Kannada district administration and the police to take action against Hindutva groups, including ABVP, VHP and Bajrang Dal for opposing the decision of the Mangaluru's autonomous St Aloysius College to name one of its parks after Human Rights and Adivasi Rights Activist late Father Stan Swamy. An open letter endorsed by individuals and organisations said that Hindutva groups had threatened to stage a protest if the college goes ahead with the plan. These organisations include Campaign to Defend Democracy, All India People’s Forum (AIPF), PUCL, P Sainath, Harsh Mander, and others. “We called upon the district administration and the police to take immediate action against these organisations for engaging in criminal intimidation and issuing such threats. They have absolutely no right to interfere in the goings-on of the private institution. These organisations have a stated purpose and history for violence, communal divisiveness and subscribe to anidea of our country, with scant regard to the Constitution and the Rule of Law. This blatantly illegal behavior is a consequence of the free-run that is being given to these fascist organisations in coastal Karnataka,” said the letter. Further, it said, “these organisations are imposing social apartheid, interfering in the private affairs of citizens and acting against the Constitutional principle of fraternity by engaging in daily acts of violence and intimidation with impunity. Members of these organisations have engaged in lynching of minorities across the country, conducting riots and engaging in violence to push minorities into second-class citizenship,” the letter added. The signatories of the open letter said that Fr Stan Swamy was a person who was falsely implicated in the cases pending against him and subject to the most inhuman treatment leading to his untimely death. He had dedicated his entire life to the upliftment of the oppressed sections of society and was targeted precisely for this reason, they said. The signtories sought protection for the college from the district administration and police to ensure no interference in its matters, added the letter. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/action-sought-against-hindutva-groups-for-issuing-threats-to-college-over-stan-swamy-park-1039004.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||School inauguration in Yadgir cancelled for not inviting Chinchansur ||The inauguration of Ekalavya Model Residential School at Bandalli village in the taluk was forced to be cancelled on Saturday due to the adamant attitude of Ambigara Chowdaiah Development Corporation Chairman Baburao Chinchansur. Chinchansur stopped the vehicle of Transport Minister B Sriraumulu at Bandalli village and expressed his wrath for not inviting him to the function. Chinchansur said he engaged in the election campaign for Sindagi assembly bypolls. But, the inaugural function has been organsied without bringing it to his notice. He got this school sanctioned when he was minister, so why didn't officials invite him to the function, he said. The function was cancelled as he didn't relent. As Chinchansur urged to cancel the function, District Backward Classes Welfare Officer S S Channabasava tried to touch his feet. But, he insulted the officer by using filthy language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/school-inauguration-in-yadgir-cancelled-for-not-inviting-chinchansur-1039050.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Moral policing: Two from minority community held in Shivamogga||Police nabbed two youths belonging to a minority community on charges of moral policing after they allegedly manhandled a Hindu youth for dropping a Muslim girl on his two-wheeler in the city on Saturday. Suhail and Shoaib, residents of Tank Mohalla, were the arrested persons, while Ibrahim escaped from the spot. Muslim girl of Majjigehalli near Shivamogga asked youth of the same village to drop her at Gandhi Bazar as she was getting late to go to work. So, the youth dropped her at the same place. Noticing this, Muslim youths who were there at the spot manhandled him. Hindu youths also attempted to attack the Muslims, but police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Superintendent of Police B M Laxmi Prasad said some miscreants have committed the crime and they have been nabbed immediately. People have been directed not to spread any rumour with regard to the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/moral-policing-two-from-minority-community-held-in-shivamogga-1039080.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sudha Murty donates Rs 10K each to 239 Mysuru zoo staff||Infosys Foundation chairperson Sudha Murty gave away Rs 10,000 each to 239 daily wage employees of Mysuru Zoo on Saturday. According to zoo executive director Ajit Kulkarni, the employees are under financial crisis due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Sudha Murty has contributed Rs 60 lakh on animals and also lend support to construct enclosures for gorillas, he added. Zoo open on holidays As a large number of people visiting the city for Dasaa, the zoo will be kept open for the public on October 12 and 19. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sudha-murty-donates-rs-10k-each-to-239-mysuru-zoo-staff-1039090.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||India would have become Pakistan if not for RSS: K S Eshwarappa||Amid the heated row over the RSS between the ruling BJP and Opposition parties the Congress and the JD(S), K S Eshwarappa said on Friday that had there been no RSS, India would have become like Pakistan. "We chased away Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi when they spoke against us. We didn’t care for them. Who are these fellows (Congress, JD(S))? If there were no RSS, India would have become Pakistan by now," he said. Eshwarappa's comments came in the wake of the Congress and JD(S)'s allegation that the RSS was controlling the Indian bureaucracy. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/india-would-have-become-pakistan-if-not-for-rss-k-s-eshwarappa-1038866.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress will win Karnataka bypolls, says Siddaramaiah||Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah on Saturday said that Congress candidates will win bypolls for Hanagal and Sindagi assembly segments. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Siddaramaiah said the election results will not be a referendum for upcoming assembly elections but the results will reflect the opinion of the people on the government. The people are upset over the state as well as the union government, he said. Siddaramaiah also said that JD(S) is not fielding candidates belonging to minority community with good intentions but, to divide vote.  Siddaramaiah also suspects political conspiracy behind the Income Tax department raid against close aids of B S Yediyurappa and B J Vijayendra. Siddaramaiah added that he will not shift to national politics and argued that Congress leader Sonia Gandhi has not invited him to the Centre.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-will-win-karnataka-bypolls-says-siddaramaiah-1038959.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah questions JD(S)' intention behind fielding Muslim candidates for bypolls||Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Saturday once again questioned JD(S)' intentions behind fielding Muslim candidates from Sindagi and Hangal assembly constituencies where bye-elections are being held on October 30. "I don't know, ask Kumaraswamy (JDS leader), but their intention is not good, because their intention is not to make minorities win. If they had intention to ensure minorities win, they could have given tickets in other constituencies like Ramanagara, Hassan, Mandya (JDS stronghold)..," Siddaramaiah said in response to a question. Speaking to reporters here, he claimed the regional party does not give tickets to minorities in the party stronghold, but only during bypolls. "Whatever they (JDS) try to do, voters are intelligent and they cannot be underestimated," he added. The JD(S) has fielded 33-year-old post graduate Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindagi and 35-year-old B.E, M.Tech (CSE) graduate Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal. Congress leaders including Siddaramaiah have already alleged that JD(S) deliberately fielded minority candidates for the Hangal and Sindagi bye-elections to help the BJP, which has elicited sharp reactions from Kumaraswamy. Expressing confidence over Congress winning the bypolls, Siddaramaiah claimed people are disappointed with the BJP governments both at the state and the Centre. They had promised to turn Karnataka into heaven, but have made hell, he said. "People are fed-up of this BJP government with no development happening," he said. The bye-elections have been necessitated as the seats fell vacant following the death of Sindgi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP's C M Udasi from Hangal. Dismissing reports about him shifting to national politics, Siddaramaiah reiterated that he will not leave state politics. "Who told you that I'm going to national politics? I will not leave state politics and go to national politics," he said but declined to divulge details on his recent meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi. On recent I-T raids in the state, he said the raids, specifically on a person who is said to be former CM B S Yediyurappa's PA and Water Resources department related contractors, make him feel that there is politics behind it. Recently Kumaraswamy too had claimed that internal conflict in the BJP might be the reason for I-T raids. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-questions-jds-intention-behind-fielding-muslim-candidates-for-bypolls-1038994.html
09-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Srirangapatna Dasara Jamboo Savari cancelled as elephant panics||Srirangapatna Dasara Jamboo Savari procession was cancelled as elephant Gopalaswamy, who was carrying the wooden howdah on his back, panicked during the celebration. The three-day Srirangapatna Dasara festival commenced on Saturday. Gopalaswamy lost control due to the loud sound of crackers bursting during the procession at Srirangapatna. However, an alert mahout, kaavadi and forest department officials managed to calm down the elephant. The authorities cancelled the Jamboo Savari and the idol of Chamundeshwari Devi was taken in procession in a silver chariot. Thousands of people had gathered for the procession. Fortunately, there was no untoward incident. Gopalaswamy and Kaveri were brought from Mysuru for Srirangapatna Dasara. Gopalaswamy panicked within a few minutes after seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami of Adichunchanagiri mutt offered ‘pushparchane’ as a mark of commencement of the Dasara procession at Bannimanatp in Kirangur here. Youth Empowerment and Sports Minister K C Narayana Gowda and Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi were present. Veterinarian Dr Ramesh, who is taking care of the Dasara elephants, said "Gopalaswamy had undergone rigorous training for Dasara procession, but he panicked due to the sound of crackers and the procession was cancelled in order to prevent any untoward incident." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/srirangapatna-dasara-jamboo-savari-cancelled-as-elephant-panics-1039048.html
09-10-2021||National||India considering UN World Food Programme's proposal for wheat donation to Afghanistan||India is considering a request from the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) to donate wheat for Afghanistan, where a crisis unfolded with nearly 14 million people facing starvation. Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself called out the Taliban’s interim government in Afghanistan for a lack of inclusivity, his government is considering supporting the UN and its WFP in responding to the food crisis in Afghanistan. A source in New Delhi said that the government would soon take a call on the WFP’s request keeping in mind India’s “historical relationship” with the people of Afghanistan. The WFP is also discussing with Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad the possibility of the consignment of wheat donated by India being transported to Afghanistan through Pakistan, another source said. Even before the Taliban took over Kabul, a humanitarian crisis was already unfolding in Afghanistan, as a result of continued conflict, severe drought, Covid-19 pandemic, failing health system and economic slowdown. It worsened after the government of President Ashraf Ghani collapsed on August 15 and the Taliban returned to power in Afghanistan through a swift military blitz, taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. Job losses, scarcity of cash and food and soaring prices of essentials across the country prompted the United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres to urge the international community last month to raise $606 million to respond to the unfolding situation. The WFP estimated that one in every three Afghans had already been facing severe hunger and now 95 percent of families were not consuming enough food, marking an increase of 15 per cent in just a month. The conflict-ravaged nation is on the brink of economic collapse, with the local currency at an all-time low and food prices on the rise. “Acute malnutrition is above emergency thresholds in 27 out of 34 provinces, and is expected to worsen, with almost half of children under five and a quarter of pregnant and breastfeeding women needing life-saving nutrition support in the next 12 months,” the WFP stated in a global appeal for support for Afghanistan. It underlined that the international community must provide help urgently before the winter could set in as it would have to preposition food stocks in strategic locations across Afghanistan. “Once the snow sets in, roads will be cut off and communities stranded. This lean season, (the) WFP food assistance will be the only lifeline for many Afghans”. The WFP estimated that it would urgently need $200 million to help people in need across Afghanistan between now and the end of the year. The WFP held talks with the Government of India over the past couple of weeks about the proposed donation of wheat for Afghanistan, Mary-Ellen McGroarty, the UN agency’s country director in Kabul, said. Afghanistan has a wheat deficit of 2.5 million tonnes this year. The UN Secretary General on September 13 had convened a meeting on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had attended the meeting on behalf of the Government of India. He had stressed on creating an “enabling environment” in Afghanistan for the international community to send humanitarian aid for the people of the war-torn country. India has provided more than 1 million metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan over the past decade and had last year alone assisted Afghanistan with 75,000 metric tonnes of wheat. India had also partnered with the WFP for distribution of high protein biscuits over several years. The wheat consignment was sent from India to Afghanistan through the Chabahar Port in Iran. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-considering-un-world-food-programmes-proposal-for-wheat-donation-to-afghanistan-1038838.html
09-10-2021||National||SC asks Centre to resolve Permanent Commission issue with regard to 72 women officers in Army||The Supreme Court on Friday gave one last opportunity to the Centre to resolve the issue of grant of Permanent Commission (PC) to 72 Women Short Service Commission Officers (WSSCO) in the Army The top court said the grant of PC should be with regard to its order of March 25 this year and thereafter it will close the contempt case filed by the women officers. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna told Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain and senior advocate R Balasubramanian to personally look into the issue as its order was clear that if the women officers have got 60 per cent marks and they clear medical fitness tests and got clearances of vigilance and disciplinary, they need to be considered. Jain at the outset said that they have filed an affidavit in this regard which shows that their conduct was considered by the special selection board after which they were not found fit. The bench said, “We have also said that permanent commission will be granted subject to vigilance and disciplinary clearances. We will not compromise if there are no clearances. After all, we are dealing with the Indian Army. We also know the importance of vigilance clearances. We are also soldiers of this country". Jain proposed that they should be given some time to file additional affidavits and the court can pursue the letter for denial of the permanent commission on the next date of hearing of all the 72 officers. The bench asked whether these 72 officers have got 60 marks or not. Jain pointed out that all of them have got 60 per cent marks but they were found unfit by the special board itself and medical and vigilance would have followed after that. “No, we will not go into it. You yourself look into the issue and try to resolve the issues. If they have got 60 per cent marks and medical and vigilance would have come at a later stage, then on what basis a decision was taken. You both (Jain and Balasubramanian) look into it. We are posting the matter for October 22,” the bench said. On October 1, the top court had restrained the Army from discharging the 72 WSSCOs, who were not considered for PC, till further orders and had sought a reply within a week on why they were not considered for the service. The women officers have alleged that the top court's March 25 ruling was not considered by the Army and all 72 of them were rejected from consideration for the PC at one go. In its March 25 verdict, the Army was directed by the top court to consider granting PC to the WSSCOs subject to their obtaining 60 per cent marks in the assessment subjects, being found fit on medical criteria as per the August 1, 2020 order of the Army and having received disciplinary and vigilance clearances. On March 25, the top court had said that the evaluation criteria set by the Army for granting permanent commission to women SSC officers constituted “systemic discrimination” which has caused economic and psychological harm and an “affront to their dignity”. The apex court said the administrative requirement imposed by the Army while considering the case of WSSCOs for PC, of benchmarking them with the officers lowest in merit in the corresponding male batch, is “arbitrary and irrational”. It had said this administrative requirement “shall not be enforced” while implementing the last year's verdict of the top court which had directed that women officers in the Army be granted PC. It had directed that all women officers, who have fulfilled the cut-off grade of 60 per cent in the Special No 5 Selection Board held in September last year, shall be entitled to grant of PC subject to their meeting medical criteria prescribed by the general instructions dated August 1, 2020, and receiving disciplinary and vigilance clearance. It had said that medical criteria stipulated in the general instructions shall be applied at the following points of time — at the time of the fifth year of service or at the time of the tenth year of service, as the case may be. “In case the officer has failed to meet the medical criterion for the grant of PC at any of these points in time, the WSSCO will not be entitled to the grant of PC,” it had said. The top court had clarified that a WSSCO, who was in the temporary low medical category (TLMC) in the fifth or tenth year of service and subsequently met the SHAPE-1 criterion after the one-year period of stabilization, would also be eligible for grant of PC. On February 17 last year, in a landmark verdict, the top court had directed that women officers in the Army be granted a permanent commission, rejecting the Centre's stand of their physiological limitations as being based on "sex stereotypes" and "gender discrimination against women". The apex court had directed that within three months, all serving SSC women officers have to be considered for PCs irrespective of them having crossed 14 years or, as the case may be, 20 years of service. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-resolve-permanent-commission-issue-with-regard-to-72-women-officers-in-army-1038842.html
09-10-2021||National||US naval chief Mike Gilday to visit India next week||India is one of America's "closest strategic partners" and the relationship between the two countries is a "stronghold" of a free and open Indo-Pacific, Chief of US Naval Operations Admiral Mike Gilday said on Friday, announcing his travel to India next week to reaffirm the growing level of naval cooperation between the two nations. During his five-day India visit from October 11-15, Gilday will meet Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh among others. “This visit is a great opportunity for me to meet with my counterpart in India and discuss areas for continued mutual cooperation. No doubt, there are many areas where we can partner and collaborate,” he said. “Make no mistake, India is one of our closest strategic partners, and our relationship is a stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific,” Gilday said, as the Pentagon announced his travel to India next week. There is no better signal of the US Navy’s desire to maintain a free and open Indo-Pacific than operating in the region, according to a press release issued by the Chief of Naval Operations Public Affairs. “I am grateful for our navies’ continued cooperation in the Indo-Pacific to create an inclusive, free and open rules-based order,” said Gilday. “And by continuing to work closely with the Indian Navy, we will increase our inter-operability for decades to come as well as maintain security, stability, and prosperity,” he said. China has been fast expanding military and economic influence in the Indo-Pacific region, triggering concern in various countries of the region and beyond. China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and the East China Sea. Beijing has built up and militarised many of the islands and reefs it controls in the region. Both areas are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources and are vital to global trade. China claims almost all of the South China Sea. Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan have counter claims over the area. Gilday's visit will also underscore the growing strength of the US-India Defence partnership as the two countries work in concert with like-minded partners to promote shared goals. The United States designated India as a Major Defence Partner in 2016, the press release said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-naval-chief-mike-gilday-to-visit-india-next-week-1038850.html
09-10-2021||National||Made some progress; but larger problem remains: Jaishankar on eastern Ladakh row||There has been no lack of resolve, firmness and effectiveness in terms of what India has to do to protect its national security, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday on the eastern Ladakh border standoff with China. He also said that India and China made some progress by carrying out disengagement in a number of areas including Pangong Tso but added that the "larger problem" of "sizeable deployment" of Chinese troops in the region remains. In an interactive session at the India Today conclave, Jaishankar said the situation will continue as it is till China maintains the deployment of the troops. "Let me be very very clear about one thing. Yes, they have done things which were in contravention of agreements etc, but there has been no lack of resolve and firmness or effectiveness in terns of what we have to do to protect our national security," he said. Jaishankar said India also made additional deployments and they stayed through one winter. "We are getting it close to another winter. I have every confidence that Indian armed forces will do what they have to do to protect this country and I expect everybody else who is reasonably patriotic to have the same confidence," he said. Asked about reports of Rahul Gandhi walking out of a meeting of Parliamentary Committee on foreign affairs a few months ago demanding discussions on the border row and charges that the government is not maintaining transparency with the opposition on the matter, Jaishankar rejected the criticisms. The external affairs minister said he expected that "people outside the government would be supportive of larger national objectives and goals". "Now if sometimes it does not happen because people are busy politicking, I just have to say it is a very sorry state of affairs," he said, adding "nobody can say that I have not been told enough or there has been a lack of briefings." "Somewhere, we need a sense of responsibility and maturity when it comes to matters of national security," he said. On the border row, he said India developed a decent relationship with China that was predicated on the fact that there would be peace and tranquillity in the border areas. "This was not just an assumption or conversation, it was written into agreements between us. Now come 2020, we saw the Chinese side disregard those agreements for reasons which are still not clear to us," Jaishankar said. "I still have not heard a credible explanation as to why they chose to bring that size of forces to that sector of our border. Now, if peace and tranquillity is disturbed and attempts are being made to change the LAC status quo unilaterally and large forces are brought to the border in contravention of written agreements, then obviously the relationship will be impacted," he said. Jaishankar said there was a need to stick to the border agreements for the relationship to return to normal. "If we need to get back to a normal relationship which they say they want, and which both of us believe is in our mutual interest, then I think they need to stick with the agreements to do the right things," he said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year in eastern Ladakh following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/made-some-progress-but-larger-problem-remains-jaishankar-on-eastern-ladakh-row-1038857.html
09-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Distract people with new bad news everyday – that's our policy!||Fuel prices continued their upward streak on a fourth straight day to touch fresh lifetime highs across the country on the back of a rally in international oil prices.   Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise in Delhi to reach Rs 103.54 per litre, while diesel price was increased by 35 paise to Rs 92.12 per litre. Mumbai saw petrol price soaring to Rs 109.54 per litre, up 29 paise, while diesel costs Rs 99.92 a litre in the financial capital. In Kolkata, petrol surged to a record Rs 104.23 per litre and diesel Rs 95.23 a litre, while in Chennai, petrol price stood at Rs 101.01 per litre and diesel at Rs 96 a litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-distract-people-with-new-bad-news-everyday-thats-our-policy-1038868.html
09-10-2021||National||Start of endgame for malaria with new vaccine, says expert||Mosquito-borne malaria is a global killer. With the World Health Organization (WHO) recommending widespread use of the RTS,S/AS01 (RTS,S) malaria vaccine among children in sub-Saharan Africa and in other regions with moderate to high Plasmodium falciparum malaria transmission, it would come a major tool in the fight and India will also be benefited. DH’s Mrityunjay Bose speaks to Dr Kaushik Sarkar, Director, Global Center for Malaria & Climate Solutions, Malaria No More.  Please share some details about the vaccine that the WHO has approved. The recommendation is based on results from an ongoing pilot programme in Ghana, Kenya and Malawi that is being carried out from 2019. RTS,S/AS01 malaria vaccine should be provided in a schedule of 4 doses in children from 5 months of age. The malaria vaccine, RTS,S, acts against Plasmodium falciparum — the most deadly malaria parasite globally.   How will the vaccine supplement efforts? The malaria vaccine is one of the game-changing innovations of the 21st century that will make a child more secure. It will provide an important choice for the country to consider in its armament against the deadly disease to accelerate the malaria endgame. Could you please elaborate on the Indian situation? In 2015 at the East Asia Summit held in Malaysia, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the 18 global leaders who pledged to eliminate malaria by 2030. We are very optimistic about the deadline. We have a National Framework for Malaria Elimination 2016-30. In this roadmap, India set a target of ending the transmission in 26 low and moderate endemic states by 2022. The remaining high-burden states are targeted to be freed of malaria by 2027. Could you specify in terms of figures vis-a-vis cases and deaths in India? We have seen one of the largest reductions in the past five years or so. Around five years ago in India, we had one million cases. In 2019, we had around 3,00,000 cases while in 2020, less than 2,00,000 cases were reported. As far as deaths are concerned, we are just in double-digits. However, asymptomatic malaria cases are surely a big challenge.  Which states report large cases in India? There are a few of them — Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra and NorthEastern states like Assam and Meghalaya. At one point in time, Odisha used to throw up the bulk of 40 per cent of cases, but now it has come down. When will this new vaccine be available in India? The vaccine has been recommended by the WHO for widespread use in moderate to high endemic settings, especially in Falciparum malaria prevalent settings. India has significant vivax burden also. This vaccine provides a choice for India to consider, but whether and in which setting it can be used would require discussions. I am sure that the government will hold discussions with stakeholders to discuss specific strategies going forward. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/start-of-endgame-for-malaria-with-new-vaccine-says-expert-1038886.html
09-10-2021||National||Drugs seizure case: Film producer Imtiyaz Khatri summoned following NCB raids||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) summoned film producer Imtiyaz Khatri to appear before it on Saturday in Mumbai. The summon came after it conducted raids at the residence and office of film producer in the Bandra area of Mumbai in connection with the cruise ship raid case. Cruise ship raid case | Raid being conducted at the residence and office of film producer Imtiyaz Khatri in Bandra area of Mumbai: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) "The Mumbai zonal unit of the NCB began the searches at Khatri's residence and office in Bandra here this morning," an official told PTI. Khatri's name cropped up during the interrogation of the accused persons, who were earlier arrested in the drugs seizure case, the official said, adding that the NCB has been cracking down on the drug peddlers and suppliers in the metropolis. Based on a tip-off that a party was to take place on board the ship, an NCB team had raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise last Saturday and claimed to have recovered drugs. A total of 18 persons have been arrested in the case, including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan. (With inputs from PTI) Check out latest videos from DH:  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-seizure-case-film-producer-imtiyaz-khatri-summoned-following-ncb-raids-1038896.html
09-10-2021||National||India reports 19,740 new Covid-19 cases, 248 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 19,740 Covid-19 infections, taking the country's total tally of cases to 3,39,35,309, while the number of active cases has declined to 2,36,643, the lowest in 206 days, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,50,375 with 248 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus cases has been below 30,000 for 15 straight days, the ministry said. The active cases have declined to 2,36,643 and comprise 0.70 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.98 per cent, the highest since March last year, it said. There has been a decrease of 3,578 cases in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the ministry's data stated. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 1.56 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 40 days, it said The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 1.62 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 106 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,32,48,291, while the case fatality rate has been recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 93.99 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed the two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-19740-new-covid-19-cases-248-deaths-1038897.html
09-10-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices to continue to pinch your pocket||Petrol, diesel prices will continue to pinch your pocket as fuel rates continued their upward streak on a fifth straight day to touch new highs across the country on the back of a rally in international oil prices.   Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise in Delhi to reach Rs 103.84 per litre, while diesel price was increased by 35 paise to Rs 92.47 per litre. Mumbai saw petrol price soaring to Rs 109.83 per litre, up 29 paise, while diesel costs Rs 100.29 a litre in the financial capital. In Kolkata, petrol surged to a record Rs 104.23 per litre and diesel Rs 95.58 a litre, while in Chennai, petrol price stood at Rs 101.27 per litre and diesel at Rs 96.93 a litre. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since Wednesday started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. For four days in a row, the price of petrol has been hiked by 30 paise a litre and diesel by 35 paise, the biggest rally in rates. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has soared to over USD 82 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are being increased by a larger proportion. A month ago, Brent was around $72 per barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 3.85 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 2.65. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.  (With agency inputs) Check out latest videos from DH:  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-to-continue-to-pinch-your-pocket-1038901.html
09-10-2021||National||PM Modi hosts Danish PM Mette Frederiksen; first foreign leader to visit India since Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday hosted Denmark’s Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen – the first foreign leader to visit India after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi received Frederiksen at the forecourt of the Rashtrapati Bhavan, where the Danish Prime Minister was accorded a ceremonial reception. “We consider India as a close partner. I see this visit as a milestone for our bilateral relations,” Frederiksen told journalists at the Rashtrapati Bhavan after Modi introduced her to the members of his council of ministers. The last such ceremonial reception at the forecourt of the Rashtrapati Bhavan took place in February 2020 – for the then President of the United States, Donald Trump, on February 25, 2020, and for the then President of Myanmar, U Win Myint, on February 27, 2020. No foreign Head of Government or Head of State visited New Delhi in the past 18 months, as the world leaders preferred holding virtual meetings through video links in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.   Modi resumed his foreign visits earlier this year with a two-day tour to Bangladesh on March 26 and 27. He visited the United States from September 22 to 25. The Prime Minister is also likely to visit Rome for the G-20 summit, which Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi will host on October 30 and 31 next. 🇮🇳 🇩🇰 | The first State Visit of 2021! Modi and Frederiksen will hold a bilateral meeting at the Hyderabad House later on the day. They will also sign of some agreements between the two governments. The two Prime Ministers had a virtual summit on September 28 last year, when India and Denmark established a ‘Green Strategic Partnership’. The visit by the Danish Prime Minister will give the two sides “an opportunity to discuss the entire gamut of bilateral relations and review the progress in implementation of the Green Strategic Partnership”, Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi. The two sides will also discuss regional and multilateral issues of mutual interest, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hosts-danish-pm-mette-frederiksen-first-foreign-leader-to-visit-india-since-covid-19-1038921.html
09-10-2021||National||China's continuous build-up matter of concern: Army Chief Gen MM Naravane||The military build-up by China in the eastern Ladakh region and new infrastructure development to sustain the large-scale deployment are matters of concern and India has been keeping a close watch on all the activities by the Chinese PLA, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane said on Saturday. He said if the Chinese military maintains the deployment through the second winter, it may lead to an LoC-like situation (Line of Control) though not an active LoC as is there on the western front with Pakistan The Chief of Army Staff said if the Chinese military continues with its deployment, the Indian Army too will maintain its presence on its side which is "as good as what the PLA (People's Liberation Army) has done". Indian and Chinese militaries have been on a standoff in several areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh for nearly 17 months though both sides disengaged from a number of friction points this year following a series of talks. "Yes, it is a matter of concern that the large-scale build-up has occurred and continues to be in place, and to sustain that kind of a build-up, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side," Gen Naravane said at the Indian Today conclave. "So, it means that they (PLA) are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on all these developments, but if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too," he said. Gen Naravane said the build-up and the infrastructure development on the Indian side are as good as what PLA has done. "But what this would, especially if they continue to stay there through the second winter, definitely mean that we will be in a kind of LC (Line of Control) situation though not an active LC as is there on the western front," he said. "But definitely, we will have to keep a close eye on all the troop build-up and deployments to see that they do not get into any misadventure once again," the Army Chief said. To a question, Gen Naravane said it is difficult to understand why China triggered the standoff when the world was reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic and when that country had certain issues on its eastern seaboard. "While all that is going on, to sort of open up one more front is very difficult to understand or fathom," he said. "But whatever it might have been, I do not think they have been able to achieve any of those because of the rapid response done by the Indian armed forces," the Army Chief added. Asked to comment on the overall situation in eastern Ladakh, Gen Naravane referred to a recent statement by a spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs and said he had clearly mentioned that whatever has happened on the Northern border is because of the massive build-up by the Chinese side and the non-adherence to various protocols. "So that is very clear as to what was the trigger for all that which has happened," Gen Naravane said. The Army Chief said following the standoff in eastern Ladakh, Indian Army realised that it needs to do more in the area of ISR (intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance). "So that has been the thurst of our modernisation over the last one year. Similarly, other weapons and equipment that we thought we need for future, those have got our attention also," he said. The border standoff between the Indian and the Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year in eastern Ladakh following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinas-continuous-build-up-matter-of-concern-army-chief-gen-mm-naravane-1038938.html
09-10-2021||National||India, UK plan clean energy transition drive||India and the United Kingdom have set in motion concrete action plans for driving clean energy transition in the power sector. This was deliberated at the 3rd India-UK Energy for Growth Partnership Ministerial Energy Dialogue. "Both sides will set in motion concrete action plans for driving clean energy transition in the power sector," a power ministry statement said. The 3rd India-UK Energy for Growth Partnership Ministerial Energy Dialogue was co-chaired by Union Minister for Power and New and Renewable Energy RK Singh from the Indian side and the Rt Hon Kwasi Kwarteng MP, Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) from the UK side. The dialogue was held last evening virtually, it stated. Energy transition was a major area of discussion in the dialogue and the energy ministers spoke in detail on the ongoing energy transition activities in their respective countries with a focus on renewables, including solar, offshore wind, storage, electric vehicles (EVs), and alternative fuels, it added. The UK side presented a detailed summary of the significant ongoing work and the past work done in the last two years under the umbrella of bilateral cooperation which was appreciated and endorsed by both sides. The dignitaries welcomed Roadmap 2030 for India-UK future relations launched by both countries’ Prime Ministers during India-UK Virtual Summit in May 2021 and identified various future areas of collaboration in line with the roadmap. The sides deliberated and agreed on a forward action plan on power and clean transport, renewables, green finance and clean energy research as part of Roadmap 2030, covering a range of topics including smart grids, energy storage, green hydrogen, charging infrastructure, battery storage and need of mobilizing investments in renewable energy along with other proposals under the multilateral collaboration. The dialogue concluded with both sides underlining the importance of international cooperation in securing affordable and sustainable energy for the world while setting in motion, concrete action plans for driving the clean energy transition in the power sector, it stated. Power Minister specifically detailed ambitious targets in areas such as green hydrogen, storage, offshore wind, and the electricity market. He further hoped that the One Sun One World One Grid (OSOWOG) initiative launched by the Prime Minister could act as a promising alternative to support the RE integration in the grid. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-plan-clean-energy-transition-drive-1038945.html
09-10-2021||National||Amid syringe shortage buzz, govt restricts export of certain types for 3 months||India on Saturday imposed a three month restriction on the export of three types of injection syringes apprehending a shortage for the Covid-19 vaccination scheme after ignoring syringe-makers’ repeated request on future planning and advance commitment to deal with such shortage in the world’s biggest adult vaccination programme. The Union Health Ministry said there would be a “quantitative restriction” on the export of three specific types of syringes and manufacturers are free to meet their international commitments with other types of syringes. The three types of syringes prevented from export are (1) 0.5 ml/1 ml auto-disposable syringes; (2) 0.5 ml/1 ml/2 ml/3 ml disposable syringes and (3) 1 ml/2 ml/3 ml RUP (re-use prevention) syringes. The government clarification comes four days after the Directorate General of Foreign Trade on Oct 5 issued a statement saying the export policy for syringes with or without needles had been amended from ‘free’ to ‘restricted’. This triggered sharp responses from the medical device industry because of the international orders they had. With the changed order, the 20 odd Indian manufacturers can export a total of 4 crore syringes per month, which is less than one-third of the normal export of such syringes per month. The DGFT would decide which company would export how many pieces. "This is at least a partial relief. Also we can export 0.3 ml syringes (needed for Pfizer-BNT vaccine) as per our COVAX commitment. But advance planning was needed from the government, which should have informed the manufacturers what the country’s requirements are,” Rajiv Nath. chairman and managing director of Hindustan Syringes and Medical Device Ltd – the world’s largest manufacturers of auto-disabled syringes told DH. Since last year Nath and a few others asked the health ministry to carry out early planning exercises taking the industry on board, so that the makers get adequate time to scale up their production. “Such an approach is better than having tenders with two weeks time and a penalty clause,” he said. Since December 2020, HMD supplied 48.4 crore auto-disabled syringes till the first week of October. Currently the company is executing three orders totalling another 31 crore syringes. There are three more supplies of auto-disabled syringes for the health ministry besides nearly 15 suppliers of disposable syringes. India has administered more than 94 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine and the average daily vaccination currently stands at upwards of 70 lakh. But the target is to vaccinate 94 crore plus adults with two doses of Covid-19 shots. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-syringe-shortage-buzz-govt-restricts-export-of-certain-types-for-3-months-1038947.html
09-10-2021||National||I-T dept detects Rs 550-cr hidden income after raids on Hetero pharma group; Rs 142-cr cash seized||The Income Tax Department detected "unaccounted" income of Rs 550 crore and seized over Rs 142 crore cash after it recently raided Hyderabad-based Hetero pharmaceutical group, official sources claimed on Saturday. Company officials were not immediately available for comments. "During the search, several bank lockers have been found, out of which 16 lockers have been operated. The searches have resulted in the seizure of unexplained cash amounting to Rs 142.87 crore, so far," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. "Unaccounted income unearthed is estimated to be in the range of about Rs 550 crore till now," it said. Official sources identified it as the Hetero pharma group of Hyderabad. Further investigations and quantification of undisclosed income detected is in progress, it added. The CBDT frames policy for the Income Tax Department. The CBDT said the group is engaged in the business of manufacturing of intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and formulations and majority of the products are exported to countries like the US and Dubai, and some African and European countries. "Issues relating to discrepancies in purchases made from bogus and non-existent entities and artificial inflation of certain heads of expenditure were detected. Further, evidence of on-money payment for purchase of lands was also found," it claimed. Various other legal issues were also identified such as personal expenses being booked in the company's books and land purchased by related parties "below government registration value." It alleged that hideouts were identified during the raids where second set of books of accounts and cash were found. "Incriminating evidence in the form of digital media, pen drives, documents, etc. have been found and seized and digital "evidences" were gathered from SAP and ERP software maintained by the assessee group," it said. Hetero shot into limelight after the group signed several agreements and undertook development of various drugs such as Remdesivir and Favipiravir to treat COVID-19. It has over 25 manufacturing facilities located in India, China, Russia, Egypt, Mexico and Iran. The company last month had said that it had received Emergency Use Authorisation from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for its biosimilar version of Tocilizumab for treatment of Covid-19 in hospitalised adults. The Rs 7,500 crore pharma major is one of the firms that has tied up with Russian Direct Investment Fund to manufacture COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-dept-detects-rs-550-cr-hidden-income-after-raids-on-hetero-pharma-group-rs-142-cr-cash-seized-1038952.html
09-10-2021||National||India may have to withdraw equalisation levy if global minimum tax deal comes through||India may have to withdraw digital services tax or the equalisation levy and give a commitment not to introduce such measures in the future if the global minimum tax deal comes through. In a major reform of the international tax system, 136 countries, including India, have agreed to an overhaul of global tax norms to ensure that multinationals pay taxes wherever they operate and at a minimum 15 per cent rate. However, the deal requires countries to remove all digital services tax and other similar measures and to commit not to introduce such measures in the future, as per the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) implementation plan released late on Friday. "No newly enacted digital services taxes or other relevant similar measures will be imposed on any company from October 8 and until the earlier of December 31, 2023, or the coming into force of the MLC (multilateral convention)," the OECD said. The proposed two-pillar solution of the global tax deal consists of two components - Pillar One which is about reallocation of additional share of profit to the market jurisdictions and Pillar Two consisting of minimum tax and subject to tax rules. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier this week said that India is "very close" to arriving at the specifics of the two-pillar taxation proposition at the G-20 and is in the last stage of finalising the details. The Finance Ministers of G-20 countries are scheduled to meet on October 13 in Washington and finalise it. Nangia Andersen Partner Sandeep Jhunjhunwala said the statement released by the OECD on Friday weighed against the one in July 2021 brings out some interesting observations, on which taxmen and taxpayers had their eyes laid on. "As a significant move, the OECD has sought for an immediate and upfront withdrawal of unilateral digital services tax and a commitment not to introduce such measures in the future. “No newly enacted digital services taxes or other relevant similar measures would be imposed on any company from October 8 and until the earlier of December 31, 2023, or the coming into force of the multilateral convention," he said. The modality for the removal of existing digital services taxes and other relevant similar measures needs to be appropriately coordinated, Jhunjhunwala added. "Pillar Two which was initially proposed to be brought into effect from 2023 has now been deferred to 2024," he added. Deloitte India Partner Sumit Singhania said the two pillar solutions finally agreed will result in redistribution of $125 billion taxable profits annually, and ensure global MNEs pay minimum 15 per cent tax once these measures are implemented in 2023 through a multilateral convention to be signed next year. Consensus on global minimum tax will practically make tax competition amongst nations rather unfeasible by narrowing down any such opportunities to rarest circumstances, he said. "In reaching final Two-pillar solutions, OECD Inclusive Framework has tied up several loose ends and drawn the roadmap to its implementation. The final solution offers 25 per cent share in super normal profits (i.e. profits in excess of 10 per cent) sought to be reallocated to market countries," Singhania said. He said the signing of MLI will also lead to consistent withdrawal of digital Services tax and any such similar taxes/levies, and will prevent any future enactment of such order. "In the end, two pillar solutions ought to be reckoned as enduring overhaul of the century-old international tax regime, that's here to change the rule of the global profit allocation amongst taxing jurisdictions completely," Singhania added. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. Partner Gouri Puri said a consensus on Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 are key to secure a more certain and stable tax regime for multinationals and governments. "While the fine print is awaited, India is balancing its interests both as an importer and an exporter of capital, goods and services. The deal will prevent a race to the bottom amongst countries," Puri added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-have-to-withdraw-equalisation-levy-if-global-minimum-tax-deal-comes-through-1038955.html
09-10-2021||National||After 'fruitful' talks, India, Denmark decide to expand ties in health, agriculture sectors||India and Denmark on Saturday agreed on a five-year action plan to implement the bilateral “Green Strategic Partnership” as Prime Minister Narendra Modi played host to the North European nation’s Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen – the first foreign leader to visit India after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. The two sides formally announced four pacts after Modi and Frederiksen had a meeting at the Hyderabad House in New Delhi. The pacts included a Memorandum of Understanding between the Indian Institute of Science in Bengaluru and Danfoss Industries Private Limited of Denmark to establish a Centre of Excellence for research on natural refrigerants for tropical climates with potential applications. The centre will spread knowledge about CO2-based cooling systems and offer competence and skills development on installation, commission, and maintaining CO2-based cooling systems. The meeting between the Prime Ministers saw the two sides agreeing on a five-year action plan for implementation of the Green Strategic Partnership, which they had announced during a virtual meeting in September 2020 to advance political cooperation, expand economic relations and green growth, create jobs and strengthen cooperation for implementation of the Paris Agreement to deal with climate change and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations. “This partnership is an example of how by collective effort, through technology, one can work for green growth, while preserving the environment,” Modi said after his meeting with the Danish Prime Minister. He called upon Denmark’s companies to expand investment in India, taking advantage of the reforms in the manufacturing sector. “We share a commitment to the green transition,” Frederiksen said, adding that she and Modi had “good talks on regional and global issues”, including the climate agenda and the forthcoming COP 26 – the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which would be held in Glasgow in the United Kingdom next month. They also agreed to expand cooperation in the health and agricultural sectors. The pacts announced after the Modi-Frederiksen meeting included a Traditional Knowledge Digital Library Access Agreement between the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) of India and the Danish Patent and Trademark Office and a Joint Letter of Intent for cooperation in skill development and entrepreneurship. An MoU between the CSIR’s India National Geophysical Research Institute based at Hyderabad with Aarhus University in Denmark and Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland on mapping of groundwater resources and aquifers was also inked. Modi earlier received Frederiksen at the forecourt of the Rashtrapati Bhavan, where the Danish Prime Minister was accorded a ceremonial reception. The last such ceremonial reception at the forecourt of the Rashtrapati Bhavan took place in February 2020 – for the then President of the United States, Donald Trump, on February 25, 2020, and for the then President of Myanmar, U Win Myint, on February 27, 2020. No foreign Head of Government or the Head of State visited New Delhi in the past 18 months, as the world leaders preferred holding virtual meetings through video links in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi resumed his foreign visits earlier this year with a two-day tour to Bangladesh on March 26 and 27. He visited the United States from September 22 to 25. The Prime Minister is also likely to visit Rome for the G-20 summit, which Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi will host on October 30 and 31 next. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-fruitful-talks-india-denmark-decide-to-expand-ties-in-health-agriculture-sectors-1038956.html
09-10-2021||National||India to ensure those supporting terror don’t hamper collective path to Covid recovery, says Tirumurti||India will be at the forefront to ensure that those supporting terrorism, violent extremism, and radicalisation do not “waylay us on our collective path” to resilience and recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic, the country’s envoy at the United Nations has said. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti, speaking at the UN General Assembly General Debate of the Second Committee on ‘Crisis, Resilience and Recovery – Accelerating Progress towards the 2030 Agenda’ on Friday, said that forces “inimical to us” are posing challenges as the world grapples with the challenges of the pandemic and climate change. “We meet at a time when the Covid crisis is nowhere near the end. However, with the introduction of vaccines, there is hope that we will finally be able to turn the corner… The message to the world is for the international community to come together to combat the pandemic and build a resilient system that will drive our recovery,” he said. “Terrorism, hate, radicalisation and extremism, infodemic and challenges to pluralism, human rights, and democracy have only increased." “We can never truly put our countries on the path to recovery unless we combat these wholeheartedly and purposefully and call out those who seek to justify these acts,” Tirumurti said. Without naming any country, he underlined that "India will be at the forefront to ensure those supporting terrorism, violent extremism, radicalisation among others do not waylay us on our collective path to resilience and recovery.” The United States, India, and Afghanistan have long accused Pakistan of providing safe havens to terror groups like the Taliban, the Haqqani network, the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). According to a Congressional report on terrorism issued last month, Pakistan is home to at least 12 groups designated as ‘foreign terrorist organisations’ by the US, including five of them being India-centric like the LeT and JeM. US officials have identified Pakistan as a base of operations or target for numerous armed and non-state militant groups, some of which have existed since the 1980s, the independent Congressional Research Service said in the report. In his address, Tirumurti further said India’s commitment to a development partnership with developing countries remains strong and robust. “We will continue to work together in a spirit of South-South Cooperation,” especially with Least Developed Countries (LDCs), Landlocked Developing Countries (LLDCs) and Small Island Developing States (SIDS). “While funds have, understandably, been diverted for humanitarian assistance, the immediate should not fully displace medium-term recovery and progress,” he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-ensure-those-supporting-terror-don-t-hamper-collective-path-to-covid-recovery-says-tirumurti-1038964.html
09-10-2021||National||Malayalam writer Benyamin bags Vayalar Award||Well-known Malayalam writer Benyamin has bagged the 45th Vayalar Ramavarma Memorial Literary Award for his book "Manthalirile 20 Communist Varshangal". The prestigious award, instituted by the Vayalar Ramavarma Memorial Trust, comprises a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh, a sculpture designed by renowned sculptor Kanayi Kunhiraman and a citation, the organisers said on Saturday. A political satire, the novel revolves around a nondescript village called Manthalir and the influence of religion and politics in its culture in two decades. It was chosen for the recognition by an expert panel comprising writers K R Meera, George Onakkoor and C Unnikrishnan. The award would be presented to the writer in a function to be held here on October 27, the organisers added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/malayalam-writer-benyamin-bags-vayalar-award-1038969.html
09-10-2021||National||Odisha industries facing coal crisis, seek CM's intervention||The Utkal Chamber Of Commerce & Industry Ltd (UCCI), an association of industries, has urged the Odisha government to ensure adequate supply of coal to state-based industries which are facing an acute shortage of dry fuel to run their units. In a letter to Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, the UCCI Friday said: "We would like to bring to your kind attention the current acute coal shortage situation in the state with many units having stock out or critical coal stock seriously affecting the viable operation of the industrial units." While the suffering of small and medium industries are increasing day by day, large process industries like steel plants, aluminium smelters and others are operating at a level where their operations are likely to become unviable if the situation continues unabated, the letter said. Since these units with small and medium industries of the state provide employment to lakhs of people, the UCCI apprehended that the coal shortage situation may give a deadly blow to the continuance of the employment of these people. Though the state is blessed with abundant coal reserves, Odisha-based local industries are facing a coal deficit and forced to import coal /power as they are not getting enough share of coal, UCCI president Brahma Mishra said. The state has coal reserves (about 25 per cent of country deposits), and Coal India Ltd (CIL) subsidiary Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (MCL) produces 150 million tonnes of coal. The Odisha-based power plants (16,000 MW) requires 90-95 million tonnes of coal per annum, which is 60 per cent of Odisha’s coal production for cost-effective sustainable industry operations. However, over 65 per cent of Odisha’s coal is being supplied to power plants based in other states. Hence, the Odisha-based local industries are facing a coal deficit and are forced to import coal /power as they are getting less than 45 per cent of Odisha’s coal production, the UCCI said. The industries body said that this is depriving the state from domestic value addition and creating local jobs and MSMEs within Odisha. Also, the acute coal shortage in the state is jeopardizing the manufacturing sector in the state further hurting the sentiments of global investors. The UCCI also requested the state government to communicate to the Ministry of Coal to give necessary direction to MCL and CIL to step up supply of coal to local industries in the state so that stock out of coal is obviated and safe level of coal stock is maintained in critical units to prevent any eventualities in operations.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-industries-facing-coal-crisis-seek-cms-intervention-1038970.html
09-10-2021||National||Lakhimpur violence a pre-planned conspiracy, allege farmers||Farmer leaders on Saturday demanded that Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son be arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, and said the incident was a “pre-planned conspiracy”. Ajay Mishra should also be removed from the government as he started this conspiracy and is also protecting the culprits in the case, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Yogendra Yadav alleged during a press conference here. He also said that the SKM on October 15, which is Dusshera, will burn the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to protest against the violence. In the incident on Sunday in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, eight people were killed, including four farmers. The incident was part of a pre-planned conspiracy and the attackers tried to terrorise farmers, farmer leader Darshan Pal said at the press conference of the SKM, an umbrella body of farm unions, spearheading the stir against three agri laws. He also claimed that the government has adopted a violent approach against protesting farmers. But “we won't take the path of violence”, Ugrahan asserted. Four of the eight people who died in the violence on Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. “We demand Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish be arrested,” Ugrahan said. The SKM also said that on October 18 it will call 'rail roko' to protest the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhimpur-violence-a-pre-planned-conspiracy-allege-farmers-1038974.html
09-10-2021||National||Demolition of Corona Mata Temple: SC dismisses PIL with Rs 5,000 cost, says abuse of process||The Supreme Court has dismissed a PIL against the demolition of "Corona Mata Mandir", constructed by a woman along with her husband in Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district, saying it was an "abuse of the process". A bench of Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh junked the petition and imposed a cost of Rs 5,000 on the petitioner, noting that the land on which the temple was built was disputed. The apex court said if the petitioner's contention is that this is her private land and the construction was done in accordance with the local norms, then she has not taken recourse to any appropriate legal remedy. "So far, the petitioner has not constructed temples for all other possible diseases infecting the people of this country. The land itself was disputed as recorded. A police complaint was made in this behalf.  "We are of the view that this is clearly an abuse of the process of jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution of India. The writ petition is dismissed with costs of Rs 5,000 to be deposited with the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Welfare Fund within four weeks," the bench said. The petitioner, Deepmala Srivastava, had moved the top court invoking the jurisdiction of the SC under Article 32 of the Constitution for infringement of Fundamental Right. The "Corona Mata" temple was built at Juhi Shukulpur village in Pratapgarh, seeking divine grace to stay clear of the infection. The temple built on June 7 and was demolished on June 11 night.  Villagers alleged that it was demolished by police, which denied the charge, saying it was constructed on a disputed site and one of the parties involved in the dispute razed it. Villagers said the temple was constructed by Lokesh Kumar Srivastava with the help of donations from local residents.  He installed the idol of "Corona Mata". Radhey Shyam Verma of the village was appointed its priest, after which people started offering prayers there. Lokesh, who lives in Noida, jointly owns the land with Nagesh Kumar Srivastava and Jai Prakash Srivastava. He left the village for Noida after the temple was constructed. Nagesh in his complaint to police said the temple was constructed to grab the land. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demolition-of-corona-mata-temple-sc-dismisses-pil-with-rs-5000-cost-says-abuse-of-process-1038978.html
09-10-2021||National||Ahead of talks, Army Chief says India will not pull back troops as long as China does not withdraw build-up along LAC||Army Chief General M M Naravane, on Saturday, said that India was ready for a long haul if the People’s Liberation Army of China continued with its large-scale build-up along the Line of Actual Control between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. “We are keeping a close watch on the developments. But if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too,” Gen Naravane said, just ahead of yet another round of negotiations between the senior military commanders of the two nations to resolve the 18-month-long military stand-off between the countries. The Indian Army chief also said that the continuing large-scale build-up by the Chinese PLA along the LAC remained “a matter of concern”. Lt. Gen. P G K Menon, the commander of the XIV Corps of the Indian Army, is scheduled to meet his counterpart in the South Xinjiang Military District of the Chinese PLA, Maj Gen Liu Lin, at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on Sunday for the 13th round of negotiations to resolve the stand-off between the two nations. The two sides are likely to discuss terms for a mutual withdrawal of the front-line troops from the Patrol Point 15 – one of the LAC points, where the face-off was still continuing despite disengagement on both banks of Pangong Tso (lake) and Gogra Post earlier this year. “It is a matter of concern that the large-scale build-up (by the PLA) that occurred last year (when the stand-off started) continues to be in place,” the Chief of Army Staff said while speaking at an event. “To sustain that kind of build-up, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side. It means that they (the PLA troops) are there to stay.” He articulated New Delhi’s concerns even as incursion attempts by the PLA soldiers in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh in the recent weeks fuelled speculations about the possibility of the stand-off along the LAC in the western sector of the disputed boundary between the two nations spreading to the middle and eastern sectors too. Gen Naravane said that the situation along the LAC – the de facto boundary between India and China in the western sector – could become somewhat like that along the Line of Control (LoC) – the disputed stretch of the India-Pakistan border – if the Chinese PLA continued with its large-scale deployment in eastern Ladakh. “If they (the PLA) continue to stay there for the second winter, it will definitely mean we will be in an LoC kind of situation, though not an active LoC as is there on the western front,” he said, adding, “We will have to keep a close eye on PLA troop build-up and deployments to ensure they don’t get into any misadventure once again.” Whatever was China’s intention in deploying such a large number of troops along its LAC with India, it did not succeed due to rapid response by the Indian Army, he said. The army chief said that Pakistan’s armed forces had of late violated the ceasefire along the LoC with India thrice and renewed attempts to infiltrate terrorists from Pakistan to India across the LoC had also been noticed. The Indian Army and the Pakistan Army had on February 25 this year agreed to strictly adhere to the 2003 ceasefire pact and avoid firing at each other across the LoC. The Indian Army chief said that the Pakistan Army had adhered to the agreement till July, but had now started flouting the truce again. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-talks-army-chief-says-india-will-not-pull-back-troops-as-long-as-china-does-not-withdraw-build-up-along-lac-1038985.html
09-10-2021||National||After Modi-Biden meet, focus now on moving ahead on range of issues: White House||A fortnight after the first in-person meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden, the White House has said that the focus of the Indo-US bilateral relations is now on continuing to move forward on a range of issues, including economy, national security and getting the pandemic under control. Since the September 24 meeting between Modi and Biden at the White House, there has been a flurry of high-level visits between the two countries and several Cabinet-level visits are in the pipeline in the next few weeks. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki, addressing reporters at her daily news conference on Friday, said that the Quad and bilateral meetings here in September were an opportunity "to discuss the importance of the relationship and the partnership, the work that can be done moving forward as well as of course the bilateral meeting". "At this point, the focus is going to be on continuing to work through high-level interlocutors, whether it's the Secretary of State and the leaders at the State Department, or leaders from our national security team about how we can continue to move forward on a range of issues, whether it's economic security, physical national security, addressing Covid, and getting the pandemic under control. "So, that work will continue at lower than the leader level, but still high levels in the weeks and months ahead," Psaki said on India-US relationship. At President Biden's invitation, Modi and his counterparts Scott Morrison from Australia and Yoshihide Suga from Japan also attended the first in-person Quad summit during which they announced a slew of new initiatives to take on common challenges, amidst muscle flexing by an assertive China in the strategic region. Meanwhile, some important bilateral visits have taken place and some are going to happen in the coming weeks, including on some key areas like climate change, defence, Indo-Pacific and Afghanistan. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat was in Washington last week and the Deputy Secretary of State Windy Sherman has just concluded a visit to India. On Friday, the two countries held their 16th Defence Policy Group meeting and the Pentagon announced the visit of the US Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Mike Gilday to India next week. A senior-level Biden Administration official from the US Trade Representative's office visited India this week for trade talks. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is scheduled to travel to the US, possibly next week. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, along with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, is likely to travel to Washington DC in November for the next round of 2+2 meeting to be hosted by their American counterparts Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Secretary of State Tony Blinken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-modi-biden-meet-focus-now-on-moving-ahead-on-range-of-issues-white-house-1038988.html
09-10-2021||National||Afghan-origin terrorists may try to enter J&K once situation stabilises in Afghanistan: Army Chief Naravane||Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane on Saturday did not rule out the possibility of Afghan-origin foreign terrorists attempting to infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir once the situation stabilises in Afghanistan as he cited similar instances when the Taliban was in power in Kabul over two decades ago. At the same time, he said Indian armed forces are prepared to deal with any eventuality as they have a very strong counter-infiltration grid as well as a mechanism to check terrorist activities in the hinterland in Jammu and Kashmir. Asked at the India Today conclave whether there was any link between the spate of recent killings of civilians in Kashmir and the Taliban's capture of power in Afghanistan, Gen Naravane said it cannot be said whether there was a connection. "Definitely, there has been a spurt in activities (in Jammu and Kashmir) but whether they can be directly linked to what is happening in or happened in Afghanistan, we really cannot say," the Army Chief said. "But what we can say and learn from the past is that when the previous Taliban regime was in power, that time definitely we had foreign terrorists of Afghan origin in Jammu and Kashmir," he said. "So there are reasons to believe that the same thing might happen once again that once the situation in Afghanistan stabilises, then we could see an inflow of these fighters from Afghanistan to the Jammu and Kashmir," he added. The Chief of Army Staff said the Indian armed forces are fully ready to deal with any such attempts. "We are prepared for any such eventuality. We have a very strong counter-infiltration grid to stop them at the border. We have a very strong counter-terrorism grid in the hinterland to take care of any such actions. Just as we dealt with them in the early 2000s, we will deal with them now also should they venture anywhere near us," he said. There have been increasing concerns in the Indian security establishment over the possibility of terror spillover from Afghanistan into Jammu and Kashmir through Pakistan and rise in terrorist activities, particularly by groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed following the Taliban wresting power in Kabul. On the targeted killings in Jammu and Kashmir, the Army Chief said this is a matter of "concern" and described it as "reprehensible". "They do not want normalcy. It is a last-ditch attempt to stay relevant," he said referring to militant groups. "The people will revolt. If they (militants) say that they are doing all these for the people, then why you are killing your own people who are your support base. It is just an attempt to spread terror which is totally unacceptable," Gen Naravane said. About the ceasefire agreement between India and Pakistan, Gen Naravane said it was observed in "totality" for four months from February. "But from the end of July onwards to September and now the beginning of October, the sporadic incidents have again started. I think again, it is following the pattern of 2003 when it would start with one odd incident and rising to as good as not having a ceasefire," he said. "Over the last month or so, we are again seeing renewed attempts at infiltration. We have eliminated two or three such infiltration attempts," he added. In a sudden and significant move aimed at reducing tensions, the Indian and Pakistani armies on February 25 announced that they would cease firing across the LoC while recommitting themselves to a 2003 ceasefire agreement. "Apart from the infiltration bids, there have been three incidents of proper ceasefire violations that is one post firing at the other post," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-origin-terrorists-may-try-to-enter-jk-once-situation-stabilises-in-afghanistan-army-chief-naravane-1038992.html
09-10-2021||National||Medical body urges Centre to set up critical care units, cites possibility of third wave||The ISCCM on Saturday urged the central government to pre-plan setting up of fully functional critical care units with trained personnel, citing possibilities of a third wave of Covid-19.   Commemorating their 28th Foundation Day, the Indian Society for Critical Care Medicine (ISCCM) organised a two-day research conclave with an endeavour to put Indian physicians in the fore-front of clinical research in the near future. The sessions highlighted the importance of a critical care unit in hospitals, which act as lifelines in salvaging patients from moribund conditions and the dire need for skilled and technically updated facility, which can never be over emphasised, an ISCCM statement said. It said the entire medical fraternity paid homage to the brave soldiers whose lives were unfairly cut short amid the pandemic and also pledged to support their bereaved families through their loss. The brain storming session witnessed a gathering of over 450 participants including physicians, specialists, nurses and technicians, according to the statement. “Since the purpose, aim and goal of ISCCM is continued education, research, spread of knowledge and skill development in the field of critical care medicine, our primary function is to provide a platform to all the practitioners of critical care medicine to brain-storm new concepts and ideas alongside regular discussions of academic interest," said Dr Deepak Govil, President, Indian Society for Critical Care Medicine. "Witnessing a huge deficit in "critical care specialists, nurses and technicians in the country that was glaringly showcased at the fore-front amid the pandemic crisis, ISCCM strives to train personnel both academically and develop the appropriate skills required to curb down the gap," he added. According to Govil, Indian Critical care is at par with international standards and it is "only a matter of time that we prove the same to the world at large". "Intensive care should be made more accessible and affordable to the common man. This is where the ISCCM steps in and contributes its knowledge and skill," the doctor said. The theme of the ISCCM day celebration this year has been in keeping with the devastation of the Covid-19 pandemic on the medical fraternity. The two-day conclave will also cover a host of exciting activities like drawing photography, e-poster, extempore competitions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-body-urges-centre-to-set-up-critical-care-units-cites-possibility-of-third-wave-1038999.html
09-10-2021||National||Majority, minority appellations not needed as all have equal rights in India: Kerala Governor||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Saturday said he disapproved of the binary of 'majority-minority' when it comes to India as all its citizens enjoy "equal rights", unlike in Pakistan where there is a "ceiling on those who are not Muslims". In an interaction during a conclave in Delhi, he also asserted that Indian civilisation and "our cultural heritage" have "no concept of discrimination" on the basis of religion. Khan said he has been arguing for a long time and asking people to show him one provision which talks about minority rights in the religious context. "Words like 'majority' and 'minority', what is meant by that (classification)? I have never accepted the appellation 'minority'". "What do you mean by that term, that I am less than equal. I am a proud Indian citizen who enjoys equal rights," he said. During the India Today Conclave, he was speaking on the segment -- 'Majority, Minority: The Battle of Belonging'. "Indian civilisation has never been defined by religion, all other civilisations were defined either by religion, mostly by religion, and also before that by race and language," he argued and quoted a few sholkas to back his claim. On a question of whether Indian politics has moved from resorting to minority appeasement to majoritarianism in the last few decades, Khan claimed the word 'Hindu' is not used in any of our scriptures. "We were ruled for a long period of time by people who are foreigners, and I do not mean in a negative sense, but in a sense that they were not familiar with Indian ethos and philosophy and viewpoints. "The thousands of years old Indian civilisation, don't know when this journey began, but it was never defined by religious faith," he said. "Their (foreign rulers') own attitude was that this civilisation, its background was 'defined by religion'. Therefore, they have to use a word which symbolised, and used more in the sense of faith, so they used it," he claimed. But, Indian thought leaders were never satisfied with that appellation, he asserted. "That is why in the Constituent Assembly, the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, they were included in the definition of Hinduism, making it amply clear that the term 'Hindu' does not mean uniformity of belief, or uniformity of practices in the matters of religion. Therefore, the 'Hindu Rashtra' term is nothing, he said. "It is not only our Constitution that gives equal rights to people, but more than that our cultural heritage, the Indian civilisation, has no concept of discrimination on the basis of the religion, therefore to link the two, I find it preposterous," he said. Minority rights are needed in countries that are theocracies because there is a ceiling on growth and citizens are not treated equally, he argued. "In India, there has never been a theocracy, so, when you say 'Hindu Rashtra', you are equating it with a Muslim theocracy or Christian theocracy, which have existed in the past, and somewhere these are still existing," he said. Reciting a shloka, he said, the ancient Indian philosophy has been that it is the duty of the political system to provide equal protection to all. "In Pakistan, yes there is a need to have minority rights because there is a ceiling on those who are not Muslims. "They cannot aspire for certain positions, they are discriminated against," Khan alleged. Khan has been a vocal critic of the practice of instant triple talaq and calling for reforms in the Muslim personal laws for long. His speech in Parliament in 1985 in the wake of the Shah Bano judgment extending the Rajiv Gandhi government's initial support to it was much acclaimed. However, when the Rajiv Gandhi government did a U-turn under alleged pressure from Muslim clerics and brought a bill to nullify the Supreme Court order, he resigned from the ministry. The Uttar Pradesh politician later joined the BJP but remained inactive since 2007. When the Modi government had brought a law to criminalise the practice of instant triple talaq, Khan had supported it. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/majority-minority-appellations-not-needed-as-all-have-equal-rights-in-india-kerala-governor-1039001.html
09-10-2021||National||Cruise drugs case: Byju's temporarily halts ads featuring SRK as Aryan faces probe||IPO-bound edtech major Byju's has temporarily halted advertisements featuring its brand ambassador and Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, as his son Aryan Khan faces a drug bust probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Reliable Sources told IANS on Saturday that Byju's has stopped all ads featuring Shah Rukh Khan, apparently after social media users criticised the edtech company for endorsing ads featuring the actor, who has been the Byju's brand ambassador since 2017. When reached, a spokesperson for Byju's declined to comment on the matter. Byju's is on an acquisition spree this year. Overall, it has acquired nine businesses this year. The edtech giant is also exploring an initial public offering (IPO) which could value the company at around $40 billion-$45 billion. Shah Rukh Khan has over 42 million followers on Twitter and 26.5 million followers on Facebook-owned Instagram. The criticism came in the wake of arrests after a high-drama rave party raid on Cordelia Cruise ship during the Mumbai-Goa voyage by the NCB on October 2. In a major setback for Shah Rukh's son Aryan, a Mumbai court on Friday rejected his bail plea, and of two others who were among the 8 arrested. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R M Nerlikar rejected the bail applications of Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant, and Munmun Dhamecha, on grounds of "maintainability", upholding the contentions of the legal team of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The developments came a day after all the eight accused were sent to judicial custody, and they shifted to the regular prisons from the NCB lockup. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cruise-drugs-case-byjus-temporarily-halts-ads-featuring-srk-as-aryan-faces-probe-1039007.html
09-10-2021||National||SC denies details of BCI meeting under RTI Act||The Supreme Court has declined to disclose under the RTI Act details on a representation letter, action taken report and file notings related to a meeting of Bar Council members demanding setting up a regional bench of the top court in South India. Responding to a query, the top court said that the details shared under the fiduciary relationship cannot be provided for being "third party" information and are exempt from disclosure under the transparency law.  A group of Bar Council members had on July 26 met with the Chief Justice of India demanding action on setting up a regional bench of Supreme Court in South India.  Amritpal Singh Khalsa, an advocate from Ulhasnagar in Maharashtra filed an application under the Right to Information Act on August 27 with the office of CJI, seeking a copy of the "proposal, representation, memo or letter of July 26 submitted with the CJI", action taken report, entire file notings and any letter, order, email or memo issued by the CJI to any dignitary in this regard. In its reply, the Supreme Court's CPIO said, "The document/notings cannot be provided for being third party information and exempt in view of provisions of Sections 8(1)(e), 8(1)(j) and 11(1) of the RTI Act, 2005". With regard to the query on the action taken report, the response said, "the representation was directed to be lodged/filed." In this case, the RTI application filed with the office of the CJI was replied to by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court's Constitution bench had in 2019 declared the office of the CJI a public authority under the RTI Act. Notably, a delegation of members of the Bar Council of five southern states, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana had met the CJI and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on July 26 and gave a representation for setting up a bench of the Supreme Court in South India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-denies-details-of-bci-meeting-under-rti-act-1039036.html
09-10-2021||National||BJP opposes use of shoes to 'decorate' Durga puja pandal in Kolkata, seeks chief secy's intervention||The BJP on Saturday objected to the use of shoes for "decorating" a Durga puja pandal here, alleging that it would hurt the religious sentiments of people. Organisers of the puja pandal in Dumdum, however, rejected the assertion and said that the shoe installation on the sidewalk leading to the marquee depicts farmers’ movement in the country, and the Durga idol, set up at a considerable distance from it, is surrounded by paddy stacks. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said in a tweet on Saturday that the organisers have committed a "heinous act" by adorning the pandal wall with shoes, and urged the chief secretary and home secretary to look into the matter. "A Durga Puja pandal in Dumdum Park has been decorated with shoes. This heinous act of insulting Maa Durga in the name of 'Artistic liberty' won't be tolerated. I urge the Chief & Home Secretary @egiye_bangla to intervene and compel the organizers to remove the shoes before Shashti," he added. Echoing him, former Meghalaya governor and veteran BJP leader Tathagata Roy told reporters that "everything cannot be tolerated in the name of artistic freedom. This is a grave insult to goddess Durga and hurts our religious sentiment". An office-bearer of the Dumdum Park Bharat Chakra puja committee, on his part, clarified that the shoe installation was at a distance from the pandal. "Our theme, this year, is farmers' agitation. As part of the theme, the path leading to the pandal has shoe installations to symbolise a scene after a police lathicharge on agitating farmers, which forced them to run helter-skelter. Such scenes were witnessed recently. "Inside the marquee, Devi Durga and her progeny are surrounded by paddy stacks," he added Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-opposes-use-of-shoes-to-decorate-durga-puja-pandal-in-kolkata-seeks-chief-secys-intervention-1039038.html
09-10-2021||National||'Madras Cafe' actor Leena Maria Paul, partner sent to ED custody in money-laundering case||A Delhi court on Saturday sent actor Leena Maria Paul and her boyfriend Sukesh Chandrasekhar to Enforcement Directorate's custody for three days in a money-laundering case involving extortion of Rs 200 crore from a businessman's wife here. The couple allegedly duped former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. Earlier in the day, the ED placed Chandrashekar and Paul, already in jail after being arrested by the Delhi Police on charges of cheating people and committing fraud, under arrest under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. In its application in the court, the Enforcement Directorate's special public prosecutor Atul Tripathi claimed that 14-day custodial interrogation of the accused was essential to determine the role of other people who facilitated money laundering, how and by whom proceeds of crime were placed, layered and integrated into the system. The ED claimed that the accused were deliberately withholding evidence, and their custodial interrogation was essential to establish a money trail of proceeds of the crime. They were to be confronted with the evidence on record and the voluminous documents as well as various related persons, which would enable the probe agency to ascertain and identify the funds laundered, it said. "Their custodial interrogation is, therefore, required for an effective investigation of the case to bring the instant case to a logical conclusion," the probe agency stated. Special Judge Anil Antil passed the order remanding the couple to three days in ED custody and said, "From the record, it is apparent that accused Chandrashekar and Paul are the kingpins of the alleged crime committed by them." "Therefore, appreciating the facts and circumstances of the case, in my considered opinion, I find that a case of remanding accused Sukesh Chandrashekar and Leena Maria Paul to ED custody is made out," the judge said. The case was filed based on an FIR lodged by the Delhi Police's Economic Offences Wing on Aditi Singh's complaint that a man posing as a senior official of the Law Ministry in June last year had offered to help secure bail for her husband, who was in jail at that time, in return for money. Shivinder Singh was arrested for alleged misappropriation of funds at Religare Finvest Ltd in 2019. According to the police, Chandrasekhar, an accused in 21 cases, including the Election Commission bribery case, had made the call to Aditi Singh. He was arrested in August. At the time of the incident, Chandrasekhar was lodged in Delhi's Rohini jail and was running an extortion racket from behind the bars. The police later arrested his two associates, who ran operations for him from outside the prison, and two senior officials of the Rohini jail for aiding Chandrasekhar. During the investigation, the police had found that a manager of a bank in Connaught Place and his two associates were involved in dubious transactions for circulation of funds and arrangement of cash. The three were arrested. In August, the ED had raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakh in cash and over a dozen luxurious cars. It had claimed that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about Rs 200 crore. "Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him and is presently lodged in Rohini jail (in connection with the Delhi Police case)," the ED had said. It had also recorded the statement of actor Jacqueline Fernandez in this case. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madras-cafe-actor-leena-maria-paul-partner-sent-to-ed-custody-in-money-laundering-case-1039039.html
09-10-2021||National||Plea urges CJI to take cognisance of killing of Hindu, Sikh minorities in Kashmir||A petition has been sent to Chief of Justice of India N V Ramana against "target killings" of Hindu and Sikh minorities in Jammu and Kashmir.  A Delhi-based advocate demanded adequate protection to minorities over there and Rs one crore compensation and a government job to the members of the recent victims. In his plea, lawyer Vineet Jindal said that in five days, seven civilians have been killed in Kashmir, including those from the Sikh and Hindu communities.  “The target killings of Pharmacist Makhan Lal Bindroo, Supinder Kaur, Sikh principal of Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Sangam Eidgah area of Srinagar district, and Deepak Chand, a Hindu teacher of the same school has evoked a feeling of agony, fear and insecurity among the minorities of Hindu and Sikhs residing in Kashmir,” his letter petition stated.  The plea said that the targeted killing of the members of minority communities had once again reminded of the gory incident of massacre of 36 Sikhs in Chattisinghpora village of Anantnag in 2000.  “Many government employees who returned to the Valley after being given jobs under the Prime Minister's special employment scheme for Kashmiri migrants have quietly left accommodations with the fear of losing their lives and for the sake of their families well-being,” it claimed. Referring to Article 21 of the Constitution that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to a procedure established by law, the plea said the acts of killings called for an act of creating and adopting a comprehensive mechanism to secure the lives of the minorities.  The plea asked the top court to give directions to the Centre to provide adequate security to Hindu and Sikh minorities in Kashmir on an immediate basis. It also demanding establishing a special delegated unit to structure and administer a system to ensure the safety and security of minority groups in Kashmir.  It also asked the court to issue direction to a national agency to investigate the recent killing of Hindu and Sikh minorities, and also grant Rs one crore as compensation to the families of the victims along with a government job to one of the family members. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-urges-cji-to-take-cognisance-of-killing-of-hindu-sikh-minorities-in-kashmir-1039045.html
09-10-2021||National||Mandaviya urges states to increase vaccination pace, adherence to Covid protocols during festivities||Covid-19 containment can derail if festivals are not celebrated following protocols, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya warned on Saturday and exhorted 19 states to escalate their inoculation pace so that India can achieve administering 100 crore vaccine doses in the next few days. India has so far administered over 94 crore Covid vaccine doses. Reviewing the progress of Covid-19 vaccination with principal secretaries and mission directors of the National Health Mission from all major states, Mandaviya underlined that administering 100 crore doses of Covid vaccine is the immediate milestone in India's inoculation journey. According to a Health Ministry statement, Mandaviya noted that if festivals, synonymous with auspiciousness, joy and large gatherings, are not observed as per Covid protocols, containment of Covid-19 can get derailed. "The two-pronged solution is to follow Covid protocols very strictly and to speed up vaccination," the minister said. He cited results of experiments that pegged the number of first dose recipients not developing severe Covid-19 to be 96 per cent and further pointed out that the number increases to nearly 98 per cent for people who have taken both doses of the vaccine. Officials of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal took part in the meeting. Observing that over eight crore balance vaccine doses are physically available with states, Mandaviya enquired about specific hurdles, if any, faced by them in increasing their pace of vaccination and vaccine coverage among the target population, the statement said. Many states are nearing saturation of coverage in urban areas and are catering to the floating population in the city, it said. Labour and time-intensive door-to-door vaccination is being undertaken in some geographically aloof pockets where first dose coverage is nearing saturation. Uttar Pradesh state that comparatively limited supply of Covaxin and its shorter span between the doses as a rate inhibiting factor, according to the statement. "In consultation with the states, the minister exhorted each state to increase their target so that the administration of the last six crore doses for reaching the mark of 100 crore is achieved in the next few days," the health ministry stated. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan urged all the state health administrators to be strict with observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour during festivities to prevent a Covid-19 outbreak. He underlined the need to adhere to a detailed standard operating procedure issued through a ministry's letter on September 21. It included no mass-gatherings in containment zones and in districts with over 5 per cent case positivity. Gatherings with advance permissions and limited people to be allowed in districts with a positivity rate of 5 per cent and below. Relaxations and restrictions to be imposed based on weekly case positivity. States should closely monitor case trajectories in all districts daily to identify any early warning signal to ensure the imposition of restrictions and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour accordingly. All rituals like the burning of effigies, Durga Puja pandals, Dandia, Garbas and Chhatt Puja should be symbolic. The number of people allowed to participate in gatherings and processions should be regulated. Places of worship should have separate entry and exit points while the use of common prayer mats, offering of 'prasad', the sprinkling of holy water should be avoided. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-urges-states-to-increase-vaccination-pace-adherence-to-covid-protocols-during-festivities-1039047.html
09-10-2021||National||PM Modi should express grief in Parliament over death of farmers during protests: Rakesh Tikait||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should for once express grief in Parliament over the death of around 750 farmers during the months-long anti-farm law protests on Delhi's borders, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Saturday. He slammed the BJP-led Centre over the minimum support price (MSP) issue, and alleged that the government's assurance that the system would continue is "only on paper" and the farmers want it in reality. Participating in a discussion titled 'Seeds of Wrath: Fears and Facts: How to address the farm crisis' at the India Today Conclave 2021, BJP MP Rajendra Agarwal countered Tikait alleging the protest against the three Central agri laws appeared to be politically motivated. At the conclave, Tikait said, "Farmers are protesting to get an appropriate procurement price for their crops. The government claims the MSP has been there, is there and shall remain in place but the farmers want that in reality and not just on papers." "The protest by farmers has its entered 11th month. The government and the prime minister should for once speak in Parliament about the 750 farmers who have lost their lives during the protest," he said. The PM should express grief at the loss of the lives of farmers, said Tikait, who has been leading hundreds of BKU members and protestors at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border since November 2020. However, Agarwal said Prime Minister Modi always speaks about the farmers and has spoken about them in Parliament. "The protest has entered its 11th month but there has been confusion about it all the time. There could be misunderstandings about the laws, but those have been debated on various platforms. The issue even reached the Supreme Court," the Lok Sabha MP from Meerut said. "I want to know just one point in the laws that they have an objection to. It (the protest) therefore appears to me not motivated by the interest of farmers but political agenda or political ambitions. The protest can be linked to some political parties," Agarwal said. All discussions about the laws have taken place and the Narendra Modi government is sensitive towards the farming community with a proven track record since 2014, he added. To a question that MSP has not been a legal guarantee during previous governments, Tikait replied that is why those parties are not in power now. "In 2011, a financial committee was set up with Narendra Modi, then chief minister of Gujarat, as chairman. It had recommended to the Centre that a law should be enacted guaranteeing MSP," the BKU leader claimed. "Today, Modi is betraying the country over something he had recommended," he alleged. Agarwal, the BJP leader from western UP, referred to Rakesh Tikait's father Mahendra Tikait, to highlight the woes of farmers and claimed the new laws have liberated them from mandis, allowing them to sell their crops anywhere. Tikait, however, insisted if Agarwal could define "anywhere". Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi's borders points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to MSP for crops. The protests are led by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions. The Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogues with the farmers, has maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-should-express-grief-in-parliament-over-death-of-farmers-during-protests-rakesh-tikait-1039051.html
09-10-2021||National||Govt notifies appointment of Chief Justices of eight HCs, transfer of CJs of five other HCs||The President has appointed Chief Justices of eight High Courts, including the Karnataka High Court, and transferred Chief Justices of five other High Courts. Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi of Allahabad High Court would now be Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court. According to a notification issued by the Department of Justice, Justice Rajesh Bindal, acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court would now be Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court. Justice Prakash Srivastava of the Madhya Pradesh High Court would be the Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra of Chhattisgarh HC would head the Andhra Pradesh High Court. Acting Chief Justice of Karnataka HC, Justice Satish Chandra Sharma would be the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court, Justice Ranjit V More of the Meghalaya High Court would be Chief Justice there only. Justice Aravind Kumar of the Karnataka HC would head the Gujarat High Court, and Justice R V Malimath of the Himachal Pradesh would be the Chief Justice of the Madhya Pradesh High Court. The government has acted on a recommendation by the Supreme Court Collegium on September 16 in this regard. Besides appointment of new Chief Justices, the government also notified transfer of Justice Akil A Kureshi, currently Chief Justice of the Tripura High Court, to the Rajasthan High Court and Chief Justice of Rajasthan HC Indrajit Mahanty to the Tripura High Court in his place, Justice Mohammad Rafiq, Chief Justice of the Madhya Pradesh to the Himachal Pradesh, Justice Biswanath Samadder, Chief Justice of Meghalaya to Sikkim High Court, and Justice A K Goswami, Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh HC to Chhattisgarh High Court. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-notifies-appointment-of-chief-justices-of-eight-hcs-transfer-of-cjs-of-five-other-hcs-1039055.html
09-10-2021||National||Court takes cognisance of charge sheet against Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar||A Delhi court on Saturday took cognisance of a charge sheet by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against businessman and Avantha Group of companies promoter Gautam Thapar and 20 others in connection with Rs 500 crore money laundering case. Special judge Sanjeev Aggarwal summoned the accused persons and companies on five dates from October 20 to November 30, noting that the presence of such a large number of accused persons and their counsels on a single date may not be conducive for adhering to the Covid SOPs. "I hereby take cognisance of offence as there are sufficient grounds to proceed against the accused persons arraigned in the present complaint," the judge said. The final report, filed by ED's Special Public Prosecutor N K Matta, alleged that the accused committed criminal breach of trust, cheating, criminal conspiracy and forgery for diversion and misappropriation of the public money from 2017 to 2019 and caused loss to the tune of Rs 466.51 crore to YES Bank. He is currently in judicial custody. The ED was probing an alleged transaction between his company Avantha Realty, Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and his wife, who are already being investigated under the PMLA by the agency. The case of money laundering was filed by the ED after taking cognisance of an FIR lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The FIR lodged by the CBI alleged that Rana Kapoor, then MD and CEO of Yes Bank Limited, obtained illegal gratification in the form of a property in a prime location in Delhi, at much less than the realisable market value, belonging to Avantha Reality Ltd for sanction of a loan to ARL and for extending concessions, relaxations and waivers in the already existing credit facilities provided to Avantha Group companies and for advancing new and additional loans to them. The CBI had last year booked Kapoor and his wife Bindu for allegedly obtaining a bribe of Rs 307 crore through the purchase of a bungalow in a posh Delhi area from a realty firm at half the market price and facilitating around Rs 1,900 crore bank loans to it in return. The CBI suspected that the discounted transaction for the 1.2 acre-bungalow on Amrita Shergill Marg in Delhi was a gratification to Kapoor through the company Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd in return for non-realisation of over Rs 1,900 crore in loans from Yes Bank to Avantha Realty and group companies. In June, 2021 the CBI had booked Thapar and others in a fresh case of fraud of Rs 2,435 crore in the State Bank of India (SBI) and other banks to probe an alleged fraud case at the CG Power and Industrial Solutions. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-takes-cognisance-of-charge-sheet-against-avantha-group-promoter-gautam-thapar-1039075.html
09-10-2021||National||TMC to contest municipal polls in Tripura||Making it clear that it wants to take the BJP head-on in its home ground in Tripura, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has decided to contest the upcoming municipal elections in the state. TMC sources said that the party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee will visit Tripura in November and the party’s electoral strategy will be finalised under his supervision.  The municipal polls in Tripura are likely to be held by the end of the year. The TMC had already set up a steering committee for the civic polls in Tripura last Wednesday. According to TMC sources, a virtual meeting of the 19-member steering committee was held on Friday wherein Banerjee distributed the responsibility of eight districts among three state leaders. “Ashish Lal Singh has been given the responsibility of the districts of Khowai, Dholai, Unakoti and North Tripura. Sushmita Deb has been given the responsibility of the districts of Sepahijala and North Tripura. Subal Bhawmik has been given the task of campaigning in Gomati and South Tripura districts,” TMC sources said. They further revealed that the three leaders have been asked to organise workers’ meetings and door-to-door campaigning from October 21 to November 3. The TMC set up its Tripura State Committee on Wednesday and made Bhawmik its convener. It has also set up its Yurth Wing state Committee for Tripura. The development comes at a time when the TMC is aiming to oust the BJP from power in the state in the 2023 Assembly elections. Senior TMC leaders have been frequently visiting the state and even West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been raising her pitch against the BJP government in Tripura. Ever since coming to power in Bengal for the third time with a huge mandate, Mamata has made her national ambitions clear and is devoting a significant amount of time in expanding TMC’s organisation in Tripura, Assam and Goa. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-to-contest-municipal-polls-in-tripura-1039076.html
09-10-2021||National||PM Modi lauds health workers involved in Covid vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday lauded health workers involved in taking Covid-19 vaccination to remotest corners of the country. He was responding to a tweet by Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya who had posted a video of health workers carrying the vaccines and navigating a tough terrain, and said their contribution in keeping the country safe will be remembered forever. Modi said, "This is just one example of the monumental effort put in by every stakeholder to ensure our fellow citizens get vaccinated. Kudos to each and every person who is making India's vaccination drive a success." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lauds-health-workers-involved-in-covid-vaccination-1039077.html
09-10-2021||National||Air India acquisition by Tatas good for state-run carrier's future: Praful Patel||Former civil aviation minister Praful Patel on Saturday welcomed the acquisition of Air India by the Tata group terming it a "good step" for the future of the state-run carrier. Tata Sons will retake Air India - the airline it founded nearly 90 years back - as the government accepted its winning bid of Rs 18,000 crore to acquire 100 per cent of the debt-laden state-run carrier. Speaking to reporters at the Nagpur airport, Patel supported the privatisation of Air India and said, "Tata group taking over Air India is a good step for the future of Air India," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-acquisition-by-tatas-good-for-state-run-carriers-future-praful-patel-1039078.html
09-10-2021||National||India stares at power crisis: What led to this||An energy crisis is looming in some states, including Delhi and Punjab, due to a combination of factors such as excess rainfall hitting coal movement and imported coal-based power plants generating less than half of their capacity due to record-high rates. In a year when the country produced record coal, rains hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting power generation in many states, including Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Another factor that has contributed to the present crisis is power plants that used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices has made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate. Tata Power, which has signed contracts to supply 1,850 MW of electricity to Gujarat, 475 MW to Punjab, 380 MW to Rajasthan, 760 MW to Maharashtra and 380 MW to Haryana from its imported coal-based power plant at Mundra in Gujarat, has stopped generation. Adani Power's Mundra unit too is facing a similar problem. Power plants across the country regulated generation after stock ran low. Against the requirement of maintaining 15 days to 30 days of stocks, over half of the country's 135 coal-fired power plants, which in total supply around 70 per cent of the nation's electricity, have fuel stocks of less than two days, as per the data from the grid operator. The Coal Ministry, however, said the stocks being reported by power plants are rolling stock, which means stocks are being replenished on a day by day basis. "There are about 40 million tonnes of coal stock at the mines and another 7.5 million tonnes at power plants," a top ministry official said. "Evacuation from mines to power plants has been an issue as due to excessive rains mines get flooded. But this is now being sorted out and supplies to power plants are rising." Tata Power Distribution Ltd (TPDDL), which supplies electricity to parts of the national capital, on Saturday warned of intermittent rotational power cuts as units supplying electricity to Delhi discoms have coal stocks to meet generation requirements for 1-2 days, its CEO Ganesh Srinivasan said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over "a power crisis" Delhi could face. "I am personally keeping a close watch over the situation. We are trying our best to avoid it," Kejriwal said. "We have stopped generation at Mundra as the high cost of imported coal is making it impossible to supply under present PPA terms," a Tata power spokesperson said. Adani Power did not immediately offer any comments on the issue. Electricity supplies in Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh to have been impacted due to the coal crisis. Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) too cited the same reason for imposing rotational 3-4 hour load shedding at several places in the state. PSPCL said two units each at Talwandi Sabo power plant, Ropar plant and one unit at the Lehra Mohabbat, 475 MW plant have been shut. Rajasthan is resorting to one-hour power cuts on a daily basis. The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) said that power will be suspended in parts of Chennai for carrying out maintenance work in the city. Jharkhand and Bihar are also among the worst affected by the coal shortage. In Andhra Pradesh, acute supply shortfalls were pushing it towards unscheduled power cuts, adding that crops could dry up if there is no electricity to power irrigation pumps. "More water is required in the last stage of harvesting and if it is denied, fields would dry up and farmers stand to lose," Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said in a letter to the Prime Minister. In Odisha, the industry was facing a coal shortage and had petitioned the state government to ensure an adequate supply of the fuel. The crisis facing states has been in the making for months. As India's economy picked up after a deadly second wave of Covid-19, demand for power rose sharply. Electricity consumption has jumped almost 17 per cent in the last two months alone when compared to the same period in 2019. At the same time, global coal prices increased by 40 per cent and India's imports fell to a two-year low. The country is the world's second-largest importer of coal despite also being home to the fourth-largest coal reserves in the world. Power plants that usually rely on imports are now heavily dependent on Indian coal, adding further pressure to already stretched domestic supplies. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-stares-at-power-crisis-what-led-to-this-1039079.html
09-10-2021||National||Mundra Port drugs seizure: NIA conducts searches at multiple locations||The NIA on Saturday conducted searches at various locations in different states in connection with the seizure of 2,988 kg of heroin at Gujarat's Mundra Port, an official said. The National Investigation Agency has registered the case under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The case relates to the seizure of 2,988.21 kg of narcotic substance (heroin) at Mundra port, Gujarat and the involvement of foreign nationals in the procurement and delivery of the consignment, the NIA official said. The narcotic drugs were found concealed in an import consignment of 'semi-processed talc stones' that had originated from Afghanistan and arrived from Bandar Abbas Port, Iran, the official said. Searches were conducted in Chennai, Coimbatore and Vijayawada at the premises of the accused involved in the import of semi-processed talc stones with contraband, the NIA official said. During the searches, various incriminating documents, articles and other items were seized, the official said, adding that further investigation in the case continues. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mundra-port-drugs-seizure-nia-conducts-searches-at-multiple-locations-1039082.html
09-10-2021||National||Rise in international price drove coal crisis; situation to be okay in 3-4 days: Joshi||Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday said an increase in the international price of coal has led to its shortage and reduced power generation but assured that the situation will be "alright" in the next three to four days. Heavy rainfall in the country this year has also contributed to coal shortage, he told reporters on the sidelines of a book launch. "However, if you compare with the past many years, coal production and dispatch have been the highest in September and especially in October. In another three to four days, things will be alright," Joshi said. "The international price of imported coal has increased like anything all of a sudden. Power plants that used imported coals stopped electricity generation. Because they have stopped production, the entire load is on domestic coal," he said. The minister said he will come out with "full details" of coal availability in the next one to two days. Earlier in the day, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to intervene and ensure adequate supply of coal to thermal power plants providing electricity to Delhi. Delhi could face a power crisis due to a shortage of coal at the plants, he said. Joshi told reporters that he was aware of Kejriwal's letter to the PM and added that he will seek details on the issue from the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). Delhi Power Minister Satyendar Jain said the national capital purchased most of its power from NTPC and if it stopped supply, the city may face a blackout in the coming days. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rise-in-international-price-drove-coal-crisis-situation-to-be-okay-in-3-4-days-joshi-1039084.html
09-10-2021||National||94.62 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 94.62 crore on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. More than 60 lakh (60,66,412) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm on Saturday, it said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of final reports for the day by late night, it said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from the novel coronavirus infection continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9462-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-1039085.html
09-10-2021||National||India must deal with any problems that arise due to Afghanistan: Shringla||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Saturday said India has to be prepared to deal with any contingency that may arise out of a more volatile Afghanistan and that the situation in the neighbouring country could exacerbate due to the humanitarian crisis and a lack of governance. In an interactive session at the India Today Conclave, he also said that India, like many other countries, is willing to provide humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan. "As far as humanitarian assistance is concerned, we, like many other members of the international community, have said that we separate what is in the welfare of the people of Afghanistan from the actions of the present dispensation in power," the foreign secretary said. Explaining New Delhi's security concerns following the developments in Afghanistan, he said India would like to do everything possible to ensure that the situation in the neighbouring country does not impact it adversely. "We are already seeing some impact of some of this situation. Whether there is a direct linkage or not, we are not sure," Shringla said without elaborating. "But there are concerns out there and we have to be able to use our instruments of diplomacy or every instrument available to us to ensure that we are insulated from the impact of such outcomes that could be detrimental to our interests," he added. The foreign secretary said that India has to be prepared to deal with contingencies that may arise out of a more volatile Afghanistan and the situation could exacerbate due to the humanitarian crisis and a lack of governance. He said that India would also have to guard against those forces that may want to use the situation to the detriment of others. Shringla also mentioned the visit to Kabul by a top ISI official ahead of the government formation in Afghanistan. "We have seen the formation of a government that is far from inclusive and representative. We have seen the DG (director-general) of the ISI go there (Kabul) and facilitate a government that has 35 members of the cabinet who are designated individuals in the UN Security Council list," he said. "So that's not a great start. We have to carefully see how the situation develops. The international community has significant leverages," the foreign secretary added. To a question on India's engagement with the Taliban, Shringla referred to Indian envoy to Qatar Deepak Mittal's meeting with Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai in Doha in late August. "We have got some reassurances and some sense of how they (the Taliban) would like to see our involvement. I think they were quite positive in terms of our continued engagement on the development front and in retaining our diplomatic presence but what is important also is that we need to watch carefully how the situation on the ground unfolds," he said. Asked about the possibility of improvement in India's ties with Pakistan, Shringla said unless the basic core issue of terrorism emanating from the neighbouring country is dealt with, "I think we will not see much forward movement in the relationship." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-must-deal-with-any-problems-that-arise-due-to-afghanistan-shringla-1039089.html
09-10-2021||National||Centre to facilitate gas supply to run two power plants in Delhi amid coal shortage||The Centre will facilitate gas supplies to enable two power plants in Delhi to operate, the power ministry said on Saturday, after CM Kejriwal warned of blackouts in the country's capital due to a coal shortage. State-run NTPC Ltd, India's largest electricity producer, has also been directed to increase coal stocks to two coal-fired plants near Delhi to ensure sufficient supply, the top bureaucrat in the power ministry said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-facilitate-gas-supply-to-run-two-power-plants-in-delhi-amid-coal-shortage-1039106.html
09-10-2021||National||India, US discuss expanding defence cooperation||India and the United States discussed the possibility of expanding bilateral defence cooperation further to new domains, including space, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence and counter drone technology. Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and the United States Under Secretary of Defence for Policy, Colin Kahl, co-chaired the 16th meeting of the India-US Defence Policy Group (DPG) in Washington. They exchanged views on regional issues of shared interest, including in South Asia and the Indian Ocean Region. They also discussed opportunities for enhanced cooperation with like-minded partners to sustain a free and open Indo-Pacific, according to a spokesperson of the US Department of Defence. The Defence Policy Group is the apex official-level mechanism between the Ministry of Defence of India and the US Department of Defence to comprehensively review and guide all aspects of bilateral defence cooperation. Kumar and Kahl agreed to encourage both the private and government stakeholders to utilise the existing innovation ecosystems in defence industries for co-development and co-production. They welcomed the cooperation in new domains, such as space, Artificial Intelligence, cyber and counter Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (drone) technologies. They also reviewed the preparation for the next India-US 2+2 dialogue, which External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will hold with their counterparts US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin in Washington later this year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-discuss-expanding-defence-cooperation-1039109.html
09-10-2021||National||Government 'diluting' environmental laws: Disha Ravi||Climate activist Disha Ravi on Saturday claimed the government was "diluting" environmental laws by proposing amendments to the Forest Conservation Act and that this "trend" started with the changes made to Environment Impact Assessment rules last year. The 23-year-old activist, who was arrested in February in connection with a 'toolkit' on farmer protests, also said indigenous people, tribals and environmental defenders are hurt every single day for the very work that will protect everyone. "People often say the open forest cover is increasing. However, if you look at that data closely, you'll see that the definition of 'open forest cover' is so vague that it can even include 30-40 trees planted close together in a park. This vagueness in definition allows data to be manipulated," Ravi said during a discussion at India Today Conclave. "With the reforms proposed in the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980, the government is diluting India's environmental laws. A lot of projects won't need the approvals they needed earlier. This trend was started with the changes made to the Environment Impact Assessment rules last year," she said. On October 2, the Centre sent all states a copy of the proposed amendments to FCA, seeking their objections and suggestions within 15 days. According to the proposal, land acquired by the railways and the road ministries before 1980, but on which forests came up, will no longer be considered forests. The Centre also proposes to do away with the requirement of prior government approval for the development of border infrastructure on forest land, saying it causes delays in the implementation of critical projects. Ravi said the fact that indigenous people, Adivasis and environmental defenders are "hurt every single day for doing the very work which will protect all of us makes me concerned". "One example is Hidme Markram, an Adivasi woman who was arrested on Women's Day this year for protesting against coal mines which we all know is bad for us for several reasons," she said. According to reports, Chhattisgarh police had arrested Markram, 30, from Dantewada district on charges of being a member of the banned outfit CPI (Maoist). Ravi said she got involved in environmental protection because her grandparents, who were farmers, had to suffer through a water crisis. "My mother would actually carry water before going to school," she said.   "Environment activism is about humans because we are all part of it. It's the Earth defending itself," the activist said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-diluting-environmental-laws-disha-ravi-1039111.html
09-10-2021||National||'India shouldn't lift Covid-19 lockdown yet'||The percentage of India's population vaccinated against Covid-19 is very low, renowned virologist Dr W. Ian Lipkin said on Saturday and opined the country does not yet have the sort of safety armour needed to start reopening. Addressing India Today Conclave 2021, he said that India has the largest vaccine manufacturer in the world which the country should be proud of. "Serum Institute of India is poised to lead here. I think this is something that India should be proud of and should acknowledge and promote," he said. About the reopening procedure, Lipkin said that the percentage of India's population that is vaccinated is very small. "Less than 20 per cent of your population that's vaccinated. Then 30 per cent of your population under the age of 18 are not yet eligible for vaccination. So this means that you don't have the sort of armour that you need to safely reopen in that way," he said. Warning about the long-term effect of Covid-19, the virologist said that people usually don't talk about it "which I think is going to be extraordinary in terms of its impact," he added. "These are not people who necessarily have acute disease, they may have an only mild form of it, but they remain permanently or at least for a long period, crippled with cognitive dysfunction, shortness of breath, fatigue. This can represent as many as 30 per cent of people who become infected," Lipkin said. "These individuals, even if the virus were to magically disappear, might continue to be infected and have a huge impact on their lives for decades to come," he said. Lipkin said there were many lessons from the Spanish flu of 1918 which have not been carried forward. "I hope we will revise our approach in the future. But I'm not even confident that this is the worst of potential pandemics. We need to make sure that whatever we've learned here carries forward into the next months and years," he said. He warned there are several more variants of SARS-CoV-2 which are circulating. "There are variants, already circulating, don't have names. Will they be more capable of transmission? We don't know. Delta variant seems to be extraordinarily well adapted to spread in humans," Lipkin said. He said that the world needs to start thinking not only about vaccines to prevent severe disease, but also that can prevent transmission. "We need to improve our public health infrastructure, be able to track and trace individuals who have been exposed so that we can adopt a ring vaccination strategy, which was so successful in India in eradicating smallpox. "Masking, even if these masks are not what I would consider state-of-the-art can also be useful. But people need to change the way they think about themselves and others and be less selfish," Lipkin added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-shouldnt-lift-covid-19-lockdown-yet-1039112.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Congress, TMC lock horns in Twitter war||The relationship between the Congress and the TMC Friday touched a new low with Mamata Banerjee's party taking a dig at Rahul Gandhi's defeat in Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, wondering whether the Congress can erase the loss through a Twitter trend. The Twitter war between the two parties wanting to lead an opposition front against the BJP started Friday morning after poll strategist Prashant Kishor, in a message for the Congress, said those looking for a quick revival of the grand old party-led coalition following the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are in for a big disappointment. "People looking for a quick, spontaneous revival of GOP led opposition based on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are setting themselves up for a big disappointment," Kishor said on his Twitter handle. "Unfortunately there are no quick-fix solutions to the deep-rooted problems and structural weakness of GOP," he said. Unfortunately there are no quick fix solutions to the deep-rooted problems and structural weakness of GOP. Kishor had worked for the TMC in the March-April assembly polls and shares a very good relationship with the party's top brass. Senior Congress leader and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel was quick to hit back, saying to become a national alternative deep-rooted and concerted efforts are needed. "People looking for a “national” alternative based on poaching INC functionaries who can’t win even their seats is in for a big disappointment. Unfortunately, to become a national alternative deep-rooted and concerted efforts are needed and there are no quick-fix solutions," he tweeted. People looking for a “national” alternative based on poaching INC functionaries who can’t win even their own seats is in for a big disappointment. Unfortunately, to become a national alternative deep-rooted and concerted efforts are needed and there are no quick- fix solutions. Baghel was apparently referring to the recent induction of former Congress MP and its women's wing chief Susmita Dev and former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro into the TMC. The Trinamool Congress, which has been criticising the Congress over its alleged failure to put up a fight against the BJP, called Baghel's remarks a "shoddy attempt to please the high command". "Rich words coming from a first-time CM. Punching above your weight doesn’t bring honour to you, Mr.@bhupeshbaghel.What a shoddy attempt to please the high command! By the way, is @INCIndiagoing to try to erase the historical defeat at Amethi through yet another Twitter Trend?" the TMC shot back on the microblogging website. West Bengal's ruling party was ostensibly alluding to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's defeat in Amethi in the Lok Sabha polls. The ties between the Congress and the TMC got strained recently after the latter's mouthpiece, 'Jago Bangla' asserted party supremo Mamata Banerjee and not Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-tmc-lock-horns-in-twitter-war-1038856.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Assembly Elections 2022: Survey predicts BJP to win in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Manipur||ABP C-Voter’s latest survey predicts that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is likely to retain power in Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, and Uttarakhand in the assembly elections scheduled to be held early next year.  The survey suggests that all the opposition parties including Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Congress do not have voter's confidence to displace the Adityanath government in 2022. According to the survey data, the ruling BJP is expected to grab 41.3 per cent of vote share in the upcoming assembly polls in the state. In 2017 Assembly elections, BJP had garnered 41.4 per cent of the votes polled in the state. Former CM Akhilesh Yadav-led SP is likely to witness a jump of 8.8 per cent from 23.6 per cent in 2017 to 32.4 per cent in 2022. The survey claims that Mayawati-led BSP's vote share is likely to witness a decline by 7.5 per cent from 22.2 per cent in 2017 to 14.7 per cent in 2022.  The survey also claims that the BJP can get 21 to 25 seats in Manipur. While Congress may get 18 to 22 seats, the regional Naga People's Front (NPF) 4 to 8 and others 1 to 5 seats. However, at least 31 seats will be required to form the government in the North Eastern state. The BJP can get 36 per cent of the vote share in Manipur elections, while Congress can get 34 per cent, NPF 9 per cent and others 21 per cent, the report added.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assembly-elections-2022-survey-predicts-bjp-to-win-in-uttar-pradesh-uttarakhand-and-manipur-1038923.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||'Congress is dying': Navjot Singh Sidhu's remark sparks fresh row||Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was instrumental in the ouster of former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, has once again become a reason of embarrassment for Congress as a purported video of him criticising the party has gone viral on social media. Sidhu on Thursday led a march to Lakhimpur in protest against the killing of farmers. A large number of party leaders including ministers, legislators and workers assembled first at Mohali and then headed towards Lakhimpur Kheri in their vehicles. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi also joined Sidhu for a brief period when the march was about to start. According to reports, when Punjab Congress working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny told Sidhu the protest would be successful, the latter replied, "Where is the success? If Bhagwant Sidhu's son (a reference to his father) was allowed to lead, then you would have seen... Congress is in a dying stage..." Sidhu had resigned from the post of Punjab Congress chief on September 28 but it wasn't immediately clear if the resignation was withdrawn. Alleging that the former cricketer harboured the ambition of becoming a chief minister, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday said that he was jealous that a member of the Scheduled Caste community had become the Punjab Chief Minister. SAD vice president Daljit Singh Cheema alleged, "Sidhu had also shown how much respect he has for the SC community and CM Charanjit Singh Channi by refusing to wait for even two minutes for the latter to arrive on the occasion of the start of the party's protest on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident issue." Cheema was referring to the video which was purportedly shot while Sidhu, who was accompanied by Punjab Ministers Vijay Inder Singla, Pargat Singh and other leaders, were waiting for Chief Minister Channi to arrive. The SAD leader quoted the contents of the purported video in which Sidhu is heard making some comments. The authenticity of the video could not be verified and there was no comment from Sidhu on it so far. The SAD leader said, "It is clear from Sidhu's utterances that he has no love lost for farmers and their cause and that he was only indulging in a game of one-upmanship to secure the top post in the state". "Such persons who keep their own ambition above the welfare of the people cannot give any direction to the state. They stand thoroughly exposed," Cheema said. Check out latest videos from DH:  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-is-dying-navjot-singh-sidhus-remark-sparks-fresh-row-1038926.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee trying to turn Congress to Congress (M): Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is trying to turn Congress to Congress (M) by inducing and alluring Congress leaders ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleged on Saturday. "She is driving a wedge in the opposition coalition. I would like to remind you that it was late Rajiv Gandhi who promoted her in the Congress hierarchy. Later, she got ministerial berths in Congress-led UPA," the state president of the Congress said. Accusing the Chief Minister of stabbing Congress in its back because of her political ambition, Chowdhury said, "Congress is a soft target because she still enjoys proximity with some Congress leaders." The Congress leader, who has openly criticised the TMC supremo, accused the BJP of playing favourites by allowing TMC leaders to visit the Lakhimpur Kheri victims' families. "For the BJP, the carrot is for TMC, the stick for Congress," he said. "Mamata Banerjee was BJP’s blue-eyed in the first NDA government where she got Railways portfolio. She had an alliance with BJP and it got two MPs from Bengal. The party was alien to people here. She must ask for pardon from the people of Bengal for invoking BJP in the state," he added. On the crisis in the party's Punjab unit, Chowdhury said that Amarinder Singh's popularity eroded over the past five years. "Singh said Sidhu is sentimental. I think he is as sentimental as Sidhu. 78 MLAs opposed him... there was no personal animosity. Sidhu is also a popular leader," the Congress leader told the publication. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-trying-to-turn-congress-to-congress-m-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-1038935.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Assam CM Himanta takes dig at Priyanka, says sweeping floor is daily chore in every Indian family||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday took a dig at Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for sweeping the floor when she was detained recently in Uttar Pradesh, asking how this could be news as cleaning a room is part of anyone's daily household chores. Participating in the India Today Conclave 2021 here, Sarma said India has changed and people will not pay attention to such "stage-managed" acts of politicians. "I don't know how come a lady sweeping the floor could be news. This is a common household practice in every family of India. I have seen my mother sweeping the floor. Have you not seen your mother sweeping the floor?" he asked. The chief minister said the act of Priyanka Gandhi, during her detention in Uttar Pradesh, was "staged-managed" otherwise how come a photographer was present there to shoot the video. Priyanka Gandhi was detained at Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh early on Monday when she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of farmers who were killed after a convoy of vehicles ran over them on Sunday. Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, was allegedly in that convoy and police have registered a murder case against him for the incident. During the detention at a police guesthouse in Sitapur, Priyanka Gandhi was seen in a video sweeping the floor. On Friday, the Congress leader made a surprise visit to a Dalit hamlet in Lucknow and picked up a broom to clean it. Replying to a question on the Assam government's move to evict encroachers from government land, the chief minister said eviction process, be it against indigenous people or migrant Muslims, will continue according to the state government's land policy. "We cannot allow 1,000 families to grab 77,000 acres of land. Eviction is an ongoing process," he said. Deaths of two people and desecration of one of the bodies during an eviction drive in Assam's Darrang district recently were condemned by individuals, political parties and social groups. Sarma said that many people in Assam, since pre-Independence days, believe that migrant Muslims are the root cause of many problems like the encroachment of land and losing the culture and identity by the indigenous people. He said efforts should be made by migrant Muslims to remove such beliefs of the indigenous people. Asked about his controversial comments that he does not want the votes of migrant Muslims, the chief minister said he knows that the community does not vote for the BJP and that is why he does not want to spend time wooing them. "I have made a deal. They will not vote for us. So, I will not campaign in their areas. But I will carry out all development works in their areas," he said. Sarma also gave an example saying out of the seven lakh free houses to be constructed in Assam, 4.5 lakh will be of migrant Muslims. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assam-cm-himanta-takes-dig-at-priyanka-says-sweeping-floor-is-daily-chore-in-every-indian-family-1038946.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Congress in dilemma as regional parties train guns||Buffeted by two conflicting targets — forging Opposition unity to take on the ruling BJP and save its own ship — Congress is increasingly finding itself as a target of regional parties, some of whom are keen to take the lead Opposition role ahead of 2024 general elections. Two of Congress's prominent leaders Sushmita Dev and Luizinho Falerio, one each from the youth brigade and the team of veterans, joined Trinamool Congress in the past month, further depleting its strength in North East and Goa. The party's efforts to now induct fresh blood from outside, like Kanhaiya Kumar, has prompted another ally Rashtriya Janata Dal to call Congress "a sinking ship". TMC, which has poached a number of Congress leaders including a former MLA this month, has recently been repeatedly taking digs at Rahul Gandhi, with the latest being a reminder of Gandhi's defeat in Amethi in 2019 polls. TMC has assiduously been projecting Mamata Banerjee as an alternative to Narendra Modi-led BJP in 2024 and its leaders have refused to attend many meetings of Opposition parties held by Rahul Gandhi and questioned his leadership umpteen times.   Congress, which had lost its Opposition space first to TMC in West Bengal and then in Tripura, has alternated for a tie up with Banerjee's party and Left Front in the last two decades. West Bengal unit is divided on the issue. Rahul Gandhi inducted Kanhaiya, former JNUSU President and CPI's runner-up candidate from Begusarai (Bihar) in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls last month into Congress. The induction irked its lead ally in Bihar Lalu Prasad's RJD, which had declined to back Kanhaiya's candidature as a joint Opposition candidate in the last Lok Sabha polls. Political pundits had seen this then as an attempt by Tejashwi Yadav, who leads the Opposition in Bihar, to block the emergence of another popular youth leader. Congress, which was blamed for putting spokes in the Opposition's performance in the 2020 Assembly polls with its poor tally, has long-term interests in inducting Kanhaiya as it seeks to rebuild the party in a state where it is out of power on its own since March 1990. Congress had fought 70 assembly seats then but had won less than 20 seats, which led the RJD to accuse it of 'arm-twisting' and "spoiling" victory chances of the Mahagathbandhan. The party's dalliance with RJD and JDU in the last 30 years has not helped it grow and became a marginal force, many believe, advocating a go-alone policy. "This classical dilemma of Congress about going it alone or tying up with like-minded parties is an enigma that the party finds difficult to unravel. It's chicken and egg question for Congress, which is organisationally on a deathbed in states like Bihar and needs an immediate shot of power to stay on and hence, an alliance is required. But dependence on socialist allies has also taken away its space and somebody it has to go for a total shake-up and prepare for a long haul to reclaim its glory," says political analyst Rasheed Kidwai. Soon after the induction of Kanhaiya Kumar, RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari dismissed its importance likening him to "another Navjot Singh Sidhu" and calling Congress a "sinking ship" that has "no future". After the sharp reaction, RJD also unilaterally announced its candidates for two seats in the upcoming Assembly by-polls. Congress was quick to follow it up by announcing its own candidates for both the seats. Congress, which has been explaining that RJD was kept in the loop over Kanhaiya Kumar's induction in the party, has also maintained that Kanhaiya will be addressing at least 10 rallies during the by-polls. BJP in all glee is playing up the difference between the two allies and maintaining that RJD is jittery over attempts by the Congress to come out of its shadow. However, both allies know the need to stick together for big polls, hence, the meeting of Rahul Gandhi on Friday with RJD chief Lalu Prasad. A photo on social media showed the RJD chief clasping the hand of Rahul, engaged in an animated chat with the other hand raised towards him.  Lalu Prasad had shared excellent relations with Sonia and was among the first to have strongly defended her during the controversy raised by the BJP about her foreign origin. Apparently, the message was the larger Opposition unity remains unbreached even as the two allies contest Assembly bypolls in the state independently this time. Rahul Gandhi also visited former Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan's son Chirag Paswan on his father's death anniversary the same day, a development that came amid growing distance between Chirag and BJP after the Modi government inducted Chirag's rebel uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as Union Minister. In the past, it was a personal visit of Sonia Gandhi to Ram Vilas Paswan (she had walked to her neighbour Paswan's residence then) that had got LJP into the UPA fold in 2004. But then, much water has flown down the Ganges since then and Congress already in a crisis of sorts, both electorally and internally, needs to do much more than the play of symbolism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-in-dilemma-as-regional-parties-train-guns-1038965.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Congress will fight 2022 Gujarat Assembly polls with strength: Raghu Sharma||Newly appointed Congress in-charge for Gujarat Raghu Sharma on Saturday said he would work to make sure that his party fights the upcoming Assembly elections in the state with strength and comes out victorious. He said despite having been a common party worker, the Congress party trusted him with the responsibility and it would be his resolve that a change comes in Gujarat. "Strategy would be that the party stands strongly, fights election strongly...with agitational and training programmes, the party forms the government in coming times," Sharma told reporters during a presser. Sharma holds medical and health department portfolio in Rajasthan government and his appointment as incharge ahead of the Assembly elections in Gujarat in 2022 is seen as a hint towards a possible reshuffle in Rajasthan government cabinet. He will be on a three-day tour to Gujarat to meet party leaders and workers. Sharma said: "I am not a son of any big political leader and don't have a background of any political family. I am a common grassroots party worker. Party has trusted me and given the responsibility so I am also going with a resolve that a change is seen in Gujarat." Sharma said his priority is Congress party and its organisation. Replying to a question on how Congress would tackle sitting BJP government in Gujarat, he said that there has been no development, governance and performance in the state. "If there would have been governance or development, what was the need to change Chief Minister, Deputy CM. If the BJP has accepted that it has proved useless and has not performed then they should apologise to the people of the state," Sharma said. He said the BJP should give reasons as to why the CM was changed and the state cabinet reshuffled. The BJP has formed the government by unconstitutional means in Gujarat in 2017 with the support of 18 Congress MLAs, he said. "Now, the MLAs who were given portfolio in BJP government in Gujarat too have been ousted," he said. Asked about speaking with Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, who was earlier the in-charge of Gujarat Congress, he said he is yet to do that. "He is a senior party senior leader and will seek his advice whenever needed," Sharma said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-will-fight-2022-gujarat-assembly-polls-with-strength-raghu-sharma-1038966.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Congress Working Committee meeting to be held on October 16||Top Congress leadership will gather here on October 16, deliberate on the current political situation and decide on the organisational elections at a meeting of the party's Working Committee. The meeting has been convened after demands from some quarters within the party to discuss important issues, including some defections in the recent past. Former leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad had also written to the Congress president to convene a meeting of the CWC soon. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal tweeted, "A meeting of the Congress Working Committee will be held on Saturday, the 16th October, 2021 at 10 am at AICC Office, 24, Akbar Road, New Delhi to discuss current political situation, forthcoming assembly elections and organisational elections."  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-working-committee-meeting-to-be-held-on-october-16-1038973.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||EC should ban pre-poll surveys by media outlets 6 months before elections: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Saturday said she will write to the Election Commission demanding surveys by media organisations and other agencies be banned six months before any elections, so that the polls in the particular state are not influenced by it. Addressing the 15th death anniversary of BSP founder Kanshi Ram here at the Kanshiram Smarak Sthal, Mayawati demanded that Bharat Ratna be given to the late Dalit leader and added that people in Uttar Pradesh have made up their mind on changing power in the state. "Soon, a letter will be written to the Election Commission that surveys in the garb of business, by media organisations and other agencies be banned six months before the elections, so that the polls in the particular state are not influenced," she said. "You know that when the Assembly elections in West Bengal were going on, surveys were showing that Mamata Banerjee was trailing, but when the results came, it was the opposite. Those who were dreaming of (gaining) power, their dreams were shattered, and Mamata (Banerjee) staged a comeback with a huge majority. Hence, you should not be misled by these surveys," the BSP chief told the public. Mayawati's remarks came a day after a news channel in a survey showed that the BJP is poised to win the most number of seats in UP in the upcoming 2022 Assembly polls, and retain power. She also said the BJP-led Centre and UP governments are using the state machinery to make the atmosphere in their favour. "It is also known to everyone that when these tactics do not work, then that party (BJP) will eventually give the election a Hindu-Muslim colour, and try to take full political advantage in its garb. Elections have to be fought keeping this in mind," she said. Without naming any party, Mayawati also said, "There are small parties and organisations, which may contest the elections alone or jointly. Their job is not to win the polls, but to give advantage to the ruling party from behind the scene, to realise their own vested interest. Hence, people of these castes and communities should not come under the influence of these parties and organisations." Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar had claimed last month that Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad will soon be a part of the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha and a formal announcement in this regard will be made at a rally on October 27. The morcha is a front of like-minded political parties led by Rajbhar, a former BJP ally. The AIMIM had recently announced that it would contest 100 seats in the state assembly polls next year by tying up with Rajbhar-led SBSP and its Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha. Rajbhar, who was a cabinet minister in the Yogi Adityanath government, had resigned before the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. He had later launched the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha as a political front of smaller parties. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-should-ban-pre-poll-surveys-by-media-outlets-6-months-before-elections-mayawati-1038982.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Congress Working Committee to meet on Oct 16; troubles in party, Assembly polls on agenda||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) will meet in the national capital next Saturday to discuss the turmoil in the party units, especially in Punjab and Chhattisgarh, upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and other states and the vexed issue of election of a full-time president to replace interim president Sonia Gandhi. The meeting is expected to be stormy, as the party is saddled with crisis after crisis with leaders deserting Congress, rebellion in state units and inability to stage successful protests against the BJP-ruled Centre and states. "A meeting of the @INCIndia Working Committee will be held on Saturday, the 16th October, 2021 at 10.00 a.m. at AICC Office, 24, Akbar Road, New Delhi to discuss current political situation, forthcoming assembly elections and organisational elections," Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal tweeted. On the main agenda would be the organisational election as well as election of a full-time president, which has been deferred owing to the second wave of pandemic earlier this year. Earlier this month, senior Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal, who is among the change-seekers known as G-23, targeted the party leadership over the issue saying nobody knows who takes decisions in the party when it has no full-time president, a veiled attack on Rahul Gandhi. The meeting also comes after senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, also a prominent G-23 member, wrote to Sonia seeking an immediate meeting of the CWC to discuss the crisis in the party after Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned as Punjab Congress chief. A number of G-23 leaders are unhappy with the leadership in the manner in which Amarinder Singh was ousted as Punjab Chief Minister following a campaign by Sidhu, which has the support of Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. Developments in Punjab following the ouster of Singh and resignation of Sidhu in protest against certain decisions of Singh's successor Charanjit Singh Channi. Though a compromise has been reached between Sidhu and Channi but there is still no clarity on the resignation letter by Sidhu. Another concern will be Chhattisgarh where a section led by T S Singh Deo has been raising the demand for removing Bhupesh Baghel as per a perceived formula of sharing Chief Ministership. Baghel has also been appointed as senior party observer for UP Assembly polls. Sibal's press conference in which he attacked the central leadership saying that G-23 is not a group of "yes men" and subsequent protest at his residence by Congress workers may also come up. The G-23 leaders had been raising the issue of leadership change since August 2020. Though June this year was set as a deadline for completing the process for electing a  full-time process, the Covid-19 second wave led to postponement in plans. Though the issue of organisational elections will come up, sources said, a section in the party feel that only one year is left for the new party president and the party could wait. Rahul Gandhi was elected president in 2017 and had resigned after the Lok Sabha poll debacle following which Sonia was chosen as interim president. The tenure of Congress party president is five years and if a leader is chosen now, the argument is that he or she will have only a year and in such a scenario, one could wait till then. However, the other side argues there should be clarity and direction in the party's action and a definite decision on leadership should be taken. Sources said they argue that parties like Trinamool Congress are aggressively poaching from the Congress and even attacking the leadership. On Friday, Trinamool attacked Rahul for his defeat in Amethi and has been saying that Congress has not been active in Opposition space. Trinamool's response came to a tweet by Baghel directed at election consultant Prashant Kishor. "People looking for a “national” alternative based on poaching INC functionaries who can’t win even their own seats are in for a big disappointment. Unfortunately, to become a national alternative, deep-rooted and concerted efforts are needed and there are no quick- fix solutions," Baghel said without naming Trinamool. To this, Trinamool responded, "Rich words coming from a first-time CM. Punching above your weight doesn’t bring honour to you, Mr @bhupeshbaghel. What a shoddy attempt to please the high command! By the way, is @INCIndia going to try to erase the historical defeat at Amethi through yet another Twitter Trend?" Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-working-committee-to-meet-on-oct-16-troubles-in-party-assembly-polls-on-agenda-1038987.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||UP govt handing bouquets to Lakhimpur violence culprits: Akhilesh Yadav||Attacking the Uttar Pradesh Government over the handling of the probe in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday alleged it was giving "bouquet" to culprits instead of bringing them to book. The opposition leader's remarks came barely a few hours after Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) formed in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. Ashish Mishra was supposed to appear before the police on Friday, but he did not do so. The Uttar Pradesh Police then issued a fresh notice asking him to appear before it by 11 AM on Saturday. Speaking to reporters here, Akhilesh Yadav alleged, "The way farmers were crushed, now preparations are on to crush the laws. This government has pulverised the Constitution. "You have seen how a vehicle ran over farmers who were fighting for their rights. The guilty persons are yet to be caught. Instead of giving summons, a flower bouquet is being given. The summon is only in name, and (in reality) 'samman' (honour) is given." The former UP chief minister said that officials including those in the local intelligence unit and administration must have had information that such an incident could occur. Despite this, the farmers died, he said. Accusing the UP government of shielding the guilty, he again demanded the resignation of Ajay Mishra from the Union Council of Ministers. "The MoS had said that he had been an MP, MLA, but he had also been something else and was threatening the farmers. "The government claims that it is a 'damdaar sarkaar'. Is the government only for the powerful and not for the farmers? "In the coming time, the BJP will be wiped out," he warned. The family members of the aggrieved persons want justice and punishment for the guilty. "The law of the country is being pulverised under the tyres of a jeep," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-govt-handing-bouquets-to-lakhimpur-violence-culprits-akhilesh-yadav-1038990.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi to begin UP's poll campaign from Modi bastion Varanasi||Apparently not wanting to let go of the momentum gained by the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed, the Congress would be launching its campaign for the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh from Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, by holding a 'Kisan Nyaya' rally on Sunday. The grand old party was earlier scheduled to hold a 'Pratigya Rally' on the same date but after the Lakhimpur violence, it was changed to 'Kisan Nyaya' rally in an apparent bid to keep the farmers' protests against the farm laws and the killings of the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in focus. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would be addressing the rally. ''We will expose the anti-farmer policies of the BJP government besides its failures on other fronts,'' said UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Laloo in Varanasi on Saturday. He added that the party would also seek to corner UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath's over his attack on Priyanka after the latter's pictures showing her sweeping the floor at the PAC guest house in Sitapur where she had been kept after being arrested by the police on Sunday night while she was on way to meet the families of the victims of the Lakhimpur violence.  According to the Congress sources here the party was not leaving any stone unturned to make the rally in Modi bastion a success. ''We expect a large number of people from different parts of Varanasi district and nearby areas to attend the rally...people are disillusioned with the BJP government, no section of the population is happy,'' said a senior UP Congress leader while speaking to DH here. Sources said that the party had also asked those seeking the assembly polls nomination from different constituencies in the Varanasi district to work toward making the rally a success. The leader said that several such rallies would be held in different parts of the state in the days to come. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-to-begin-ups-poll-campaign-from-modi-bastion-varanasi-1038991.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Those who killed BJP workers in Lakhimpur not culprits, says Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that he didn't consider those who killed BJP workers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri as culprits as they only reacted to SUV running over protesters. Eight people were killed in the violence that broke out on October 3 after an SUV allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at Tikonia-Banbirpur road in Lakhimpur Kheri. The dead included farmers, BJP workers and a journalist. "The killing of two BJP workers in Lakhimpur Kheri after a convoy of cars mowed down four farmers is a reaction to an action. I do not consider those involved in the killings as culprits," Tikait said in reply to a question asked during a press conference here. Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Yogendra Yadav said, "We are sad over the loss of lives, be it BJP workers or farmers. It was unfortunate and we hope justice is done." Farmer leaders on Saturday demanded that Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son be arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, and said the incident was a "pre-planned conspiracy". Ajay Mishra should also be removed from the government as he started this conspiracy and is also protecting the culprits in the case, Yadav alleged during the press conference here. He also said that the SKM on October 15, which is Dusshera, will burn the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to protest against the violence. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-who-killed-bjp-workers-in-lakhimpur-not-culprits-says-rakesh-tikait-1038998.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Modi way ahead of Rahul Gandhi as preferred PM choice in poll-bound states||As per the survey, 43.1 per cent of the respondents feel that Modi is the best choice to lead the country, followed by Rahul Gandhi at 9.1 per cent, Arvind Kejriwal at 5.2 per cent, Manmohan Singh at 3.5 per cent and Yogi Adityanath at 3.2 per cent. In a state-wise breakup, the prime minister got more than 42 per cent support in all the poll-bound states except Punjab, where only 13.8 per cent of respondents backed him. In Goa, Modi got 46.1 per cent support, 45.1 per cent in Manipur, 43.1 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, and 47.3 per cent in Uttrakhand. The survey was conducted in 690 Assembly seats in five poll-bound with a sample size of 98,121. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-way-ahead-of-rahul-gandhi-as-preferred-pm-choice-in-poll-bound-states-1039009.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Current Parliament unsafe, 'house of colonial power'; new building to be completed on time: Puri||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday said the construction of a new Parliament building and redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue, stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate, will be completed in a time-bound manner. Both these projects are being executed as part of the Modi government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan. Stressing upon the need of a new Parliament building, the Union housing and urban affairs minister said that the current one is "unsafe" as when it had been constructed, it was in Seismic Zone II, but now that area lies in Seismic Zone IV. During an interaction at the 'India Today Conclave 2021', Puri said that the existing building, which doesn't have the capacity to accommodate more parliamentarians, was never designed to be Parliament and it was a council house of a colonial power. "The number of members (parliamentarians) has been increasing since we became an Independent country. So, there have been a lot of internal adjustments and new facilities have been added...from a purely structural point of view, it is an unsafe building. "When the building was constructed, it was in Seismic Zone II and today, that area is in Seismic Zone IV. It is not an exaggeration. We don't want to create panic, but you know you are above pushing the limit..." he said. The redevelopment of the Central Vista envisages a new Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-km Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate, a new Prime Minister's residence and office, and a new Vice President's Enclave. Tata Projects Limited has been constructing a new Parliament building near the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project. The government said that the winter session of Parliament in December next year will be held in the new building. Shapoorji Pallonji and Co Pvt Ltd has been executing the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate. The government plans to hold the Republic Day parade on the revamped Rajpath next year. "These two segments are actually the showcase segment (of the Central Vista redevelopment project)," he said, adding that these two projects will be completed within the time period. Besides, the government had floated tenders for the construction of three new buildings of Common Central Secretariat on the plot where the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts is currently located Last month, four infrastructure firms --- Tata Projects Limited, Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Ltd, L&T Construction and NCC Ltd --- had submitted technical bids for the project. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/current-parliament-unsafe-house-of-colonial-power-new-building-to-be-completed-on-time-puri-1039037.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||2022 Goa polls to redeem reputation and honour of Congress: Chidambaram||The upcoming 2022 state assembly polls in Goa is a battle to redeem the reputation and honour of the Congress party, which has been ravaged by defections, with as many as 13 sitting MLAs quitting the party to join the Bharatiya Janata Party since 2017, former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram said on Saturday. Chidambaram, who is the All India Congress Committee's senior observer in charge of strategising for the Goa polls scheduled to be held in early 2022, also said that the Congress would put the "shameful chapter" of defections behind this time around. "Our challenge is to redeem the reputation and honour of the Congress party. I know that Congress workers have been totally loyal to the party. Every time you elected a Congress candidate as the MLA," Chidambaram said, adding that while the Congress workers were loyal to the Congress ideology, its leaders had betrayed the faith placed in them by the workers and the party. "I was shocked to learn that a defector was given the ticket not once, not twice, but thrice. That is a shameful chapter of Congress history. I have come here to assure you that the shameful chapter is closed. Never again will we repeat that shameful chapter," the former Union Finance Minister also said. "I promise you on behalf of the leadership of the Congress party that that shameful chapter will never never be repeated again in Goa," he also said. Chidambaram said that as part of the candidate selection strategy for the 2022 state assembly polls, the Congress would only offer tickets to candidates finalised by the party workers at the block level, while also specifying four key criteria for the selection of candidates. "We will select a candidate only among names selected by you. You have to select names based on loyalty, integrity, acceptability among the workers and number four is winnability among the larger electorate," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/2022-goa-polls-to-redeem-reputation-and-honour-of-congress-chidambaram-1039049.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Parliament panels reconstituted, Sushil Modi to head Personnel and Law panel, Tharoor retains IT||Over 24 Parliamentary Standing Committees were reconstituted on Saturday with senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi being made the head of Personnel and Law panel while other chairpersons from the previous panels were retained. Shashi Tharoor would continue to head the Information Technology Standing Committee even as he had run-ins with BJP MPs over taking contentious issues questioning the government with BJP MP Nishikant Dubey even demanding his removal. Modi, who was previously a member of Science and Technology and Urban Development panels, was moved to the Personnel, Public Grievances and Law and Justice Committee and appointed as its Chairman due to Bhupender Yadav becoming a Minister. Congress' Anand Sharma would remain as Home committee head while Jairam Ramesh would head Science and Technology and Bhartruhari Mahtab would chair Labour. V Vijayasai Reddy (Commerce), K Keshav Rao (Industry), Vinay Sahasrabuddhe (Education), Ram Gopal Yadav (Health) and T G Venkatesh (Transport) are among the MPs who are heading panels. Jual Oram will continue to head the Defence panel in which Rahul Gandhi has retained his membership while PP Choudhary retained his chairmanship in the External Affairs panel. Jayant Sinha will chair the Finance panel once again while former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will be a member. A number of MPs have been changed from one panel to another on the recommendations of parties. Each committee has 11 members of Rajya Sabha and 20 of Lok sabha. Trinamool Congress' Derek O'Brien, who was a member of the Transport panel, and Congress' Abhishek Singhvi, who was in the Defence panel, have been moved to the Standing Committee on Home Affairs. KC Venugopal has taken Singhvi's place in the Defence panel. RJD's Manoj K Jha has moved from Railways to Labour while Congress' Shaktisinh Gohel moved from Information and Technology to Transport, BJD's Sambit Patra from Education to Personnel and Law and Olympian Mary Kom from Food to Urban Development. Sources said 50 of the 237 Rajya Sabha MPs saw themselves being moved to new committees. Nine MPs from BJP and six from Trinamool Congress are moved to new committees while Congress has four, Shiv Sena, CPI(M), RJD and YSR Congress has three each MPs moving to new committees.  All three RS members of Shiv Sena moved to new committees. Sanjay Raut from Defence to External Affairs, Anil Desai from Coal and Steel to Commerce and Priyanka Chaturvedi from Commerce to Transport. All three were regulars in panel meetings last year, sources said. The 50 MPs who were moved to new committees included 28 who had poor attendance in the meetings of committees held during 2020-21. Twelve of the 28 had zero attendance. Sources said attendance based nominations and changes could have been more but some party leaders opined that poor attendance last year was due to Covid-19 and state elections. Usually, the Standing Committees are reconstituted in September but this year it was delayed and sources attributed it to the delay from party leaders in responding to communications from the Rajya Sabha Secretariat. On the instructions of Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, the Secretariat had shared the attendance details of MPs to respective parties and sought reconsideration of nominations sent earlier. Reminders were also sent to some parties and this took some time in the process, they said. Questions were raised earlier this week by Ramesh and O'Brien on the delay in reconstituting the 24 Standing Committees.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-panels-reconstituted-sushil-modi-to-head-personnel-and-law-panel-tharoor-retains-it-1039053.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||BSP's right turn: Mayawati promises no derailment of BJP's work in Mathura, Kashi and Ayodhya||BSP supremo Mayawati on Saturday promised not to derail the ongoing work of the BJP government in “Ayodhya, Varanasi, Mathura and other religious places” if voted to power. Claiming that the BJP government’s works in the three holy cities are only the follow-ups of her government's initiatives, Mayawati went on to promise, in what is being seen as a subtle shift towards soft Hindutva ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, to complete all those work on time. She made the promise while addressing the 15th death anniversary of BSP founder Kanshi Ram here and asserting that if voted to power, she will not indulge in misappropriating the credit for work done by the preceding governments like the SP and the BJP regimes. "The BSP, if voted to power, will not stop the developmental work of the current BJP government, which followed the footsteps of the BSP, in Ayodhya, Varanasi, Mathura and other religious places,” said Mayawati. “The unfinished works will not be stopped with a feeling of vengeance but will be completed," she promised. “The drama of changing names of the work done by other governments will not be done by the BSP like the Samajwadi Party and the Bhartiya Janata Party did,” she said. “All the works of their governments will be honestly reviewed. The work which is appropriate and in the public interest will definitely be taken ahead of and finished on time," she added. Apart from the construction of a massive Lord Rama temple, a multi-pronged developmental work, including the construction of an international airport, is going in Ayodhya. Developmental work in form of the construction of the Kashi Vishvanath corridor project is going on in Varanasi while several beautification projects have been undertaken for Mathura and Vrindavan. Earlier while addressing a Brahmins conclave organised by the party on September 7, Mayawati had also promised that rather than building statues and memorials, she would, if voted power, focus on changing the face of Uttar Pradesh through developmental works. In the run-up to the Punjab assembly elections, which the BSP has decided to fight in alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal, Mayawati also took a dig at the Congress over the appointment of a Dalit chief minister in the state. “Despite trumpeting about making a Dalit the Punjab chief minister and dramatics to woo the Sikhs, people of that community cannot forget the pain of the anti-Sikh riots under its rule,” she said. She also lashed at the Aam Aadmi Party accusing its government in Delhi of doing little in facilitating the movement of UP-bound migrant workers to their native state during the Covid lockdown. She also dismissed the AAP’s promise of providing free power and water in UP and Punjab as “promises made in the air”. Addressing the function at Kanshi Ram Smarak Sthal, the BSP chief also demanded a Bharat Ratna the BSP founder. Insinuating that media houses take up pre-poll surveys only to influence popular mandate, Mayawati said she would soon write to the Election Commission of India to ban pre-poll surveys by media for at least six months before the elections. Mayawati's remarks came a day after a news channel survey showed that the BJP is poised to win most of the UP assembly seats in 2022 and retain power. She also alleged that the BJP-led Centre and UP governments were misusing the state machinery to make the atmosphere in their favour for the elections in the most populous state. "It is known to everyone that when these tactics do not work, the BJP will eventually give the election a Hindu-Muslim colour and try to take full political advantage in its garb. Elections have to be fought keeping this in mind," she said. Taking on the AAP for its pre-poll promises of providing free water and power etc in UP, Mayawati said, “The BJP, SP and Congress along with the AAP, Shiv Sena and party of (Asaduddin) Owaisi are making various types of promises to the people of the state to get votes.” “There is no strength in these promises. This time, all the political parties are going to make more lucrative promises in their election manifesto. The people of the state should never be misled by those promises," she said. Elections for the 403-member UP assembly is scheduled for early next year.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bsps-right-turn-mayawati-promises-no-derailment-of-bjps-work-in-mathura-kashi-and-ayodhya-1039056.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Lakhimpur Kheri: Congress to hold 'maun vrat' protest on Monday||Congress will hold 'maun vrat' (vow of silence) protest across the country on Monday demanding the sacking of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni and the arrest of all people, including his son, involved in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which four farmers were killed. Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal has written to all state units to hold the protest at all state headquarters from 10 AM to 1 PM. The state congress committees should ensure the participation of senior leaders, MPS, MLAs, party functionaries, and heads of frontal organisations and cells. The state units are directed to hold the protest in front of Raj Bhavan or central government offices demanding the immediate sacking of the Minister from his post and immediate arrest of people involved in the "cold-blooded" murder, Venugopal said. In his letter, Venugopal described the October 3 incident as a "chilling daylight murder of farmers" and said it has shaken the conscience of the entire country. "Even more tragic are the open warnings given by Ajay Mishra Teni and consequent trampling of farmers under a jeep owned by the Minister and his family. Farmers, who were eyewitnesses, have openly stated that they were run over by a vehicle being driven by the son of the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs," he said. "Despite all round protests and intervention of the Supreme Court, no decisive action has been taken either against the guilty or against the Minister so far. It is shameful that the Prime Minister and Home Minister whom the Minister directly reports to have not uttered a word against this cold blooded murder," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lakhimpur-kheri-congress-to-hold-maun-vrat-protest-on-monday-1039070.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Navjot Singh Sidhu's fasts start after dinner, end at breakfast: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday called Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu's fast at Lakhimpur Kheri a “drama”, saying his hunger strike “started after dinner and ended before breakfast.” The Punjab Congress chief, who met the family of 28-year-old journalist Raman Kashyap, one of the eight people killed in the violence, had proceeded on a fast and could be seen lying on a cot at the scribe's house in Lakhimpur Kheri. Reacting to the hunger strike by Sidhu, Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said that he wanted to request Sidhu that he should stop doing “dramas”. “@sherryontopp is just an attention seeker. His hunger strike to get Ashish Mishra arrested, was a comedy show that started after dinner and ended before breakfast. He doesn't know the difference between appearing before the police &getting arrested: SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal,” according to a Shiromani Akali Dal tweet. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit last Sunday. Sidhu in a tweet on Saturday said, “Broke my fast with the family of Raman Kashyap … After Ashish Mishra surrenders to join investigations. The Almighty gave me the strength to fight for a Just cause … Path of Truth will always Triumph !!”. Sidhu had declared that he would go on hunger strike if the union minister's son was not arrested by Friday or he did not join the investigation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/navjot-singh-sidhus-fasts-start-after-dinner-end-at-breakfast-sukhbir-badal-1039104.html
09-10-2021||National Politics||Follow 'raj dharma' and sack Ajay Mishra: Congress to PM Modi||The Congress on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to follow 'raj dharma' and sack Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra immediately to "help restore the glory of India and its democracy". Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said that the country and its democracy have suffered a dent after farmers were allegedly crushed under the SUV belonging to the union minister. He said that it was only after Congress pressure that the government questioned the union minister's son Ashish Mishra, who is named as an accused in the FIR for allegedly running over his SUV over protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. Four farmers reportedly died after the SUV ran over them and four others lost their lives in the violence post the incident. Khera alleged that the might of Uttar Pradesh and the central governments only applies to the poor, the weak and the helpless and not on powerful people and that is the reason why the union minister's son has not yet been arrested. He urged Prime Minister Modi to follow 'raj dharma', saying as chief minister he had ignored the advice of the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee after the Gujarat riots broke out in 2002. Khera also claimed Vajpayee as prime minister had written a letter to the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh against Mishra seeking action. The Congress leader, however, did not elaborate what the matter was. "The advice to follow raj dharma, the advice given by Atal Ji to follow raj dharma was rejected by two people, one of them is a prime minister of India and the other is the minister of state for home," he told reporters. "If the prime minister has a sense of responsibility left towards protecting and upholding our democracy, he needs to sack the minister of state for home immediately. Only this way, we will be able to restore the lost glory of our democracy. He should follow 'raj dharma'. "We demand to sack off this minister immediately, India's image, we are all very conscious of our country's image, India's image is taking a dip," Khera said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/follow-raj-dharma-and-sack-ajay-mishra-congress-to-pm-modi-1039107.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Maneka Gandhi urges Delhi LG to equip forest department personnel with arms||BJP MP Maneka Gandhi wrote to Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday urging him to equip the national capital's forest department personnel with necessary arms and vehicles for their safety. Gandhi, a wildlife activist, cited the September 23 attack on forest department employees in South Delhi's Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary and demanded that the department be strengthened. "There has been a gruesome pre-planned attack on forest officials inside the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary in Delhi while discharging their duty. This issue is extremely serious and requires action at the highest levels to ensure that there is no loss of life," her letter to the L-G read. She said Delhi is known for wildlife smuggling activities and it is, therefore, important to take appropriate measures to equip the department with "necessary arms, vehicles and other such provisions for their safety and effective discharge of their duties". Four employees of the forest department were injured in the attack by suspected liquor smugglers on September 23. A deputy range officer and a wildlife guard – had received serious injuries and had to be hospitalized. The Delhi government had notified a uniform dress code for the personnel of the Forests and Wildlife Department a day after the attack on its four employees. The department's personnel will now be dressed in Khaki shirts and pants and carry a baton in the field. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maneka-gandhi-urges-delhi-lg-to-equip-forest-department-personnel-with-arms-1038802.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Nobody above law: Nadda on Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||BJP president J P Nadda on Friday asserted that a "professional and scientific" investigation will be conducted into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh and those involved in the incident will be brought to book as "nobody is above law". Speaking at India Today Conclave 2021, he said that everyone will get justice. "It was a sad incident. Law will take its course. Nobody is above law. An SIT has been set up. Best professional and scientific investigation will take place and those involved (in the incident) will be brought to book. No stone will be left unturned," he said while replying to questions about the possible impact of the violence on the upcoming UP Assembly polls. He said that the incident of violence should be not be seen from the point of view of elections but from that of humanity. To a query on the alleged involvement of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra's son in the violence, Nadda said that neither the BJP nor its government support any activity where law is taken into hands. "Either on behalf of the party or the government, we do not indulge in any such activity where law is taken into hands. Whatever action is needed will be taken. I assure that legal process will be completed... Nobody is allowed to take law in his own hand. I want to assure that everyone will get justice," he added. The BJP president said that a new trend of protest is emerging, which is a matter of concern. "We need to ponder over it. Several incidents are happening. I am not talking about this incident (Lakhimpur Kheri violence). I am just making a point in general... How far we have to take the systems in democratic process, there should be some pondering over this too," he said. Replying to questions on farmers agitation against the three new farm laws, Nadda said that the government held several rounds of talks with farmer leaders and kept the doors open for further dialogue but nothing happened. "What is this movement for when the implementation of the farm laws has been suspended for 18 months and we are ready to hold talks?" he asked. "You can bring horses near water but you can't force them to drink," he added. Listing various schemes launched by the Union government for the welfare of farmers including 'Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana', 'Kisan Fasal Bima Yojana' and Farmers Pension Scheme, Nadda said what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done for farmers has never been done by anyone in this country. "Those (farmers) who are well-intentioned, we will take care of them and bring them on board. For those who have political interests, I will ensure that people do not go with them. It is our political right...all those playing politics on the issue, people will give them a befitting reply. We are preparing for this," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nobody-above-law-nadda-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-case-1038864.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||36,130 students complete admission process under DU first cut-off list||With 36,130 students completing their admission process under the first cut-off list, a little over half of the seats at Delhi University colleges have been filled. The university had received a total of 60,904 applications under the first cut-off list, which was announced on October 1. Eight colleges had pegged their cut-offs at 100 per cent for 10 courses in the first list. The process of admission for this list ended at 11:59 pm on Friday, the last day to make payments. Till this time, 36,130 students had paid their fees, according to official data. There are 70,000 seats at colleges of the varsity for undergraduate courses. The second cut-off list will be released by the university later on Saturday with principals warning that the decline in the asking marks won't be more than 0.5 per cent to one per cent. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/36130-students-complete-admission-process-under-du-first-cut-off-list-1038895.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Three siblings among four killed as truck rams into roadside house in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh||Two teenage brothers, their minor sister and one more person were killed after a truck rammed into a roadside house in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred at Aajani Taparia village on Batiyagarh-Hatta Road around 11 pm on Friday when the family members were sleeping in their roadside mud (kutcha) house, Superintendent of Police (SP) D R Teniwar said. "Following the mishap, the injured were rushed to a hospital, where Akash Ahirwar (18), his 14-year-old brother Omkar and 16-year-old sister Manisha died, while their parents are undergoing treatment at the district hospital," he said. Another man, identified as Purushottam Sahu, who was travelling in the truck after taking a lift, also died in the accident, he said. The driver of the truck fled from the spot after the accident and a search has been launched for him, the SP added. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-siblings-among-four-killed-as-truck-rams-into-roadside-house-in-madhya-pradeshs-damoh-1038905.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Ashish Mishra being interrogated by SIT||Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra appeared for questioning before the SIT on Saturday in the crime branch of the Police Lines here in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3. Ashish Mishra appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) before 11 am, the time mentioned in the second summons served to him the previous day after he did turn up for interrogation on Friday. Police officials here at the spot refused to comment on the ongoing interrogation. Meanwhile, Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu ended his "silent protest" after the minister's son turned up for questioning. The Punjab Congress unit chief began his 'maun dharna' from 6.15 pm on Friday outside the home of local journalist Ram Kashyap in Nighasan tehsil. The protest came to an end around 11.30 am on Saturday Kashyap had also died in the incident on October 3.   Speaking to reporters after ending his fast, Sidhu said, "This is the victory of truth. A person may be a king, but no one is bigger than justice. If there is justice, there is 'shaasan' (governance), and if there is no justice, there is 'kushaasan' (misgovernance). This is the victory of the families of farmers. The family of Lovpreet Singh and the family of Raman Kashyap." Lovepreet Singh of Palia village of Lakhimpur is among the four farmers who died in the violence. While Ashish Mishra is facing questioning by the SIT team headed by Deputy Inspector General of Police (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal, his father Ajay Mishra is huddled with lawyers at his local party office in Lakhimpur. Sources said the police team has prepared over two dozen questions for Ashish Mishra to answer in connection with the case. After two men were arrested on Thursday in the case, police then had pasted a notice outside Ashish Mishra's house asking him to appear before it in connection with the violence that claimed eight lives. Four of the eight people who died in the violence last Sunday were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. A nine-member team headed by DIG Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-ashish-mishra-being-interrogated-by-sit-1038920.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||After Yogi's broom barb, Congress wants to 'sweep' UP polls||Brooms are usually used for sweeping the floors but in Uttar Pradesh, Congress feels they can be used to 'sweep the polls'. Pictures out of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh showed Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra sweeping the floors of the room at the PAC guest house in Sitapur district last week. UP CM Yogi Adityanath took a dig at the grand old party upon seeing the photo, saying, "Janata ne unhe isi layak bana diya hai" (people have found them fit for this only), starting a wordy duel with the grand old party. Priyanka was kept at the guest house after being arrested late on Sunday night when she was on her way to visit the families of those who were run over by a vehicle allegedly driven by Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son, which included four farmers. Apparently seeking to turn Adityanath's remarks to her advantage, Priyanka, who has been camping in the state capital for the past few days, suddenly reached a 'Dalit' locality at Luvkush Nagar in Lucknow city on Friday evening and swept the floors there. Pictures of Priyanka sweeping the floors in the locality again went viral on social networking sites. ''Even Mahatma Gandhi used to sweep the floors....the women of the country also do it every day,'' UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Laloo said on Saturday. He termed the UP CM's remarks as an indicator of BJP's 'anti-Dalit and 'anti-women' mindset. ''Jharoo lagana swabhiman ka kaam hai...soch badaliye'' (take pride in sweeping the floors....change your mindset), Congress tweeted. Congress leaders feel that with this, Priyanka has been able to reach the SC community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-yogis-broom-barb-congress-wants-to-sweep-up-polls-1038939.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Some DU colleges put out second cut-off list: Check here||Delhi University's Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College on Saturday released its second cut-off list with the marks required for BSc(Honours) Computer Science going down by 1.5 per cent. The cut-off for the course in the first list was pegged at 100 per cent but there were no applications received for the course in the first list. The cut-off for the course is pegged at 98.5 per cent in the second list but it is closed for admissions in SC, ST, PwD and EWS categories. The other colleges that had pegged the cut-off at 100 per cent for the course were Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies and Hansraj College with the former also drawing a blank for the course. The admissions to BSc (Honours) Mathematics, BSc (Honours) Zoology, BSc (Life Science) have been closed while BA programme combinations of Economics and Political Science and History and Political Science are also closed. Some courses like BSc (Honours) Chemistry, BA (Honours) English, BSc Physical Science with Chemistry are closed for admissions in the reserved categories. Female students will get a one per cent relaxation in the asking marks for all courses. Aryabhatta College also released its second cut-off list with the decline ranging between 0.25 to one per cent. The college had kept the highest cut-off for BA (Honours) Psychology among all the courses at 98.5 per cent in the first list which came down to 98.25 per cent in the second list. The cut-offs for BA (Honours) Economics, BA (Honours) Hindi, BSc (Honours) Mathematics saw a one per cent decline to 97, 85 and 96 per cent, respectively. The cut-off for BA (Honours) English and BA (Honours) History, BCom (Honours) have come down to 95.5 per cent, 94.5 per cent and 97.5 per cent, a decline of 0.5 per cent from the list. The courses that are closed are BA (Honours) Political Science, BCom Programme and BA Programme combination of History and Political Science. Apart from BA (Honours) Political Science, BA (Honours) English, BA (Honours) Psychology and BCom (Honours), all other courses have a one per cent relaxation for female students. Apart from Hindi (Honours), the cut-off for which has been pegged at 68 per cent, BVoc Retail Management and IT and BVoc Healthcare Management, Jesus and Mary College has said there won't be any second list for other courses, which means their seats have been filled. The college had pegged the cut-off for BA (Honours) Psychology at 100 per cent for those who do not include the subject while calculating their best of four percentage. The cut-off for students who were to include the subject in their best of four subjects (BFS) marks was 99 per cent. Delhi University will release the second list later in the day. Nearly half of the seats have been filled after admission under the first list.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-du-colleges-put-out-second-cut-off-list-check-here-1038981.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC allows 24-week pregnant woman to terminate pregnancy due to low survival chances of foetus||The Delhi High Court has permitted an over 24-week pregnant woman to undergo medical termination of pregnancy, considering that the chances of survival of the foetus after birth were very remote. Justice Rekha Palli, hearing the woman's plea seeking permission to undergo medical termination of her pregnancy under the Medication Termination of Pregnancy Act of 1971, stated that even if the newborn survives, his quality of life will be highly compromised and thus directed that the procedure of termination be carried out at the Lady Hardinge Hospital. According to a report of the medical board constituted in the case, the foetus suffered from anencephaly, a type of neural tube defect which is "incompatible with life and non-viable after birth in 100 per cent case", the court recorded. "(W)hen it is evident that in case the pregnancy is carried to term, the chances of survival of the anencephalic child are very remote and even if he survives, his quality of life will be highly compromised as he would need consistent medical care, I am of the considered view that the petition deserves to be allowed and the petitioner ought to be granted permission to undergo the procedure of medical termination of her pregnancy so that the foetus can be terminated immediately, especially keeping in view the fact that petitioner has already completed 24 weeks of the gestation period," the judge said in her order dated October 6. The medical board also opined that the woman was "physically and psychologically fit to undergo the procedure for medical termination of pregnancy". The court also put on record its appreciation for the "expeditious steps" taken by Lady Hardinge Hospital in constituting the medical board for the examination of the pregnant woman. In her petition, the woman stated that the anencephaly resulted in a deformed vertebral column and omphalocele (a birth defect of the abdominal wall). It was stated that the abnormalities came to the notice only when an ultrasound was carried out in late September. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-allows-24-week-pregnant-woman-to-terminate-pregnancy-due-to-low-survival-chances-of-foetus-1038984.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi could face power crisis, says Arvind Kejriwal; writes to PM Modi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the national capital could face a power crisis and that his government is taking adequate steps to avoid such a situation. He said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his intervention in making adequate arrangements of coal and gas to generation plants supplying electricity to the city. "Delhi could face a power crisis. I am personally keeping a close watch over the situation. We are trying our best to avoid it. In the meanwhile, I wrote a letter to Hon’ble PM seeking his personal intervention," Kejriwal tweeted. In his letter to Modi, the Delhi CM noted that the city was facing coal shortage since August. “I draw your attention to the prevailing coal shortage situation that is continuing since August/September for the third month in a row,” the letter stated. “It has affected the power generation from the major central generating plants supplying power to Delhi,” it said. Kejriwal requested the prime minister's intervention for adequate coal to be diverted from other plants to plants like Dadri-II and Jhajjar TPS, which are supplying to Delhi. He also requested gas allocations to Bawana, Pragati -I and GTPS supplying power to the city. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-could-face-power-crisis-says-arvind-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-modi-1038993.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to launch Indian Space Association on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch Indian Space Association (ISpA), an industry body aspiring to be the voice of the Indian space sector, on October 11, the PMO said on Saturday. He will also interact with representatives of the space industry on this occasion. The ISpA will undertake policy advocacy and engage with all stakeholders in the Indian space domain, including the government and its agencies. Echoing the prime minister's vision of the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', the ISpA will help in making India self-reliant, technologically advanced and a leading player in the space arena, the PMO said. The ISpA is represented by leading home grown and global corporations with advanced capabilities in space and satellite technologies. Its founding members include Larson & Toubro, Nelco (Tata Group), OneWeb, Bharti Airtel, Mapmyindia, Walchandnagar Industries and Ananth Technology Limited. Other core members include Godrej, Hughes India, Azista-BST Aerospace Private Limited, BEL, Centum Electronics and Maxar India, the PMO noted. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-launch-indian-space-association-on-monday-1039020.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Kashmiri Pandits say killings a terror plan to drive them out from valley||An organisation of Kashmiri Pandits said on Saturday that the targeted killings of minorities in Jammu and Kashmir are part of a terror plan to prevent them from returning to the Valley. Satish Mahaldar, chairman of reconciliation, return and rehabilitation of migrants, said in a statement on Saturday, "Recent killings of minority civilians in Kashmir is part of a well-planned terror action plot, at the core of which is to drive out remaining minorities in the Valley and create fear psychosis so that no one can return." On the same day, Makhan Lal Bindroo was shot dead by terrorists as he sat in his shop in Srinagar's Iqbal Park, an area dotted with police and paramilitary installations. "He was in love with Kashmir. He never wanted to leave Kashmir even when we urged him to leave. He would often say, 'I will give my life, but I won't leave'." Mahaldar said.  Bindroos were also among the Kashmiri Pandit families who had chosen to stay on in the Valley even after targeted killings had forced mass migration of the community in the 1990s. A terrorist group called The Resistance Front claimed responsibility for the killings of Bindroo and claimed he was "posing as a medical professional" and "conducting secret seminars" backed by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh after serving Kashmiri people for nearly 32 years. Terrorists also shot a principal and a teacher dead in a Srinagar school after separating Muslim and non-Muslim teachers. Another deceased was identified as Virendra Paswan, a native of the Bhagalpur district of Bihar who was residing in Alamgari Bazar, Zadibal. "Paswan was a street vendor by profession who used to sell bhelpuri in the Hawal area of Srinagar. The Resistance Front claimed responsibility for his killing also claiming that he was OWG for GoI agencies," Mahaldar further added. Mahaldar also mentioned, "We had already intimated the GoI several times through media and otherwise that the launch of Migrant distress sales portal will trigger an anti-minority feeling in some quarters, especially in the Land Mafia." Premature and triumphant claims about normalcy in Kashmir got exposed two months ago when the LG was informed in writing by Kashmiri Pandits that there are rumours that minorities in Kashmir will be targeted. "Unfortunately, the LG's office and security agencies ignored our inputs "Despite the inputs to security agencies, the UT govt and GoI failed to provide security/protection to minorities of Kashmir. Now it is easier to politically use the plight of minorities/Kashmiri Pandits of Kashmir," Satish Mahaldar said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-pandits-say-killings-a-terror-plan-to-drive-them-out-from-valley-1039024.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Won’t attend to duties till govt ensures security: Kashmir Sikh body||Claiming that the government had failed to safeguard the minority community in Kashmir, Srinagar Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee (GPC) on Saturday said that the community members won’t attend to their duties until authorities assure their protection in the Valley. "Despite intelligence inputs that minority community members may be targeted and incidents in the past, the government didn’t provide any security to the community,” GPC Srinagar, General Secretary, Navtej Singh told reporters here. He alleged that the government had failed to safeguard the minority community in Kashmir. “Unless the government assures security to the community members, none of them would attend the government duty,” Singh added. Satinder Kour, principal of Government Boys Higher Secondary school in Eidgah, Srinagar and a teacher at the school, Deepak Chand, were shot dead on the school premises by militants on Thursday.  Kour was a resident of Allochi Bagh in Srinagar while Chand hailed from Jammu. The Resistance Front (TRF), which police say is the front for militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba, claimed responsibility for the attack and said the teachers were killed for their role in getting students to participate in a “function at school on August 15”. Demanding that the government must provide security to employees belonging to the community, the GPC Srinagar General Secretary said that the majority should also come forward and condemn the attack on the minorities. “It would have been better if the majority community had participated in Friday’s protest,” he said. Hundreds of Sikh community members held a protest march with the mortal remains of Kour in Srinagar on Friday. Sikhs currently form less than 1% of the population in Kashmir. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/won-t-attend-to-duties-till-govt-ensures-security-kashmir-sikh-body-1039032.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: MoS Ajay Mishra's son questioned by SIT; farmer leaders demand arrest of both||Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who was accused of running over four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, on Saturday appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the incident and was grilled for over ten hours. Ashish, who failed to appear before the cops on Friday, drove to the police station in Lakhimpur Kheri town, accompanied by his lawyer, and submitted himself for questioning. According to the police sources here, Ashish handed over a dozen pen drives, which purportedly contained videos showing his presence elsewhere on the day the incident had occurred. He also submitted a few affidavits containing statements of the witnesses, who claimed that he was not present on the spot on October 3, when eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence at Tikonia in the district. Sources said that Ashish was confronted with the videos, which were in possession of the police and was grilled on his whereabouts at the time of the incident. A large number of BJP workers had gathered outside the police station while Ashish was being questioned by the cops. It was not clear if Ashish would be arrested after questioning. ''The decision to arrest him will be taken by the police after the questioning is over,'' said a senior police official in Lakhimpur Kheri. Ashish was earlier called for questioning by the cops on Friday but he failed to appear before the police.  While both Ashish and his father Ajay Mishra had claimed that the former was not present in any of the vehicles, one of which ran over a crowd of farmers killing four of them, the farmers claimed that the minister's son was in one of the SUVs with a friend of his. Eight people, including four farmers and a local scribe, were killed in the violence at Tikonia in the district when hundreds of farmers held protests against Mishra over the latter's remarks threatening them of dire consequences if they continued to oppose the new farm laws. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-mos-ajay-mishras-son-questioned-by-sit-farmer-leaders-demand-arrest-of-both-1039035.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Protesting police inaction, Uttar Pradesh rape victim consumes poison, dies||An alleged rape victim on Saturday died by suicide after consuming some poisonous material here in protest against police inaction following which an SHO was suspended, officials said. The woman, a resident of a village under Mehnajpur police station area, was allegedly sexually assaulted recently. Her husband claimed that she had identified one Anil of the same village as one of the accused, but police failed to take any action in the matter, Superintendent of Police Sudhir Kumar Singh said. “In-charge of the police station Chunna Singh has been suspended for negligence,” he said. The victim's family alleged that they had appealed to the police many times for justice, but in vain. The woman reached the police station on Saturday and later consumed poison. She was rushed to a hospital where was declared brought dead, the SP said. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination, he said. The police added that a case has been registered against the accused. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-police-inaction-uttar-pradesh-rape-victim-consumes-poison-dies-1039046.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Some DU colleges put out second cut-off list, marks down by 0.25 to 1.5%||Delhi University's Ramjas College, which had pegged the cut-off for BA (Honours) Political Science at 100 per cent in the first list, has not brought any change in the required marks in the second list. However, the cut-off for BSc (Honours) Physics has come down to 99.33 per cent from 100 per cent, while that for the BA programme combination has dropped to 99.5 per cent from 100 per cent. Hansraj College, which had pegged the cut-off at 100 per cent for BSc (Honours) Computer Science for unreserved category students, has closed admissions to the course for the second list. The cut-offs saw a decline ranging from 0.25 per cent to two per cent. The admissions for BA (Honours) Anthropology and two BA programme combinations of Economics and Commerce and History and Economics are closed. The cut-offs for BA (Hons) Economics, BSc (Hons) Physics and B.Com (Hons) have declined to 99 per cent, 99.33 per cent and 99 per cent, respectively. In the first list, Hansraj College had kept the cut-offs for BA (Hons) Economics, BSc (Hons) Physics and B.Com (Hons) at 99.75 per cent, 99.66 per cent and 99.75 per cent, respectively. The cut-offs of BA (Hons) English, BA (Hons) History, BSc (Hons) Chemistry, BSc (Hons) Electronics, BSc (Hons) Geology, BSc (Hons)Mathematics, BSc (Hons) Zoology and BSc Physical Science with Chemistry and BSc Physical Science with Computer have come down to 98.5 per cent, 98.75 per cent, 98.66 per cent, 98 per cent, 98.66 per cent, 98.75 per cent, 98.33 per cent, 97 per cent and 98.66 per cent. In the first list, the minimum marks required for these courses were 99 per cent. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College also released its second cut-off list with the marks required for BSc (Honours) Computer Science going down by 1.5 per cent. The cut-off for the course in the first list was pegged at 100 per cent but there were no applications received for the course in the first list. The cut-off for the course is pegged at 98.5 per cent in the second list but it is closed for admissions in SC, ST, PwD and EWS categories. The other colleges that had pegged the cut-off at 100 per cent for the course were Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies and Hansraj College with the former also drawing a blank for the course. The admissions to BSc (Honours) Mathematics, BSc (Honours) Zoology, BSc (Life Science) have been closed while BA programme combinations of Economics and Political Science and History and Political Science are also closed. Some courses like BSc (Honours) Chemistry, BA (Honours) English, BSc Physical Science with Chemistry are closed for admissions in the reserved categories. Female students will get a one per cent relaxation in the asking marks for all courses. Aryabhatta College also released its second cut-off list with the decline ranging between 0.25 to one per cent. The college had kept the highest cut-off for BA (Honours) Psychology among all the courses at 98.5 per cent in the first list which came down to 98.25 per cent in the second list. The cut-offs for BA (Honours) Economics, BA (Honours) Hindi, BSc (Honours) Mathematics saw a one per cent decline to 97, 85 and 96 per cent, respectively. The cut-off for BA (Honours) English and BA (Honours) History, BCom (Honours) have come down to 95.5 per cent, 94.5 per cent and 97.5 per cent, a decline of 0.5 per cent from the list. The courses that are closed are BA (Honours) Political Science, BCom Programme and BA Programme combination of History and Political Science. Apart from BA (Honours) Political Science, BA (Honours) English, BA (Honours) Psychology and BCom (Honours), all other courses have a one per cent relaxation for female students. Apart from Hindi (Honours), the cut-off for which has been pegged at 68 per cent, BVoc Retail Management and IT and BVoc Healthcare Management, Jesus and Mary College has said there won't be any second list for other courses, which means their seats have been filled. The college had pegged the cut-off for BA (Honours) Psychology at 100 per cent for those who do not include the subject while calculating their best of four percentage. The cut-off for students who were to include the subject in their best of four subjects (BFS) marks was 99 per cent. At the College of Vocational Studies, the admissions will remain closed for Economics (Honours), (History (Honours), BCom (Honours), Hindi (Honours) and BSc (Honours) Computer Science. Only BA (Honours) English is open at a cut-off of 96.25 per cent, a marginal decline of 0.25 per cent from the first list. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-du-colleges-put-out-second-cut-off-list-marks-down-by-025-to-15-1039061.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Coal shortage: Punjab's power plants run at reduced capacity, power cuts imposed||Severe coal shortage at thermal power plants in Punjab has forced power utility PSPCL to cut down power generation and impose rotational load shedding at several places in the state. Coal-fired power plants are running at a reduced capacity because of the shortage of coal, said an official of Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) on Saturday. With the power situation turning grim, power plants in the state are left with coal stock of up to five days, a PSPCL official said. "Plants are running at a reduced capacity," said the official adding that they were not being run at full capacity to conserve coal. The demand for power at present is about 9,000 megawatts (MW) in the state. Officials said that besides the demand for power from the agriculture sector, high temperatures in the day is also adding to the power requirements in the state. Though the PSPCL officials claimed minimal load shedding, there were reports of power cuts in the range of two-three hours at many places in the state. Three private sector power plants are having a coal supply of up to two days, while the state-owned Ropar thermal plant and Lehra Mohabbat thermal plant are left with coal stock of up to four and five days respectively, said the official. According to the Central Electricity Authority guidelines, power plants located at a distance of over 1,000 km from a coal mine should always have minimum coal stock of up to 30 days but this level of stock is not maintained by the power plants in the state. On Friday, power plants had received some coal supply to run their operations, said the official. In the wake of less generation of power, the PSPCL is buying power through the power exchange but it is costing over Rs 10 per unit which is quite expensive, said the official. PSPCL Chairman and Managing Director A Venuprasad said he has written to the Centre for increasing the coal supply to the state. Officials claimed that the situation is expected to ease in the next couple of days. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coal-shortage-punjabs-power-plants-run-at-reduced-capacity-power-cuts-imposed-1039068.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand planning to enact UP-like stringent anti-conversion law||The Uttarakhand government is contemplating making the state's anti-conversion law more stringent, providing for jail terms up to ten years and has sought a proposal to this effect from the state police chief. The Pushkar Singh Dhami government has sought the proposal, apprehending the worsening of communal amity amid demographic changes in some regions of the state. Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar on Saturday said Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami recently asked the Police Department to put up a proposal for enacting a more stringent anti-conversion law. Accordingly, the Police Department has forwarded a two-page proposal to the government to amend the state’s anti-conversion law on the line of that for Uttar Pradesh. He said the police has recommended to the government to make the acts of forcible religious conversion a cognisable offence with a sentence of a minimum three-year jail term to the maximum of 10 years along with a fine of Rs 25,000. He said the state’s current law on the issue makes the forcible conversion a non-cognisable offence requiring the complaint to file a complaint in a court seeking its directions to the police to register an FIR. But the state’s new proposal seeks to make the forced religious conversion a cognisable offence, authorising police to lodge an FIR on its own without waiting for any court direction. Additional Chief Secretary Abhinav Kumar of Chief Minister Dhami said that the police proposal is being examined currently. The government's decision to tighten the anti-conversion law comes in the wake of an attack by miscreants at a church in Roorkee of Haridwar district for allegedly promoting mass conversion. Last month, the state government had asked police to act against the consistent migration by the people of a particular community amid the rising population of another community in a particular region of the state. In this context, the state government had asked the police to identify the affected districts and act against the anti-social elements living there. The police have also been asked to prepare a list of anti-social elements with criminal antecedents who have settled in those affected districts of the state after migrating from outside. The police have been asked to prepare a record of such people after verifying their native places. The districts magistrates of these regions too have been asked to keep a tab on illegal sale purchase of land in their areas and ensure that no land transaction takes place under duress. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-planning-to-enact-up-like-stringent-anti-conversion-law-1039086.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Kashmiri Pandit families return from Valley, protest in Jammu against civilian killings||Protests were held across Jammu on Saturday against the recent killing of civilians by terrorists with some Kashmiri Pandit families, returning from the Valley, demanding stern action against the culprits and adequate security for the minorities. At least seven people were killed by terrorists in Kashmir Valley in five days. Of those killed, four belonged to minority communities. Six of the deaths were reported in Srinagar. "I have been working as a teacher for the last 20 years and returned to the Valley after a promotion a few years ago. The situation suddenly turned worse due to the selective killings and we came back," a Kashmiri pandit said. He claimed that during the last three years of his posting in the Kashmir region, he did not face any problem. "We lived like brothers with my Muslims colleagues and neighbours," he said and claimed that many Kashmiri Pandits families, including those who were provided jobs under the Prime Minister's package, have returned to Jammu now. Sanjay Bhat, who also reached his Jagti accommodation on Saturday, said the minorities in the Valley were being haunted by fear following the recent killings. "There is fear among the minorities in the Valley like that we saw in 2016 (in the wake of the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani which triggered widespread protests across Kashmir). We are back in Jammu despite abrogation of Article 370 provisions," he said. Another Kashmiri Pandit migrant said he did not want to go back to the Valley. He said the government should take steps to restore faith among the minorities before asking them to return to Kashmir Valley. Another teacher said they were asked to report to the Kheer Bhawani temple by the zonal education officer Ganderbal through an official order. "In another order, we were exempted from reporting for our duty... there was no mention of food. We feel it is better to leave rather than die of starvation," he said. Another person claimed that nothing has changed in Kashmir Valley over the years. "The situation today is same as what we faced when we left en mass in 1990. My two sons working in the Kupwara district in the Kashmir region are returning and are likely to reach within the next few hours," he said, heaving a sigh of relief. A group of migrant Pandits affiliated with Panun Kashmir took out a candlelight march at the exhibition ground in the heart of Jammu city on Saturday evening to pay homage to the community members slain by terrorists. "The government must review the security apparatus and create a conducive atmosphere for the minorities living in the Valley," a spokesperson of Panun Kashmir said. He asked the government to have a relook at the resettlement package for the community and talk to their representatives before finalizing the draft. Activists of the Bajrang Dal and Dogra Front also staged protests against the killings at separate places in Jammu city. Supinder Kaur, a Srinagar-based Sikh, and Chand, a Hindu from Jammu, were killed two days after The Resistance Force, a shadow outfit of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba, claimed responsibility for the deaths of three people on Tuesday. Makhan Lal Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit and owner of Srinagar's most famous pharmacy, was shot dead at his shop that evening. Minutes later, a 'chaat' vendor, Virendra Paswan from Bihar, was gunned elsewhere in the city. Almost simultaneously, another civilian, Mohammad Shafi Lone, was killed at Naidkhai in Bandipora. Three days before that, militants shot dead Majid Ahmad Gojri, at Srinagar’s Karan Nagar locality. Later that Saturday night, they gunned down Mohammad Shafi Dar at Batmaloo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-pandit-families-return-from-valley-protest-in-jammu-against-civilian-killings-1039105.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Dalit man beaten to death in Rajasthan over love affair||A Dalit man was allegedly beaten to death by a group of men in Rajasthan's Hanumangarh district over his love affair, police said on Saturday. Three people have been detained in this connection, they said. Taking strong note of the incident, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat hit out at the Congress-led state government for keeping “silence” on the matter. "Rahul ji, don't worry about Lakhimpur where Yogi ji has his governance and not your dear Gehlot ji. Show some courage to speak about the murder of Dalit youth in Prempura of Rajasthan so that people get to know how truthful you are?" he said in a tweet in Hindi. The incident took place on October 7 in Prempura area of Hanumangarh where the accused thrashed Jagdish with sticks until he died. The culprits also shot a video of the entire incident in which they are seen giving water to the victim to drink and then thrashing him repeatedly with sticks. The accused later dumped Jagdish’s body outside his residence, police said. Meanwhile, the victim’s family members refused to take the body demanding early arrest of the accused and adequate compensation. According to police, the incident took place over the Dalit man’s love affair. “A case has been registered against 11 people. Three people -- Mukesh, Om Prakash and Hansraj -- have been detained and two teams have been constituted to nab the remaining accused,” Pilibanga SHO Inder Kumar said. SDM Ranjeet Kumar on Saturday met the victim’s family members and convinced them to cremate the body. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-man-beaten-to-death-in-rajasthan-over-love-affair-1039110.html
09-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri case: Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son arrested after 11 hours of questioning||Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, accused of running over four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur was arrested on Saturday by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the incident after a marathon grilling lasting for over eleven hours. This comes six days after eight people were killed in violence during a protest by the farmers in the region. According to the police sources, Ashish was arrested after he failed to satisfactorily answer the questions posed by the cops. Sources said that he was evasive and non-cooperative. ''Ashish has been arrested as he did not cooperate with the police,'' a senior police official said in Lakhimpur Kheri. Ashish, who failed to appear before the cops on Friday, drove to the police lines in Lakhimpur Kheri town, accompanied by his lawyer, and submitted himself for questioning. According to the police sources here, Ashish handed over around a dozen pen drives, which purportedly contained videos showing his presence elsewhere on the day the incident had occurred. He also submitted a few affidavits containing statements of the witnesses, who claimed that he was not present on the spot on October 3, when eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence at Tikonia in the district. Sources said that Ashish was confronted with the videos, which were in possession of the police and was grilled on his whereabouts at the time of the incident. A large number of BJP workers had gathered outside the police lines while Ashish was questioned by the cops. Ashish was earlier called for questioning by the cops on Friday but he failed to appear before the police.  While both Ashish and his father Ajay Mishra had claimed that the former was not present in any of the vehicles, one of which ran over a crowd of farmers, the farmers claimed that the minister's son was in one of the SUVs with a friend of his. Hundreds of farmers had held protests against Ajay Mishra over his remarks threatening them with dire consequences if they continued to oppose the new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-case-union-minister-ajay-mishras-son-arrested-after-11-hours-of-questioning-1039114.html
09-10-2021||Opinion||A Nobel Prize for a Russian compromise||By Leonid Bershidsky There’s plenty of symbolism to Russian editor Dmitry Muratov’s Nobel Peace Prize. The media outlet he edits, Novaya Gazeta, started, in a way, with another Nobel — Mikhail Gorbachev’s: He spent part of his 1990 Peace Prize to buy computers for the Novaya start-up in 1993. The award also comes almost exactly 15 years after Novaya journalist Anna Politkovskaya was gunned down in Moscow; she was one of several at the publication to lose their lives as a result of their reporting. And yet, as much as Politkovskaya, for example, may have deserved such a distinction for her courageous coverage of the war in Chechnya, Muratov’s prize — meant to support independent Russian journalism at a time when President Vladimir Putin’s regime appears to be out to eradicate it — sends entirely the wrong message.  In 2019, Proekt, an independent Russian investigative project, published a long story about the unusual links between Sergei Chemezov, an old friend of Putin’s and head of the giant Rostec State Corp., and various “liberals.” The story alleged that Chemezov, who is also friendly with Muratov, had been funding Novaya via his business partner Sergey Adonyev; in exchange, a special approval procedure allegedly existed at the publication for stories about Chemezov and Rostec, and some Novaya journalists ended up publishing their exposes of the Putin crony elsewhere. Muratov flatly denied taking money from Chemezov or doing him any journalistic favors, but is quoted by Proekt admitting that Adonyev was a sponsor.  That’s an interesting enough association, though. As part of its research into the Russian part of the so-called Pandora Papers, the investigative outfit Important Stories alleged that in 2012, Adonyev lent his yacht — free of charge — to Anton Vaino, soon to become Putin’s chief of staff; a long-standing Chemezov associate was allegedly along for the ride. Here’s why I mention these two investigations. Proekt was banned by the Russian government earlier this year as an “undesirable organization” and its journalists were declared “foreign agents”; editor Roman Badanin was forced into emigration. Important Stories and its journalists have also been designated as “foreign agents,” making it near impossible for them to interview Russian officials. They are obliged to refer to the designation in every story and social media post and to account for every penny spent — even for personal needs — to the Russian Justice Ministry. This is what happens to independent journalists in 2021 Russia; Muratov dedicated his prize to the assassinated Novaya journalists and the “foreign agents” — in the full knowledge that nothing of the kind can happen to him.Putin’s press secretary Dmitry Peskov commented thus on Muratov’s Nobel: We can congratulate Dmitry Muratov, he has been consistently true to his ideals in his work. He is talented, he is courageous. And of course, this is a high distinction. We congratulate him. Asked whether Putin would send his personal greetings, Peskov replied, “Give it time.”  When Russian-speaking Belarussian writer Svetlana Alexievich, a sworn enemy of the Putin regime, won a Nobel Prize for Literature in 2015 and immediately spoke about the Russian occupation of parts of Ukraine, Kremlin felicitations weren’t forthcoming. “I’m sure everyone is congratulating her on winning the Nobel prize,” Peskov said then. “But Svetlana probably lacks the information she would need for a positive assessment of the situation in Ukraine.” Margarita Simonyan, editor-in-chief of the state propaganda channel RT, also congratulated Muratov, noting that he “actively and passionately helps sick children.” Indeed, Muratov pledged part of his prize to a charity foundation supporting children with rare diseases; the organization, Good Deeds Circle, was set up by Putin’s personal decree. It won’t be an eye-opener for anyone if I say Russia is a complicated place. Muratov, for instance, also calls Konstantin Ernst, the CEO of Russia’s powerful state-owned Channel One and impresario of the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics opening ceremonies, a “good friend.” It’s difficult for foreigners to understand how an editor whose rhetoric sounds stringently anti-regime and whose publication doesn’t appear to toe any kind of pro-Kremlin line can be friends with Putin’s associates and honored members of the regime establishment. How can an authoritarian government strangle independent news outlets with one hand and use the other to embrace the editor of a hard-hitting paper? The answer to this question is that connected “liberals” have their uses. Muratov’s close friend Alexei Venediktov, editor of Echo Moskvy radio, another reputedly free and independent news organization, recently served as the public face of an electronic voting campaign in Moscow. As the e-voting results came under attack for questionable statistical anomalies, Venediktov continued defending them — and Muratov, in turn, publicly defended Venediktov. That’s just one example of the kind of compromise required of such token “liberal” figures in a country that imprisons real dissidents, like corruption fighter Alexei Navalny, or effectively forbids them to practice their trade, like the “foreign agent” reporters. What other compromises are made behind closed doors, we’ll never know — but personal liberties don’t come free in Putin’s Russia. “If somebody has devised a plan to give the prize to a regime-loyal person from Russia so that, God forbid, the prize doesn’t go to Navalny or some other political prisoner or political emigre, that’s a devilishly sophisticated blow to our country, its present and future,” economist Konstantin Sonin wrote on Facebook. “If someone has organized this as a ‘compromise’ — let’s show some love to these Russians but let’s not bait the bear, that’s even stupider than the other option.”Sonin is right about the kind of message Muratov’s prize sends to Russian journalists and activists who have rejected compromises and refused to make friends with regime figures looking for “liberals” to co-opt. But I’m not sure the effect is intentional. Rather, I fear the judges can’t quite see the distinction between Muratov and Navalny, Muratov and Badanin, Muratov and Politkovskaya. They don’t know or care who drinks with whom in Moscow, which parties people attend, which charities they favor; their impulse is to support the free press in Russia, and they don’t see what might be wrong with honoring what could be plausibly described as its last remnants; it’s not even a consideration that the plausibility is enhanced by the demise of truly independent outlets. That’s one reason Peskov might raise his glass to Muratov: One of the Putin regime’s underrated but important resources is the ignorance of foreigners. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-nobel-prize-for-a-russian-compromise-1038889.html
09-10-2021||Opinion||India-Japan strategic thrust amid trade, investment lag||India's relationship with Japan is arguably its most crucial foreign commitment within the evolving Asian security and economic architecture. The recent summit meeting on the sidelines of the UN Security Council between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his then-Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga gave a significant fillip to the bilateral by highlighting a joint commitment to "free and open" Indo-Pacific. This is the baseline of the strategic relationship. Given that the Japanese Navy is arguably the most formidable force in terms of technological superiority and drilling in its littoral, it was a clear warning to China that the two navies intend to work even more closely together. The meeting was unusual in its tough wording, which also said that the two countries oppose "economic coercion and unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force in the East and South China Seas". The relationship was further affirmed when PM Modi called up the new Japanese prime minister, Fumio Kishida, on Friday. The new Japanese PM is a known hawk on his China policy and is likely to double Japan's defence budget beyond the traditional one per cent of its GDP. Media reports said that the two leaders spoke of "elevating the Japan - India special strategic and global partnership to a new level", and Modi extended an invitation to visit India. The other highlight of the two PM meeting was in the infrastructure sector. India is working with Japan to offer a regional counter on both the One Belt One Road by China and the Chinese strategy of surrounding India with the so-called string of pearls. China is pouring billions of dollars attempting to encircle India through strategic thrusts by developing the port of Gwadar in Pakistan, Hambantota in Sri Lanka and the Kyaukphyu port in Myanmar. But these are mainly debt-driven projects and Chinese debt rates are at around 7 per cent for these projects. In contrast, the Japanese marquee projects in India, including the metro rail, the dedicated Delhi-Mumbai freight corridor and the bullet trains between Delhi and Mumbai and Delhi and Varanasi, are at just over 1 per cent interest rate. The joint development of projects by India and Japan in third countries was also reportedly finalised at the summit meeting with a new shipping terminal at Colombo as the first port of call. This is an old partnership that began with the Indo-Japanese joint development of an LNG terminal in 2018 in Sri Lanka, but now there is political capital at the highest level to push several projects. Bangladesh, too, has been on the radar of the two countries, with Japanese trading house Marubeni and India's Larsen & Toubro building the 400-MW Bibiyana-III Gas Based Combined Cycle Power in 2016. Both countries are reportedly planning to co-develop at least three other power projects in Bangladesh. In 2018, India and Japan built a rail system constructing Bangladesh's first mass rapid transit. The politico-military dimension of this relationship is also very significant. In September 2019, an "Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement" was signed that allows the two countries' militaries to exchange supplies and services on a reciprocal basis and visits to each other's ports. The military significance is that the islands of Andaman and Nicobar are vital airbases and naval anchors that can cut off the access of the PLA navy beyond the South China Sea - especially with the Japanese Navy in the flank acting in an inter operatable manner. With Japan now angling for nuclear-powered submarines and India already in possession of these assets, going beyond the South China Sea and into the Indian Ocean could run into a gathering storm over the next decade for the PLA navy. For the India-Japan relationship, things look set for the next level. However, India and Japan need to bring their bilateral trade and investment relation to a higher stage for sustained global heft. Japan is a vital partner in infrastructure development for India, and its direct aid is a critical component of India's social security goals. India has been the largest single recipient of Japanese overseas development assistance since 2003, and the total disbursal is three trillion yen. Yet the bilateral trade has lagged, as has foreign direct investment by Japan. India and Japan signed the comprehensive economic partnership agreement (CEPA) in 2011, aimed at eliminating tariffs on 90 per cent of Japanese exports to India, such as auto parts and 97 per cent of imports from India, including agricultural and fisheries products. Japan's exports to India since the agreement have gone up from $8.3 billion in 2010 to US$ 12.7 billion in 2018, but India's exports to Japan have remained at the same level in 2019 as they were in 2010. This has resulted in a massive mismatch and a ballooning trade deficit of about $3.5 billion in 2019. While some marquee Indian firms have huge Japanese investments, such as Suzuki, Oyo and Zee entertainment, overall Japanese investment in India has been tepid. Indeed, FDI inflow into India from Japan fell from a peak of about $29 billion in 2016-17 to less than $20 billion in 2018-19 just before the pandemic. India and Japan need to revitalise the relationship of the two most vibrant free-market maritime democracies for their own sake and meet the threat from an aggressive China. The economic relationship would be a good place to start. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-japan-strategic-thrust-amid-trade-investment-lag-1038980.html
09-10-2021||Opinion||Chinese checkers: What exactly is Beijing up to?||Chinese behaviour, post-Covid pandemic, has been puzzlingly proactive -- to the point of aggressiveness. Earlier, they were better behaved, and Google associated Chinese puzzles with names like Tangrams (which consists of seven flat pieces of triangles/rectangles that could be assembled to not only form a square but a host of human figures, animals and landscapes whose silhouettes were provided in the box) progressing on to the more complex strategy game called Mahjong, which is usually played by 3-4 players. However, nowadays, aggressive behaviour is seen not only with respect to Taiwan or India or the South China Sea but also vis-a-vis Australia/European Union/America, giving rise to the description ‘Wolf Warriors’ for Chinese diplomats. Then, within China, public disciplining of some of the largest Chinese e-commerce companies – such as Alibaba, the Chinese ride-sharing leader Didi, New Oriental/Tal Education and a host of other Chinese e-education companies -- keeps getting announced by an otherwise secretive and enigmatic governance system. Basically, companies with successful Wall Street standing seem to be experiencing newly devised regulatory action, even though, post-2008, the primary growth engine, other than realty, has been the tech sector, which not only accounts for almost 40% of the Chinese economy (according to Goldman Sachs) but is also the envy of other countries. The Chinese dollar bond market is also currently in turmoil. It is the second largest after America’s, though it was opened to foreign investors only a few years back through government-controlled schemes such as Bond Connect Programme and Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor schemes. A good 20% of the market is in non-treasury or non-policy bonds issued by realty companies or local governments. This turmoil started with the ongoing slow-motion unravelling of the property construction giant, the Evergrande Group. Evergrande is China’s second largest property developer, with $355 billion in assets across 1,300 developments. It has 200,000 employees and 3-4 million contract labourers for construction. The company started delaying repayments after the recent promulgation of ‘Three Red Lines’. These specify that the property developer’s ratio of liabilities to assets must always remain below 70%, ratio of net debt to equity always remain below 100%, and ratio of cash to short-term debt always be at least 100 %. Several other Chinese property companies are reporting similar distress or debt payment delays. Only one of China’s 15 largest property developers is supposed to be fully compliant, setting off global alarm regarding the overseas liabilities of these companies. Another alarming consequence for global investors has been the resultant collapse in land sales by the local governments. This previously generated almost a third of local government revenue required to help pay principal/interest on several hundred billion of dollar debts raised by thousands of local government financing vehicles (LGVFs). The oddity is that the Chinese regulatory system had, as early as 2005, perfected their system for obtaining micro-information on economic players through an Aadhaar-type unique identification system for all types of borrowers and exporters and was thus well aware of the borrowers’ indebtedness and the implications of regulatory changes. Then, there is news coming out that several provinces in China are reporting electricity shortages on account of regulatory cutbacks. Manufacturers and local cities are reporting long-drawn power cuts. China has never reported electricity shortages in the last 20 years but recently publicly committed to peak its CO2 emission by 2030 and attain carbon neutrality by 2060. Though China has always micro-monitored economic parameters, using the now well-known Li Keqiang index, certain provinces were suddenly (and oddly) found using more electricity than they had committed to. As a correction, provinces were classified into red, yellow and green zones and up to 90% reduction ordered for red zone provinces. Adverse impacts on fertilizer, steel, aluminium, cement, glass and ceramic industries are already being experienced and fears regarding supply disruptions in electronics, component manufacturing and chip availability are being voiced. This will also disrupt container availability, creating its own separate chain effects on global trade. Adverse side-effects are likely on global inflation, in particular food inflation, perhaps aggravating the fallout of the easy money policies being followed by the EU/US to restore growth in the post-Covid environment. A possible side-effect could also have been a sudden increase in Chinese demand for a greener fuel, natural gas, exerting pressure elsewhere. It may not be entirely coincidental that the benchmark European gas prices are now equivalent to over $200/barrel oil, creating an interesting prelude to the UN Climate change conference, COP26, scheduled to start in Glasgow, at the end of October. Perhaps a clue arises from the coincidental fact that post-2008 global financial crisis, China altered its financial model. It increased usage of external borrowings for domestic projects while reducing the size of its cash reserves by venturing into overseas commercial project lending. In 2010, the gross external debt of government/semi government/private companies (in various currencies, including Yuan/RMB) had been $0.5 trillion on a GDP of $6.09 trillion. It now stands at $2.4 Trillion on a GDP of $14.7 trillion. Chinese Forex reserves are currently $3.3 trillion, marginally different from the $2.8 trillion of 2010 (of which, reserves denominated in USD are now only about a third), but its overseas lending (trade plus long-maturity development loans) is now $5.6 trillion versus the earlier $1.6 trillion. In a sense, China has reduced its dependence on the US economy and can afford to play games. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/chinese-checkers-what-exactly-is-beijing-up-to-1039126.html
09-10-2021||Opinion||When loss moves in with us…||The whole world seems to be struggling with loss right now. If one has escaped serious illness or the loss of loved ones to Covid, then there is the loss of a way of life that we all took for granted. Loss, it would seem, moved in with us when the pandemic struck and now refuses to make room for what existed before. And we’re slowly beginning to see that what was before may never return and what is now may never leave completely. But other than the fact that it is taking place on a grand scale, Covid is as good a reminder as any of how we are forever poised on the brink of loss. There is the loss of health, of opportunities, of relationships, and separation, atrocity and abuse, and so on. There seem to be as many ways of experiencing loss as there are experiences themselves. Loss, then, is the companion we never asked for, but also one who never leaves our side. It’s not easy to view loss in this way, however. Our usual response is to blame ourselves or someone else for what has happened. Mark Epstein, a psychotherapist and a writer deeply influenced by the philosophy and psychology of Buddhism, counsels a different approach. “If one can treat trauma as a fact and not as a failing, one has a chance to learn from the inevitable slings and arrows that come one’s way,” Epstein writes in his book, The Trauma of Everyday Life.  My own learning about loss (as an adult conscious of its workings) began just over a decade ago when I willingly decided to move cities and take a break from work as a political journalist. Having moved from Delhi, India’s news capital, to Hyderabad, I found I was unable to deal with the loss of the many things I had assumed as a given during my time chronicling the world of politics. Without going into too much detail, it was about the loss of an identity that I was deeply attached to, as much as it was about the loss of tangible things. It took me many years and some hard lessons about the perils of underestimating loss to begin discerning how it worked. Watching someone very dear wrestling with it finally brought home to me what many have said on the subject of loss and suffering down the centuries. Loss of any kind operates on two levels at once, and continues to bother us until we are ready or willing to distinguish between them. The first aspect of loss is the actual physical one, the one we can do nothing to change. The second aspect is the one to do with suffering. This is the face of loss that we are unwilling to let go of, watering it with memory and desire for various reasons. It is perhaps with this second aspect that one has some room for, let’s say, negotiation. My questions regarding this latter facet have revolved around whether there is a point when it becomes possible to see that one ‘suffers’ not because one has no choice in the matter, but because one can’t hold loss at a slight distance and question its hold over one’s mind. Or realise what should be self-evident but isn’t always clear to someone in the tight embrace of loss — that loss happens to everybody, not just to us. I have sensed, and this is something for each of us to validate with our experience, that when we find these ways of approaching loss, something quite unprecedented happens. The place where loss resides in us is finally open for something else to take root, or flow in. Then, there is the possibility of finding a kernel of presence where there was absence, of finding understanding where there was bitterness, and of finding love, both for oneself and others, where there was rejection. Loss eventually becomes a part of us. We agree to make place for it. We accommodate its bittersweet footfall in our lives as the signature tune of life’s way with us. We let it, and ourselves, be. And then perhaps in some odd moment we find ourselves wondering, as if viewing our lives from the outside in, whether we have indeed lost something or found something.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-loss-moves-in-with-us-1039127.html
09-10-2021||Opinion||J&K has RTI, but Delhi won’t let it work||The last day of October will mark the completion of two years since the bifurcation of the former state of Jammu and Kashmir into the J&K and Ladakh Union Territories and the suspension of their right to self-government. While defending the precipitate action, the Jammu-ite Union Minister of State for Personnel, Jitendra Singh, proudly declared that the central government had given the Right to Information to the people of J&K. What he did not acknowledge was that the J&K Reorganisation Act had actually repealed the erstwhile state’s own decade-old RTI law which was stronger than the central law. The fact that people in J&K are vested with the right to know since 1975 when the Supreme Court held it to be a part of every citizen’s fundamental right to free speech and expression was also lost in the propaganda to justify what many people in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh denounce as an extremely humiliating and counter-intuitive measure. Nevertheless, the department guiding the implementation of the central RTI Act worked with the local administration to save the appeals and complaints pending before the abolished State Information Commission. Thanks to the then Central Chief Information Commissioner, Bimal Julka, hundreds of case files were transferred to Delhi for adjudication. Soon after, however, he retired. Then began the drama of the “disposal” of appeals and complaints from J&K. Complaints were dismissed outright on the ground that no first appeal had been filed with the concerned public authority -- a fictive requirement created under the central Act that did not previously apply to the J&K law. Scores of RTI appeals that actually fulfilled this requirement were also either returned or rejected on other flimsy grounds. As the Central Information Commission (CIC) has not yet cultivated the good habit of periodically publishing data about appeals it upholds or rejects, the fate of these transferred cases will remain a sarkari secret. Researchers cannot glean this information from its decisions database either, because the CIC gave a quiet burial several years ago to the keyword search function on its website. While the long-drawn communications and internet blackout and curfews imposed after its bifurcation prevented people in J&K from using the central RTI Act, both the central government and the local administration are yet to create online RTI submission facilities for them. Meanwhile, central public authorities are on the one hand mastering the art of feigning that they do not hold any information about what happened in J&K before and soon after its bifurcation, and on the other, perfecting the technique of refusing other kinds of information on grounds of national security. In an RTI matter which former Chief Information Commissioner Wajahat Habibullah and I jointly took to the CIC, the Union Home Ministry pretended that it did not have any information about the communications blockade and the curfews imposed in 2019 or the names of thousands of people detained under the draconian J&K Public Safety Act. The CIC swallowed this claim hook, line and sinker. In another matter, Rashtrapati Bhavan cited ‘fiduciary relationship’ and refused to disclose information about the date and time when files relating to the imposition of President’s Rule and J&K’s status change were placed before the President. The CIC remanded the matter back for reconsideration. Earlier this month, information was refused again, citing threats to the security and integrity of the country, without a speaking order, upon which the CIC had insisted. We might never know if those files were given due consideration or merely rubber-stamped. If this is ‘empowerment’ of the people in J&K through RTI, I need to revisit my dictionary. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/jk-has-rti-but-delhi-won-t-let-it-work-1039128.html
09-10-2021||Opinion||A Bear-Dragon alliance?||In answer to America’s alliance and coalition-making targeting China and Russia, the latter two countries might be on the way to firming up their own alliance. Beijing and Moscow have been enhancing their interactions, coordination and cooperation at the global and regional levels. Close on the heels of the Quad summit in Washington on September 24, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, speaking at the Council on Foreign and Defence Policy in Moscow on October 2, criticised the US-led Indo-Pacific strategy as lacking in consensus and for breaking the previous ‘Asia-Pacific’ regional construct. In March, after a virtual meeting of the Quad leaders, Lavrov had visited China to criticise the “rules-based order” – a major aspect of the Quad narrative -- as being against the Russia-China preferred “global governance” construct. Although Lavrov noted Russian neutrality in the backdrop of the armed stalemate between India and China, following the Galwan incident, by suggesting that both are Russia’s “friends and brothers”, and sending signals of restrained military sales of hi-tech equipment to China during the border standoff, the larger US-Russia relations could that in the near future. The US has declared Russia and China its “strategic competitors” and has kept up the sanctions imposed on Russia over its annexation of the Crimea. The US also abrogated the intermediate range nuclear forces treaty and the 34-nation Open Skies Treaty that allows mutual observation flights over military facilities and reduces chances of accidental war. This resulted in the Russian pivot to its east. A year ago, Russian President Vladimir Putin surprised the international community by seemingly suggesting that while a military alliance does not exist with China currently, one could be forged in the future. He said, “Without any doubt, our cooperation with China is bolstering the defence capability of PLA.” Russia, he said, had shared sensitive military technologies with China. Russian ambassador to China Andrey Denisov interpreted Putin’s comments to imply that things had gone beyond a traditional alliance in many ways. China and Russia do not need to establish a military alliance because their relationship is strong enough already. On the other hand, China’s foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin, replying to Putin’s comments, said that both countries have been consistent advocates of international cooperation and harmonious coexistence between major countries. This indicates that while Russia may be interested in upgrading ties with China to an alliance, China wants to continue “multipolarity” through the loose association with Russia to protect itself from the US. An alliance with Russia could be problematic for China’s rise in the international system in the longer term. Hence, Beijing perhaps wants only a tactical understanding with Moscow. A mutual security understanding between the two countries was provided by Article 7 of their July 2001 joint statement: “China and Russia will participate in ensuring the stability and security of the Asian and Pacific region and consolidate the confidence and cooperation in that region on a bilateral and multilateral basis.” However, while Russia has endorsed China’s positions on Xinjiang, Taiwan, Hong Kong and others, China is largely silent on the South Ossetia, Abkhazia and Crimean developments. Alongside, even as China is making constant adjustments vis-à-vis the US – with an understanding recently on trade and Taiwan – it is skillfully using Russia as a shield in its battles with the US. Coordination at the UN, SCO, BRICS, and in cyber and space domains are a few areas of such an “united front” with Russia. Russia had invested much energy in the Asia-Pacific construct with China. It is a member of the ASEAN Regional Forum, East Asia Summit and the defence ministerial grouping. While the traditional friendship between Russia and Vietnam had waned after the Soviet Union disintegrated, Moscow is still a major source of Kilo-class submarines, Su-27 and other equipment to Southeast Asian countries. In the cesspool of South China Sea conflicts, cleverly, Vietnam (and the Indian ONGC Videsh Limited) have reposed confidence in Russia’s Rosneft. All these have provided Moscow a foothold in the region. In this context, while Russia and China have renewed the 2001 Sino-Russian treaty recently, and conduct intensive military “interoperability” exercises, including in the South China Sea, India needs to watch out and take countermeasures against any emergence of a Russia-China alliance. Also, India needs to keep an eye on the one area of growing friction between the two countries – Siberia. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-bear-dragon-alliance-1039129.html
09-10-2021||Opinion||You think ‘drugs’ happens only to star kids and rich spoilt brats?||The day that my son was to leave to start college was nearing. 400 km away from home, he was all set to begin life as a hostelite at a prestigious campus after having been a fairly sheltered middle-class boy in Bengaluru. “Should I tell him now?” I had struggled with myself the day before. Finally, while packing his sports bag, it happened. “Listen, you know that I am not a micro-manager type to call every day, ask where you are, who you are with. We all trust you. But tell me something that comforts me so that I do not worry even when I hear all sorts of things…students falling for drugs in hostels...” “Amma,” he smiled calmly, “do you really think that I haven’t seen all that already around me in school life? When you used to drop me for football near Bharat’s place? The guy in the corner, you think he used to sell only samosas? And that excursion all of us went to…If I had to succumb, it didn’t need me this long, Ma.” Aryan Khan, 23, and son of India’s star supremo Shahrukh Khan, is not the first young man to come under the drugs cloud. But if you were to go by the thousands of news clips, posts and WhatsApp forwards this week that spilt over with sarcasm, scoldings and parenting advice, you would imagine drugs happen only to kids of film stars or very rich dads. Reality check: Only two weeks ago, narcotics sleuths in Karnataka busted a gang that was into ‘door delivery’ of ganja (also known by names like marijuana, weed, bhang, charas, dope, cannabis), a chain that also involved food delivery boys. In 2020, a 10-city survey done by the renowned AIIMS, covering nearly 6,000 students, found that one in 14 students had used some or the other substance (inhalants, ganja, alcohol, tobacco) the preceding year. The hard truth: No strata of society is spared the drug menace. Rural, rich, poor, those on streets, from broken families, those in happy homes – all are vulnerable, some more than others. And every person deserves rehabilitation and society’s support, equally. As long as it is happening to someone else, drugs is a scandal. If it touches our loved ones, that’s when we realise it is a struggle. Those people who think it doesn’t happen to “people like us” -- do they even talk to their own young at home? Turns out they don’t. “Indian parents find three topics very tough to discuss with their children: sex, drugs, mental health issues.” This, coming from teen health specialist and parenting coach Dr H S Anuradha, who has been seeing troubled teenagers for over two decades, should tell us how deep the problem is. The parents of the present generation believe, on the one hand, in giving their children whatever they ask for. Since they have the spending power that their parents didn’t, their kids get toys, games, designer outfits, destination holiday -- on just asking. Or ordering, via phone. The surprising fallout for a have-everything person is: not being satisfied by anything. This discontent, that Anuradha senses in most young people today, doesn’t find an outlet. To add to that is the exposure via social media to the lives of the glamorous, the ‘normalisation’ of alcohol and use of weed, etc., in parties they go to, and the pressure to fit in. This pressure must be far more for the rich and famous. Also, in some countries, like say Canada or Jamaica, it is legal to smoke up. Young people, Anuradha says, struggle when in places like these, initially wanting to be cool with it, and very soon unable to deal with the deadly repercussions of drug use. And yet, most often when they fall into this trap, all they get from elders at home is lecture, advice, shame. They are talked down to, not talked with – so they would rather not share at all, and fall more into the same abyss. The key is to not condemn or crucify, but the converse. The key is to be receptive parents, coaches, teachers who are willing to listen. Whether Aryan Khan actually did drugs is left to the cops and the court. Ours is not to throw stones, our own house is made of glass. And all our young just as breakable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/you-think-drugs-happens-only-to-star-kids-and-rich-spoilt-brats-1039130.html
09-10-2021||South||Army truck overturns after hitting divider in Kerala||An army truck hit a divider and overturned at Kanjikode in this north Kerala district in the early hours of Saturday, police said. However, the army personnel, travelling in the vehicle, escaped without any major injury, they said. The incident took place when the driver of the truck tried to avoid hitting a pedestrian attempting to cross the road. The vehicle was heading to Thiruvananthapuram from Coimbatore in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. A police official said there were over 10 army personnel inside the vehicle and those who suffered injuries were rushed to the government district hospital.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/army-truck-overturns-after-hitting-divider-in-kerala-1038937.html
09-10-2021||South||Kerala police team on ganja hunt gets stranded in forest||A group of police personnel, which went in search of a suspected ganja plantation, got stranded inside the forest in this district after it lost its way, police said on Saturday. The 13-member-team, led by Narcotic Cell DySP Sreenivas, went inside the Malampuzha-Walayar forests here based on a tip-off that a ganja plantation was located deep inside the woods on Friday morning. However, the officials, by evening, informed their colleagues that they got stuck in the forests as they got lost. They also said they spent the night sitting atop a rock. Based on the information, two groups comprising police and forest personnel ventured into the forest from Walayar and Kava in Malampuzha respectively to bring back them safely, police here added.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-team-on-ganja-hunt-gets-stranded-in-forest-1038957.html
09-10-2021||South||Heavy rain lashes Hyderabad; flooding in several areas||Several low-lying areas in Hyderabad witnessed inundation on Saturday following heavy rain in the city. Lingojiguda Ward Office at Saroornagar in the city received 131.5 mm of rainfall, while downpour was also recorded in a number of other locations here during 0830 hours on Friday to 0600 hours on Saturday, according to the rainfall data of Telangana State Development Planning Society. Rainwater entered homes in different residential colonies at Hayat Nagar, where some residents complained that their household items were washed away. A man fell in a drainage along with his bike at Chintalkunta late on Friday night and rescue and relief personnel made efforts to trace him. The man, however, reached home safely, official sources said. Many two-wheelers parked at a cinema theatre were damaged on Friday night after a wall collapsed on them following heavy rain. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) Mayor Gadwal Vijaya Lakshmi and LB Nagar MLA D Sudheer Reddy visited rain-hit areas on Friday night. The Mayor, who held a tele-conference with GHMC officials last night, urged them to take measures to ensure that no life or property is lost due to the rains. The GHMC in a press release on Saturday sought city residents to be alert in view of the heavy rains forecast during the day. It also advised them to step out of their homes only for urgent work. The IMD, in its Summary of Weather, said a number of places in Telangana received good rainfall. Saroornagar in Ranga Reddy district (GHMC) received 15 cm of rainfall, followed by 10 cm of rainfall at Shadnagar (also in Ranga Reddy district).  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rain-lashes-hyderabad-flooding-in-several-areas-1038963.html
09-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin to have fewer vehicles in convoy||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin has directed the police to reduce the number of vehicles in his convoy and not to stop vehicles on the road during his movement. Sources said the CM issued directions to the police on Saturday after reports that people were being inconvenienced as their vehicles are being stopped during the movement of his convoy. Accordingly, the number of vehicles in his convoy has come down to six from earlier 12. "The CM has told officials in clear terms that public movement should not be interrupted during his travel. The traffic police has been instructed to follow this strictly," a senior government official said. The police have been asked to ensure smooth movement of the CM's convoy without disturbing people and the traffic on roads. This is probably the first time that a Chief Minister in Tamil Nadu has issued instructions to reduce the number of vehicles in his convoy. The move by Stalin comes a week after the Madras High Court pulled up the state police for stopping the vehicle of a judge during the movement of CM's convoy. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-m-k-stalin-to-have-fewer-vehicles-in-convoy-1039013.html
09-10-2021||South||HC stalls Andhra Pradesh housing scheme, calling it 'hazardous'||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has directed the state government to immediately halt construction of houses for the poor as the scheme violated the rule or law and the Constitution besides various rules. It also directed the state government to set up an expert committee to examine a gamut of issues related to the scheme, including the possible health hazards to beneficiaries, and elicit public opinion before proceeding further. The Court declared as "illegal and arbitrary" various clauses in three different government orders (GOs) relating to the Pedalandariki Illu scheme and said they were "inconsistent with one another". The Court, in particular reference to these GOs, commented that the "state has no definite policy" and it changed from time to time. It also set aside a particular clause in one of the GOs (wherein all allotments were made only to women beneficiaries) saying it was "unconstitutional, illegal, arbitrary and violative of Articles 14, 15 (1) of the Constitution of India". It defeated the object of Article 39 of the Constitution of India and violated Articles 7 and 17 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 26 of International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The HC directed the state to allot house sites to men and transsexuals on par with women, subject to their eligibility. "The whole process being undertaken for such large-scale of project is too vague and unscientific. Allotment of land must be founded on sound, transparent, discernable and well-defined policy. There is any amount of mischief in the process of allotment," Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy observed, delivering a verdict late on Friday night on a batch of writ petitions challenging the process of allotment of house sites and construction of houses for the poor. The size of house proposed to be built under the scheme Pedalandariki Illu (housing for all the poor) in both urban and rural areas was not in accordance with the National Building Code, the AP Building Rules, 2017, and the model building bye-laws issued by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the judge noted. "The state is bound to follow the guidelines issued by World Health Organisation while providing house sites to houseless poor for construction of houses. But the state did not take them into consideration while allotting minimum site of one cent in municipal areas and 1.5 cents in gram panchayats for construction of houses by houseless poor," Justice Satyanarayana Murthy added. In any view of the matter, approved layouts were not in consonance with the Andhra Pradesh Building Rules, 2017. Guidelines issued under the Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojana were also not followed. "It is highly difficult for anyone to raise construction in the limited area of 48.4 square yards in municipalities. On account of cluster housing and group housing, the environment impact and health hazards, fire safety, adequacy of drinking water and facilities to drain out sullage water is to be examined by the state before insisting the allottees to construct house in the site allotted to them," he said. Coming down heavily on the beneficiary selection process, the Judge remarked that "any amount of mischief can be played for identification, especially since the power of conducting enquiry is vested with the village/ward volunteers whose competency is highly doubtful." Persons belonging to the ruling party were given prime plots, though not eligible. "When some beneficiaries questioned the concerned (officials) about the process being implemented, who in turn, gave a reply that whatever given is a charity. This sort of attitude is highhanded and a colourable exercise of power," the judge observed. He said the whole approach was in violation of rule of law, a basic feature of the Constitution and its fabric. The process of allotment/assignment (of land) to the weaker sections of the society was not a charity, but part of obligation of state as per the Directive Principles of State policy and a Constitutional goal, he stressed. Justice Satyanarayana Murthy directed the government to enhance the plot area, if necessary by acquiring more land, allotted to the beneficiaries and modify the layouts based on the report of the experts committee. He ordered that all construction activity in the sites be stopped till the completion of such exercise. Reacting to the single judge’s order, state Municipal Administration Minister B Satyanarayana requested the court not to go by technical aspects and appreciate the "spirit" behind the scheme. "The intention of the government is to ensure housing for all poor in the state. Hence the massive programme. We will raise an appeal in the court seeking a reconsideration of the whole issue," the Minister said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-stalls-andhra-pradesh-housing-scheme-calling-it-hazardous-1039060.html
09-10-2021||State||Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi is new chief justice of Karnataka HC||Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, a senior judge of the Allahabad High Court's Lucknow Bench, will now be the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court. Born in 1960, Justice Awasthi got himself enrolled as an advocate in 1987 after graduating from Lucknow University. He practised in Civil, Service, Educational matters at Lucknow Bench, Allahabad High Court. He also worked as Assistant Solicitor General of India in Lucknow before his elevation as an Additional Judge on April 13, 2009. He took oath as permanent Judge on December 24, 2010. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/justice-ritu-raj-awasthi-is-new-chief-justice-of-karnataka-hc-1039098.html
09-10-2021||State||I-T raids continue for third consecutive day in Karnataka||The Income Tax Department officials have continued the simultaneous raids in Bengaluru, including in the house of BJP leader B Y Vijayendra's classmate Aravind, contractor Samashekar, said to be a close aide of Umesh, the personal assistant of former chief minister B S Yediyurappa and his sons. According to sources, the I-T officials have seized a large number of documents in the house and office of Somashekar in Basaveshwaranagar. They have also collected the details of tenders of project works taken up by Somashekar. Umesh and Somashekar are said to be in regular contact and allegedly had some transactions. Aravind was abroad when the officials went to raid his house on Thursday. So, the officials had summoned him to come back for questioning. The raid continued in his house for the second day. The officials, who had conducted raids on the house of Aravind in Vasanth Nagar, continued the raid on Saturday too, the raid is also continued in Rahul Enterprises in Sahakaranagar and other contractors. The officials, according to sources, are likely to take all the relevant documents to the Delhi office for further verification and accessing the transactions and total income of each individual including Umesh, contractors, chartered accountants and others. However, the I-T officials refused to disclose if they are going to conclude the raids for now or they still continue with it. They are also tight-lipped on the seizures made in the respective individuals. But, the sources say that they have found several sets of documents relating to properties, movable and immovable properties and the contract works of the government projects majorly of the Irrigation Department. The raids were conducted in around 50 places, including in Bengaluru, Bagalkot and Tumakuru following the irregularities in major projects in the Irrigation Department between 2019 and 2021. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/i-t-raids-continue-for-third-consecutive-day-in-karnataka-1039102.html
09-10-2021||State||Overnight showers pour misery on Kalyana Karnataka||Sharp showers in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday left most of the residential areas in Raichur and Kalaburagi waterlogged, affecting the normal life. In Raichur town alone, more than 300 families in low-lying Siyatalab, Bandargalli, Sukhani Colony, LBS Nagar and several slum areas were affected badly after the overnight rain, coupled with poor drainage system, led to a deluge-like situation. Hundreds spent a sleepless night trying to salvage food grains and other essential commodities after rainwater gushed into their homes. Meanwhile, Kalaburagi city and parts of the district experienced downpour on Friday night. Rain continued to pour till the early hours of Saturday. The overnight showers damaged several houses and left vast tracts of agriculture land waterlogged. Showers caused severe hardships to traders as water gushed into the shops at Super Market, Shahbazaar and commercial complexes at Chowk.  Reservoirs in Kalaburagi district have been receiving good inflow following a sustained wet weather in the region. With Mullamari river reaching a danger mark, huge volume water is being released from Nagaral and Chandrampalli reservoirs.  With catchments receiving good rainfall, Tungabhadra reservoir has come alive. Several monuments in world heritage centre Hampi, including Purandara Mantapa, Vijayanagar-era foot bridge, bath ghat and Kodanadarama Temple, have gone under floodwater after 65,000 cusec of water was released TB dam downstream on Saturday. Elderly man dies in wall collapse Meanwhile, heavy rain has brought both misery and joy in Chikkaballapur and Tumakuru districts. While the Friday night rain filled the water bodies in the parched region, it also damaged houses, road infrastructure and crops in Bagepalli and Chintamani taluks of Chikkaballapur district. A 60-year-old man died after a wall of a cattle shed collapsed on him at Muddapur near Cheluru. Ugraiah of Huchchrangappana Hatti is the victim. An elderly couple, however, had a narrow escape when their house collapsed at Madappalli in Bagepalli taluk.  Many check dams, lakes and tanks have breached. The farmers in the region fear that the high moisture level might adversely impact the yield of vegetables, guava, grapes and flower plants. Incessant rain has infused life into Uttara Pinakini river in Gauribidanur taluk. Parts of Tumakuru district, including the city and Koratagere taluk, have been experiencing spells of moderate rain since Friday evening. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/overnight-showers-pour-misery-on-kalyana-karnataka-1039103.html
09-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai backs NEP, NEET; says he doesn't want grandson to be part of 'Macaulay's education system'||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said the new National Education Policy (NEP) is the need of the hour to enable Indian students compete in the 21st century, while asserting that the views of the RSS on the NEP are nationalistic. Karnataka is the first state to implement the NEP. Bommai also said the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) should continue as it is an extension of the Common Entrance Test (CET) that Karnataka and many other states have been holding for those seeking admission to different colleges. He said Tamil Nadu does not have any experience of the CET and therefore, does not have the right to oppose the NEET. "We are in the 21st century and we don't need Macaulay's education system. Macaulay's is a 200-year-old education system and Europe is seeking change. To suit the 21st-century needs, we need a change," Bommai said at the India Today Conclave here. The NEP not only aims to "rewrite wrong things" but also looks towards the future, he said, adding that with the emergence of science, technology and artificial intelligence, there is a need to prepare rural children to compete in the international community. "We cannot be spectators when our children are not given the right kind of education and not prepared very well to face the world. We are giving the best education for the next generation (through NEP)," the Karnataka chief minister said. He also said there is nothing wrong with what the RSS has said about the NEP. "RSS thoughts are national thoughts. What is wrong with it?" he asked. On opposition parties criticising the NEP, the BJP leader said the Congress is a part of political history and that is why it thinks of history as it suits it. "They have written history and it is about the Nehru and Gandhi family. They have written history about Congressmen. In the Indian independence struggle, peasants, workers and a lot of people laid down their lives. They are anonymous soldiers but were never mentioned. They want to live with the false history," he said. Asked if his father and former Union HRD minister S R Bommai would have been comfortable with the new NEP, he said, "Times have changed. There was no digital world when my father was there. The electronics were not there. Things have changed now. It's a global village now." Bommai further said he was part of "Macaulay's education system and I don't want my grandson to be a part of it. He should be in tune with the most flexible, modern and well-equipped deserving depository of knowledge". On Tamil Nadu opposing the NEET, the Karnataka chief minister said the neighbouring state never had any competitive exam as admission to colleges was based on marks there. However, Karnataka and other states have CET, where children from all walks of life can compete for any college. States with no competitive exams have a lot of seats in the management quota for students from the privileged class, he said. "NEET is nothing new for us. It is an extension of CET for us. We have not only allowed people from Karnataka, but from other states like Bihar in CET. NEET should continue," he asserted. NEET is one competitive exam instead of exams held in states on different dates, causing inconvenience to students, Bommai said. "Tamil Nadu does not have experience of CET, then what right it can have (to oppose)?" he asked. On conflicting views on Tipu Sultan in Karnataka, the chief minister said any ruler of the past has got good and bad things. "A very fact that when Tipu was ruling, there were huge conversions not only of Hindus but Christians. You ask a Mangalorean Christian, what Tipu was. That is the perception he has built.... I don't agree with what he has done to people of his own state, converting people for his political needs," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-backs-nep-neet-says-he-doesnt-want-grandson-to-be-part-of-macaulays-education-system-1038817.html
09-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Dasara rituals should not stop, but Covid protocol should be followed: Royal scion||He is one of the most influential persons on earth, since he was just 22 years old, even though he is not subject to any ranking. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, scion of the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru, is the custodian of the legacy of the 622-year Yadu dynasty. Born as Yaduveer Gopal Raj Urs on March 24, 1992, to Swarup Anand Gopal Raj Urs and Tripurasundari Devi, he is the great-grandson of Jayachamaraja Wadiyar and grand-nephew of Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar. Tripurasundari Devi is the daughter of the late Gayatri Devi — daughter of Jayachamaraja Wadiyar and elder sister of Srikantadatta. Swarup Anand Gopal Raj Urs is a descendant of Prince Subramanya Raj Urs, biological elder brother of Tenth Chamaraja Wadiyar. Despite being related to the erstwhile royal family, Yaduveer was brought up in a normal way. He studied at Vidya Niketan School and Canadian International School in Bengaluru. He did a BA in Economics and English in Boston, USA. He has a penchant for music and plays veena and guitar. His other interests include cricket, reading and writing. Yaduveer, a member of Bettada Kote family, was adopted by Pramoda Devi Wadiyar on February 23, 2015, following the death of her husband Srikantadatta on December 10, 2013. Yaduveer was coronated as the 27th maharaja (titular) on May 28, 2015. He married Trishika Kumari Singh, daughter of Harshwardhan Singh and Maheshree Kumari of Dungarpur in Rajasthan on June 28, 2016. The couple was blessed with Aadyaveer Narasimharaja Wadiyar on December 6, 2017. Yaduveer is involved in various activities related to heritage, culture, environment, entrepreneurship and social welfare through Bherunda Foundation. He spoke to T R Sathish Kumar of DH. At a time when all people and all sectors are affected by the pandemic, how do you see the celebration of Mysuru Dasara? The rituals must go on with all necessary protocols during these trying times. With all protocols followed meticulously, there is no reason why the rituals cannot be undertaken.  The Nadda Habba is conducted by the government and it is up to them to decide the scale of the festivities. However, their ‘habba,’ being secular, is of no ritual importance. Conducting the procession and celebration in a big way will help the economy, but at the risk of attracting huge crowds. Whatever their decision, we extend our cooperation and support. Dasara or any festival in the Indian culture is related to a new beginning. Do you see some hope that the Dasara season will gradually ease the crisis, particularly in Mysuru region?  Our prayers echo this sentiment. We continue the rituals for the prosperity of all in our state and country. The prayers give us the strength to overcome these trying times. Measures like following safety protocols, getting vaccinated and social distancing should not be forgotten. Can you recall Dasara celebrations as an youngster? I would accompany my maternal grandfather Sardar K B Ramachandra Raj Urs to the palace for the festivities. It was a treat to watch the Khas Durbar, conducted by my late father Srikantadatta. My maternal grandfather, who was also brother-in-law to my father, would hold the ‘Pattada Kathi’ (royal sword) and accompany my father during Khas Durbar. It used to be a joyful get-together of all relatives, especially cousins. We would play around and enjoy. We still cherish the Navaratri snacks we used to share. Later, when school and college became priority, we used to attend the last three days of Dasara in the palace. Then, I had no idea that one day I would be the custodian of the legacy and tradition of the Yadu dynasty, which has a heritage of 622 years. What are your memories of watching Jamboo Savari? As children, we would watch the launch of Jamboo Savari from the Durbar Hall of the Palace. It used to be fun. What is ‘Navaratri’ for the custodian of the heritage of the erstwhile Yadu dynasty? Navaratri and Vijayadashami are a celebration of a glorious tradition. The rituals are aimed at giving thanks to Goddess Chamudeshwari for all the good that has come and for further prosperity. My mother Pramoda Devi supervises all arrangements, while I concentrate on the ritual part. She has been doing this for over four decades and she knows every detail like the back of her hand. It is a transformation for me as a symbol of heritage, culture and tradition. The rituals trace their origin to our Puranas like Markandeya Purana, Vishnu Purana and Rig Veda. In olden times, the kings used to perform ‘Ashwamedha Yaga,’ to check rebellion and to expand territory. The last kings to perform it were the Chalukyas. Due to exorbitant expenses and logistics involved, Ashwamedha Yaga faded away. How do you see the evolution of Mysuru Dasara over the years? Navaratri and Vijayadashami are celebrated from time immemorial. But it was taken to the peak by Vijayanagar kings as they had enormous resources. They made it into a military exercise, spiritual and cultural event. The festival is celebrated in mid-monsoon, when agriculture activities are complete. The celebration of Dasara in Srirangapatna by my forefathers is not much talked about. But they were great warriors like Raja Wadiyar, Ranadheera Kanteerava Narasaraja Wadiyar, Dodda Devaraja Wadiyar, and Chikka Devaraja Wadiyar. However, Dasara was given a new dimension by Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar under his welfare state. It evolved to sophistication and pro-people under Tenth Chamaraja Wadiyar, Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and Jayachamaraja Wadiyar. What are your prayers during Navaratri and Vijayadashami puja? I pray for the health and prosperity of the state and its people as enshrined in the shastras. I pray for good rains and good yield for our farmers. In olden days, one used to pray for victory in wars. Now, we pray for success in all our endeavours. How do you see the continuation of the tradition of Mysuru Dasara and the rituals? It will continue in the same manner that my father Srikantadatta conducted it, under the guidance of my mother Pramoda Devi.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dasara-rituals-should-not-stop-but-covid-protocol-should-be-followed-royal-scion-1039093.html
09-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC issues guidelines for recording statements of accused||The High Court of Karnataka has issued several key guidelines to be followed by the trial courts while recording statements of the accused under Section 313 of CrPC. Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar issued these guidelines while setting aside the statement recorded by a sessions court in a murder case. The High Court said that the trial courts should not insist upon the accused to give answers in one word, either ‘true’ or ‘false’.  The court said that Section 313 of CrPC embodies the fundamental principle of 'Audi Alteram Partem' and hence questions must be simple and specific to the evidence against the accused. "Sometimes, a witness may give evidence as regards the collective overt act of two or more accused and in that event a single question may be framed, but each accused must be questioned individually, and their answers must be recorded separately. It is also possible that two or more witnesses may speak identically regarding the overt act of an accused. In that event, the substance of their evidence may be put in a single question," the court said. In the guidelines issued by the court, the trial courts have been directed to pick only incriminatory evidence from oral and documentary evidence and the attention of each accused must be drawn to the evidence adverse or against him/her. In case, a witness has recorded evidence as regards the collective overt act of two or more accused, a single question may be framed. However, each accused must be questioned individually, the bench said.   The guidelines also stated that the attention of the accused must be drawn to the marked documents and material objects if they are incriminatory. The accused shall be questioned regarding mahazars or panchanamas only if they contain incriminatory evidence.  The court added that the accused need not be questioned in regard to evidence given by the formal witnesses, unless anything incriminatory is found in such evidence. The court has directed the Registrar General of the High Court to circulate the order to all the trial courts in the state and also directed the Karnataka Judicial Academy to prepare model questionnaires and circulate to the trial courts for their guidance. In the matter at hand, two petitioners who are accused in a murder case had challenged the statement recorded by the trial judge in Mysuru. They contended that the trial judge insisted upon them to answer in a single word, either false or true to the lengthy questions posed by the court. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-issues-guidelines-for-recording-statements-of-accused-1039100.html
09-10-2021||West||Aryan Khan, other accused in drugs case sent to Arthur Road prison||They are likely to spend the weekend in quarantine cells of the two prisons as the Sessions Court — where they will need to file appeal for bail — would not be working on October 9 which is the second Saturday of the month, police sources said. They would not get any special treatment inside the prison, sources added. On Thursday, the metropolitan magistrate had sent eight accused including Aryan (23) in 14-day judicial custody after their NCB remand ended. Khan and others were brought to the prison after 2.30 pm, officials said. The Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested 18 persons so far after raiding a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and allegedly recovering narcotic drugs. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aryan-khan-other-accused-in-drugs-case-sent-to-arthur-road-prison-1038851.html
09-10-2021||West||Boy injured in leopard attack in Mumbai's Aarey Colony; eighth such incident in a month||A 14-year-old boy was injured in an attack by a leopard at Aarey Colony in suburban Goregaon, police said on Saturday. This is the eighth such attack in the area by a leopard within a month, they said. "The latest incident took place around 9 pm on Friday at unit number 13 of Aarey Colony, when the boy, Darshan Dravid, was walking with his friends in the area," a police official said. After being attacked by the leopard, Darshan cried for help and his friends rushed to rescue him. The feline left him and disappeared into the forest, he said, adding that the boy suffered injuries on his neck, mouth and head. Dravid was taken to a local hospital, from where he was shifted to Jogeshwari Trauma Care Hospital for further treatment, the official said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/boy-injured-in-leopard-attack-in-mumbais-aarey-colony-eighth-such-incident-in-a-month-1038940.html
09-10-2021||West||Tour operator held for duping Haj pilgrims of Rs 2.70 crore by luring them into investment||Police have arrested the owner of a tour operating firm for allegedly cheating the aspirants of Haj and Umrah pilgrimages by seeking investments from them to the tune of over Rs 2.70 crore at Bhiwandi town in Maharashtra's Thane district, an official said on Saturday. The action was taken by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Thane police's crime branch, he said. The accused has been identified as Naseer Abdul Shakur Shaikh, 46, the owner of Al Haram International Tours and Travels, the police said. People had approached him for going on Haj and Umra pilgrimages. Shaikh had taken money from them for making arrangements for pilgrimages. However, he later lured them into investing money into some private firms and promised to give them lucrative returns. However, he failed to return their money. The amount involved in the case is Rs 2,70,09,470, they added. He was booked under IPC section 420 (cheating) and others and also under the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1999, and arrested from Kalyan on October 5, the police said. A local court remanded him police custody till October 12, they said.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tour-operator-held-for-duping-haj-pilgrims-of-rs-270-crore-by-luring-them-into-investment-1038941.html
09-10-2021||West||NCP leader names BJP leader whose kin was allegedly let off by NCB hours after detention in cruise drugs case||NCP leader Nawab Malik on Saturday claimed that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had initially detained 11 persons from a Goa-bound cruise ship off Mumbai coast last week, but let off three of them, including the brother-in-law of BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya, a couple of hours later. Addressing a press conference, Malik, who is NCP's spokesperson and a Maharashtra minister, alleged that Bharatiya's brother-in-law Rishabh Sachdeva was among those three persons. Two others - Pratik Gabba and Aamir Furniturewala - who had brought Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, to the cruise party, were released along with Sachdeva two hours after their detention, he said. When contacted, Bharatiya declined to immediately comment on the NCP's allegation, but his office said he would hold a press conference later in the day. "The names of Pratik and Aamir figured in the ongoing hearings in the court," Malik said. Malik had earlier announced that on Saturday he would reveal the name of the BJP leader, whose brother-in-law, he claimed, was let off by the anti-drug agency. Based on a tip-off that a party was to take place on board the ship, an NCB team led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede had raided the Cordelia cruise last Saturday and claimed to have recovered banned drugs. A total of 18 persons have been arrested in the case, including Aryan Khan. The NCP leader demanded that the call records of these three persons along with that of Wankhede be examined. "Rishabh Sachdeva's father and uncle came to the NCB office and telephonic conversations happened between Wankhede and the BJP leaders in Mumbai and Delhi from the phone of Sachdeva's father," Malik claimed. "Why were the phones of these three persons not seized?" he asked. According to Malik, the Mumbai police were also given information that 11 persons had been detained from the cruise ship. Malik also alleged that the NCB's raid on the cruise was "fake, planned and conspired to defame the film industry and the Maharashtra government". "Selective people have been arrested...The matter is serious. CCTV footage should be taken and a detailed inquiry should be conducted," the minority affairs minister alleged. He also hit at the BJP for attacking him over his allegations. "The BJP says that I am attacking the NCB since my son-in-law was arrested by the agency. I have never supported my son-in-law and he will fight his case. How can I give information I have in this case to the NCB which has framed a false case. If an independent commission is set up to conduct a probe, I will do so," Malik said. His son-in-law Sameer Khan had been arrested by the NCB on January 13 this year in an alleged drugs case. He had got bail in September. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-leader-names-bjp-leader-whose-kin-was-allegedly-let-off-by-ncb-hours-after-detention-in-cruise-drugs-case-1038975.html
09-10-2021||West||NCB rubbishes allegations by leaders over cruise drug case, says they're 'baseless'||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday said that all the allegations levelled against the agency in connection with the cruise ship raid and alleged recovery of drugs, in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested, were "baseless, motivated afterthoughts and prejudicial". NCB Director, Mumbai Zone, Sameer Wankhede said that the anti-drugs agency worked professionally. "We do not see any political party and religion. We do our job professionally," he added. Based on a tip-off, an NCB team raided the Goa-bound cruise ship last Saturday and claimed to have recovered banned drugs. A total of 18 persons have been arrested in the case, including Aryan Khan. The incident took a political turn when Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday claimed that the raid was "fake" and that "outsiders" were involved in it. On Saturday, Malik alleged that the NCB had initially detained 11 persons from the Goa-bound cruise ship, but let off three of them, including the brother-in-law of BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya, a couple of hours later. A senior NCB official told media persons on Saturday that the two men, whom Malik had claimed as "outsiders" involved in the raid, were actually among the nine independent witnesses involved in the operation. He said that the duo was not known to the NCB before October 2, when the raid was conducted. NCB Deputy Director General Gyaneshwar Singh told reporters that such statements were based on conjecture and assumptions. "These assumptions are frivolous and malicious in view of documents and records of procedures duly followed by the NCB that can subject to legal verification. The NCB reiterates that its procedure has been and will continue to be professionally and legally transparent and unbiased as all the suspect/accused persons have been treated at par and in accordance with the law," he said. When asked about allegations, Singh stated that he would not comment on what other people are saying about the NCB. "The NCB is a responsible organisation. Whatever we say, we say it based on the proofs and evidence. We are doing our work honestly and dedicatedly," he said. Singh said that independent public witnesses are mandatorily required to be present during any seizure operations as per the set legal procedure. Malik had claimed that a man named (K P) 'Gosavi', who is seen escorting Aryan Khan in one of the videos, was not an NCB official, and his social media profile states that he is a private detective based in Kuala Lumpur. He had also said that two men were seen escorting Arbaaz Merchant, also arrested in the case, in another video, and one of them is a member of the BJP, (later identified as Manish Bhanushali). Singh said the NCB strongly adheres to the legal procedure and involves at least two independent witnesses in all its seizure operations. "As the operations are conducted on a real-time basis, so the field verification of independent witnesses is not possible as the main focus is on drug recovery," he said. Singh said a total of nine independent witnesses were involved in the whole operation (cruise ship raid) and Manish Bhanushali and K P Gosavi were among them. "None of the Independent witnesses, including the two (Bhanushhali and Gosavi), were known to the NCB before October 2," he said. Later in a statement, Singh added that a total of 14 persons were brought to the NCB zonal office (in Mumbai) for examination. "All of them were served notice under section 67, examined thoroughly and their statements were recorded," Singh said. Eight persons were arrested and the remaining six persons were let off since no incriminating evidence was found against them, he stated and added that the other six "can be associated if the need arises in the investigation as per law". As panchnamas were made at the respective spots, hence the place, timing, situation and resources may differ, he added. Singh stated that these documents were a matter of court record and have been produced in the court and will be part of a charge sheet in future. "Hence all such documents are part of a transparent legal procedure open to scrutiny at appropriate fora," he added. Meanwhile, Sameer Wankhede said that those are the independent witnesses. "Whatever they (who are raising allegations) want to say let them say. We will speak before the court," he said without taking any names. Wankhede said the case is sub-judice and the investigation is underway. The NCB will follow the orders of the court, he added. "The NCB is an independent and professional agency. We did not see any political party and religion and we do our job professionally," he added. On Friday, a metropolitan magistrate's court in Mumbai rejected bail applications of Aryan Khan and two others, following which he was sent to the Arthur Road prison. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-rubbishes-allegations-by-leaders-over-cruise-drug-case-says-theyre-baseless-1039033.html
09-10-2021||West||Mumbai Police summons CBI director Subodh Jaiswal in phone-tapping, data leak case||The cyber cell of Mumbai Police on Saturday summoned CBI director and former Maharashtra DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal in a phone-tapping and data leak case, a senior official said here. Jaiswal has been asked to be present to record his statement on October 14, the police official said. The case relates to the 'leak' of a report prepared by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla about alleged corruption in police transfers in Maharashtra when she headed the state intelligence department. Jaiswal was the director general of police during this period. It was alleged that phones of senior politicians and officials were tapped illegally during the inquiry and the report was leaked deliberately, but the FIR registered in this regard by the cyber cell does not name Shukla or any other official. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-summons-cbi-director-subodh-jaiswal-in-phone-tapping-data-leak-case-1039074.html
09-10-2021||West||'Evidence of Rs 1,000 cr money laundering in Maharashtra', says Fadnavis citing I-T press note||The Income Tax Department has found evidence of money laundering to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore in Maharashtra as per a press note it has issued after recent raids in the state, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said on Saturday. Queried on the I-T raids on firms linked to the kin of Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and some real estate companies in Pune on Thursday, Fadnavis said the action was not against any one family but against directors of sugar factories. There were alleged irregularities in the purchase process of five sugar factories and source of funds, after which the I-T conducted raids, he added. "A press note issued by the I-T department should be taken seriously as it has found evidence of money laundering to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore in Maharashtra. They know where the money was transferred, which includes political leaders and many officials," he said. Queried on allegations leveled by state minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik against the Narcotics Control Bureau post the raid on a Goa-bound cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2, in which film superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan and others have been held, Fadnavis said the issue must not be politicised. Speaking on Malik's claim that a kin of a prominent BJP leader from Mumbai was let off post the raid by the NCB, Fadnavis said only those who were clean were allowed to go. "The NCB has clearly stated that it had detained many people and those who were clean were let off. Besides, a person close to an NCP leader was also let off as he was found to be clean. We should stand with the NCB as it battles the drug menace. This issue must not be politicised," the former chief minister said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/evidence-of-rs-1000-cr-money-laundering-in-maharashtra-says-fadnavis-citing-i-t-press-note-1039087.html
