10-10-2021||Comment||The malady of fake encounters||According to the police, one of the four arrested rapists ventured to snatch a policeman’s rifle to shoot at them, forcing them to retaliate, in which all four were killed. Last July, dreaded criminal Vikas Dubey was eliminated when he allegedly tried to escape after snatching a policeman’s weapon while the vehicle in which he was being transported from Ujjain toppled near Kanpur. He is reported to have fired at the Special Task Force policemen while escaping in a field. A Deputy Superintendent of Police whom the criminal had killed along with seven other policemen a few days before he was apprehended in Ujjain, is reported to have said that he would break Dubey’s other leg as he was already handicapped in one leg. The killing of the criminal led to questioning the veracity of the encounter. Media personnel trailing the convoy from Ujjain were not allowed to proceed further after they entered Kanpur. Couldn’t the STF personnel, who are specially selected, apprehend him when he was already handicapped and incapable of running? He must have been handcuffed too. In February this year, a criminal Girdhari Vishwakarma, who had been accused of murdering a former block president of Mau was shot dead by Lucknow police in the wee hours. He was reportedly being taken to Gomti Nagar at night to recover the weapon used in the murder of the block president. While alighting from the police vehicle near the scene of the encounter, he allegedly snatched the pistol of a policeman and fired at them, forcing them to retaliate. The injured criminal was shifted to the hospital where he died. Concerned by the “blatant violation of the rule of law” a group known as Constitutional Conduct Group comprising 87 retired civil service officials had written an open letter in July this year “that the present ruling regime in UP has ushered in a model of governance which swerves further and further away from the values of the Constitution and the rule of law with each passing day”. Quoting the data released by the UP Police, the letter states that between 2017 and 2020, there were as many as 6,476 encounters in the state in which 124 alleged criminals were shot dead. Nearly 2,000 were injured in these encounters. In February 2019, the then Minister of State for Home Hansraj Gangaram Ahir had informed the Rajya Sabha that between 2014 and January 2019, 824 deaths were recorded, of which 250 deaths were in fake encounters. Uttar Pradesh reported 16 deaths between 2014 and 2017. The figures shot up to 65 between 2017 and January 2020, 23 of which were in fake encounters. Soon after Yogi Adityanath took over the chief ministership of UP, he had given clear signals to police hierarchy by warning criminals, “If you commit a crime, you will be knocked off,” And the police complied with his diktats. More recently, after the present chief minister of Assam assumed charge of the state, he stated in the Assembly that his government would continue with its “zero-tolerance policy” and towards this end, his instructions to the police were clear: “Do not break the law but within the law, you take extreme action, and the Assam government is going to protect you.” He took over on May 10 this year and 33 people have already been shot at. Of them, 15 died, 10 of them being militants. His directions to shoot those attempting to escape from custody have armed the police personnel with enormous power, which can be misused to the detriment of the criminal justice system in our country. A member of the Assam Human Rights Commission has questioned the need to shoot at a person who, being in police custody, is handcuffed and not be able to flee. In their bid to impress their political bosses, the police swung into action and arrested 504 persons within two months presumably for their involvement in cattle smuggling, four of whom were injured in police firing. As part of its war against drugs, the Assam police rounded up 1,897 people for drug-related offences. Are we to believe that the previous governments were not concerned about the crimes that were hitherto committed in the state? Policemen resort to fake encounters with impunity as they do not fear being hauled up for their crimes. It is only when the next of kin of those killed in fake encounters pursue the matter vigorously with the courts that the policemen are tried for criminal acts. Some of them would flaunt their “encounter specialist” tag and brag about their exploits as if their derring-do had led to the death of the criminals while the truth is that they kill unarmed and helpless criminals after cornering them. The criminal justice system is so tardy that it takes years to punish the criminals for the crimes committed. The delay in hanging the four rapists of Nirbhaya is a glaring example. It took over seven years to hang criminals convicted of a very heinous crime of brutal rape and murder. And, this, despite the vociferous public outcry and the parents of the victim vigorously pursuing the case in the courts. Needless to mention, Vikas Dubey deserved to be hanged for several heinous crimes but not in a lawless manner as was done. Such elimination of criminals with impunity encourages policemen to set aside the rule of law turning governance into a “jungle raj” which a democratic country can ill-afford. Political leaders need to desist from encouraging the police to indulge in such wanton acts of fake encounters in the garb of giving them a “freehand” to control crime. Policemen found guilty of fake encounters should be suspended and tried for murder as any other ordinary citizen. (The writer is retired Inspector-General of Police, CRPF)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-malady-of-fake-encounters-1039363.html
10-10-2021||First Edit||Weak buildings, strong nexus||A three-storeyed residential building constructed in violation of the sanctioned plan in Bengaluru’s Kasturinagar collapsed on October 7 becoming the third such incident in the city in the past few days. Fortunately, there were no casualties as the residents were evacuated in time. Earlier, nearly 50 people had escaped unhurt when a 70-year-old building crumbled in Lakkasandra, while a few days later, a portion of staff quarters of Bangalore Milk Union Limited (BAMUL) collapsed. The problem is two pronged. One, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has failed to demolish buildings that are unfit for habitation. Two, builders violate the sanctioned plan with impunity and often construct additional floors illegally, with the connivance of BBMP officers. So, both the builders and the BBMP need to share the blame and get punished for their actions. In 2019, the civic body had conducted a survey and identified nearly 200 dilapidated buildings, with the then commissioner B H Anil Kumar announcing that the owners would be directed to either demolish the structures or repair and restore them, but nothing came of it. In fact, Revenue Minister R Ashoka recently admitted that only 10 of the identified buildings were demolished so far. Instead of acting on the 2019 report, BBMP has now announced a fresh survey which gives rise to suspicion that it could be acting under pressure, thus endangering the lives of people residing in such unsafe buildings. Similarly, following a High Court order, the BBMP had conducted another survey to identify buildings that were constructed without any approval or in violation of the sanctioned plan and bylaws. Had timely action been initiated, incidents like the one in Kasturinagar could have been avoided. The building had an additional third floor which was constructed in violation of the plan and the owner was in the process of constructing a penthouse illegally. People have been living in this building for seven years now though it has not received the occupancy certificate (OC) from the BBMP. What is strange is that local officials were oblivious to what was happening right under their nose. This only points to the collusion between the builder lobby and corporation engineers. If BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta is really serious about clearing the mess, he should send across a strong message by ordering the demolition of unauthorised structures and at the same initiate criminal proceedings against guilty officers, both past and present. Besides, given climate change and heavy rains that Bengaluru has been receiving, it might also be wise to have a relook at the bylaws to ensure that new constructions withstand the vagaries of nature. But unless the government has the political will to break the builder-officer-corporator nexus, nothing is going to change. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/weak-buildings-strong-nexus-1039361.html
10-10-2021||In Perspective||Pause in policy rates augurs well||The unanimous decision of the six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to maintain the status quo on policy rates is not a surprise. The repo rate, the rate at which banks borrow from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), is unchanged at 4 per cent. The reverse repo rate, the rate at which interest is offered by the RBI to banks who park their excess funds with the RBI, is also unchanged at 3.35 per cent. The MPC has tactfully navigated the tough situation of promoting economic growth and simultaneously addressing the issue of soaking up excess liquidity in the system without formally announcing the ‘normalisation’ of loose monetary policy. It has anchored well by temporarily stalling G-SAP (Government Securities Acquisition Programme) and by announcing a calendar of 14-day auctions of Variable Reverse Repo Rate (VRRR). This is also an indication that the reverse repo rate and repo rate will increase in the December/March MPC announcements, signalling the end of an era of “easy” and “lazy” banking by March 2022. The status quo in rates, accommodative stance, dovish tone, 9.5 per cent GDP for FY22 is only to boost consumer sentiments, the last opportunity for bankers to pull up their socks and lend aggressively to core sectors like housing, real estate, infra, MSMEs and agriculture, as credit growth is sagging at less than 7 per cent albeit abundant liquidity of nearly Rs 9 lakh crore. Support has been extended by the extension of the deadline of Special Long Term Repo Operations (SLTRO) till December 2021. This scheme is for Small Finance Banks with a corpus of Rs 10,000 crore and interest rates linked to repo rate for extending loans of three-year duration to MSMEs, unorganised sector and real estate for fresh lending up to Rs 10 lakh per borrower. Further, to provide a fillip and a big push to credible Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), who undertake lending to underserved and unserved segments in tier 2 and tier 3 areas, and commercial banks lending to registered NBFCs excluding microfinance institutions, for on-lending to housing, MSME segment and agriculture, the time permitted for classifying such loans as priority sector lending (PSL) has been extended till March 2022. This is to boost lending to the affordable housing segment/real estate sector during the festival season and at a time when housing loan interest rates are at historic lows (less than 6.8 per cent), coupled with attractive income tax benefits and subsidy under Class Linked Subsidy Scheme under the Prime Minister Aawaz Yojana (PMAY) for realising the mission ‘Housing for all by 2022’. The great surprise has been the reduction in CPI inflation projections for the full financial year FY22 at 5.3 per cent from 5.7 per cent, for the present July-September quarter at 5.1 per cent from 5.9 per cent and for October-December 2021 at 4.5 per cent from the 5.3 per cent projected earlier, as ‘base effect’ reductions of inflation will have to be taken with a pound of salt. A proper assessment is to evaluate performance and high-frequency economic indicators vis-a-vis FY 2019 position and not be irrationally exuberant with certain positive growth numbers of the present. Core inflation may reduce in September 2021 — data will be released on October 12. The concern is headline inflation which will get adversely impacted due to the surge in global commodity prices, oil prices touching $82.6 per barrel and the depreciating rupee against US $. These will feed into headline inflation, resulting in price hikes of fuel and food, edible oil, LPG and medicines due to a cascading effect. Fuel prices have gone up for the fifth consecutive time in a week; in October till date, petrol and diesel prices have shot up by Rs 2.65/litre and Rs 3.35/litre respectively. This warrants immediate action by the central and state governments to cut excise duties on fuel. The central government’s revenue for 2020-21 from excise duties on fuel alone was Rs 3.44 lakh crore — a 74 per cent increase YoY. The hike in retail pump prices, supply chain disruptions and output gap will also adversely affect inflation. The inflation rate cannot be more than the repo rate. A spike in urban demand for high-end cars and discretionary spend on luxury goods should not be misconstrued for real growth impulses. The surge in personal, credit card, mortgage loans will eventually lead to stress loans/NPAs by this December end/March 2022. Rural demand pick-up (tractor, two-wheeler and fertiliser sales), housing in tier 2-tier 3 locations, MSME loans, steel and cement sales, increase in private investments, and employment in rural and urban areas (not merely IT) are true litmus tests of sustained and durable economic growth. In sum, the MPC’s ‘pause’ in policy rates is not to disturb the apple cart of growth but to provide a golden time for consumers to buy, bankers to lend, to resolve supply chain bottlenecks and to ensure that we reach the shore without rocking the boat. (The writer is a former banker) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/pause-in-policy-rates-augurs-well-1039366.html
10-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tremors felt in Gulbarga, Karnataka||A mild earthquake of 3.4 magnitude struck the areas surrounding Gadikeshwar in Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi district at 6.05 am on Sunday, an alert by the National Center for Seismology said. Residents of Gadikeshwar, Kupanur, Halachera, Tegalatippi, Bhantanalli, Benakalli, Rayakod, Bhutapur, Chintapalli, Rudnur and other villages reportedly experienced tremors. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tremors-felt-in-gulbarga-karnataka-1039184.html
10-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vehicle owners irked by supply crunch of CNG in Mangaluru||Vehicle owners using Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) urged the authorities to solve the CNG supply crisis in Mangaluru on Saturday, as rising petrol prices sent CNG demand skyrocketing. With a rise in petrol prices, there is a huge demand for the much cheaper CNG. Many motor companies have internally-fitted CNG vehicles and there are vehicles where consumers have fitted CNG kits as well. Dakshina Kannada CNG Balakedarara Sangha Haagu Nagarika Samithi founder Srinath Rao said that the Kochi-Mangaluru Natural Gas Pipeline of GAIL (India) Limited was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January. “The mother station is being constructed to supply CNG to bunks in Panambur. The authorities should accelerate the work on mother station. Once it is commissioned, the supply will be streamlined,” he felt. “We are in touch with the GAIL officials and they have assured us that a mother station will be set up at the earliest,” he said. “The erratic supply of CNG has forced vehicle owners to wait for three to four hours to refuel their vehicles in Mangaluru. The CNG is available only at Adyar, Kavoor and Hosabettu,” Rao and member Poornima Bhat told media persons at the Patrika Bhavan on Saturday. He appealed to people to wait until the mother station is completed to purchase the new CNG vehicles. Poornima said, “Many heavy vehicles from outside districts are refuelling at the CNG bunk at Kavoor. As a result, light vehicles do not get the required quantity of CNG. A few bunks does not have the required transformer. As a result, customers get only two to three kgs of CNG at a time.” Auto driver Jayaram Shetty said, “We have to wait outside the bunk as early as 5 am and late in the night to get CNG. We had opted for CNG thinking it as more viable. But getting CNG is in itself a problem.” Members from the newly launched association had met MP and MLAs, urging them to intervene and solve the problem, Rao added Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vehicle-owners-irked-by-supply-crunch-of-cng-in-mangaluru-1039231.html
10-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||FMMCH neonatal team saves preterm baby weighing 669 gm||The neonatal team of Father Muller Medical College Hospital (FMMCH) led by neonatologist Dr Mario Bukelo achieved a rare feat by saving a preterm baby, born at 25 weeks plus 6 days of gestational age with a birth weight of mere 669 grams. Deepika (mother) had visited the hospital with threatening preterm labour on June 24. The initial prognosis for the preemie born due to the underdeveloped vital organs looked very slim and the baby’s chances of survival looked bleak. “Loyden, born on June 26, was so small that he could fit into the palm of one hand and was so weak that during the initial intensive care, his weight dropped below 600 grams, but doctors and nurses did everything to save my son despite those relentless beeps and alarms,” Deepika said with gratitude. “Initially, when I had lost hope, Dr Bukelo and his team encouraged us to remain strong. I will remain grateful to him and all those who had prayed for my baby,” Deepika said. “Survival of such premature infants is always a challenge and requires a team effort,” said Dr Mario Bukelo. Loyden’s discharge from hospital speaks volumes of the dedicated service of the neonatologists, neonatal nurses and post-graduates at Father Mullers NICU, Dr Mario Bukelo said. The standard gestational period for a baby is 40 weeks. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), about one million children die every year across the world due to complications of premature birth. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fmmch-neonatal-team-saves-preterm-baby-weighing-669-gm-1039238.html
10-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police seize ganja worth Rs 3 lakh, arrest two||Bhadravathi Rural police nabbed two persons including a student on charges of transporting 20 kg dry ganja worth Rs 3 lakh from Andhra Pradesh for sale. Mobile phones and a good carrier had been seized from them. Police personnel were checking vehicles at Gondi check post in Bhadravathi taluk on October 8th night and asked the driver of a goods carrier to stop at the check post, but driver did not stop and tried to pass through the check post after hitting the barricade. Suspecting them, police checked the vehicle thoroughly and discovered 20 kg dry ganja. They revealed that they brought ganja from Tunti village in Andhra Pradesh for sale. The other two persons have escaped from the spot. A case has been registered against them under Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-seize-ganja-worth-rs-3-lakh-arrest-two-1039341.html
10-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three die as goods auto rams into bus in Mysuru||Three persons were killed on the spot and four others sustained severe injuries as goods autorickshaw rammed into KSRTC bus, near Varkodu on Mysuru-T Narasipur Highway, on Sunday evening. The accident occurred at a steep curve near Morarji Desai Residential School in Varkod village. According to the police, the passengers of the autorickshaw were bounding Mysuru to enjoy Dasara illumination. Police shifted the dead bodies and cleared the road. The injured persons are undergoing treatment in a hospital in Mysuru. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-die-as-goods-auto-rams-into-bus-in-mysuru-1039350.html
10-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||24-year-old man dies in clash in Mysuru||A 24-year-old man died, another sustained an injury in a clash, at an open space in Gundurao Nagar, in the city, on Sunday. Nandakishore was killed and Sanjay sustained injuries. According to Police, an armed gang of eight to ten persons attacked Nandakishore with weapons and the gang members stabbed him five to six-time. The gang attacked Nandakishore and Sanjay at 6 pm in connection with a land dealing. Vidyaranyapuram Police, who arrived at the spot, are searching for the accused. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/24-year-old-man-dies-in-clash-in-mysuru-1039395.html
10-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sonia Gandhi upset with Siddaramaiah for rejecting national role||Former chief minister Siddaramaiah's rejection of Congress President Sonia Gandhi’s offer to shift to national politics has shocked party leadership. Congress sources said that Gandhi had not expected such a strong response from Siddaramaiah and his stubborn attitude had the leadership in surprise. By asking Siddaramaiah to move to Delhi, Gandhi was trying to achieve two objectives – end his turf war with Karnataka Congress chief D K Shivakumar, and set in motion Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's plan to bring party veterans to national politics, leaving the state to young leaders. The leadership change in Punjab was supposed to be part of a similar move and was expected to be replicated in other states till it went horribly wrong. The Congress President has asked Siddaramaiah to take over as AICC General Secretary in charge of a key state and tried to sweeten the deal by offering to appoint him one of the Working Presidents of the party. As per the revamp plan, Congress is planning the return of Rahul Gandhi as party president with three to four working presidents representing different regions of the country. A senior Congress leader said since Siddaramaiah was a popular leader in Karnataka with a large support base, Congress top brass was keen to have his consent before appointing him as an office-bearer in the AICC. Gandhi was expecting a ‘yes’ from Siddaramaiah to the proposal to shift him to national politics, just as Mallikarjun Kharge had done in 2009. Kharge had set aside his chief ministerial ambitions and contested the Lok Sabha elections in 2009. Siddaramaiah, who is nursing chief ministerial ambitions, is learnt to have told his confidants that taking up the Delhi job was of no use at present when the party itself was weak at the national level. He also feels some state leaders were conspiring against him to deny him a chance to be Chief Minister for the second time if the party came to power in 2023. Siddaramaiah is strongly asserting himself in the party affairs in the state and also commands a strong support base among party legislators. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sonia-gandhi-upset-with-siddaramaiah-for-rejecting-national-role-1039337.html
10-10-2021||National||Bhupesh Baghel, the leader Congress cannot afford to lose||A dyed-in-the-wool socialist, Nand Kumar Baghel was unimpressed by his young son’s choice of the party he wanted to join and sarcastically asked him 40 years ago: “Will you become the chief minister? Pat came the reply – “Yes”. The 86-year-old now has written in his Twitter bio: Proud father of Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel. For the junior Baghel, his father is the biggest critic and sort of trouble-maker. The father had publicly said he voted against his son when he fought his first Assembly election in 1993. The son even dismissed his father’s demand to Congress to give 85% seats in the 2018 Chhattisgarh Assembly elections to the OBCs, minorities, tribals and scheduled castes, saying he was not a primary member of the party to raise such a demand. Both sparred in July 2019 over how to conduct the last rites of Bindeshwari Devi, the wife of Nand Kumar and mother of Bhupesh Baghel. Nand Kumar, an anti-caste crusader, wanted the last rites to be done according to Buddhist rituals while the son wanted Hindu rituals to be followed. Finally, the mortal remains were divided and Nand Kumar took it to Dhamtari where last rites were conducted according to Buddhist rituals and the son took it to Prayagraj. Last month, Baghel did not bat an eyelid when he ordered his father’s arrest for making controversial remarks against the Brahmin community, an action the senior Baghel did not disapprove of, saying the chief minister was only doing his duty. The action won brownie points for the son, who has an iron grip over Chhattisgarh politics where his arch-rival T S Singh Deo is attempting to replace him. This non-compromising attitude to ideology and beliefs within the family as well as the fighting spirit marks junior Baghel’s politics too. That made him a strong regional satrap of the Congress. The post-1992 political scene catapulted Baghel to the limelight. As a staunch secularist Youth Congress district president, he led a 300-km ‘padayatra’ against communal politics soon after the demolition of Babri Masjid. In 1993 Assembly polls, he tasted his first success and became a minister in the Digvijay Singh Cabinet in undivided Madhya Pradesh. In 2000, after Chhattisgarh was carved out of Madhya Pradesh, he became the Deputy Leader of Opposition in 2003. He lost the 2008 Assembly polls and 2009 Lok Sabha polls but won the 2013 polls to enter the Assembly again. From there, there was no looking back. Congress needed Baghel’s organisational and political skills to overthrow the 15-year-old BJP rule in 2018, five years after the party’s top rung, including Mahendra Karma and V C Shukla among others, perished in a deadly Maoist attack. He organised a series of ‘padayatras’ to connect with the masses ahead of elections and instilled confidence in party workers that the party could defeat Raman Singh-led BJP. As he steered the party as its Chhattisgarh president from 2014 to 2019, he also managed to sideline the state’s first chief minister Ajit Jogi, leading to his ouster from the party, and corner his rivals within the party like Deo and other chief ministerial aspirants like Tamrawad Sahu. The Congress High Command assigned Baghel the election management in Assam Assembly elections earlier this year and now Uttar Pradesh, where polls are due early next year, elevating his status within the party. He enjoys the support of at least 55 party MLAs in Chhattisgarh, leaving around a dozen to support other leaders like Singh Deo. This popularity and iron grip on the party has so far helped Baghel to counter any attempt to unseat him, including the latest episode when Singh Deo recalled the so-called formula of rotating the chief minister after 2.5 years. An astute politician, Baghel has positioned himself as a strong OBC leader. Removing him at a time the Congress is targeting the ruling BJP on OBCs will send a wrong signal, the party leadership was advised, as the support Baghel enjoys among the MLAs is well known. In the last over 2.5 years in power, he has stamped his authority on administration with a stern style of functioning. The Nyay scheme providing a fixed income for the poor and other initiatives, including buying cow dung from farmers and composting it, the return of 4,400 acres of land acquired in 2005 from tribals for a Tata Steels project in 2005 etc have been his popular measures. At present, Baghel — the third chief minister of Chhattisgarh in 21 years after Ajit Jogi and Raman Singh – appears firmly in the saddle as he has played his cards with elan. A man who knows when to time his political strike, as one saw his on the spot protest at Lucknow airport when he was prevented from going to Lakhimpur Kheri, the party knows it needs leaders like him now. But the last word is yet to be heard. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhupesh-baghel-the-leader-congress-cannot-afford-to-lose-1039134.html
10-10-2021||National||Don't use history for political misuse, warns Shashi Tharoor||He is all for reclaiming "forgotten voices" in the history writing of India, but using it for today's "political misuse" is where the rub lies, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Saturday. Speaking at the India Today Conclave 2021, Tharoor said today, we are "scratching the wounds and reopening fresh drops of blood emerging from scars that should have been allowed to be healed". "Let us concede that we need to allow other voices to come forward, but what are these voices saying? If the voices are saying Muslims were bad 500 years ago and therefore, today's Muslims have to suffer for it, and we will do this and we will do that and we will change this and we will change that, then I have a problem," the former Union minister said in a session, titled "Bulls in our Memory Shop: Debating heritage, history, hubris". "I would say what are you doing to today's India? Why can't we focus on making a better India for all...instead of fighting these old battles? History for today's political misuse is what I have a problem with," he added. To buttress his point, Tharoor gave the example of the present government declaring August 14 as "Partition Horrors Remembrance Day", which he stated was a "very clear demonisation of one community". "This seemed to me targeting specifically healed wounds and scratching them," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi this year declared August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in the memory of the struggles and sacrifices of millions of people who were displaced and who lost their lives due to the mindless hate and violence caused by the country's partition. Again, though in favour of memorialising what happened during the partition, Tharoor claimed that there are people who want to revive the memories of what people have forgotten, and instead of forgiving, want to "punish the supposed descendant of those who perpetrated those wrongs". "I have talked about memorialising the atrocities of colonialism, not because today, I want us to go and revolt against the British. That is over. That is history.... But we should understand, as I have said talking about my book here, we must definitely forgive but we must not forget," said the best-selling author of several books, including "An Era of Darkness: The British Empire in India" and "Pax Indica". "Now the problem is, here we have people who are not only prepared not to forget, who even want to revive memories real or imagined of what people have forgotten and then, instead of forgiving, want to punish the supposed descendants of those who perpetrated those wrongs. You cannot correct the wrongs of yesterday by creating new wrongs for tomorrow," he added. According to the 65-year-old Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram, this is happening in the country today as a "different ethos" is in power, which states that India is fundamentally a "Hindu country" and everyone else is "a guest or an interloper". "And that the institutions of the state, the laws of the state and the practices of the state must reflect an allegiance to a certain cultural, civilisational understanding of India, which has nothing to do with the idea of India enshrined in the Constitution, and that I think is a fundamental faultline," he said. Tharoor was interjected by his fellow panellist in the discussion, historian Vikram Sampath, who said the wounds have not been healed so far, adding that there is a "false assumption today that talking about the truth would upset contemporary social issues". "History worldwide offers the spaces to heal, to relive the past, get over it, make peace with it and move on. I think we have not done that. That is one reason these battles keep on happening, what we saw in Ayodhya, what we keep seeing all the time. These are manifestations of that," Sampath, who wrote two volumes on the life and works of Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar, said. He also accused the Congress of unwittingly giving away the space of historiography to "Marxist historians" post independence. "A discipline like this thrives on the multiplicity of views, discussion and debate. It has distorted history and created several faultlines. The story of India is a history of invaders, from their (Leftist historians') perspective. We have not reclaimed that," Sampath said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-use-history-for-political-misuse-warns-shashi-tharoor-1039154.html
10-10-2021||National||Sandeep Nair released from jail, claims ED forced him to name CM, others in gold smuggling case||The prime accused in the gold smuggling through diplomatic channel case, Sandeep Nair, was released from prison on Saturday and claimed the Enforcement Directorate had forced him to name Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, former minister K T Jaleel and former Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan in the case, prompting CPI(M) to say it only proved their stand that there was a 'conspiracy' to target the Left party and the government. Nair was released from Poojapura central jail in the evening as his detention under the COFEPOSA (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act) has ended, his lawyer Vijayam said. "His COFEPOSA custody ended today. Also in the Dollar smuggling case he was made the sixth accused. In that case, he was given bail on October 4. Then there was a production warrant in another case and that was recalled today and he is out of jail," she told the media. Nair, who was arrested in July last year, along with another accused, told reporters after his release that the ED tried to bring in politics in the case by forcing him to name many people, including Bineesh Kodiyeri, the son of former CPI(M) party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to secure his release. "The ED tried to bring politics in this matter. They forced me to tell the names of many people, including the Chief Minister, former minister K T Jaleel, former Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, former IT Principal Secretary Sivasankar, Bineesh Kodiyeri among others," Nair said. Meanwhile, Balakrishnan told the media at a separate press conference that Nair's revelations are of a serious nature and proves the stand of the CPI(M) that there was a 'conspiracy' behind the case, targeting the Left party and the government. "It's a serious matter. This came out earlier also. Now that he has repeated his allegation, the matter is a serious one now. The court should examine it. This proves our stand that there was a conspiracy targeting the ruling Left government," Balakrishnan said. Nair had earlier in March this year written to the Ernakulam Sessions court that he was being pressured by the investigating agency to name the political top brass in the state in order to secure bail in the case. The gold smuggling case was a major political controversy used by both the Congress and BJP to attack the ruling Left Front government in Kerala ahead of the state Assembly elections in April this year. The Customs Commissionerate (Preventive), Cochin had registered a case relating to the seizure of 30.245 kg of 24 Karat gold worth Rs 14.82 crore at Thiruvananthapuram International Airport on July 5 last year. The gold was camouflaged as diplomatic baggage to the UAE Consulate, which has immunity from checking at the airport, as per the Vienna convention. The agency has said that the consignment was to be received by Sarith, the first accused in the case, who had worked in UAE Consulate earlier as Public Relations Officer, in complicity with Swapna Prabha Suresh, who was the secretary of the Consul General of the UAE, Sandeep Nair and others. The Kerala High Court had on October 8 set aside the preventive detention imposed on Suresh, prime accused in the sensational gold smuggling case, under the COFEPOSA. However, she will continue to remain in jail as she has not secured bail in the case registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sandeep-nair-released-from-jail-claims-ed-forced-him-to-name-cm-others-in-gold-smuggling-case-1039158.html
10-10-2021||National||Serious effort needed over alliance, leadership: Baghel||A day after Congress and the TMC sparred on Twitter, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday said serious efforts should be made over the issues of "alliance and leadership". He was talking to reporters at the Raipur airport before leaving for Delhi. Baghel, who has been appointed as a senior observer by the Congress for the next year's assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, said he will attend a rally of party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Varanasi on Sunday. Asked about the Trinamool Congress' tweet, Baghel said, “A statement has already been issued. A serious effort should be made as far as alliance and leadership are concerned. It cannot be decided superficially.” After poll strategist Prashant Kishor's tweet which appeared to target the Congress leadership, Baghel had tweeted on Friday that "People looking for a national alternative based on poaching INC functionaries who can't win even their seats are in for a big disappointment. Unfortunately, to become a national alternative, deep-rooted and concerted efforts are needed and there are no quick-fix solutions.” He was apparently referring to the recent induction of former Congress MP Susmita Dev and former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro into the Mamata Banerjee-led party. The Trinamool Congress then called Baghel's remarks a "shoddy attempt to please the high command". Meanwhile, speaking to reporters here Baghel also asked why the Union government and BJP leaders were silent on the death of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri. "The BJP's stand has been anti-farmer. They don't feel sorry even after crushing them. So far, the Centre and BJP leaders have not issued any statement over the incident,” he said. About Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath targeting him over his Lakhimpur visit, Baghel said, “It means the arrow has hit the right spot and Yogi Adityanath-ji is perturbed. Under his rule, a `mahant' has committed suicide, a businessman was killed in his Purvanchal region, but he doesn't say anything. When a journalist is killed, he doesn't speak about it." On reports of coal shortage in the country, the CM said Chhattisgarh officials were keeping an eye on the situation and all efforts were being made to ensure sufficient supply in the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serious-effort-needed-over-alliance-leadership-baghel-1039162.html
10-10-2021||National||Power balance shifted against us following China's economic growth: Menon on Sino-India relations||Former foreign secretary Shivshankar Menon on Saturday said the power balance in the India-China relations has "shifted against us" following China's economic growth and emphasised that New Delhi will have to be "pretty nimble" over the next few years amid this changing scenario. During a conclave here, Menon, who had served as National Security Adviser and ambassador to China, also made reference to the escalation in tension in eastern Ladakh last year, and said, militarily, India knows how to deal with China and that he didn't think Beijing achieved what it wanted to tactically. To a question on how the current regime has dealt with China, Menon said, "This regime, previous regimes, basically we have managed the relationship. The trouble is, of course, the power balance has shifted against us". "When we established a sort of 'live and let live' attitude in Rajiv Gandhi's time, our economies were roughly the same size, and also on technological level. India was probably more integrated in the world. "Now China is five times bigger in economy, technologically much further ahead than India. And, much more integrated into the world," he said. "The balance has shifted, so China's behaviour has shifted, because China responds to relative behaviour. So, we need to change our behaviour, and we are in the process of resetting...," said Menon. The session -- 'Dragon Teeth: Is the World Ready for a Chinese Century' -- was part of the India Today conclave. Menon also said, "I don't think we have ever been fooled in the recent past by what we have seen. Militarily, we know how to deal with China". He said that after this shift in behaviour by China, politically, India has done the "external balancing" with Quad grouping and a whole set of other actions. Thanks to Chinese actions, "we have lots of new friends" and India is working with them, Menon said. But, ultimately, the only answer to China, is not external, not relying on somebody else, but "relying on ourselves, strengthening ourselves, doing the military reforms, doing the other things, and each of these have begun", he said. But, it's still an ongoing process. And, it's too early to say 'oh, we are successful' and 'we are on the right track'. Chinese behaviour is changing, what's happening around us is changing so fast, we have to be pretty nimble over the next few years," he added. On what India needs to do to keep up with China, Menon, said, "Grow at 12 percent". Asked if he saw the next century as a Chinese century, Menon said China will be powerful and one of the dominant powers, and China and the US both look like they are "on track to be far ahead of everybody else, at present, in the race", but "I still don't see it as a Chinese century". Ideally, there will have some form of "multipolar world but you don't have that today", he said. "My opinion is, we are in a world between orders, that's why you see all the jostling, pushing, shoving, you saw it on our borders, you saw it in South China Sea, around Taiwan. That will be some kind of multipolar world," he said. The other more likely scenario, he said, is "this confused situation today" between the big two. "They agree on something, they agree on keeping others down, to ensure no peer competitors for them, but they will contend in other domains like cyberspace, outer space, maritime space around China." But economically, they have to come to some understanding among themselves because they depend on each other. They are like Siamese twins in a sense, economically tied into each other, Menon said. "Otherwise, we are going to see trouble, and that is the most worrying part. In any of these scenarios, the uncertainties are very high, risks of accidents are very high," he said. Great powers' conflict seems unlikely, not between China and the US, but other kinds of conflicts, short of a conventional war between two great powers are possible, he said. "'Civil wars, proxy wars, you see what is happening in Afghanistan, so most likely a muddled sort of situation going forward, in the foreseeable future," Menon said. On Aukus, the recently-signed pact among the US, the UK and Australia, he said, "I see it as an attempt to restore balance, and therefore stability, in the seas around China, through the Indo-Pacific, but particularly in the seas near China, South China Sea, East China Sea". And, to that extent, if it restores the balance, and prevents domination of these seas by any one particular party, any one country, any one military. Then it's a "good thing, from an Indian point of view", he said. Because, for India, it's important that these seas stay open, that one can freely navigate them, for peaceful purposes, trade, among other use, he added. Under the Aukus deal, Australia will get technology from the US and the UK to build nuclear-powered submarines. The alliance is seen as an effort to counter China's growing assertiveness in the South China Sea. "But, it's only one small part of the larger security architecture that we are talking about. "China's problem is that she is contained by that first islands chain, from Japan to Taiwan, Korea, all of which basically are US allies, and at sea, she has the world's greatest armada, 12 nautical miles off her coast," the ex-foreign secretary said. "And, this is China's problem, she (China) is trying to project naval power, military power at sea, and she is trying to learn to be a maritime power, and that's a transition, she still hasn't made," he argued. He said India is watching multiple transitions, and China knows what she needs to do, but, "every time she does something, there is a push-back, reactio" Aukus is a reaction to a Chinese build-up over the last thirty years, and this attempt to become a maritime power which goes beyond waters around her and into the blue oceans" he said. Senior Transatlantic Fellow, GMF Asia and author Andrew Small also touched upon a range of issues related to China and its attempts to grow into a superpower, beyond being an economic power. "China wants to escape the fate of being dependent on others. They are trying to make the rest of the world depended on it, while itself being self-reliant," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-balance-shifted-against-us-following-chinas-economic-growth-menon-on-sino-india-relations-1039166.html
10-10-2021||National||Over 40% 'not satisfied' with Rahul Gandhi's work: Survey||Over 40 per cent of the respondents in the poll-bound states of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are 'not satisfied at all' with the work of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, as per the latest ABP-CVOTER-IANS State of States 2021 tracker. According to the survey, cumulatively, 40.5 per cent people are 'not satisfied at all' with Rahul Gandhi's working style, while 18.5 per cent are 'very much satisfied'. The data also showed that 20.2 per cent are 'satisfied to some extent', while 21 per cent chose the 'don't know/can't say' category. The sample size for the survey was 98,121 covering 690 assembly seats in the five poll-bound states. The survey was carried out between September 4 and October 4. In Punjab, where Congress is the ruling party, as many as 53.1 per cent are 'not satisfied at all' with Rahul Gandhi's performance. Only 6.7 per cent are 'very much satisfied' with Rahul Gandhi's performance, while 18.9 per cent respondents are 'satisfied to some extent'. The sample size here was 18,642. In Uttarakhand, 54.1 per cent respondents, highest among all the poll-bound states, are 'not satisfied at all' with the former Congress President's working style, while 14.7 per cent are 'very much satisfied'. The sample size for the state was 13,975. In Manipur, 27.4 per cent of the respondents are 'very much satisfied' with Rahul Gandhi's work, 21.5 per cent are 'satisfied to some extent', while 42.1 per cent are 'not satisfied at all'. A total of 46.2 per cent of the respondents chose the 'not satisfied at all' category for the Congress leader in Uttar Pradesh, while 13.3 per cent said they are 'very much satisfied'. The sample size for the state was 50,936. In Goa, 16.1 per cent are 'very much satisfied' with the Congress leader's working style, while 23.2 per cent opted for the 'satisfied to some extent' category. The survey was carried out on 13,048 people.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-40-not-satisfied-with-rahul-gandhis-work-survey-1039191.html
10-10-2021||National||No respite as fuel prices hiked for 6th day straight: Check rates||Diesel prices on Sunday crossed Rs 100-a-litre-mark in Gandhinagar and Leh as fuel prices were hiked again in sync with firming international oil prices. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The sixth straight day of price hike pushed fuel rates to a new record high. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 104.14 a litre and Rs 110.12 per litre in Mumbai, the notification showed. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 100.66 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 92.82. After Mumbai and Hyderabad, diesel rates cross the Rs 100 per litre mark in Gandhinagar, the capital of Gujarat state, and UT of Leh. Diesel now costs Rs 100.21 a litre in Gandhinagar and Rs 100.06 in Leh. Bhopal, Raipur and Jaipur are other state capitals where diesel is above that mark. The relentless fuel price hike has also pushed petrol above the Rs 100 mark in all but one state capital, with Dehradun, Chandigarh and Gwahati joining that list. Ranchi is the only state capital with petrol less than that mark. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. For five days in a row, the price of petrol has been hiked by 30 paise a litre and diesel by 35 paise, the biggest rally in rates. Prior to that, petrol price was increased by 25 paise and diesel by 30 paise. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has soared to over USD 82 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are being increased by a larger proportion. A month ago, Brent was around $72 per barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 4.20 paise per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 2.95. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-as-fuel-prices-hiked-for-6th-day-straight-check-rates-1039196.html
10-10-2021||National||With 18,166 new Covid-19 cases, India's daily spike lowest in over 7 months||India on Sunday reported 18,166 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 214 deaths, with 23,624 recovering from the disease. This is the lowest daily rise in infections in 214 days, Union Health Ministry data showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 16 straight days. Sunday's figures pushed India's coronavirus death toll to 4,50,589. India's recovery rate is 97.99 per cent and total recoveries are 3,32,71,915. Active cases stand at 2,30,971, lowest in 208 days, comprising 0.68 per cent of the total infections. The government has so far administered 94.70 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines under the national immunisation drive.   As many as 12,83,212 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 58,25,95,693. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.42 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 41 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.57 per cent. It has been below three per cent  for the last 107 days, according to the ministry.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive have exceeded 94.70 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 214 new fatalities include 101 from Kerala, and 44 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,50,589 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,39,514 from Maharashtra, 37,875 from Karnataka, 35,768 from Tamil Nadu, 26,173 from Kerala, 25,088 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,894 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. (With agency inputs) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-18166-new-covid-19-cases-indias-daily-spike-lowest-in-over-7-months-1039201.html
10-10-2021||National||Haj 2022 in India to be 100% digital: Union minister Naqvi||Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has said the entire Haj 2022 process in India will be 100 per cent digital. Naqvi on Saturday inaugurated an online booking facility at the Haj House in Mumbai and later in a statement said India sends the second largest number of Haj pilgrims after Indonesia. He said the Haj could not take place in 2020 and this year due to Covid-19 and decision taken by the Saudi Arabia government in view of the pandemic. The Haj 2022 will be announced after consultations with different departments concerned in the upcoming Haj review meeting to be held in New Delhi on October 21, the statement said. Officials from the minority affairs, external affairs, health and civil aviation ministries, India's ambassador to Saudi Arabia, India's consul general in Jeddah and other senior officials will be present in the upcoming Haj review meeting in the national capital, it said. Arrangements for special training for Haj 2022 regarding Covid-19 protocols and health and hygiene were being made in India and Saudi Arabia for the pilgrims, he said. "The entire Haj 2022 process in India will be 100 per cent digital," the minister said. More than 700 women had applied for Haj 2021 under without 'Mehram' (male companion) and over 2,100 women applied for Haj 2020 under the same category. Their applications will be eligible for Haj 2022 also if they want to go on the pilgrimage, Naqvi said. Other women can also apply for Haj 2022 under without 'Mehram' category, he said, adding that all women under the category will be exempted from lottery system. The minister on Saturday discussed preparations about Haj 2022 in a meeting with senior officials of the Haj Committee of India here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haj-2022-in-india-to-be-100-digital-union-minister-naqvi-1039203.html
10-10-2021||National||Ladakh stand-off: India, China hold 13th round of talks||The senior military commanders of India and China on Sunday had the 13th round of negotiations to resolve the military stand-off in eastern Ladakh, focussing particularly on terms for a mutual withdrawal of troops from the Patrol Point 15 on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Lt. Gen. P G K Menon, the commander of the XIV Corps of the Indian Army, met Maj Gen Liu Lin, his counterpart in the South Xinjiang Military District of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The meeting took place on the communist country’s side at the Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on Sunday. It started at 10:30 a.m. and continued till 7:00 p.m. A source in New Delhi said that the two sides discussed ways to build on the disengagement on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso (lake) in February as well as the Gogra Post in August and to mutually withdraw front-line troops from Patrol Point 15 a.k.a. Hot Springs. The Patrol Point 15 is one of the LAC points, where the face-off is still continuing. The two military commanders are expected to brief the outcome of the talks to their superiors in the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in New Delhi and Beijing respectively. After India and China pulled out troops from both the banks of Pangong Tso earlier this year, the disengagement in Gogra Post and Hot Springs were perceived to be the “low hanging fruits” for the negotiations to resolve the stand-off along the LAC. But the 11th round of talks between the military commanders of the two sides on April 9 last ended in a stalemate, which was broken only after the senior diplomats of the two sides had a video conference on June 25 and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Dushanbe on July 14. The senior military commanders of India and China finally had the 12th round of talks at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point on the LAC on July 31. The two sides discussed a possible agreement on disengagement on Gogra and Hot Springs. But the Chinese PLA backtracked from a deal with the Indian Army on withdrawal of troops from Hot Springs and only agreed on disengagement from Gogra Post. The top brass of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi too finally gave its nod for resolving the face-off at Gogra Post only. New Delhi and Beijing simultaneously announced disengagement of troops from Gogra Post on August 6 – about a week after the 12th round of talks between the military commanders.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-stand-off-india-china-hold-13th-round-of-talks-1039210.html
10-10-2021||National||India's concern over sectarian, minority religion attacks reflected in UNSC statement condemning Afghan mosque strike||The United Nations Security Council strongly condemned the “atrocious” ISIS terror attack on a mosque in Afghanistan and other recent attacks against religious institutions in the war-torn country, references that India categorically insisted on in a statement issued by the powerful UN body and rejected any attempts to dilute them. The 15-nation UNSC issued the press statement on Saturday in which the members “condemned in the strongest terms the atrocious and cowardly terrorist attack in Kunduz, Afghanistan" on October 8. “The attack, which was claimed by Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), an entity affiliated with Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL/Da’esh), resulted in more than 150 casualties killed and wounded. The attack, which took place at the Gozar-e-Sayed Abad Mosque, follows other recent attacks against religious institutions in Afghanistan,” the press statement said. An Islamic State suicide bomber struck inside the Shiite Mosque. Sources said that India stood firm on two aspects that eventually were noted in the press statement. The statement clearly reflects the sectarian nature of the terrorist attack that is seen not only in Afghanistan but in Pakistan as well where Shiite institutions are coming under terrorist attacks. The second aspect that India stood firmly for and which finds mention in the press statement is attacks on other minority religious institutions. There were attempts to have these references either removed, changed or diluted but this was rejected by India, which stood firm that both - the sectarian nature of the violence as well as other minority religious institutions being targeted - should be recognised in the statement, sources said, adding that India’s position was accepted and the statement was then issued. According to reports, Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul was vandalised earlier this month. The Ministry of External Affairs had said that the vandalisation of the Gurdwara in Kabul raises concerns not just for India but for the world, and the international community must continue to insist on fulfilling goals outlined in a UN Security Council resolution that was adopted under India’s Presidency of the powerful Security Council. Against this backdrop, India was very clear that both the aspects should be unequivocally condemned. The Council also underlined the need to hold perpetrators, organisers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism accountable and bring them to justice and urged all states, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with all relevant authorities. “The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security,” the statement said. The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed. They reaffirmed the need for all states to combat by all means, in accordance with the UN Charter and other obligations under international law, including international human rights law, international refugee law and international humanitarian law, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts. The members expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims and wished a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres also condemned in the strongest terms the horrific attack on the mosque, noting that this was the third attack against a religious institution in less than a week. “Attacks that deliberately target civilians exercising the right to freely practice their religion are violations of fundamental human rights and international humanitarian law. The perpetrators must be brought to justice,” Guterres said, expressing his condolences to the bereaved families. The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) had said that the UN family in Afghanistan is deeply concerned by the “very high casualties” in the mosque attack. The mission said that the attack is part of a “disturbing” pattern of violence. It is the third deadly attack this week apparently targeting a religious institution. “Islamic State (KP) claimed responsibility for Sunday’s incident next to a Kabul Mosque. Wednesday’s attack on a madrassa in Khost unclaimed,” UNAMA said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-concern-over-sectarian-minority-religion-attacks-reflected-in-unsc-statement-condemning-afghan-mosque-strike-1039217.html
10-10-2021||National||Over 95.96 crore Covid vaccine doses sent to states, UTs so far: Centre||More than 95.96 crore Covid vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. A total of 8,28,73,425 balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs for inoculation, it said. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid -19 vaccination throughout the country, the ministry said in a statement. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Government of India has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost. In the new phase of the universalisation of the vaccination drive, the central government procures and supplies free of cost 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the vaccine manufacturers in the country to the states and UTs for inoculation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-9596-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-sent-to-states-uts-so-far-centre-1039218.html
10-10-2021||National||Don't fall for fear mongering, sufficient coal stock: Union Minister Pralhad Joshi||Daily despatch of coal to power plants has exceeded consumption, indicating a shift to gradual building up of stocks, Power Minister R K Singh said on Sunday, terming fears of blackouts “entirely misplaced”. Singh and Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi held separate meetings with power-producing companies and coal suppliers respectively to review stocks of coal in thermal power plants and the supplies from mines. “Assuring everyone that there is absolutely no threat of disruption in power supply. There is sufficient coal stock of 43 million tonnes with Coal India, which is equivalent to 24 days of coal demand. Do not fall for fear-mongering,” Joshi said. He said that with the withdrawal of monsoon, coal despatches were set to rise in the coming days. According to the government, the daily average coal requirement at the power plants is about 18.5 lakh tonnes whereas the daily supply has been around 17.5 lakh tonnes per day. However, on Saturday the total despatch of coal from all sources was 19.2 lakh tonnes as against the demand of 18.7 lakh tonnes, a Power Ministry statement said. “Thus, the coal despatch has exceeded the consumption, thereby indicating a shift to gradual building up of coal stock,” it said. Singh also pulled up power distribution companies (DISCOMs) in Delhi for pressing the panic button and sending out messages to consumers to use electricity judiciously due to a shortage in coal supplies. He said that the NTPC and Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) have been directed to give full availability as per the requirement of power distribution companies. GAIL India Limited has been advised to make gas available from all sources to gas-based power plants in Delhi. If any DISCOMs are found to resort to load shedding despite being power available as per PPA, action would be initiated against them, the statement said.   Meanwhile, electricity consumption dipped by nearly 2% or by 72 million units (MU) to 3,828 MU on Saturday compared to 3,900 MU on Friday. The power consumption of 3,900 MU on Friday was the highest this month so far, which also became the cause of concern among the ongoing coal shortage crisis in the country. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-fall-for-fear-mongering-sufficient-coal-stock-union-minister-pralhad-joshi-1039233.html
10-10-2021||National||Lakhimpur Kheri violence not ordinary crime: Salman Khurshid||Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Salman Khurshid on Sunday termed the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri as "tragic" and said this was not an ordinary crime as it was committed because of a "particular callous attitude" towards a democratic protest. He also said that "one should not see an opportunity in this tragedy". Eight people died in the violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. "The fact is that the attitude which led to the tragedy. This was not an ordinary crime, this was a crime committed because of a particular callous attitude towards the democratic protest," Khurshid told PTI on Sunday. "This attitude, if it continues, is going to be devastating for many people in the Indian democracy. I think that this has to be vigorously fought," he said. He added that the symbol of resistance has become the farmers' protest. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been holding protests since the enactment of three farm laws in September last year and demanding these be repealed. When asked as to how the Congress will counter the "BJP's hindutva", Khurshid said, "Let me make it clear. This is a Hindu majority nation. Uttar Pradesh is a Hindu majority state. You cannot honestly believe that the major must not have a voice in deciding how the state is run." "It will have a voice. But the majority's voice cannot completely negate the minority. It cannot happen," he said. The Congress leader, who is in Uttar Pradesh, which goes to assembly polls next year, also said that his party has a campaign on Hinduism. "Our Hinduism campaign is that Hinduism is inclusive, Hinduism is secular. And, therefore Hinduism wants to move hand in hand with other religions including Islam," he said. "They say that Hinduism is alone. We say that Hinduism is accompanied by other religions. I am confident that the state will decide in our favour," Khurshid added. About preparations of the Congress at the grassroot to strengthen itself before the polls, he said that the elections are also about the mood of the people. "The mood of the people as far as we have judged is very adverse to the present BJP government (in Uttar Pradesh). I think that their colossal failure during the COVID-19 pandemic is not being forgotten. It is a very sensitive thing. You don't want to seek votes or campaign on the misery that was inflicted on the people by the inaction of the insensitive government," he said. "But, I do believe that there is a lot of disquiet and anger against this government. How this anger will pan out in the election, who will finally be seen as an alternative that can defeat and replace the government, I think all that will become apparent during the dynamics of the election," Khurshid remarked. When asked to comment on who is currently leading the Congress, he said, "Mrs Sonia Gandhi is our president, Mr Rahul Gandhi, Mrs Priyanka Gandhi are our leaders. Rahul Gandhi does not have to be president to be the leader. He is a leader. You ask me questions about him, because he is a leader." The BJP attacks him, because he is a leader, and he will remain a leader, the Congress leader said. "Once you accept somebody as a leader, you must take their advice of what to do. I cannot tell my leader what you should not do. I have to follow what my leader says," he said. On who will be the face of the party in the upcoming 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Khurshid said, "When I had said that Priyanka Gandhi is our leader, then who will be the CM face, she will decide. Who am I to decide it, if she is our leader? She will decide." "We cannot contract her decisions and discretion. She is our leader, and she is free to say whatever she wants to say, and she will at an appropriate time," he said. Hitting out at political rivals, who say that both the Gandhi siblings are political tourists in Uttar Pradesh, the former state Congress chief said, if they (the BJP) think that they (Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi) are no challenge to them, then they should do their own work. "Have these people (BJP) never done tourism? Somebody undertakes spiritual tourism, somebody does another type of tourism. Have they never done tourism? Why are they so afraid?" Khurshid asked. On AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi involvement in politics in Uttar Pradesh, Khurshid said people who are getting attracted to Owaisi's party, should think whether he will be able to solve the problems of the country. Asked whom the Congress will support, SP or BSP, if there is a hung assembly, he said, "We are hoping for the best for Uttar Pradesh. We do not want to compromise with the best, we do not want to restrict the best. We are with optimism, confidence, dedication and with commitment going to the polls." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-not-ordinary-crime-salman-khurshid-1039240.html
10-10-2021||National||Centre allows export of Russia's Sputnik Light vaccine manufactured in India||The government has permitted the export of Russia's single-dose Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik Light that is domestically produced here, as the jab has not yet been approved for emergency use in India, sources said on Sunday. Indian drug firm Hetero Biopharma Limited has been allowed to export 40 lakh doses of Sputnik Light to Russia, sources in the know of the developments told PTI. Sputnik Light is the same as component-1 of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V which is being used in India's anti-Covid inoculation programme after getting emergency use authorisation from India's Drug Regulator in April. The Russian ambassador had urged the Indian government to allow the export of Sputnik Light produced by Hetero Biopharma, one of the partners of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) in the production of the jab, to his country till the vaccine gets emergency use authorisation from India's drug regulator. In a communication to the Centre, Russian Ambassador Nicholay Kudashev had stated that Hetero Biopharma Limited already has manufactured one million doses of Component 1 of the Sputnik V and two million doses of the Sputnik Light but the six-month shelf life of the vaccine may expire before its registration which will result in the wastage of vaccine doses, sources said. "The government has permitted Indian drug firm Hetero Biopharma to export 40 lakh doses of Sputnik Light to Russia. The decision was taken this week following detailed deliberations," a source said. Over the past months, the RDIF has been working closely with Indian pharmaceutical companies to ramp up the production of Sputnik vaccine in India that could be used in the local and global markets, the ambassador had stated in his communication last month. At the moment RDIF together with Dr Reddy's Laboratories is working with authorities concerned on the registration of the Sputnik Light in India. "We would like to note that Indian manufacturers of the Russian vaccine are discouraged by the current ban that prevents the use of the produced Sputnik Light vaccine in India and its export to other countries," stated the communication from the ambassador to V K Paul, chair of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC). If permanent or time-to-time permission could be granted to Hetero Biophar Limited to export the produced Sputnik Light vaccine by selling it to RDIF until its registration in India, this could encourage the company to scale up the production of the vaccine and provide the Indian market with more supplies of the Sputnik Light by the moment of its regulatory approval, it said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had in September given permission to Dr Reddy's Laboratory Limited to conduct phase-3 bridging trials of Sputnik Light in India. The DCGI's permission was based on the recommendations by the Subject Expert Committee on Covid-19 of the  Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation(CDSCO), which held its meeting on August 5. According to the recommendations of the SEC meeting held last month, Dr Reddy's, which has tied up with the RDIF to market the jab in India, presented updated safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data of Phase III clinical trial of Sputnik Light vaccine conducted in Russia, along with the proposal to conduct the clinical trial in India.       "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for grant of permission for conduct of Phase III immune-bridging clinical trial in Indian population subject to the condition...", the SEC recommendation had said. The Committee noted that the firm has now presented the safety and immunogenicity along with the longevity of the antibodies, which gives a measure of the persistence of antibodies in the participants. In July, the subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation had refused to grant emergency-use authorisation for Sputnik Light. The single-dose Sputnik Light vaccine demonstrated 79.4 per cent efficacy according to analysed data taken from 28 days after the injection was administered as part of Russia's mass vaccination program between December 5, 2020, and April 15, 2021.       An efficacy level of almost 80 per cent is higher than that of many two-dose vaccines. Sputnik Light has proven effective against all new strains of coronavirus, as demonstrated by the Gamaleya Center during laboratory tests, a press release from RDIF had said on May 6. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-export-of-russias-sputnik-light-vaccine-manufactured-in-india-1039260.html
10-10-2021||National||As India enters festival season, masking and social distancing compliance hits new low: Survey||As India enters the festival season, a survey by a digital community-based platform that has measured basic Covid-19 safeguards found that only 13 per cent people rated mask compliance in their area and district as effective while just 6 per cent termed social distancing norms as beneficial. The survey by LocalCircles, which received 65,000 responses from citizens residing in 366 districts of India, found out how people were complying to mask and social distancing protocols in cities and districts, while travelling in flights/airports, trains/railway stations and bus/bus stands as well as places like vaccination centres which many have visited in the last few months. Sixty-four per cent were men and 36 per cent respondents were women. Forty-six per cent respondents were from Tier-1 areas, 29 per cent from Tier-2 areas, and 25 per cent from Tiers-3, 4 and rural districts. A previous LocalCircles survey from June 2021, which was shared by the Union Ministry of Health in its briefing on July 6 this year, had indicated that mask compliance was rated as effective by 29 per cent people then and social distancing compliance as effective by 11 per cent. “The drop in mask compliance ratings from 29  to 13 per cent and in social distancing compliance ratings from 11 per cent to 6 per cent indicates that complacency has set in with many now believing that Covid-19 is gone," said Sachin Taparia, founder of LocalCircles. “With 2021 festive season already on and likely to see significantly higher levels of socialising, shopping and community events, the risk of Covid cases rising is now high”, he warned. The travel euphoria currently is stronger than the one LocalCircles reported in February-March this year, Taparia said. LocalCircles on March 23 this year had raised the red flag highlighting the need to enforce mask and social distancing compliance and implement movement restrictions or lockdown at the earliest when its "citizen pulse trackers" indicated high levels of risk. On the mask front in the latest survey, just 13 per cent respondents said that “more than 90 per cent” people in their area, district or city are compliant and only 30 per cent respondents termed mask compliance as effective during travel at airports, stations, bus stands, etc. On the bright side, the survey showed that mask compliance levels were higher vaccination centres as 61 per cent of citizens said it was effective when they visited the places in the last two months. Regarding social distancing norms, just 6 per cent respondents said compliance levels are effective in their area, district or city. The survey respondents also said the top indoor locations where they have observed low social distancing compliance were vaccination centres, trains, buses, malls and indoor shopping complexes. So, while mask compliance at vaccination centres is somewhat working, social distancing compliance isn't effective. Forty-per cent of the survey respondents said shopping markets were the top outdoor location where social distancing compliance wasn't working. The report also suggested that the Central government, state governments and district administrations must ensure that clear guidelines are formed and enforced for community gatherings and compliance to masking and social distancing norms. Special focus is needed on awareness creation and ensuring compliance in Tier-3, 4 towns and rural districts where some cases of the citizen feedback received showed that compliance is at near-zero levels. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-india-enters-festival-season-masking-and-social-distancing-compliance-hits-new-low-survey-1039261.html
10-10-2021||National||Coal crisis: Power consumption falls by 72 million units on Saturday||Power consumption dipped by nearly 2 per cent or by 72 million units (MU) to 3,828 MU on Saturday compared to 3,900 MU on Friday, showing slight improvement in supply situation across the country amid coal shortage crisis, according to the power ministry data. According to the data, the power consumption of 3,900 MU on Friday or October 8 was the highest this month so far (from October 1 to 9), which also became cause of concern among the ongoing coal shortage crisis in the country. On Saturday, Tata Power arm Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (DDL) which operates in North and Northwest Delhi, had sent phone messages to its consumers saying, "Due to limited coal availability in generation plants across the north, power supply scenario between 2-6 pm is at critical level. Kindly use electricity judiciously. Be a responsible citizen. Inconvenience caused is regretted - Tata Power-DDL." This was the fallout of coal shortage at power plants in a year when the country produced record coal, but rains hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting power generation in many states, including Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Another factor that has contributed to the present crisis is power plants that used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices has made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate. The ministry of power in a statement issued on Saturday had said, "It was noted that on 7th October, 2021 total dispatch of coal by Coal India limited (CIL) touched 1.501 MT thereby reducing the gap between consumption and actual supply. The Ministry of Coal and CIL have assured that they are making best efforts to increase dispatch to the power sector to 1.6 MT per day in the next three days and thereafter try to touch 1.7 MT per day. It is likely to help in gradual build up of coal stocks at power plants in near future. The coal supply as well as consequent power situation is likely to improve." According to the data, the peak power demand met or the highest electricity supply in a day touched 172.41 GW on October 8. This is the highest peak power demand met from October 1 to 9. The data also showed that peak power demand met slowed to 170.03 GW on Saturday, October 9, indicating that the power demand is moderating with the onset of autumn. The latest available data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) showed that coal stocks at power plants on October 7, 2021, was not adequate as there were 16 plants with cumulative capacity of 16,880 MW which had the dry fuel for zero days. Besides, as many as 30 plants with 37,345 MW capacity had coal for just one day and 18 plants with 23,450 MW capacity had coal for two days as of October 7, 2021. There were 19 plants with 29,160 MW capacity which had coal for three days and nine plants with 7,864 MW capacity had coal for four days. There were six plants with 6,730 MW capacity had coal stock for five days while 10 plants with 11,540 MW capacity had coal for six days. While one plant with 2,270 MW capacity had coal for seven days, another power plant with 920 MW capacity had coal for eight days. The coal stock data for October 7, 2021, also showed that there were 69 non-pithead plants which had coal stock for less than four days and categorised as supercritical stock. Besides there were 23 plants which had coal for less than seven days and categorised at critical stock. The CEA monitors 135 coal-based thermal power plants with cumulative capacity of over 165 GW. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-crisis-power-consumption-falls-by-72-million-units-on-saturday-1039262.html
10-10-2021||National||Telangana, Uttarakhand introduce mobile court units||Telangana and Uttarakhand have become the first states in the country to introduce mobile court units to allow witnesses and victims, including women and children, to record evidence from remote locations under circumstances which do not permit them to appear before courts in person. The aim is to allow recording of evidence of women and child victims or witnesses, doctors and medical practitioners and investigation officers on demand. The mobile court unit facility is meant for subordinate courts. The mobile court units are equipped with CCTV cameras, laptops, a printer, LED TV, web camera, inverter, scanner, UPS, an extra monitor and speaker which can visit the victim or the witness on the spot, according to the Department of Justice in the Law Ministry. "Witness or other person, including an accused, involved in court proceedings, in such circumstances where there is an explicit or implicit threat to the personal safety of such a witness or person; or, it is, impossible, extremely difficult, expensive, inconvenient or otherwise not desirable for a such witness/person to attend a Court in person," is eligible to use the mobile court facility according to details available on the website of the District Court Chamoli in Uttarakhand. People, who are unable to, or, prevented from attending the court in person, for reasons arising from tender years, extreme old age, disease or disability of body, or any other cause of the same kind can also use the facility. "Such person may also be allowed to testify, or make submissions by means of video conferencing through the mobile court units, who is unable to appear in person, due to administrative and work contingencies, including remoteness of their work locations," according to the eligibility criteria given on the website. The standard operating procedure makes it clear that the mobile court unit will be understood as an extension of the court, whose proceedings are being conducted through such a unit. "Accordingly, the proceedings conducted through such Mobile Court Unit shall be conducted as judicial proceedings in a Court, with observance of same courtesies and protocols, applicable to the dignity of a Court," it states. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-uttarakhand-introduce-mobile-court-units-1039270.html
10-10-2021||National||Jal Jeevan Mission: 43% households have tap connection till now, 100% coverage in 6 states/UTs||About 43 per cent rural households have been provided with tap water connections till date under the Jal Jeevan Mission with 100 per cent homes in six states and Union Territories having tap water supply, according to official data. However, in seven states and UTs, less than 25 per cent households have tap water supply. These states and UTs are Assam (22 per cent), Rajasthan (20.89 per cent), Ladakh (16.32 per cent), Jharkhand (15.12 per cent), West Bengal (13.48 per cent), Chhattisgarh (13.17 per cent) and Uttar Pradesh (12.72 per cent). According to data shared by the Jal Shakti Ministry, out of 19,22,49,980 households, 8,31,03,880 households have been provided with tap water connections till date accounting for 43.23 per cent. Moreover, 5,07,41,042 (26.39 per cent) households have been provided with water connection since the launch of the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2019, according to the data. Goa, Telangana, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Puducherry, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and Haryana have provided tap water supply to 100 per cent of the households. Jal Jeevan Mission aims to provide safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections by 2024 to all households in rural India. Last week, a mid-year review of implementation of the scheme was held by the Jal Shakti Ministry where states' progress was evaluated, officials said. In evaluation with Himachal Pradesh, the state committed to providing 100 per cent households with tap connections by 2022. The Centre has asked HP to prioritise "aspirational districts" and start work in all remaining villages at the earliest, an official said. In the mid-year review of implementation of JJM in Punjab, the state showed progress that it is achieving more than the annual planned target already. The Centre asked Punjab to prioritise habitations affected with heavy metals and aspirational districts, the official said. In 117 aspirational districts, 1,22,33,458 (36.18 per cent) households have been provided with tap water connections. According to the data, 7,98,199 schools have been provided with tap water supply, accounting for 77.45 per cent of the total schools and 7,73,848 anganwadi centres (AWCs) have been provided with tap water supply, accounting for 69.04  per cent of the total AWCs. Schools in 12 states and UTs have 100 per cent tap water connection while schools in 10 states and UTs have over 75 per cent tap water connection, according to the official data. Jharkhand is the only state with just 17.97 per cent schools having tap water supply, according to the data. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-jeevan-mission-43-households-have-tap-connection-till-now-100-coverage-in-6-states/uts-1039272.html
10-10-2021||National||Modern Indian women want to stay single; unwilling to give birth even after marriage, says K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Sunday claimed that modern Indian women want to stay single, unwilling to give birth even after marriage and desire children by surrogacy. "Today, I am sorry to say this, lots of modern women in India want to stay single. Even if they get married, they don't want to give birth. They want surrogacy. So there is a paradigm shift in our thinking, which is not good," he said during the World Mental Health Day at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences (NIMHANS). Lamenting the "western influence" on Indian society, the Minister said people are not willing to let their parents be with them. "Unfortunately, today we are going in a western way. We don't want our parents to live with us, forget about grandparents being with us," the minister said. Speaking about mental health in India, Sudhakar said every seventh Indian has some kind of mental issue, which could be mild, moderate and severe. However, according to him, stress management is an art and Indian need not have to learn but preach the world how to handle it. "Stress management is an art. This art we need not learn as Indians. We need to preach to the world how to handle stress, because yoga, meditation and Pranayama are the wonderful tools which our ancestors had taught the world thousands of years back," he said. About Covid-19 and mental health, Sudhakar said the relatives were not able to touch the bodies of their near and dear ones, which caused them mental agony. "The pandemic made the government start counselling Covid-19 patients. Till date we have counseled 24 lakh Covid-19 patients in Karnataka. I don't know any other state which has done this," Sudhakar said. Expressing his gratitude to the NIMHANS, he said the institute was counseling people from its digital platform and was offering tele-medicine. Sudhakar also expressed his gratitude to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who spoke earlier at the event, for giving 1.5 crore Covid-19 vaccines to Karnataka every month since September, which increased the inoculation coverage in the state. He hailed the union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving 94 crore vaccines till date since the launch of vaccination drive as the country undertook the Herculean task of vaccinating the entire population free of cost. "We are the only country which is offering vaccines free of cost. Elsewhere, people are made to pay between Rs 1,500 to Rs 4,000 per vaccine," Sudhakar said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modern-indian-women-want-to-stay-single-unwilling-to-give-birth-even-after-marriage-says-k-sudhakar-1039275.html
10-10-2021||National||Cruise drugs case: Shah Rukh Khan finds more industry support amid Aryan Khan's arrest||Several personalities from the Hindi film industry, including veteran actor-politician Raj Babbar, actor Shekhar Suman, music composer Vishal Dadlani rallied behind Shah Rukh Khan and said the hardships won't "deter his soul" as the superstar's son Aryan remains in judicial custody in connection with a drugs case. Aryan, 23, was arrested on October 3 with seven others when the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) busted a drugs party on board a cruise ship. He is currently in Arthur Road prison after a Mumbai court rejected his bail plea. Babbar, actor and Congress leader, took to Twitter on Sunday to express his solidarity with Shah Rukh. "He came, faced and achieved a conquest unparalleled. I have known @iamsrk for long to know hardships won't deter his soul. As the world teaches his young boy through wounds, I am sure the fighter's son will definitely fight back. Blessings to the young man," the 69-year-old wrote. In a tweet late Saturday evening, Suman recalled how Shah Rukh was the only colleague from the industry who had reached out to him when his elder son had passed away. The 58-year-old actor wrote he is pained to know what Shah Rukh must be going through as a parent. "When I lost my elder son Aayush at age 11, Shahrukh Khan was the only actor who came to me personally while I was shooting at film city, hugged me and conveyed his condolences. I'm extremely pained to know what he must be going through as a father @iamsrk," he wrote. On Friday, filmmaker Ashwini Chaudhary took to Twitter and asked how many producers, directors who have worked with the 55-year-old star in the last 30 years are "standing in solidarity with him today?" Replying to him, Dadlani tweeted late Saturday night that he stands with Shah Rukh in these difficult times. Dadlani has composed music for superstar's films like "Om Shanti Om", "Ra.One" and "Chennai Express" with co-composer Shekhar Ravjianii. The composer wrote the superstar's family is being used as "a soft target" to divert attention from the drugs seizure at the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat’s Kutch district and the October 3 Lakhimpur violence in Uttar Pradesh in which eight persons including four farmers were killed. "SRK and his family are being used as a smokescreen, a soft target to distract from the 3000kg Talibani-drug haul at the Adani port, and to distract from the murder of farmers by the son of a BJP member/MLA. Straight-up," he alleged. They join a growing list of people from Bollywood who have come out in support of Shah Rukh and his interior designer wife Gauri Khan, including Hrithik Roshan, filmmakers Zoya Akhtar, Farah Khan, Hansal Mehta, actors Raveena Tandon, Pooja Bhatt, Suchitra Krishnamoorthi, Somy Ali and comedian Johnny Lever. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cruise-drugs-case-shah-rukh-khan-finds-more-industry-support-amid-aryan-khans-arrest-1039285.html
10-10-2021||National||Centre 'making excuses' to run away from coal crisis, accuses Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said the Centre is not ready to accept that there is a coal crisis and its policy to turn a blind eye to every problem could prove fatal for the country. “Union Power Minister R K Singh today said there isn’t any coal crisis and that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should not have written a letter to the prime minister on the issue. It is sad that a Union cabinet minister has adopted such irresponsible approach,” Sisodia said at a press conference. This clearly shows that the central government is making excuses to "run away" from the crisis. “They had done the same thing when the country grappled under an oxygen shortage. They would not even accept that there is a problem. They try to prove states wrong instead,” Sisodia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-making-excuses-to-run-away-from-coal-crisis-accuses-manish-sisodia-1039295.html
10-10-2021||National||Indian finalists to join Prince William’s ‘Eco Oscars’ ceremony virtually||A 14-year-old Tamil Nadu school girl's solar-powered ironing cart project and a Delhi entrepreneur’s agricultural waste recycling concept will be among 15 finalists competing for Prince William’s Earthshot Prize, dubbed the “Eco Oscars” for their carbon neutral setting. Vinisha Umashankar, with her solar-powered street ironing concept, and Vidyut Mohan, with his cheap tech to convert crop residues into sellable bio-products, will go head-to-head with worldwide finalists as they join the star-studded event virtually. The five winners of the Earthshot Prize, created by William – the Duke of Cambridge in December 2019, will each receive 1 million pounds in prize funding. “A truly global event, the ceremony will connect London with the finalists and winners all over the world, showcasing the incredible global community working to repair our planet,” the Earthshot Prize announced on Sunday. “The ceremony will be a carbon neutral production and broadcast, taking a zero waste to landfill approach, including the set design and staging across all locations,” it noted. Performances, storytelling, and state of the art technology will make up the one-hour ceremony at Alexandra Palace in London, to be broadcast on BBC and Discovery channel’s Facebook page next Sunday, October 17. The ceremony will feature performances from globally renowned artists Coldplay, Ed Sheeran, KSI with Yemi Alade, and Shawn Mendes. Mendes will perform virtually and a fossil fuel-free set designed by world-renowned set designer Peter Bingemann, made using recyclable or reusable material, with low-energy or LED lighting. “This will be an award show unlike any you’ve seen before that will entertain you and inspire you to take action to repair the planet in this decisive decade," said Jason Knauf, CEO of the Royal Foundation, behind the prize alongside Prince William. The Earthshot Prize is designed as a global search for the most inspiring and innovative solutions to the greatest environmental challenges facing the planet. “Over half a century ago, President Kennedy’s ‘Moonshot’ programme united millions of people around the goal of reaching the moon.  Inspired by this, the Earthshot Prize aims to mobilise collective action around our unique ability to innovate, problem solve and repair our planet,” William had said earlier, in reference to the initiative. He unveiled the finalists last month, with Bangladesh, China, Nigeria, Costa Rica and Switzerland among the other country projects in the running besides India. The Indian finalists are both competing in the “Clean Our Air” category, with Vinisha’s solar powered cart making the cut for its concept of replacing dirty charcoal with clean energy from the sun. Vidyut Mohan’s social enterprise Takachar was picked for its efforts to combat the very serious health impact on people in Delhi and its surrounding areas from the burning of agricultural waste, a leading cause of air pollution and reduced life expectancy.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-finalists-to-join-prince-william-s-eco-oscars-ceremony-virtually-1039310.html
10-10-2021||National||Civil court lacks jurisdiction to entertain suit structured on provisions of Industrial Disputes Act: SC||The Supreme Court has declared that a civil court lacked jurisdiction to entertain a plea against termination of an employee under the Industrial Disputes Act.  A bench of Justices R Subhash Reddy and Hrishikesh Roy, in a judgment, upheld the view taken by the Himachal Pradesh High Court which overturned the direction for reinstatement of an employee in the state electricity board on the ground that the civil court lacked jurisdiction to issue such an order. The employer here claimed the matter should have been raised before the labour court. The top court dismissed an appeal filed by Milkhi Ram against the High Court's judgement, which allowed the jurisdictional objection by the electricity board. "This court is unable to accept the view propounded by the courts below and is of the considered opinion that the civil court lacks jurisdiction to entertain a suit structured on the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act. The decree favouring the plaintiff is a legal nullity and the finding of the High Court to this extent is upheld," the bench said. The court, however, ordered that the arrears sum paid to the employee following the decree should not be recovered considering the hardships faced by him. The services of the daily wage employee were dispensed with by the electricity board on January 1, 1985. The employee claimed to have rendered uninterrupted service for 2778 days and asserted his right to be regularised. However, the electricity board, on the other hand, contended that he never worked for a continuous period of 240 days and thus was disentitled to claim regularisation. On his plea, a civil court ordered his regularisation with back wages.  An appeal by the electricity board subsequently was dismissed by the district court, which said the issue of jurisdiction was a mixed question of law and facts and since the litigation continued for long, it would not be proper to relegate him to the labour court. It also said the workman was entitled to choose the remedy either before the civil court or before the Industrial court. The termination of the daily wager's service was treated as retrenchment without compliance with provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act. On August 22, 2001, the electricity board offered the employee the post of lower division clerk but the employee failed to give a proper joining report. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/civil-court-lacks-jurisdiction-to-entertain-suit-structured-on-provisions-of-industrial-disputes-act-sc-1039326.html
10-10-2021||National||Thales looking at providing cyber security solutions for Indian armed forces||Leading French defence major Thales Group is planning to focus significantly on addressing requirements of the Indian armed forces for new-age cyber security solutions, artificial intelligence and advanced capabilities in big data analytics. Chairman and CEO of Thales Group Patrice Caine said the company has been looking at expanding its overall footprint in India, particularly in the areas of emerging technologies that will be crucial for the armed forces. The Indian Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force have been focusing on acquiring futuristic technologies like nanotechnology, quantum computing, artificial intelligence, swarm drones and robotic technologies to deal with future security challenges. Caine said Thales Group is aiming at expanding its overall footprint in India in a number of segments, including in areas of cyber security, artificial intelligence and digital solutions. "We are also looking at bringing some key pieces of equipment and systems to contribute to raise our level of involvement in sharing defence technologies with India's defence sector in the field of sonar, radars and other platforms," he told PTI. However, he refused to share the details. Caine said that India's defence manufacturing sector is moving in the right direction riding on a series of policy initiatives by the government and Thales would like to be a key partner of the country in its quest to become a key producer of military platforms and solutions. "We are totally committed to help India expand its defence production under the 'Make in India Initiative' by producing equipment either on our own or with our partners. India has a good talent pool to develop cyber-security solutions, AI applications and big data analytics," he said. India is expected to spend close to $300 billion in the next five years in procuring defence equipment and almost all major global defence firms are eyeing a slice of it. The Thales Chairman and CEO also indicated that the company is looking at having joint ventures with a number of Indian companies for a range of prodicts and military solutions but refused to share details. He said India is now considered as a key country for sourcing various raw materials for the company's global production line and it is going to double procurement from the country in the next five years. "India is now a key and reliable country in our global supply chain," he said. Thales is part of the French firms that provided key components for the Rafale jets procured by India. As part of Thales' offsets commitments under the Rafale deal, the company helped Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) in producing modules for the RBE2 radar. Thales has been providing avionics and other equipment to the state-run aerospace behemoth Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for over four decades and is involved in supplying equipment for various other key military projects. Present in India since 1953, Thales has offices in New Delhi, Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai, among others. Over 600 employees are working with Thales and its joint ventures in India. Caine also complimented India's reform measures aimed at boosting defence manufacturing. The government has initiated a series of measures in the last couple of years to encourage the domestic defence industry. In August last year, it was announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. A second negative list, putting import restrictions on 108 military weapons and systems such as next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning systems, tank engines and radars, was issued recently. In May last year, the government announced increasing the FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route in the defence sector. The government has been focusing on reducing dependence on imported military platforms and has decided to support domestic defence manufacturing. The Defence Ministry has set a goal of a turnover of $25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing by 2025 that included an export target of $5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thales-looking-at-providing-cyber-security-solutions-for-indian-armed-forces-1039340.html
10-10-2021||National||Centre scrambles all resources to avert power crisis||With states from Delhi to Andhra Pradesh sending warnings of a developing power crisis due to shortage of coal, the central government on Sunday pressed all resources at its command to ensure power plants have enough feedstock to generate electricity. While Union Power Minister R K Singh reviewed the coal stock position at all thermal power plants, including those units that supply electricity to distribution companies in the national capital, the Ministry of Coal said “ample coal is available in the country to meet the demand” and “any fear of disruption in power supply is entirely misplaced”. In a year when the country produced record coal, excessive rains in coal producing belt hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting power generation in many states, including Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh. Another factor that has contributed to the present crisis is power plants that used imported coal to generate electricity, have either curtailed generation or completely stopped as a spurt in international energy prices has made it difficult for them to meet the commitments to states at a particular rate. Tata Power, which has signed contracts to supply 1,850 MW of electricity to Gujarat, 475 MW to Punjab, 380 MW to Rajasthan, 760 MW to Maharashtra and 380 MW to Haryana from its imported coal-based power plant at Mundra in Gujarat, has stopped generation. After Singh’s review of coal stock position, the power ministry in a statement said the total despatch of coal from all sources (Coal India Limited, Singareni Collieries Company, Captive Coal Mines and imported coal) on October 9 was 1.92 million tonnes (19.2 lakh tonnes) against the total consumption was 1.87 million tonnes (18.7 lakh tonnes). “Coal despatch have exceeded the consumption, thereby indicating shift to gradual building up of coal stock,” it said adding the coal stock at power plant is sufficient for more than 4 days’ requirement and as the coal supply is being ramped up by Coal India Ltd (CIL), the coal stock at power plant would gradually improve. In a separate statement, the Coal Ministry said coal stock at power plant end is about 72 lakh tonnes, sufficient for four days requirement, and that the Coal India Limited (CIL) has more than 400 lakh tonnes of stocks, which is being supplied to power plants. The domestic coal-based power generation has grown by nearly 24 per cent in this year (till September 2021) based on a robust supply from the coal companies. “The daily average coal requirement at the power plants is about 18.5 lakh tonnes of coal per day whereas the daily coal supply has been around 17.5 lakh tonnes per day. This due to extended monsoons the despatches were constrained,” it said. “The coal available at the power plants is a rolling stock which gets replenished by the supplies from the coal companies on a daily basis.” Any “fear of coal stocks depleting at the power plant end is erroneous,” it said. “In fact this year, domestic coal supply has substituted imports by a substantial measure.” Singh, the statement said, has directed that distribution companies of Delhi will get as much power as requisitioned by them as per their demand. State-owned “NTPC and DVC have been directed to give full availability as per the requirement of DISCOMs,” it said adding state gas utility GAIL has been advised to make gas available from all sources to gas-based power plants in Delhi. NTPC has also been advised to offer normative declared capacity to the Delhi DISCOMs as per their allocations from gas based power plants under respective PPAs. “If any DISCOM is found to resort to load shedding despite being power available as per PPA, action would be initiated against them,” the statement warned. Despite heavy rains in the month of August-September, steep hike in power demand due to economic recovery and increase in prices of imported coal, domestic coal supply have sustained the operation of power plants and all out efforts are being made to ensure full power supply to the DISCOMs as per their requirements. The Coal Ministry said despite heavy rains in the coal field areas, CIL had supplied more than 255 million tonnes of coal to the power sector in this year which is the highest ever supply. Out of the total coal supply from all sources, present coal supply from CIL to power sector is more than 14 lakh tonnes per day and with the receding rains, this supply has already increased to 15 lakh tonnes and is set to increase to more than 16 lakh tonnes per day by the end of October 2021. The supply from SCCL and captive coal blocks shall contribute to another 3 lakh plus tonnes of coal every day. “Domestic coal supplies have supported power generation in a major way despite heavy monsoons, low coal imports and a steep hike in power demand due to economic recovery. It is expected that coal supplies are set to be a record high in the current financial year,” it said. Due to high international prices of coal, supply of power even under agreements by import based power plants has reduced by almost 30% while domestic based power supply has gone up nearly 24% in April-September this year, the statement said adding the imported coal based power plants have generated about 25.6 billion units against a program of 45.7 BU. “It may be noted that the comfortable coal position in the country is reflected by the fact that the CIL has been supplying more than 2.5 lakh tonnes daily to meet the demand of non power industries like aluminium, cement, steel etc. along with supply of coal to thermal plants of the country,” the statement added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-scrambles-all-resources-to-avert-power-crisis-1039346.html
10-10-2021||National||Cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses given in India surpass 95 cr mark||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 95-crore mark on Sunday, the Union Health Ministry said. More than 44 lakh vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm, according to the data from the Co-WIN portal. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-covid-19-vaccine-doses-given-in-india-surpass-95-cr-mark-1039347.html
10-10-2021||National||Kashmiri Pandits in US condemn targeted civilian killings; ask India to re-evaluate Kashmir policy||Kashmiri Pandits in the US have strongly condemned the recent targeted and gruesome killings of civilians in the Valley by the militants and asked the Indian government to re-evaluate its Kashmir policy and provide proper security to the minority community if it wants them to return. At least seven people were killed by militants in Kashmir Valley in the last five days. Of those killed, four belonged to minority communities. The Kashmiri Overseas Association (KOA), a socio-cultural organisation of the Kashmiri Pandits in the US, has expressed shock and anguish over the gruesome killings of pharmacy owner Makhan Lal Bindroo, street food vendor Virender Paswan and two teachers -- Deepak Chand Mehra and Supinder Kaur. Kaur, a Srinagar-based Sikh, and Mehra, a Hindu from Jammu, were killed two days after The Resistance Force, a shadow outfit of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), claimed responsibility for the deaths of three people on Tuesday. Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit and owner of Srinagar's most famous pharmacy, was shot dead at his shop that evening. Minutes later, 'chaat' vendor Paswan from Bihar was gunned elsewhere in the city. Almost simultaneously, another civilian, Mohammad Shafi Lone, was killed at Naidkhai in Bandipora. Three days before that, militants shot dead Majid Ahmad Gojri at Srinagar’s Karan Nagar locality. Later that Saturday night, they gunned down Mohammad Shafi Dar at Batmaloo. According to the KOA, emotions of rage and helplessness ran high when the Kashmiri Pandits residing in various parts of the US heard of the "gruesome, targeted killings of innocents in Kashmir by the terrorists". "These incidents brought back the painful memories of 1990, when members from the community were killed, women were raped, children rendered orphans, resulting in the exodus of over 400,000 people to save lives and honour,” said KOA president Dr Archana Kokroo. "The recent targeted killings have terrorised the minority community in the Valley and many are fleeing their homes again," Kokroo said. "Our peace-loving and progressive community has survived the brutality of the forced exodus of 1990 due to our perseverance and hard work. We continue to live by our values of non-violence. Killing another one of us is not a victory for the terrorists,” Kokroo said. "This is the saddest event that every humanitarian must mourn. India is an independent nation and all Indians have constitutional rights and freedoms. A few interlocutors should not be able to threaten human rights with violence,” said Lavanya Vemsani, a Professor of Indian History and Religions in Shawnee State University, Ohio. "The government must increase security in the Valley, especially for the non-Muslim minority," Vemsani said. Dr Ashok Moza, president and founder of Chemicals Inc, said the government of India "needs to consider creating clusters of thousands of Kashmiri Pandits and other non-Muslims in different parts of the Valley and offer them protection just like Israel has provided to its citizens on the West Bank." "The recent killing is a clear reminder that non-Muslims in general and Kashmiri Pandits in particular are unsafe in the Valley,” Moza said. Commenting on the recent killings, long-time social and cultural activist in Boston Sanjay Kaul, who is also the vice president of the World Hindu Council, said that the government "must re-evaluate its Kashmir policy and provide proper security to the community and work on building their confidence if they are encouraging them to live in the Valley.” The Kashmiri Pandit community is once again on the edge as their woes continue even after 32 years in exile, he said. Reacting over the incident, Pran Chaku, distinguished technologist and a long time Houston resident, said, "This incident has horrified and shocked Kashmiri Pandits globally. I hope the government acts sternly. If the security of the minority community and their right to live in their place of birth cannot be guaranteed, then the government has failed us." Padma Shri awardee Subhash Kak, Regents Professor Emeritus at the prestigious Oklahoma State University, said: “It has been heartbreaking to read about the brutal killings by terrorists in Srinagar. We must stand resolute and fight this evil for good”. Rajesh Kachroo, a PK-ReHinGe activist in Virginia, advocated establishment of a homeland for Kashmiri Hindus in east and north of the river Jhelum and adoption of the 1991 Marg darshan Resolution of Panun Kashmir. "We have reiterated that the only safe option for Kashmiri Hindus, who are refugees in their own country, is establishment of homeland, east and north of the river Jhelum and adoption of the 1991 Marg darshan Resolution of Panun Kashmir,” Kachroo said. "KOA sends its deepest condolences to the families of the dead and pray that there are no more killings. We all stand in solidarity with the families of these bravehearts,” KOA Secretary Anil Ganju said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmiri-pandits-in-us-condemn-targeted-civilian-killings-ask-india-to-re-evaluate-kashmir-policy-1039357.html
10-10-2021||National||Rajasthan woman takes charge of British High Commission for a day||Aditi Maheshwari, a 20-year-old woman from Chittorgarh in Rajasthan, became the top boss at the British High Commission in India for a day after winning a competition that was aimed at empowering the next generation of women as leaders and trail-blazers. Aditi is the fifth winner of the India edition of the 'High Commissioner for a Day competition, organised annually since 2017 to celebrate the International Day of the Girl Child on October 11, the British embassy here said. She is currently pursuing a Bachelor's programme from Miranda House college of the Delhi University and oversaw the functioning of the British High Commission on Friday. "As the UK's top diplomat in India, Aditi experienced a broad variety of diplomatic activity. She observed the India-UK Energy for Growth Dialogue," the embassy said it a release. It said she met with beneficiaries of a leadership programme for aspiring female politicians funded by the Chevening Alumni Programme Fund besides joining climate experts from the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) and young leaders from the not-for-profit Global Youth. "Aditi's packed day also included a hands-on demonstration of the I-PACE-Jaguar's zero-emissions, all-electric performance SUV to be used by world leaders at the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow next month," the embassy said. On her part, Aditi said she had applied for the competition last year as well and was really pleased that she got the opportunity. "The interaction with senior diplomats and with women from 'She Leads' leadership programme were the two personal highlights of the day for me. I also enjoyed being driven around in an electric vehicle by the High Commissioner," she said. "The amount of work that both the UK and India are doing to tackle issues like climate change and gender inequality made me really hopeful as a young woman. I will cherish this day for a long time to come," she added. The applicants for the competition were invited to submit a one-minute video answering the question: 'How can young people best support tackling the global challenge of climate change?' The embassy said UK High Commissioner Alex Ellis acted as the Deputy High Commissioner for that day. "It was a pleasure for me to work with Aditi throughout the day. Her confidence and thoughtfulness on important issues like climate change and women's rights shone through. The UK is working with India to provide a platform for young women like Aditi to help them reach their potential," Ellis said. The envoy said he was happy that so many young girls sent in their entries for this year's competition. "Women are disproportionately affected by climate change and are often left out of decision making on it. The UK is committed to hosting an inclusive COP26 that advances gender equality by calling on all countries to implement the Gender Action Plan agreed at COP25," Ellis said. Aditi Maheshwari, a 20-year-old woman from Chittorgarh in Rajasthan, became the top boss at the British High Commission in India for a day after winning a competition that was aimed at empowering the next generation of women as leaders and trail-blazers. Aditi is the fifth winner of the India edition of the 'High Commissioner for a Day' competition, organised annually since 2017 to celebrate the International Day of the Girl Child on October 11, the British embassy here said. She is currently pursuing a Bachelor's programme from Miranda House college of the Delhi University and oversaw the functioning of the British High Commission on Friday. "As the UK's top diplomat in India, Aditi experienced a broad variety of diplomatic activity. She observed the India-UK Energy for Growth Dialogue," the embassy said it a release. It said she met with beneficiaries of a leadership programme for aspiring female politicians funded by the Chevening Alumni Programme Fund besides joining climate experts from the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) and young leaders from the not-for-profit Global Youth. "Aditi's packed day also included a hands-on demonstration of the I-PACE-Jaguar's zero-emissions, all-electric performance SUV to be used by world leaders at the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow next month," the embassy said. On her part, Aditi said she had applied for the competition last year as well and was really pleased that she got the opportunity. "The interaction with senior diplomats and with women from 'She Leads' leadership programme were the two personal highlights of the day for me. I also enjoyed being driven around in an electric vehicle by the High Commissioner," she said. "The amount of work that both the UK and India are doing to tackle issues like climate change and gender inequality made me really hopeful as a young woman. I will cherish this day for a long time to come," she added. The applicants for the competition were invited to submit a one-minute video answering the question: 'How can young people best support tackling the global challenge of climate change?' The embassy said UK High Commissioner Alex Ellis acted as the Deputy High Commissioner for that day. "It was a pleasure for me to work with Aditi throughout the day. Her confidence and thoughtfulness on important issues like climate change and women's rights shone through. The UK is working with India to provide a platform for young women like Aditi to help them reach their potential," Ellis said. The envoy said he was happy that so many young girls sent in their entries for this year's competition. "Women are disproportionately affected by climate change and are often left out of decision making on it. The UK is committed to hosting an inclusive COP26 that advances gender equality by calling on all countries to implement the Gender Action Plan agreed at COP25," Ellis said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-woman-takes-charge-of-british-high-commission-for-a-day-1039370.html
10-10-2021||National||Centre warns Tata Power against sending panic SMSes||Insisting that there was no panic about power situation in Delhi, Union Power Minister R K Singh on Sunday warned Tata Power of action for sending SMSes to power consumers counselling judicious use of electricity. Singh, who held meeting with officials of power distribution companies in the national capital, producers and the power department said sending SMSes to consumers was “irresponsible behaviour”. “We warned Tata Power CEO of action if they send baseless SMSes to customers that can create panic. Messages by GAIL and Tata Power qualify as acts of irresponsible behaviour,” the minister said. Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd (DDL) on Saturday sent phone messages to its customers in Delhi, requesting them to use electricity judiciously in the afternoon. Tata Power DDL operates in the northwest Delhi region of the capital. Singh said there was no power crisis in the country and the panic was created unnecessarily. NTPC has also been advised to offer normative declared capacity to the Delhi DISCOMs as per their allocations from gas based power plants under respective PPAs. If any DISCOMs is found to resort to load shedding despite power being available as per Power Purchase Agreement (PPA), action would be initiated against them. However, the Delhi government did not buy the Centre's assurances. The Centre's assurances failed to satisfy the Delhi government. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia accused the BJP-run Central government of running away from the coal crisis. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-warns-tata-power-against-sending-panic-smses-1039372.html
10-10-2021||National||Money donated to Hindu temples going to 'vidharmis' and minorities: Pragya Thakur||Bhopal Lok Sabha MP and BJP leader Pragya Singh Thakur on Sunday said Hindu temples and shrines should be freed from the government control as the money donated to them is going to “vidharmis” and minorities. Thakur also said the Bharat Bhakti Akhada, constituted during the Kumbh mela held in Prayagraj, will stage protests for freeing temples from the control of the government. “Our (Hindu) places (temples and shrines) remain under the government control with the district collector as chairman (of temple committees). The money (donated to) Hindu temples, including the big ones, is going to minorities. It goes to 'vidharmis',” she said while inaugurating Bharat Bhakti Akhada's office at a complex in Bhopal. The MP said the Bharat Bhakti Akhada will oppose the government's control of Hindu shrines and temples. “Bharat Bhakti Akhada opposes this (government control), will fight against it, will stage protests and demand that the government free all our temples from its control,” she said. Thakur also said Hindus will take control, protect and develop their temples. The BJP MP said the donation received by temples should be spent on the development of Hindus. "The office of the Akhada in Bhopal will become the centre of religious work, of the protection of nation and patriotism," she added. Thakur is one of the accused in the 2008 Malegaon bomb blast case. She had stirred many controversies in the past, including her comments on Mahatma Gandhi's assassin Nathuram Godse for which she later tendered an apology. Before that, Thakur had also made controversial remarks about IPS officer Hemant Karkare, who was killed during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. She had said that Karkare had died as she had "cursed" him for torturing her. She had even blamed the "black magic" of opposition parties for the death of senior BJP leaders Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/money-donated-to-hindu-temples-going-to-vidharmis-and-minorities-pragya-thakur-1039387.html
10-10-2021||National||Urban Company rejects women workers' claim on earnings||Home service marketplace Urban Company on Sunday denied allegations levelled by its women beautician partners of providing very low commission to them and claimed that the earnings are far more than the amount claimed by them. Over hundreds of working women have protested outside the office of the unicorn start-up in Gurugram alleging abysmally low wages given to them and companies dealing with them in non-transparent manner. A beautician partner of the company shared a screenshot that she got Rs 67 as payout after providing a service worth Rs 1,626. "One of the tweets recently claimed that a beauty partner made Rs 67 for 4 orders. This is a mis-representation of facts. The screenshot shown is not that of her earnings page but a settlement ledger of the bank transfer," Urban Company said in a blog post. It said that the partner accepted cash payments for 2 orders and online payment for the remaining two. "Her net earnings after UC commissions and other fees for the 4 orders in question delivered between 1–3 Oct was Rs 1,941," UC said. UC provided a calculation on the cost of service that it offers to users and wage paid to partners from that work. Paytm founder managing director Vijay Shekhar Sharma tweeted in support of the clarification provided by the UC around complex cost structure involved in offering low cost services. UC said that it has always been a platform where both customers and partners are equal stakeholders. "The very genesis of Urban Company was to organize the home services industry for both customers and partners. In the absence of organized players, the market was controlled by middle-men and aggregators, who restricted market access and kept a lion's share of the margins. "However, we believe we have made the industry more transparent, reduced the number of middlemen and given a voice to the hitherto voiceless informal labour," the blog post said. It said that under no circumstances, the company will ever shy away from doing the right thing for our stakeholders. "This has always been reflected in our business decisions and strategy. We are not perfect, and acknowledge that we might have made mistakes in our journey so far. In the coming weeks, we will be announcing some important programs which we believe will further enhance the earnings and well-being of our partner ecosystem," UC said. The company claimed that its partners earn a net earnings of Rs 280–300 per hour, net of commissions, fee and all associated product and travel costs. As partners do more orders on the platform, and spend around 100 hours per month working for the platform, they see very healthy earnings of Rs 25,000–30,000 per month. "The top quartile of service partners earn over Rs 36000 per month net of all commissions and costs. Our platform is bouncing back strongly post the second wave, and we expect earnings to be even better in October and the months ahead," UC said. The company said that it will publish an update on this blogpost at the end of October with the revised data. "Our estimates suggest that in the offline world, service professionals earn on average between Rs 12,000–15,000 per month," the post said. The on-demand home services provider Urban Company in June raised $255 million (about Rs 1,857 crore) in funding led by Prosus Ventures, Dragoneer and Wellington Management, ahead of its plans to launch an IPO in the next two years. The series F round - which also saw participation from Vy Capital, Tiger Global and Steadview - takes Urban Company's valuation to $2.1 billion. The company also responded to the product that it provides to its beautician partners. It said that the company sells products to service professionals. "These products are genuine, branded and at much lower costs than the offline world, with us passing almost all benefits of bulk procurement to our service partners (In FY21, our products business was operated at near 0 per cent net margin at a slight loss, which can be verified through our annual audited financial statements. Needless to say, partners receive physical GST invoices against all products sold)," UC said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/urban-company-rejects-women-workers-claim-on-earnings-1039397.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||Nearly a third 'not satisfied' with CMs of poll-bound states: Survey||A survey conducted in five poll-bound states of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand served as a shock to the ruling governments as it showed 27.7 per cent of respondents were dissatisfied with the performance of the chief ministers. In the latest ABP-CVoter-IANS State of States 2021 tracker, nearly a third of the respondents opted for the 'not satisfied at all' category while evaluating the performance of the Chief Ministers in the five states. On the other hand, 38.7 per cent of the surveyed people said they are 'very much satisfied' with the performance of the Chief Minister in their respective states. A total of 27.6 per cent of the respondents are 'satisfied to some extent', while 6.1 per cent chose the 'can't say/don't know' category. In the 'very much satisfied' category, Uttar Pradesh tops the list at 40.3 per cent, followed by Uttarakhand at 34.8 per cent, Manipur at 33 per cent, Goa at 18.8 per cent and Punjab at 14.4 per cent. In the 'satisfied to some extent' category, Goa tops the list at 50.9 per cent, followed by Manipur at 25.6 per cent, Uttar Pradesh at 22.4 per cent, Uttarakhand at 20.4 per cent and Punjab at 16.2 per cent. In the 'not satisfied at all' category, Punjab tops the chart with 60.8 per cent, followed by Manipur at 41.1 per cent, Uttar Pradesh at 36.3 per cent, Uttarakhand at 35.4 per cent and Goa at 28.1 per cent. The sample size for the survey was 98,121 covering 690 Assembly seats in the five poll-bound states. The survey was carried out between September 4 and October 4. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nearly-a-third-not-satisfied-with-cms-of-poll-bound-states-survey-1039209.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||Gravity of offence must be looked at while granting anticipatory bail: SC||The gravity of an offence and specific allegations are the parameters that should be looked into by a court while granting anticipatory bail to an accused, the Supreme Court has said. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna made the observations while setting aside an order passed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court granting anticipatory bail to two persons accused in a murder case. The top court said that it had to determine whether, on the basis of the material available at this stage, the high court applied the correct principles in allowing the applications for anticipatory bail. "Courts ought to be generally guided by considerations such as the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the facts of the case, while considering whether to grant anticipatory bail or refuse it," the bench said. The top court was hearing appeals challenging anticipatory bail granted to two accused in connection with an offence registered under Sections 302 (murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) read with 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The apex court said the offence is of a serious nature in which a person was murdered and the FIR and the statements indicate a specific role of the accused in the crime. "The order granting anticipatory bail has ignored material aspects, including the nature and gravity of the offence, and the specific allegations against the accused. Hence, a sufficient case has been made out for cancelling the anticipatory bail granted by the high court," the bench said. The apex court said that facts need not be examined in detail at the present stage and it would examine whether the high court had correct principles for the grant of anticipatory bail. "The material at this stage cannot be examined with a fine-tooth comb in the manner of a criminal trial. What needs to be determined is whether the parameters for the grant of anticipatory bail were correctly formulated and applied by the single judge," the bench said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gravity-of-offence-must-be-looked-at-while-granting-anticipatory-bail-sc-1039251.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||Varun Gandhi warns against 'Hindu vs Sikh' narrative in Lakhimpur violence||BJP leader Varun Gandhi on Sunday yet again cautioned against attempts to paint the Lakhimpur Kheri killings as a “Hindu versus Sikh” battle, terming it as an “immoral and false” narrative. Gandhi, a three-term Lok Sabha member from Pilibhit, said petty political gains should not be put above national unity. Gandhi has been taking a stand that is seen as divergent from the BJP view on the issue. He had written to Chief Minister Yogi Adiytanath demanding Rs one crore compensation to the kin of those killed in Lakhimpur Kheri when a vehicle from the convoy of Union Minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ ploughed through protesting farmers, killing four. “An attempt to turn Lakhimpur Kheri into a Hindu vs Sikh battle is being made. Not only is this an immoral & false narrative, it is dangerous to create these fault-lines & reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. We must not put petty political gains above national unity,” Gandhi said. Gandhi and his mother former union minister Maneka Gandhi were dropped from the BJP National Executive Committee last week. BJP President J P Nadda had called Gandhi last week after the Lok Sabha member questioned the party’s approach to the Lakhimpur Kheri killings. Lakhimpur Kheri and Pilibhit are part of the Terai region of the state where a large number of Sikhs have settled for the past several decades and engaged in farming. Rice, wheat and sugarcane are major crops in the fertile region abutting the Nepal border. Gandhi said the struggle for justice in Lakhimpur Kheri was about the “cruel massacre of poor farmers in the face of an arrogant local power elite”, and the issue has no religious connotations. “To use the word 'Khalistani' liberally to describe the protesting farmers is not only an insult to the generations of these proud sons of the Terai who have fought and shed blood on our borders, it is also extremely dangerous for our national unity if this provokes the wrong kind of reaction,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/varun-gandhi-warns-against-hindu-vs-sikh-narrative-in-lakhimpur-violence-1039266.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||NC suffers major jolt in Jammu, two prominent leaders Devender Rana, Slathia resign||The National Conference suffered a major setback in Jammu as two prominent leaders Devender Rana and Surjit Singh Slathia resigned from the party on Sunday. They are likely to join the BJP in Delhi on Monday. "Dr Farooq Abdullah has received & accepted the resignations of Mr Salathia & Mr Rana. No further action or comment is deemed necessary," a National Conference spokesman tweeted. Rana, who was NC’s provincial president of the Jammu region, also announced the decision to quit the National Conference during a brief interaction with media persons outside his house here, ending over week-long speculation about him leaving his party and joining the BJP. “I along with (senior party colleague and former minister) S S Slathia resigned from the basic membership of the National Conference,” he told reporters. Rana, a former MLA and younger brother of Union minister Jitendra Singh, had taken over the post of provincial president of the National Conference in 2011 after relinquishing his office as political advisor to the then chief minister Omar Abdullah. “Now the voice of J-K will come from Jammu which should get its rightful place,” Rana, who was considered as the backbone of the National Conference in Jammu province, said. He said his political philosophy would be based on the proposed ‘Jammu declaration’. Rana said his only concern is the interests of Jammu and the wishes and aspirations of the people of the region. The ‘Jammu declaration’ is an attempt in this direction where people from all walks of life including political parties need to come together, he added. Rana had proposed the 'Jammu declaration' on January 30, a charter to forge unity and reinforce trust between diverse communities and divergent regions of Jammu and Kashmir. “The core of the declaration will be to engage the people in inter-region and intra-regional dialogue to bridge the fault-lines being created by divisive forces on the basis of region and religion,” Rana had said. Asked whether his leaving the National Conference is a big loss for the party, he said people come and go and so the resignation of the two leaders would have no impact on it as the NC is a “very big” party. “I enjoy good relations with both (NC president) Farooq Abdullah and (vice president) Omar Abdullah,” he said. After proposing the Jammu declaration, Rana had said the BJP was the only party which gave a “big response” to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nc-suffers-major-jolt-in-jammu-two-prominent-leaders-devender-rana-slathia-resign-1039291.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||Truce being worked out with G-23 ahead of big Congress meet||Truce is being worked out between G-23 leaders and the Congress leadership in the party ahead of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting slated for Saturday. The CWC, which is the highest decision making body of the party, is likely to give a nod to the organisational polls, which is the key demand of the dissenting group. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is reaching out to the other camp through emissaries. Kamal Nath has been talking to the dissenting group and Priyanka has also been trying to reach out to the G-23 by involving Bhupinder Hooda's son Deepender Hooda with her protest on Lakhimpur Kheri violence. She has also taken the junior Hooda to Varanasi for her rally. The sign of thaw emerges from the Congress letter, which has been written by party General Secretary K.C. Venugopal seeking an appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind to submit a memorandum on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The signatories of the letter include Ghulam Nabi Azad -- on the second number after Rahul Gandhi. Azad is one among the G-23 leaders. The Congress has been mired with internal rift since August 2020 last year when a letter was written to Sonia Gandhi for visible and effective leadership. Last month Ghulam Nabi Azad again wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi for calling CWC meet, and now the Congress high command has called the meeting on October 16. Senior party leader Kapil Sibal had recently said, "There is no president in our party, so we do not know who is taking all the decisions. We know it, yet we don't know, one of my senior colleagues perhaps has written or is about to write to the interim president to immediately convene a CWC meeting so that a dialogue can be initiated." But after the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, the G-23 has toned down its statements. One of the G-23 leaders Anand Sharma has been all praise for the Gandhis, "Commending @RahulGandhi and @PriyankaGandhi's courageous act of compassion and solidarity with farmers whose sons were killed. A sincere and expressed commitment to fight for justice for the bereaved farmers which must be supported by all who respect the rule of law." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/truce-being-worked-out-with-g-23-ahead-of-big-congress-meet-1039300.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||PM Modi demeaning farmers, selling national assets for peanuts: Priyanka Gandhi||Virtually launching her party's election campaign in Uttar Pradesh, where Assembly polls were barely five months away, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday accused prime minister Narendra Modi of demeaning the farmers and selling the precious national assets to his billionaire friends for peanuts. Addressing a public meeting in Modi's Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi, Priyanka also charged the prime minister with 'shielding' Ajay Mishra, union minister of state for home, whose son Ashish Mishra was arrested on charges of running over four farmers with his SUV at Lakhimpur Kheri last week. "The prime minister was in Lucknow to attend a function but he did not have time to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, barely a two hour drive from there....he calls the protesting farmers terrorists.....his party's CM in UP calls them arsonists," the Congress leader said at the rally, which was held at Jagatpur in the district. "Have you ever seen the police sending an invitation to a criminal to come for questioning? It does not happen in any country in the world but it is happening here," she said. Priyanka said that her party would continue to demand the resignation of the MoS Ajay Mishra. "We are not afraid of anyone...you (govt) can put us in jail but we will keep on fighting until the minister resigns.....our party has fought for the freedom of the country...no one can silence us," she added. The Congress leader also raked up the sale of Air India and said that the national assets were being sold for peanuts to the billionaire friends of Modi. "Do you (people) know how much the PM spent in buying two aircrafts for himself?....16 thousand crores....and he has sold Air India to his billionaire friend for 18 thousand crore...airports, PSUs are also being sold to his billionaire friends," she said. She also referred to the rising fuel and LPG prices and exhorted the people to oust the BJP government. "Look within yourself (people) and ask a question. Has there been any progress in the past seven years....this country is being destroyed," Priyanka said. Priyanka also raked up the killings of 13 tribals in Sonebhadra district of the state a few years back and the rape and subsequent killing of a Dalit girl in Hathras and said that no one was safe in the country. "Only two categories of people are safe here...those from the ruling party and the billionaire friends of the PM," she added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-demeaning-farmers-selling-national-assets-for-peanuts-priyanka-gandhi-1039309.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||All sections unhappy, BJP-JJP govt has not fulfilled any poll promise in 2 years: Hooda||Senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday alleged that all sections were unhappy with the ruling BJP-JJP government in Haryana as it has not fulfilled any poll promise. “All sections are unhappy with this government... Not just their electoral promises, but the common minimum programme (of the BJP-JJP) has also not been implemented by the ruling coalition in their tenure till now,” the former chief minister said. Hooda was addressing a public gathering at the 'Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh' programme, launched from Karnal, which is the home constituency of Chief Minister ML Khattar. During the event, opposition Congress leaders held an open session interacting with the people and hearing their grievances. Hooda said that the opposition gave two years to the BJP-JJP coalition government to fulfil its election promises, manifesto and the common minimum programme but nothing has happened. “In such a situation, no more time can be given to the government formed for mere opportunism and selfishness. That is why the Congress Legislature Party has decided that now it will go to the public in every district and every assembly constituency and establish direct communication with the people,” he said in the presence of several presents and former MLAs of the Congress from Haryana. Farmers, labourers, traders, workers and people from different sections who reached the programme put their problems in front of the opposition leaders. After listening to these, Hooda, who is Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana assembly, said that today no section of the state is happy with the coalition government. On paddy procurement, he said, “I have myself seen in the mandis (agricultural markets) of the state that smooth procurement of paddy has not started so far despite the government changing the dates repeatedly.” “Farmers are forced to keep their paddy on the roads as their crop is neither being lifted from the market nor are the farmers getting MSP (minimum support price) or payment,” the Congress leader said. Hooda said people are today facing many problems, including bad roads, polluted water, long power cuts, waterlogging, unbearably high prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, unemployment, crime and corruption. “Seeing this, it seems that the BJP-JJP coalition government has completely turned its back on the people of the state. I assure the people of Haryana that the opposition will raise these issues on the streets and in the state Vidhan Sabha (state assembly),” he said. “Under the present government, farmers are not getting MSP, traders are not getting their commission, labourers are not getting fair remuneration and employees are not getting pension. The government is cutting the facilities of every section,” he said. Before the formation of the BJP government, Haryana stood first in per capita income, per capita investment, employment generation and development, he claimed. “But the present government has made the state number one in unemployment, crime, scam and disorder,” he said. Hooda said the state is getting buried under the burden of debt "due to the lopsided policies and scams of the government". “Today, Haryana is under a debt of Rs 2.5 lakh crore. In the name of government recruitment, the future of unemployed youth is being played with as there have been several incidents of paper leaks. Recruitment scams have become the hallmark of this government,” he said. Hooda took a dig at Chief Minister Khattar over his recent controversial “tit-for-tat” remark. Khattar on Friday retracted his "tit-for-tat" remark, saying it was "misconstrued" and he did not have any ill-intention against anyone. “Such statements have no place in a democracy. Those who are encouraging people to pick up sticks will be answered through the power of the vote,” Hooda said. He said the number of people who highlighted their problems before the opposition at the event in Karnal, was many times higher than anticipated. “After this, we feel that we need to go to every area to get information about the problems on the ground so that these problems can be taken up vigorously,” he said. He said the next 'Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh' programme will be held in Jind. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-sections-unhappy-bjp-jjp-govt-has-not-fulfilled-any-poll-promise-in-2-years-hooda-1039323.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi turns to Hindutva to counter BJP in Uttar Pradesh||Signaling a major shift in her party's election strategy to counter the BJP in the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and in some other states, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday appeared to turn to Hindutva in an attempt to make a dent into the saffron party's core vote bank. Sporting a 'tripundra', Priyanka, who addressed a 'Nyay' (justice) rally in prime minister Narendra Modi's Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Sunday, reminded the sizable crowd about the ongoing Navratri and that she was on a 'fast'. "Aaj Navratri ka chautha din hai aur mera vrat hai," (today is the fourth day of Navratri and I am fasting), she said. Priyanka also began her speech with two 'slokas' which were chanted especially during the Navratri festival to please goddess Durga and asked the people to chant 'Jai Mata Di'. Earlier, before proceeding to the venue of the meeting at Jagatpur, the Congress leader visited the famous Kashi Vishwanath Temple and paid obeisance there. She also performed a puja there for around fifteen minutes. Priyanka also visited the Kushmanda Temple at Durga Kund in the town and paid obeisance there. Incidentally, on the fourth day of the Navratri, goddess Durga is worshipped as 'Kushmanda'. Priyanka had in the past also visited famous Hindu temples in Saharanpur and Prayagraj, dropping hints that she would follow 'soft hindutva' to counter the BJP in the UP polls. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-turns-to-hindutva-to-counter-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh-1039331.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||Will take up with Amit Shah the 'unjust' move to 'evict' Sikhs living in Shillong, says Punjab Dy CM||Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday said he will take up with the Union Home Minister Meghalaya government's alleged move to "evict" Sikhs living in Shillong. Days after the Meghalaya cabinet approved a proposal to relocate "illegal settlers" from the Them Iew Mawlong area in Shillong, the Harijan Panchayat Committee (HPC), which represents members of the Sikh community there, has said it will "fight tooth and nail" to stop the government from carrying out the drive. The Meghalaya state cabinet took the decision earlier this week, based on a recommendation made by a high-level committee (HLC) headed by Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong. Randhawa, according to an official statement, said he opposes the decision of the Meghalaya government "to evict the Sikhs living in Shillong" and has decided to take up the matter with the Union Home minister and Meghalaya chief minister. Two years ago, a Punjab government delegation led by Randhawa had visited Shillong and met members of the Sikh community living there and had assured them at that time too that he would vociferously oppose any move against their displacement. Randhawa vehemently opposed the Meghalaya government's latest move, saying it was totally unjust to evict the Sikhs. The deputy chief minister said the Sikhs have been living in Shillong for decades and the Punjab government strongly opposes this decision to displace them. He said the civil rights of these Sikhs who have been living in Shillong for more than 200 years would not be allowed to be trampled upon at any cost. Randhawa alleged that the BJP-led NDA government has failed to create a sense of security and confidence among minorities across the country "who are feeling insecure, the latest examples of which can be seen in Jammu and Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh". HPC secretary Gurjit Singh on Saturday that the organisation, which represents the interests of hundreds of Dalit Sikh families living in Them Iew Mawlong area or Punjabi lane for the past many years, has rejected the report of the high-level committee. Singh had also said his organisation has vowed to "fight tooth and nail for the rights of people residing in the area till their last breath".  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-take-up-with-amit-shah-the-unjust-move-to-evict-sikhs-living-in-shillong-says-punjab-dy-cm-1039332.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Congress knocks on President Kovind's doors, seeks justice for victims||Congress has knocked on the doors of President Ram Nath Kovind to seek justice for Lakhimpur Kheri victims, as it is set to intensify the campaign against the Modi government on farmers’ issues. A well-attended rally in Varanasi, addressed by AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi, has set the tone for the campaign as she gave a call to ‘change this government, usher in change” in Uttar Pradesh. In a letter to President Kovind, AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal termed the Lakhimpur Kheri killings as a “broad day massacre of farmers” and asked him to allow a seven-member delegation to present a “detailed memorandum of facts” before him. “Even more tragic are the open warnings given by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Ajay Mishra Teni and consequent trampling of farmers under a Thar Jeep owned by the Minister and his family,” Venugopal said. He sought an appointment from the President for a Congress delegation comprising Rahul Gandhi, A K Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, KC Venugopal and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to apprise him about the “shocking incident” that has “shaken the conscience of the nation”. “Farmers, who were eyewitnesses, have openly stated that they were run over by a vehicle being driven by the son of the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs. Despite all-round protests and intervention of the Supreme Court, no decisive action has been taken either against the guilty or against the Minister,” he added. Congress leaders are set to organise ‘silent protests’ at all state units on Monday demanding the sacking of Teni and the arrest of all people, including his son, involved in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The state Congress committees have been asked to ensure the participation of senior leaders, MPS, MLAs, party functionaries, and heads of frontal organisations and cells. The state units have been directed to hold the protest in front of Raj Bhavan or central government offices demanding the immediate sacking of the Minister from his post and immediate arrest of people involved in the “cold-blooded” murder. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-congress-knocks-on-president-kovinds-doors-seeks-justice-for-victims-1039354.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||Humiliated by the RJD in Bihar, Congress lets off some steam||Sore over the short shrift it recently received from the RJD, its old but domineering ally in Bihar, the Congress on Sunday chose to let off some steam, charging Lalu Prasad's party with “trying to weaken us” despite the “deep respect” the grand old party had for the former chief minister. “In the assembly polls last year, we could not realise our potential because the RJD made us give up many seats where we were strong, and compelled to contest constituencies where we did not have a good chance,” AICC secretary in-charge for Bihar, Bhakt Charan Das, who was here to oversee preparations for the upcoming by-polls to two assembly seats, alleged. He expressed dismay over the RJD's unilateral announcement of candidates for by-elections to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan, though the latter was lost by a small margin last year by the Congress, which was confident of wresting the seat from Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) this time. “As an alliance partner, we wonder what the RJD seeks to gain by trying to weaken us. Even if it goes on to win the by-polls, will two extra seats help it form the next government? Can the RJD ever form a government in Bihar without the Congress supporting it”, asked Das, who took over after the party's poor show in the state caused his predecessor Shaktisinh Gohil to step down. In the assembly elections last year, the five-party Grand Alliance that is headed by the RJD and comprises Congress and three Left parties, fell short of the majority mark by about 15 seats. The RJD emerged as the single largest party in the state assembly, while the Left performed beyond expectations. However, the Congress stood out as the weak link, as it could win less than 20 seats despite having contested 70 of the 243-strong assembly. Relations have become strained between the two parties ever since the recent induction of Kanhaiya Kumar into the Congress. The former JNU student leader is seen as a potential rival of Tejashwi Yadav, the younger son and heir apparent of Lalu Prasad. The Left, which has been left with an axe to grind against the Congress following the exit of the CPI rising star, has chosen to throw its lot behind the RJD in the upcoming by-polls in Bihar. However, Das claimed that Congress candidates for the two seats were going to win and the RJD will have to explain to the people “why it acted the way it did, unmindful of the fact that we need to remain united till the next Lok Sabha elections and the assembly polls of 2025”. Having ruled Bihar for the most part till the 1980s, the Congress went into a state of steady decline ever since it was unseated from power by the Janata Dal, of which the RJD and the JD(U) are splinter groups. An alliance with the RJD allowed the Congress to share power in the last tenure of Rabri Devi, who succeeded husband Lalu Prasad as the chief minister. It again briefly enjoyed power in the state after the Grand Alliance that came into being with arch rivals Lalu and Nitish joining hands swept the polls in 2015. The JD(U) leader, however, returned to the NDA less than two years later.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/humiliated-by-the-rjd-in-bihar-congress-lets-off-some-steam-1039385.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||RSS magazine targets churches, priests over widespread 'sexual exploitation'||RSS-linked magazine "Panchjanya", in its latest edition, has targetted the Christian church and priests over the widespread allegations of sexual exploitation. The magazine, that would hit the stands on October 17, has, in the cover story, dwelt on the complaints of sexual exploitation of children and nuns across the world, and demanded an investigation into those allegations in India also. Citing the instance of France, the magazine said that over 3 lakh children were exploited between 1950-2020, and around 3,000 priests were named as accused. Panchjanya mentioned that an independent enquiry committee set up in 2018 came across those details during its probe. It also termed Pope Francis' apology in 2019 over these complaints and incidents a "formality under pressure", noting that despite it, episodes of similar nature have not seen any downward trend. It also cited complaints and incidents of sexual exploitation reported from various parts of India, underlining that the people of the country have been seeking probes against the church and priests. Claiming that such incidents are on the rise in India too, it referred to several incidents in Jharkhand and Kerala, besides the rape of a woman in Missionary College, Chennai, and of a nun from Kerala. Panchjanya held the style of functioning of the church responsible for the worldwide decline in the number of nuns. It said that in Kerala, the number of nuns has reduced to only 25 per cent and therefore, the church is taking into its fold, girls from poor families in states such as Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, and Odisha "under the guise of deceit, coercion and allurement". Earlier, in its October 10 edition's cover story, the RSS-linked magazine had slammed the Congress and its former President Rahul Gandhi, saying the country's oldest political party is passing through its "worst-ever phase". The Panchjanya had been in the news for its previous issues attacking Infosys and its leader N.R. Narayana Murthy over the glitches in the income tax portal, and then Amazon and its chief, Jeff Bezos, calling the global e-commerce giant "East India Company 2.0". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rss-magazine-targets-churches-priests-over-widespread-sexual-exploitation-1039388.html
10-10-2021||National Politics||Bhupesh Baghel calls Adityanath 'coward', says he's scared of Priyanka Gandhi||UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is a "coward" and was so "scared" of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra that he kept her in custody and did not let her visit Lakhimpur Kheri after violence there, said Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday. Baghel said this referring to the detention of Priyanka in Sitapur following the violence, in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed last Sunday. Addressing the party’s "Kisan Nyay Rally" in Varanasi, he also slammed the BJP, saying it divides people in the name of religion, which they "learnt from the British". Targeting Adityanath, Baghel said that he had heard and believed that seers do not fear anyone but Yogi proved to be a "big coward". "He is such a coward that he got afraid of a woman, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, that he did not allow her to go to Lakhimpur Kheri and kept her in jail for four days. The UP chief minister will be such a big coward, I never knew this," Baghel said. "When I reached Lucknow from Raipur, I was not allowed to move out of the airport. When I said that I want to go to the UP Congress office and that I want to meet Priyanka Gandhi, I was told that I cannot go out of the airport. Such a coward and frightened person, I have not seen," Baghel said. Sharpening his attack, Baghel said that Yogiji had come to Chhattisgarh a number of times but they never stopped him. "And, I am telling him now to come to Chhattisgarh. But, with what face will he come to Chhattisgarh? He had said that the farmers' income will be doubled but this did not take place," the CM said. "But, our leader Rahulji went to Chhattisgarh and promised the farmers that Rs 2,500 per quintal will be given to them for paddy and today Chhattisgarh is the only state to do so," he claimed, accusing the BJP of indulging in rhetoric (jumlebaaji”). Urging people to vote for the Congress in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, he said that his party always fought for farmers. "The RSS and Savarkar used to act as informers of the British while on the other hand, it was Mahatma Gandhiji, who fought for the farmers. (Jawaharlal) Nehruji and Sardar Patelji also fought for the farmers," he said. "They (BJP) know how to make people fight in the name of religion and this quality of divide and rule they have learnt from the British. This has been going on since the freedom struggle," he alleged. On the issue of stray cattle, Baghel accused the BJP of seeking votes in the name of "gaumata" but doing nothing for it. "In Chhattisgarh, we purchase cow dung at Rs 2 per kg and making vermicompost from it," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhupesh-baghel-calls-adityanath-coward-says-hes-scared-of-priyanka-gandhi-1039398.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||DERC relaxation to power discoms amid coal storage||The Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) on Saturday gave relaxation to distribution companies in power purchase in view of increased price and requested the Centre to urgently intervene and facilitate adequate supply of fuel to the generation plants to avoid any outages in the capital. Various steps were taken by the DERC to ensure 24/7 supply to consumers of Delhi due to ongoing power supply crisis, said a statement from the Commission. "The DERC took stock of the situation arising out of current coal and gas shortage which has led to non-availability of 24X7 power in Delhi and electricity prices soaring to extraordinary high levels at power exchanges," said the statement. It allowed various relaxations with immediate effect to discoms NDMC, BRPL, BYPL, and TPDDL in order to ensure 24X7 supply of power to the consumers of Delhi, statement said. "The discoms till the crisis is fully averted will not be imposed any fines on violations of grid norms. Also, they will not go through any scrutiny on power purchased above the rate of Rs 5 per unit," said a source. The Delhi government has allowed the discoms to purchase power through exchanges at a high rate of Rs 20 per unit in view of the crisis. Normally, the DERC scrutinises all purchases by discoms beyond Rs 5 per unit. The power regulator of Delhi has also directed gas turbine power stations (GTPS) to declare its availability on any alternative fuel, ensuring additional 270 MW of power in order to bridge the gap between the current demand-supply, the DERC stated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/derc-relaxation-to-power-discoms-amid-coal-storage-1039147.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Badal promises special scheme for SC-dominated villages if voted to power||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said if voted to power in the Punjab Assembly polls next year, his government will launch a scheme named after BSP founder Kanshi Ram, under which a special grant will be given to villages dominated by the SC population. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has tied up with the BSP for the Assembly polls in the state. Addressing a rally here to pay tributes to the BSP founder on his death anniversary, the SAD chief said they are committed to establishing a district-level medical college and multispecialty hospital in the memory of Kanshi Ram besides a university in the Doaba region in the name of Dr B R Ambedkar. “We are also committed to providing five lakh houses each to the poorer sections among the SCs and Backward Classes,” he said, according to a party statement. “One lakh houses will be distributed among both communities every year. We will also split the Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes department into two to ensure focused development of both the communities”, he said. Under the Kanshi Ram Pendu Vikas Scheme, villages with 50 per cent Scheduled Castes population will be given a special grant of Rs 50 lakh for development works. “The scheme will serve as a boon for the Scheduled Castes population as the special grant will expedite water and drainage projects. This will be a precursor to turning these villages into model villages,” he said. Speaking on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh, Badal condemned the delay in arresting Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra. He also demanded the dismissal of Ajay Mishra. Earlier, while paying tributes to Kanshi Ram, he said the leader had awakened the oppressed section of society across the country. He said the SAD had aligned with the BSP in 1996 and the alliance had swept the Lok Sabha polls in Punjab, winning 11 out of 13 seats. “The tone has been set to repeat this result again in 2022”, he asserted. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/badal-promises-special-scheme-for-sc-dominated-villages-if-voted-to-power-1039156.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Centre has again denied permission to Delhi govt to implement ration delivery scheme: AAP||The Centre has once again refused to allow the Delhi government to implement the scheme for doorstep delivery of ration on the basis of a complaint by ration shopkeepers, the ruling Aam Aadmi Party claimed on Saturday. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj alleged that it is a clear case of collusion between the BJP and the ration mafia. The BJP said neither the party nor the Centre has any problem with the Delhi government scheme if it can arrange its own ration. The AAP dispensation had on Tuesday sent the file on the doorstep ration delivery scheme to Lt Governor Anil Baijal for his approval for the third time after the Delhi High Court last week allowed the government to conditionally implement it. Government sources said that the Centre has sent a communication to the Delhi government's Food and Supplies Department asking it "not to go ahead" with the scheme. "The BJP-led central government has written a letter to the Kejriwal government saying that they will not allow the Delhi government to go ahead with the doorstep delivery of ration scheme. "This letter came after the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers' Sangh made a representation to the Delhi LG against the scheme," the AAP alleged. The Union Ministry of Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution, in a letter sent to the Delhi government's Food and Supplies Department, said that "the proposal under consideration with the Delhi government for home delivery (of ration) does not meet the norms of the NFSA (National Food Security Act) and hence the government of India does not allow it", it said. "It is noteworthy that the High Court refused to accept these submissions," it added. AAP spokesperson Bharadwaj said, "The BJP-led central government has blocked the Delhi government's doorstep delivery of ration scheme despite clear orders of the high court allowing it. Is this not a contempt of court?" In its order, the high court had directed the Delhi government to issue communications to all fair price shop dealers, informing them of the particulars of ration card holders who have opted to receive ration at their doorsteps. The court had said only thereafter fair price shops dealers were not required to be supplied with the ration of the PDS beneficiaries who opted for doorstep delivery. Bharadwaj alleged that it was a clear case of collusion between the BJP and the ration mafia. "This points towards a clear nexus between the BJP and the ration mafia. The AAP is trying its best to eliminate the ration mafia and give people ration with dignity and honesty but the BJP doesn't want that to happen," he claimed. He said that the Delhi government's scheme will also prevent theft of ration and oppression of the poor. Hitting back, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said neither the BJP nor the Centre has any problem with the Delhi government's doorstep ration delivery scheme if it can arrange its own ration. "The NFSA quota ration is for distribution through fair price shops and it's a countrywide policy. Before making a long statement, AAP leader Saurabh Bharadwaj should know that even the Delhi High Court had said that the government can start the doorstep ration scheme but it should never stop ration distribution through Fair Price Shops," he said. The Kejriwal government has been at loggerheads with the L-G and the Centre over the implementation of its ambitious scheme, which was initially named 'Mukhyamantri Ghar-Ghar Ration Yojana', for a long time. The Delhi government had made all preparations to roll out the scheme on March 25 but could not do so after the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs said that foodgrains allotted by the Centre for distribution under the NFSA cannot be used for running a state-specific or any other scheme by any name. Considering the objection, the Delhi government dropped the word 'Mukhyamantri' from the scheme's name and decided to implement it under the existing NFSA Act, 2013. However, the file of the scheme sent to the LG failed to get his approval.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-has-again-denied-permission-to-delhi-govt-to-implement-ration-delivery-scheme-aap-1039169.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Minister's son Ashish Mishra 'evaded' crucial questions, cops say||His inability to respond to pointed questions about the sequence of events on October 3, when a group of farmers were trampled over by an SUV belonging to him, finally led Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni, to jail. Mishra was arrested at 10:50 pm on Saturday and sent to the Lakhimpur jail around 1 am on Sunday after 12 hours of questioning. According to a senior official in the investigation team, Ashish Mishra was not able to explain his location between 2:30 pm and 3:30 pm on October 3 when the incident took place. Witnesses have said he was missing from the event between 2 and 4 pm, his phone location showed him closer to the crime scene. Though the minister's son admitted the SUV that ran over farmers belongs to him, but he maintained that he was not in it. His team said he had produced around 150 images of the wrestling match where he was present on the day of the incident. "To every question, he had one answer - I was not present at the spot where the incident took place. We asked him who drove his SUV, how many people were sitting in it, how many cars were there in the convoy, and for every question, he said he was not present," said the police officer. When asked why the vehicle did not stop after hitting the people and why was there a crowd on the road, Ashish Mishra had one reply -I was not there. At times, he even lost his cool and said, "Even if you ask me one lakh times, my answer will be the same." He even feigned complete ignorance about the fact that his men carried arms with them. The families of at least two deceased have claimed that there were gunshot wounds on the bodies - a fact denied in the post mortem report. However, two empty cartridges of 315. Bore rifles have been found at the site of the incident, proving that someone opened fire. When the police team asked him the veracity of video footage, he had produced to substantiate his presence at the wrestling match earlier in the district, Ashish said, "You can get it tested from forensic experts." He still had no explanation for his whereabouts at the time when the incident took place because the wrestling match had ended by then. When asked why he was not cooperating with the investigations, Ashish said, "Whenever I am needed, I will come. I am not a criminal-- I am the son of a politician and a businessman in my own right." Mishra was arrested a day after the Supreme Court reminded the Uttar Pradesh government that the law must take its course against 'whoever is involved' amid nationwide outrage over the incident and mounting pressure from farmer groups. Two persons, Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey were arrested on Thursday as the case reached the Supreme Court. They were reportedly in the same vehicle that ran over a journalist and farmers, the police said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier stated that his government will 'not arrest anyone on the basis of allegations'. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-ministers-son-ashish-mishra-evaded-crucial-questions-cops-say-1039192.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Ashish Mishra sent to 14-day judicial custody||Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, was produced before a court here late on Saturday night, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody in connection with the October 3 Lakhimpur violence. After around 12 hours of questioning in connection with the violence in which eight persons including four farmers were killed, a medical team examined Ashish Mishra in the crime branch office here after which he was taken for production before a judicial magistrate, who sent him to custody, senior prosecution officer SP Yadav told PTI. He said an application for police remand of Ashish Mishra was submitted to the judicial magistrate who fixed it for hearing for 11 am on Monday. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit last Sunday. Farmer leaders and opposition parties had been demanding Mishra's arrest but the minister and his son had denied the allegations. Two BJP workers and their driver were allegedly lynched by angry farmers in the incident. Local journalist Raman Kashyap also died in the violence, which has triggered a political storm and put the BJP government on the back foot in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Ashish Mishra, who is known as 'Monu Bhaiya' in the area, spent the night in the district jail. He had appeared before the SIT at around 10.30 AM on Saturday after a second summons was served to him the previous day when he did not turn up for interrogation. He was arrested at around 11 PM on Saturday after being grilled by the SIT at the crime branch office in the Police Lines. Aged around 35, Ashish Mishra looks after the political activities of his father in his Kheri Parliamentary constituency. The Supreme Court had on Friday questioned the non-arrest of the accused, directed preservation of evidence and mulled transferring the probe to another agency. Without mincing words, a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had said, the law must take its course against all accused and the government has to take all remedial steps in this regard to inspire confidence in the investigation of brutal murder of eight persons. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three farm laws, had alleged that the violence was held under a pre-planned conspiracy and demanded the arrest of the minister and his son. The farmer unions said if the government does not accept their demands by October 11, they will take out a 'Shaheed Kisan Yatra' from Lakhimpur Kheri with the ashes of slain farmers. The SKM has also gave a call for a “rail roko” protest across the country from 10 AM to 4 PM on October 18 and a “mahapanchayat” in Lucknow on October 26. Ajay Mishra should be “dismissed from the cabinet and arrested on charges of spreading disharmony, murder and conspiracy. He is also protecting the culprits in the case”, SKM leader Yogendra Yadav had alleged during a press conference in Delhi. A nine-member team headed by by the SIT team headed by Deputy Inspector General of Police (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. After two men were arrested on Thursday in the case, police had put up a notice outside Ashish Mishra's house asking him to appear before it.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-ashish-mishra-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-1039213.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Over 400 detained in Kashmir following civilian killings||In the backdrop of recent killings of members of a minority community in Srinagar, security forces have detained hundreds of people for their alleged separatist links in Kashmir. Sources said as security agencies are clueless about The Resistance Front (TRF) militants, who carried out a series of target killings, including some Kashmiri Pandits and a Sikh teacher, a major crackdown has been launched and over 400 suspects have been either detained or arrested. “Those detained and arrested in the crackdown include members of Jamaat-e-Islami J&K, Tehreek-e-Hurriyat and stone throwers or people on the suspected list of overground workers (OGWs). The detentions are a part of the investigation to break the chain of attacks in the Valley,” they said. Sources said around 70 people have been detained in Srinagar only, where most of the civilian killings were reported. “Before being killed by the police in Alouchibagh area of Srinagar last month, Abbas Sheikh, the chief of TRF, had succeeded in creating several sleeper cells in the city, which seems to be getting active lately,” they added. TRF, a new militant outfit, which according to the police is an offshoot of the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba, has claimed responsibility for most of the attacks in the city. A senior police officer said that the arrests were made to find a link between the recent attacks on the civilians. “However, as of now we haven’t found any link with the recent attacks in the city. We are clueless about new sleeper cells of militants and have no knowledge of them. It is a major challenge for us”, he said. “The crackdown will continue as top officials of RAW, IB and counter-insurgency experts have reached Kashmir to assist the security agencies here”, he revealed. Small groups of OGWs armed with pistols have carried out a spate of killings in recent weeks, taking the number of civilians murdered in Kashmir this year to 28. Meanwhile, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has also summoned 40 school teachers in the target killing case which they are formally taking for investigation. These teachers have been directed to report at the NIA Camp Office in Srinagar on Sunday at 4 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-400-detained-in-kashmir-following-civilian-killings-1039221.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||NIA raids 16 locations in Kashmir in ISIS, IED cases||The National investigation agency (NIA) swooped down in Kashmir on Sunday and carried out multiple raids in connection with ‘ISIS-Voice of Hind’ and the ‘Bathindi IED recovery’ cases. Reports said the premier probe agency sleuths accompanied by J&K police and CRPF personnel conducted raids at 16 locations in Srinagar, Anantnag, Kulgam, Baramulla and Sopore in connection with the two cases. Sources said the raids were carried out at nine locations in connection with an alleged conspiracy of the international terrorist organisation ISIS to radicalise and recruit youth to wage war against India. They added that NIA sleuths seized mobile phones, laptops and other electronic gadgets from the suspects during these raids. The initial investigation by the NIA has revealed that the ISIS terrorists operating from various conflict zones along with cadres in India, by assuming pseudo-online identities, have created a network wherein terror group’s propaganda material is disseminated. The dreaded terror outfit has been releasing an online monthly India-centric magazine by the name of ‘Voice of Hind’ (VOH) since February 2020, which emerged as a fountainhead of large-scale radicalisation of Muslim youth in the Valley. Earlier on July 11, the NIA had carried out raids in Kashmir in a similar case and detained several suspects. On Sunday raids were also conducted across seven locations in Srinagar, Sopore and Anantnag in the NIA's ongoing investigation into The Resistance Front (TRF), believed to be the frontal organization of Pakistan-based Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit. Reports said TRF commander Sajjad Gul’s house was also raided in Srinagar. Gul is believed to be operating from Pakistan. The TRF case pertains to the LeT militant arrested with 5 kg IED in Bhatindi in Jammu on June 27. The premier probe agency had carried out searches on September 21 this year at eight locations in J&K’s Anantnag, Baramulla, Kulgam, Srinagar, Doda and Kishtwar districts in the same case. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-raids-16-locations-in-kashmir-in-isis-ied-cases-1039232.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Over 650 trees to be felled, transplanted for redevelopment of govt residential colony in city||The Delhi forest department has given permission to fell 32 trees and transplant another 632 for the redevelopment of a government residential colony at Kasturba Nagar in South Delhi. The 32 trees to be felled include 13 dry trees. The forest department has asked the user agency, Central Public Works Department (CPWD), to deposit Rs 3.71 crore for creation and maintenance of compensatory plantation for a period of seven years. A total of 6,510 saplings of Neem, Amaltas, Peepal, Pilkhan, Gular, Bargad, Desi Kikkar and Arjun will be planted as compensatory plantation at Utsav Marg in Rohini. The forest department has asked the CPWD to submit a detailed plan for site preparation and plantation before initiating tree felling and transplantation. The transplantation of trees has to be initiated immediately after permission is issued and should be completed in three months, after which a completion report has to be submitted to the tree officer. The user agency has been asked to adhere to all conditions mentioned in Tree Transplantation Policy 2020 scrupulously. According to the policy notified in December last year, agencies concerned have to transplant a minimum of 80 percent of the trees affected by their development works. Ten saplings are required to be planted for each tree transplanted or felled and the Department of Forests and Wildlife has to keep a detailed and up-to-date record of applications approved for tree felling under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994 on its website. In projects involving transplantation of 100 or more trees, a social audit is to be carried out at the end of one year of tree transplantation to establish the survival rate and the completion certificate has to be jointly signed by the tree officer concerned. The benchmark tree survival rate at the end of one year of tree transplantation is 80 per cent. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-650-trees-to-be-felled-transplanted-for-redevelopment-of-govt-residential-colony-in-city-1039249.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Why is Congress high command silent over killing of Dalit man in Rajasthan, asks Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday termed as "condemnable" a Dalit person being beaten to death in Rajasthan's Hanumangarh, and questioned the silence of the Congress. In a series of tweets in Hindi, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said, "A Dalit was beaten to death in Rajasthan's Hanumangarh. This is very sad and condemnable, but why is the Congress high command silent over it." A Dalit man was allegedly beaten to death on October 7 by a group of men in Hanumangarh over his love affair, the Rajasthan police said. Three people have been detained in connection with the case on Saturday. Mayawati said, "Will the Chief Ministers of Chhattisgarh and Punjab go there and give Rs 50 lakh to the victim's family? The BSP demands an answer, otherwise it should stop shedding crocodile tears in the name of the Dalits." On the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, she tweeted, "The cropping up of the name of the son of the Union minister in the Lakhimpur violence raises questions on the working style of the BJP government." 2. साथ ही, यूपी के लखीमपुर खीरी जघन्य काण्ड में केन्द्रीय मंत्री के बेटे का नाम सुर्खियों में आना यह भाजपा सरकार की कार्यशैली पर अनेकों सवाल खड़े करता है। ऐसे में बीजेपी अपने मंत्री से खुद ही इस्तीफा ले तभी वहाँ पीड़ित किसानों को कुछ न्याय की उम्मीद हो सकती है। बीएसपी की यह माँग। The BJP should sack the minister as only then will there be any hope of justice for the aggrieved farmers, she added. Mayawati also said terrorists are killing innocent people almost everyday in Jammu and Kashmir, which is very sad and shameful. The BSP demands that the Centre should take some strong steps in this regard, the party chief added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-is-congress-high-command-silent-over-killing-of-dalit-man-in-rajasthan-asks-mayawati-1039264.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Five of family die in wall collapse in Telangana||A couple and their three children were killed and two other kids suffered minor injuries after a wall of their house collapsed on them in Jogulamba Gadwal district, police said on Sunday. The incident occurred in Kothapally village on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, they said adding some villagers informed police about the incident this morning. The partition wall in the hut collapsed on the seven family members who were asleep, killing five of them on the spot, a senior police official told PTI over the phone. The two other children were rescued and have been admitted to a state-run hospital with minor injuries, he said. Asked if the collapse was due to the rains, the police official said it was not so and the wall was apparently in a dilapidated condition. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed grief over the incident, an official release said. Following directions from the Chief Minister, state Agriculture Minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy announced ex-gratia of Rs five lakh each to the kin of the deceased. Officials were further directed to identify dilapidated houses and structures in villages, the release added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-of-family-die-in-wall-collapse-in-telangana-1039268.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||MP: 7 injured in group clash in Indore; Muslim family alleges mob attack||At least seven people, including five members of a family, were injured in a clash between two groups at a village in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district, police said on Sunday. While members of a Muslim family alleged that they were attacked by a mob on Saturday night after they did not adhere to some people's 'diktat' of leaving the Hindu-dominated Piwday village by October 9, local police denied the claim. Superintendent of Police Mahesh Chandra Jain told PTI that seven people received minor injuries in the dispute that took place on Saturday night in the village, located about 20 km from the district headquarters. Those injured included five members of a Muslim family and two Hindus, he said. Jain denied the allegation that the Muslim family was attacked by a mob for not following an order to vacate the Hindu-dominated village. Amid the incident gaining a communal colour on social media, the police official termed it as a normal dispute between two groups. "Based on counter complaints filed by the two sides, cases were registered against people from both the sides under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 294 (obscene acts or words in public), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 147 (rioting)," he said. The official said the family, whose five members were injured, makes iron articles in the village and a dispute between the two parties over the repair of such items resulted in violence on Saturday night. Fazaluddin, a close relative of the family, however, alleged that his grandson, who lives in the village, told that they were threatened by a group of people about two to three months back and asked to leave the village by October 9. "When they didn't leave, his family was attacked by 30-40 villagers on Saturday night," he alleged. Five members of the family, including two women, were injured in the attack in which tools from their own factory were used, he claimed. Lawyer Ehtsham Hashmi, who has volunteered to help the family, claimed that the family members were attacked due to religious discrimination, and said they were taking appropriate legal steps in connection with the matter. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-7-injured-in-group-clash-in-indore-muslim-family-alleges-mob-attack-1039269.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||West Bengal sounds terror alert during Durga Puja||The state government has sounded a terror alert in the state during the 'pujas' -- an indication that West Bengal is the new terror target. Though senior police officers are yet to jump to any conclusion, arrests made by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Kolkata Special Task Force (STF) in the last few months show the movement of terror modules in the state. According to the NIA, these terror operatives use the porous Bangladesh border to enter the country. The alert issued by the state home department asked Durga puja organisers to set up systems to monitor crowd movement. They have been asked to install CCTV cameras and watchtowers in the vicinity of puja pandals and work in close coordination with the local police station. The notice also mentioned that immersion of all idols has to be completed between October 15 (Dashami) and October 18 in consultation with local police stations. "In the context of the prevailing threats from divisive and terrorist groups to destabilise the country and to create law-and-order problems, you are advised to exercise utmost vigilance during the celebration of the festivals," the statement read. It further suggested, "The community puja organisers should be asked to engage adequate numbers of volunteers in puja pandals to keep a vigil on the movement of suspicious persons and all the volunteers should be directed to keep in touch with local police constantly. The state government's effort to involve the puja committees in the security mechanism is a significant development. It shows that the state home department is planning for a wider safety and security chain which in itself is conclusive enough to understand the importance and the possibility of an attack," a senior official of the state home department said. The NIA arrested Aal Halif alias Abu Ibrahim -- one of the most dreaded IS handlers in this subcontinent from Bengaluru in 2020. This IS handler was a meritorious student of economics before his entry into the terror world. Halif disguised as Sujit Chandra Debnath was working as an assistant of a mason in Bengaluru. Similarly, Kolkata STF -- the elite Kolkata Police force arrested three JMB handlers -- Naziur Rahman Pavel, Mikail Khan and Rabiul Islam -- who sneaked into India and were residing in the posh residential area of the city. To avoid detection, Pavel used the Hindu name Jayram Bepari. He and Mikail Khan alias Sheikh Sabbir befriended two Hindu women in the Haridevpur area and had planned to get married. This would have helped them recruit more people without arousing suspicion. These are not isolated examples but there are several other instances when the terror handlers have been using religion as a tool to fox the investigators. "Religion is no more a taboo for the terror groups rather they are using it as a tool to hide their identity. Changing religion is no more an important thing for these handlers rather they are using it effectively to dodge surveillance," a senior Kolkata Special Task Force Officer (STF) said. Another factor that is keeping the police and the investigation agencies on the tenterhooks is the lockdown and the subsequent unemployment which is making the work of these terror groups easier. Taking advantage of the porous border with Bangladesh and unemployment, international terror groups like JMB, Ansarullah Faction and even Islamic State are trying to spread their network in the state. The aim is to make West Bengal, the headquarters of the terror activities in entire eastern India. Sometimes through direct interaction and at times through online, they have been targeting brainy but unemployed young boys and girls in the state. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Special Task Force (STF) of the Kolkata Police have secured this information from the three JMB terrorists who were arrested by the STF sleuths recently from a colony in the southern outskirts of Kolkata. The investigation officials are worried that because of systematic brainwashing by these terror groups many meritorious but unemployed youths are getting lost from mainstream society. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/west-bengal-sounds-terror-alert-during-durga-puja-1039276.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur case: Counter FIR says BJP workers killed, no mention of farmers' killing||A counter FIR was lodged by the police in connection with last week's violence at Lakhimpur Kheri which only mentioned the killing of the three BJP workers and a local scribe and nothing about the killing of the four farmers. The FIR, which was lodged by a BJP worker identified as Sumit Jaiswal, did not name anyone but said that unidentified people killed three saffron party workers and a local scribe and indulged in rioting. According to the FIR, Sumit was present in the function organised at union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra's native village of Banwaripur in the district on October three in which UP deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya was the chief guest. Sumit claimed that he and another BJP worker Shubham Mishra were attacked with swords and lathis by the farmers near Tikonia while they were on way to attend the function. The driver of the vehicle Hariom was dragged out of the vehicle and brutally assaulted as a result of which he suffered serious injuries. He further claimed that he managed to escape from the spot but came to know later that Shubham, another BJP worker and the driver were lynched by the farmers. Police officials said that the counter FIR was lodged a day after the incident and that unidentified assailants were booked under section 302 (murder) and others of the IPC.  The police had lodged an FIR on the day of the incident in which Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra had been charged with running over four farmers with his SUV at Tikonia. Ashish was arrested on Saturday night and was remanded to 14 day judicial custody. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-case-counter-fir-says-bjp-workers-killed-no-mention-of-farmers-killing-1039279.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Only BJP leaders, their 'billionaire friends' safe in country, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday launched a scathing attack against the BJP in PM Narendra Modi's constituency Varanasi, saying only the ruling party leaders and their "billionaire friends" are safe in the country. Vadra said this during a "Kisan Nyay Rally", days after eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Union Minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the case. Addressing the rally, Priyanka said when she speaks to people, they tell her that there are no jobs and income. Farmers, Dalits and women are feeling harassed, she claimed. People may belong to any caste and religion, they are not safe, the Congress leader alleged. "In this country, the prime minister, his council of ministers, people from his party and their billionaire friends are safe. Understand this properly. The country is getting damaged," the Congress leader said. Before the rally, Priyanka visited the Kashi Vishwanath and Kushmanda temples. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel also offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Prayers of different religions were recited at the rally. Senior UP Congress leader Pradeep Mathur told PTI that Congress workers from different walks of life accorded a warm welcome to the party general secretary. State Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said with Sunday's event, the party has launched itself aggressively for the upcoming 2022 UP Assembly elections. "The Congress under the leadership of Priyankaji will comprehensively defeat the demon power, which has unleashed itself in various parts of the state," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-bjp-leaders-their-billionaire-friends-safe-in-country-says-priyanka-gandhi-1039282.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||MP: Woman shoots video of herself in Mahakaleshwar temple, apologises as Hindu outfits object||A woman from Indore shot a video of herself lip-syncing a Bollywood song on the premises of the famous Mahakaleshwar temple here in Madhya Pradesh and shared it on social media. However, she later issued a video statement apologising for her actions which she claimed was not liked by priests and Hindu outfits who raised objections. Mahakaleshwar temple assistant administrator Moolchand Junwal on Sunday said the video was shot in the Omkareshwar temple located in the premises of the Mahakaleshwar temple dedicated to Lord Shiva. “The woman, identified as Manisha Roshan, later sought an apology for her actions and deleted all her videos from social media platforms,” he said. Junwal claimed a complaint was sent to the Mahakal police station but the woman submitted a letter seeking an apology to the police as well. However, the Mahakal temple police station in charge Munendra Gautam said no official complaint has been received in this regard by the police so far. In a video statement, the woman said, "I had shot a video in the temple at Ujjain which was not liked by priests and Hindu outfits and they raised objections over it. My intention was not to hurt anyone… I apologise for it and keep it in mind that any of my actions don't hurt the sentiments of anyone in future.” The video clip shows the woman, wearing a sari, lip-syncing a Bollywood song while roaming around the pillars of the temple. Last month, Chhatarpur Police had registered a case against a young woman, whose videos of dancing on Bollywood songs outside a temple in Chhatarpur city went viral on social media. Later, the woman apologised for her actions. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-woman-shoots-video-of-herself-in-mahakaleshwar-temple-apologises-as-hindu-outfits-object-1039318.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Penalise power plants for not keeping coal stock for 30 days, says Navjot Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday sought action against private thermal power plants in the state for "punishing consumers" by not maintaining adequate coal stock for electricity generation. His remarks came a day after state-owned utility Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) was forced to cut down power generation and impose load shedding in the wake of a severe coal shortage. “Punjab must prevent & prepare, rather than repent & repair…Private Thermal Plants floating guidelines, punishing Domestic Consumers by not keeping Coal Stock for 30 Days should be penalised. It is time to aggressively work on Solar PPAs, & roof-top solar connected to the Grid!” tweeted Sidhu. According to the Central Electricity Authority guidelines, power plants located at a distance of over 1,000 km from a coal mine should always have minimum coal stock of up to 30 days but this level of stock is not maintained by the power plants in the state. Because of inadequate coal supply, power plants were running at a reduced capacity in the state, an official of the PSPCL had said on Saturday. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday hit out at the Centre for insufficient coal supply and apprehended impending shutdown of the state's thermal power plants due to fast depleting coal supplies in the next couple of days. He said Punjab was not getting adequate coal supply despite agreements with various subsidiaries of the Coal India Ltd and had asked the central government to immediately ensure the state's quota of coal to tide over the power crisis. The PSPCL on Saturday had appealed to power consumers to conserve power in the light of the “acute shortage” of coal in the country.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/penalise-power-plants-for-not-keeping-coal-stock-for-30-days-says-navjot-sidhu-1039335.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi's son ties the knot in simple ceremony||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's son Navjit Singh got married at a gurdwara in Mohali in a simple ceremony. Navjit tied the knot with engineering graduate Simrandheer Kaur, a resident of Amlala village near Dera Bassi in Mohali district. The 'anand karaj' according to Sikh rituals was performed at Gurdwara Sacha Dhan. With his son seated next to him, the chief minister himself drove the SUV to the gurdwara. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Congress general secretary Harish Rawat, deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, O P Soni, ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Brahm Mohindra, Pargat Singh, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, MLA Rana Gurmit Sodhi, MP Manish Tewari, were among those present at the ceremony. Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh also attended the marriage. Singh had 'langar' (community kitchen) with the couple and Channi's family at the gurdwara. The Jathedar also praised Channi for holding the simple marriage ceremony. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu could not attend the event as he was away in Jammu to visit Mata Vaishno Devi shrine. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channis-son-ties-the-knot-in-simple-ceremony-1039356.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Power cuts in Punjab to remain till Oct 13, plants operating at 50% capacity||Power supply situation continued to remain grim in Punjab with the state-owned utility PSPCL on Sunday saying up to three-hour daily power cut will remain in the state till October 13. Severe coal shortage has forced the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited to cut down power generation and impose load shedding. Because of depleted coal stock, the coal-fired power plants are operating at less than 50 per cent of their generation capacity, said officials. While the private power thermal plants have coal stock of up to 1.5 day and the state-owned units have coal for up to four days, said officials on Sunday. PSPCL Chairman and Managing Director A Venuprasad said the power utility was facing acute coal shortage in all of the coal-based plants situated across the state. Similar situation is prevailing in the neighbouring states of Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan as well as in other parts of India, he further said. Venuprasad said the PSPCL is procuring power even at exorbitant rates from the market to cater to the demand from consumers including the agriculture sector. The PSPCL met maximum demand of 8,788 MW of Punjab on Saturday, he said, adding that about 1,800 MW of power was procured for meeting requirement for Sunday at a rate of Rs 11.60 per unit from the power exchange. In spite of such procurement of power, the PSPCL is going for load shedding across the state on all categories of consumers in order to bridge the gap between demand and supply, said Venuprasad. Power cut duration of about 2 to 3 hours every day will be imposed till Wednesday, he said. The CMD said presently, all the private coal-based plants in the state have 1.5 day coal stock while the state-owned plants have about four days of coal stock. "Yesterday 11 coal rakes were received against the total requirement of 22 rakes. Because of depleted coal stock, these plants are operating at less than 50 per cent of their generation capacity," he said in a statement. The demand for power from the agriculture sector is still there, he said. He, however, said after the intervention of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, loading of coal rakes has improved. With the fall in demand and arrival of sufficient quantum of coal for building up the coal stock, the situation shall ease from October 15, he said. Venuprasad appealed to consumers to use power judiciously.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-cuts-in-punjab-to-remain-till-oct-13-plants-operating-at-50-capacity-1039381.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Punjab power crisis 'man-made', part of 'utter neglect' of Cong govt: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday slammed the Congress-led government in Punjab over the current power situation, alleging that the crisis was entirely “man-made” and a direct consequence of the ruling dispensation’s “utter neglect and absence of advance planning and preparedness”. His remarks come amid state-owned utility PSPCL saying that up to three-hour daily power cut will remain in the state till October 13. Severe coal shortage has forced the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to cut down power generation and impose load shedding. “It (power crisis) is a part of the overall administrative paralysis gripping Punjab today following the ruling party's obsession with power games and vendetta politics. “This is a crisis that was waiting to happen and it has nothing to do with the much touted shortage of coal elsewhere. The ministry of coal has clarified that there is no shortage of coal supplies in the country. That clearly shows that the Punjab government is the real villain as it was not keeping the required reserves of coal to meet such situations,” Badal said in a statement. “This is what this Congress government is doing to Punjab which we had turned into a power surplus state,” he said. The former deputy chief minister said power was one of the key priority areas during the previous Akali government. Apart from revolutionising power availability, the SAD government had laid a special emphasis on green energy. The state was acknowledged as the leader in adding solar power capacity, he stated. Badal further alleged that the “looming crisis once again highlights the total contrast between the flawless and efficient manner in which the Akali government led by Parkash Singh Badal addressed the people's issues and the utterly irresponsible and incompetent way in which the present rulers are doing it”. “When we assumed office in 2007, the state was used to daily power cuts lasting 14 to 16 hours. We promised to turn Punjab into a power surplus state and we made the people forget power cuts even during the peak summer months, while the Congress rulers are unable to manage the situation even when there is no pressure of extra load,” the statement added. The SAD leader said the present power crisis was easily foreseeable and manageable if the government had the time and the will to prepare for it in advance. “But they have wasted nearly five years either in 'power crisis' within the party or in vendetta against political rivals. They believe that they do not need to govern or to address the people's problems and that they can regain power simply by putting Akalis in jail on false allegations,” he said. “Coal shortages are nothing new and these happened during our times also. We always kept enough coal in reserves and never let the state run into such foreseeable and preventable crises,” Badal added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-power-crisis-man-made-part-of-utter-neglect-of-cong-govt-sukhbir-singh-badal-1039386.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Civilian killings sign of frustration by terrorists in Kashmir: BJP||The recent targeted killing of civilians in Kashmir is a sign of frustration by Pakistan-sponsored terrorists post the abrogation of Article 370, the J-K BJP said on Sunday, urging minorities not to leave the Valley in panic. “The BJP condemns the recent killings of minority community members by Pakistan-sponsored terrorists. The act is clearly a sign of frustration because of positive changes being brought in the valley after August 5, 2019 development,” BJP chief spokesperson Sunil Sethi told reporters. Sethi, who was flanked by party MP Jugal Kishore Sharma, claimed that peace has largely returned to the Valley in the last two years, which has unnerved Pakistan and its terror stooges. “The targeted killings is an attempt to stop resettlement of the Kashmiri Pandit community and also to force Sikh migration from Kashmir,” he said. Sharma said terrorists on the directions of Pakistan are targeting people who are going back to Kashmir under different packages to create peace and development in the valley. “Terrorists are also targeting migrant skill and unskilled labour to force their nefarious design of ethnic cleansing of minority communities from Kashmir and radicalise the situation. The Intended target is also to not allow democracy to come to the valley by creating a sense of insecurity in public to get the election process deferred,” he said. The leaders requested the people not to leave the valley in panic and said “all efforts will be done to address their security concerns”. They urged the administration to increase the security grid to have a more effective network of inputs and provide extra security to intended targets to ensure a sense of security and safety to all. Meanwhile, senior Congress activist Raj Badyal, along with his supporters, joined the BJP in the presence of state unit president Ravinder Raina at the party headquarters here. Badyal and his supporters were welcomed into the party fold by Raina and other senior party leaders. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civilian-killings-sign-of-frustration-by-terrorists-in-kashmir-bjp-1039392.html
10-10-2021||North and Central||Case filed against YouTuber for harassing Bollywood actress on social media||The Delhi Police has registered a case against a YouTuber for allegedly stalking and harassing a Bollywood actress on social media, officials said on Sunday. The actress filed a complaint alleging that a YouTuber and Twitter user has been circulating some messages on social media platforms with an intention to outrage her modesty, besides some hashtags with regard to some movie scene, Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma said. On the complaint, a criminal case has been registered at the Vasant Kunj North police station under relevant sections and the investigation is underway, the DCP said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-filed-against-youtuber-for-harassing-bollywood-actress-on-social-media-1039396.html
10-10-2021||Panorama||From Paris to Glasgow, climate action needs a big push||This year’s Nobel Committee announced the Nobel Prize for Physics for climate model and understanding of the physical system just weeks before the Glasgow Climate summit. Syukuro Manabe and Klaus Hasselmann, two out of the three winners of the year, studied large-scale global forces that shape our daily lives and laid the foundation of our knowledge of the earth’s climate and how human actions influence it. Climate Action Tracker (CAT) of Germany-based non-profit group ‘Climate Analytics’, in its report in November 2020, had rated India ‘almost sufficient’ for its climate actions for 2 degrees Celsius temperature rise compatible under the 2015 Paris Agreement. The report added that India is the only G20 nation on course to fulfil its pledges of nationally determined contribution (NDC). Further, G20 nations account for 80 per cent of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. As extreme weather events are experienced globally, the CAT rating is made more stringent to include climate action targets as per NDC, mid-century net zero-emission goals and 1.5 degrees Celsius compatibility. This month, the CAT has rated us in the ‘highly insufficient category’ along with China, Australia, New Zealand, Brazil, Canada, South Korea, Argentina and Mexico. Further, the UK, Germany, Japan, USA, Nepal and 12 others are rated either in the ‘almost sufficient’ category or ‘insufficient category’ due to upgradation of climate action goals and pledging net zero by mid-century. The report also noted that the UK’s domestic targets are 1.5 degrees Celsius compatible; however, the policies of the country and international support do not match. The report mentions that India’s rating is brought down because NDC does not include our decision to set up 450 GW renewable energy by 2030 as also the ‘green hydrogen’ projects announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Red Fort on August 15. Even the Indian Railways has announced to be net zero by 2030. Our rating is thus downgraded because of technical glitches, which can always be corrected. At the G20 energy and climate joint ministerial meeting two months earlier in Napier, India’s Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said that some countries pledged net zero emission of carbon neutrality by 2050, which is a change of goal post of what was fixed in Paris in 2015. He also added, “The momentum of climate action can only be accelerated when there is enough support through means of implementation including finance and technology." Also, India requested the members of G20 nations to bring down their per capita emissions below the global average. India’s per capita emission is one-seventh of the US, two-sevenths of China and one-third of the EU. The maximum GHG emissions in each of the recent years are by China — nearly 14.1 Gigatonnes (Gt) of CO2 equivalent per year, which is 25 per cent of annual global emissions. India’s annual emission is 3.7 Gt CO2 equivalent, only one-fourth of China, and is the fourth-highest globally. The US and the EU — in the second and third positions respectively — emit 6.6 and 4.1 Gt annually. India’s call to Western countries to slash emissions to the level of global per capita average is clearly putting China in an advantageous position, as it is the only country with a larger population than us. China has 88.1 GW coal-fired power units under construction and 158 GW is announced and in the pipeline. Even if accelerated retirement of older plants is permitted, China would continue to increase its coal-fired generation at least till 2035, the year announced to peak the emissions. And in response to the call from the US and the EU to be net zero by 2050, China has fixed 2060 for itself. US climate envoy John Kerry has been visiting nations with high GHG emissions and persuading for early transition to renewable energy and electric vehicles. He visited India twice in the last six months to make us pledge net zero by mid-century. China, adamant on fossil fuel-related growth, should come on board first. It would be quite challenging for India to lift several million people into more middle-class lifestyles if the fossil fuel-based economy is abruptly shut. A transition to a green economy at affordable costs is dependent on appropriate technologies, which are being researched all across the globe. John Kerry was recently confronted on an Indian television channel with a question as to why should developing countries like India be asked to shut down fossil fuel-based businesses and industries while developed countries are responsible for warming the planet. His answer was that the CO2 accumulated in the atmosphere is reaching a dangerous level and the latest IPCC report (VI in the series) has indicated 'red alert' and shows only a small window of hope if emissions are cut drastically. He further added that whether it is emission from India or China or the US, the consequences are the same. British MP Alok Sharma, who is the COP26 president for the Glasgow climate summit scheduled from November 1 to November 12, has also been visiting countries to find favour for more ambitious NDC targets to cut emissions. He highlighted four goals from COP26 during his visit to India. These are — overreaching ambition of keeping 1.50 degrees C within reach, financial support from developed nations to developing countries, those with adaptation plans to come forward and closing of Article 6 from the Paris rulebook. He added that international investors are increasingly reluctant to invest in coal power. They have understood that they may end up with stranded assets in some years. They are also seeing that the prices of renewable — solar, offshore, wind — have been coming down significantly, which will help drive the movement in transition to clean energy. We are facing climatic catastrophes at an average rise of 1.1 degrees Celsius in global temperature. It increases to 1.5 degrees Celsius if 400 Gt of CO2 equivalent is additionally emitted in the atmosphere. At the rate of 60 Gt annually, this narrow window will be closed in about seven years. Slashing emissions by 2030 should be the priority, and not net zero by mid-century. COP26 should focus on these actionable points. (The writer is a retired Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/from-paris-to-glasgow-climate-action-needs-a-big-push-1039362.html
10-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Tearful tale of Bengaluru's lakes||If we go around our city of joy, Bengaluru, we can see residential layouts and housing complexes named Lake City, Lake View, and Lake Retreat and so on. However, one wonders why the name. Those who have made Bengaluru home must know at least a few things about this city. The Kaveri water came to Bengaluru in the late sixties. Kaveri has to travel miles and miles, climbing several miles up to reach the city. Before Kaveri, the Tippagondanahalli reservoir was our lifeline. The barbaric sound of digging bore wells was unheard of until the 2000s, and water tankers were hard to see. Very few BWSSB water tankers were supplying the needy localities. Kaveri water was not supplied to many localities in the initial stages, and CMC water connection was the lifeline. Lakes play a big part in the city’s history. Bengaluru stands on a firm base of hard stones and marbles, and an underground water reserve. The lakes are many: Hebbal Lake, Jakkarayanakere, Dharmambhudi Lake, Sampangi Tank, Ulsoor Lake, Lalbagh Lake, Kempambhudi Lake, Sarakki Lake, and innumerable lakes like Arakere, Hulimavu, Byrasandra, Madiwala, Agara. In between, there are many small ponds unaccounted for. Thus we have a huge list of lakes and ponds around the city. The speciality of these water bodies is their undying bonding. When a heavy downpour overflows a particular lake, the excess water flows through a designated channel to the next nearby lake. An intriguing, yet very practical science, indeed. What I have narrated is now history. Noted Kannada film lyricist C V Shivashankar explains the growth of the city in his lyric ‘Beledide Noda Bengaluru Nagara...’ written decades ago. By that time, the Dharmambhudi Lake at the heart of the city had dried up and the sprawling space became a consumer exhibition ground for decades, called ‘Congress Exhibition’. A part of the area was used by circus companies, especially during summer vacation. The Kannada social dramas presented by veteran Master Hiranniah under the banner Hirannaya Mitra Mandali were played here. For the past two decades, this has become the heart of our public transport system. The Sampangi tank has made way for Kanteerava Stadium. Sankey Tank, Lalbagh, Ulsoor Tank still look like tanks. The Kempambudhi Tank at Gavipuram is now a small basin filled with multi-coloured water. The Bellandur Tank is notorious for industrial effluents and booming white foam. The rehabilitation of many tanks, much-heard in news, in reality, is nothing in practice. Patches of water are an oasis in Bengaluru’s concrete forest. Heavy rains easily flood the city while the pouring rainwater is made to forget its natural route and flows onto the land. With all the sins in our pail, we curse the rain god.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/tearful-tale-of-bengalurus-lakes-1039367.html
10-10-2021||Second Edit||Gurnah, the right pick for Nobel Prize for Literature||Though the Swedish Academy has been known to make controversial selections for the prestigious Nobel Prize for Literature, the award of this year’s prize to Tanzanian writer Abdulrazak Gurnah has been well accepted and welcomed as right and appropriate. Gurnah was not on any shortlist, but when the announcement was made, it did not produce any demur and disagreement. There was some surprise that a more famous East African writer, Ngugi wa Thiong’o from Kenya, whose name figured regularly on the list of probable winners in recent years, did not make it this year too. But the fact that the prize has gone to Africa, which has till now won only four Nobel Literature prizes, has been well taken. No black African writer has won the prize since Wole Soyinka in 1986. Most prizes in the past have gone to writers from Europe and America. The Nobel committee has said that the prize was awarded to Gurnah for his “uncompromising and compassionate penetration of the effects of colonialism and the fate of the refugee in the gulf between cultures and continents”. His novels deal with the theme of movement and migration of refugees and their problems of identities and assimilation. He is himself a refugee, having moved from the small island of Zanzibar in the Indian Ocean, which became a part of Tanzania, to the United Kingdom to escape state terror and oppression. The 10 novels that he has written are about displacement and the state of refuge and are informed by his personal experience. He has said that “the loneliness, the estrangement became fertile ground for reflection and led me to write fiction”. The works also explore the themes of violence, oppression and exploitation that smaller communities have to suffer when they are colonised by bigger communities and countries. These themes are very relevant now when the world is witnessing unprecedentedly large waves of migration across national borders due to civil strife, political violence, social oppression, natural disasters, climate changes, and the rise of prejudices and discrimination. Refugees represent about 4% of the world population. Migration raises cultural, social and political issues and creates multiple identities. Many are exiled from themselves. There is the reality of conflict and the need for assimilation, the pain of loss and the gain of new life, memories of the past and dreams for the future. So, it is no surprise that a writer who has internalised them and told stories about them has won the world’s best literary honour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/gurnah-the-right-pick-for-nobel-prize-for-literature-1039360.html
10-10-2021||South||Indian traditions can cure mental problems, says Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday mooted the idea of incorporating the role of Indian traditions in keeping good mental health, in the medical syllabus and urged the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences (NIMHANS) to study the issue deeply to enable the government to make a decision and formulate a policy. "We need to understand the traditional way of curing mental problems. I am thinking whether we can incorporate in our syllabus the role of our traditions in keeping good mental health," he said at an event organised by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences (NIMHANS) on the occasion of the World Mental Health Day. Mandaviya said that the experts should study the traditional family structure, which, he claimed, automatically cured the mental problems. "All our festivals were part of mental treatment. Our gatherings on religious and social events, our prayers in the morning and evening and our Aarati are all associated with our mental health. These traditions used to treat mental problems," the Minister told the gathering. Stating that the role of an educational institute is very significant, he said that NIMHANS should study the issue deeply and find a solution so that the government can take a decision and formulate a policy. Mandaviya also added that NIMHANS should give tasks to its students on doing research and not just limiting them to study books and pass in the exam. He lamented that the country could not get what it should have from the existing education system. "The country has lots of expectations from the institutes, its faculty and researchers because these alone can be the basis for the development of the country and its future. Modi Ji has emphasised upon research. We want that your work should be nation-centric," Mandaviya said. Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar and the National Health Minister director Vikas Sheel too addressed the gathering.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indian-traditions-can-cure-mental-problems-says-mandaviya-1039257.html
10-10-2021||South||I-T dept raids 2 Tamil Nadu businesses, finds over Rs 250 cr black money||The Income Tax Department has detected undisclosed income of more than Rs 250 crore during searches against two business groups involved in silk sarees trade and chit fund in Tamil Nadu, the CBDT said on Sunday. The searches were conducted at 34 locations in Kanchipuram, Vellore and Chennai on October 5. The CBDT said the group engaged in the business of chit fund was running an unauthorised business and all the investments and payouts of more than Rs 400 crore in the last few years were done entirely in cash. According to a statement issued by the CBDT, the group had allegedly earned unaccounted income through commission and dividends. "Numerous promissory notes, signed post-dated cheques and power of attorney documents kept as collateral for the loans given or from chit subscribers have also been seized,” it said. "The group had also earned unaccounted interest income from cash financing and had huge unaccounted investments and expenses," the CBDT said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) frames policy for the tax department. It said properties owned by the group's members include palatial homes and farm houses, even as they were "either non-filers or had disclosed negligible income in their tax returns, so far". Unaccounted cash worth Rs 1.35 crore and 7.5 kg gold jewellery were seized, and undisclosed income of more than Rs 150 crore was detected, the statement said. Giving details about the group involved in silk sarees trade, the CBDT said the evidence relating to sales suppression during the last four years was found. "The manipulation of sales figures through a customised software application was detected," it claimed. "Post such manipulations, the group members used to take out the unaccounted cash on a regular basis, and made unaccounted investments in land and buildings," the board alleged. The CBDT said the group members used to "incur huge cash expenses on lavish lifestyles, give/ repay cash loans, make chit fund investments, etc." Unaccounted cash worth Rs 44 lakh and 9.5 kg gold jewellery were seized and undisclosed income detected so far in this group is more than Rs 100 crore, the statement said.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-t-dept-raids-2-tamil-nadu-businesses-finds-over-rs-250-cr-black-money-1039278.html
10-10-2021||South||Row over destroying endosulfan stock in Kasargod||Kerala's Kasargod district, which has been witnessing protests by endosulfan victims and their families for due compensation, is now witnessing a fresh row over a move to destroy the remining stock of the pesticide. The district administration's move to destroy around 1,450 litres of endosulfan that has remained unused for over two decades after the use of pesticide was banned in the district has triggered concerns among the local people. While the locals are concerned that the move to destroy the endosulfan stock at the spot itself may lead to health hazards for the people in the localities, the district administration is of the view that the pesticide is being destroyed scientifically. Though the pesticide producer was earlier approached for taking back it and destroying it, they had rejected the proposal. A meeting of the endosulfan victims' forum in Kasargod on Sunday decided to be prevent any move to destroy endosulfan within the district itself. Endosulfan stock is kept in barrels at three places in the district - around 915 litres at Periya, around 450 litres in Rajapuram and around 75 litres in Chemmeni. In 2012 there were concerns over leakages of the pesticide and hence the demand to destroy the stock gained momentum. Endosulfan victims forum leaders Ambalathara Kunhikrishnan told DH that any attempt to destroy the endosulfan stock in the district itself would be resisted as the people of the district already suffered its effects. He also alleged that the producers, Hindustan Insecticides Limited, refused to take back the stock and destroy it, citing local protest and concerns. Meanwhile, Kasargod district authorities said that endosulfan was being destroyed scientifically with the help of experts from Agricultural University and Plantation Corporation of Kerala. A three level process using spirit would be used to destroy the pesticide without causing any sorts of health hazard, said the official. The endosulfan victims of Kerala are still protesting against the alleged denial of due benefits to them. They have been staging demonstrations over the years raising demands for including more victims in the government's official list of victims as well as to pay the compensation of Rs 5 lakh ordered by the Supreme Court. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-destroying-endosulfan-stock-in-kasargod-1039324.html
10-10-2021||South||Load-shedding if shortage of power from central pool continues: Kerala Minister||Kerala Electricity Minister K Krishnankutty on Sunday said that the state government may have to resort to load-shedding if of shortage of power from the Central pool continues for a long time due to non-availability of coal for the thermal power plants. For the past few days, the State has been experiencing a shortage of 15 per cent of power from the Central pool due to the closure of four thermal stations due to coal shortage. However, there has been no load-shedding till now. "Kerala is already affected. Yesterday (Saturday) we received only 30 per cent of our daily quota from Koondankulam. The issues related to coal from Australia and various environmental issues. We need to find a permanent solution. If the situation continues like this for a long period, then we will have to impose power cuts in the State," the Minister told reporters. The Minister told PTI that the State was waiting for the response from the Union Ministry and a decision on power cuts would be taken only after further discussions with various stakeholders. An energy crisis is looming large over some states, including Delhi and Punjab, due to a combination of factors such as excess rainfall hitting coal movement and imported coal-based power plants generating less than half of their capacity due to record-high rates. A senior official of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) told PTI that there would be repercussions in the state but that does not mean that it would resort to load-shedding right away. "Currently, it's manageable. Due to rains these days, the power consumption during the peak hour has come down. At present, we are experiencing a shortage of around 15 per cent. If it goes beyond 20 per cent, then we will have to think about load-shedding," the officials said. The official said that during peak hours, the consumption in the state ranges from 2800-3800 MW. "We are experiencing a shortage of 120 MW to 900 MW on certain days. Today, the estimated shortage is around 200 MW," the official added. Earlier in the day, Krishnankutty said he was in favour of hydel power projects and that Kerala has a huge potential. He said 3,000 TMC of water is available, of which 1,700 TMC can be used for electricity generation. "But we are not using the same. We need to provide cheap electricity for industries in order to attract investment. Currently, from Idukki, we are generating electricity at a cost of 0.51 paise per unit. However, yesterday during the peak hour we had to purchase for Rs 18 per unit," the Minister said. The KSEB has asked the customers to self-regulate the usage of electricity during peak hours. The average daily power consumption in the State has been hovering around 72 million units (mu) out of which net power imports account for approximately 45 mu. In a year when the country produced record coal, rains hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting power generation in many states such as Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. While power producers and distributors have warned of blackouts as generation units are running coal as low as two days, the Coal Ministry said the country has adequate coal stocks and low inventory doesn't mean generation would stop as stock is being continuously replenished. Power plants that usually rely on imports are now heavily dependent on Indian coal thus adding further pressure to already stretched domestic supplies.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/load-shedding-if-shortage-of-power-from-central-pool-continues-kerala-minister-1039345.html
10-10-2021||South||Youth goes on stealing spree at Thiruvananthapuram railway station||A youth went on a stealing spree at the parking ground of Thiruvananthapuram Central Railway Station by breaking the windscreen of 19 cars. Police suspect that the youth committed the act under the influence of liquor or drugs. The accused, identified as Abraham, 18, a native of the city. He told the police that he damaged the valuables like sun glasses and mobile phone accessories taken from the vehicles. The incident that happened on Saturday night came to light on Sunday morning after vehicles' owners who came to take the vehicles noticed the damage. The accused was identified with the help of CCTV video footage and was subsequently nabbed. He could be seen breaking the windscreens using large stones. The staff at the parking ground said that they were unaware of the incident. The vehicle owners have raised protests against the parking ground authorities alleging that no security was being provided to the vehicles. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youth-goes-on-stealing-spree-at-thiruvananthapuram-railway-station-1039348.html
10-10-2021||South||IMD issues orange alert for 6 districts in Kerala from October 12||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued an orange alert for six districts in the state for October 12, 13 and 14, predicting heavy rains. The weatherman, in a 4 PM bulletin, issued an Orange alert in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki districts for three days. Meanwhile, a Yellow alert has been sounded in Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode districts. Currently, all of the southern districts of the state have been put on Yellow alert. "Heavy (7-11 cm in 24 hours) rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala on 10 and 11 of October 2021. Heavy (7- 11 cm in 24 hours) to Very Heavy (12-20 cm in 24 hours) rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places in Kerala from 12 to 14 of October 2021," the IMD website read. A red alert indicates heavy to extremely heavy rains of over 20 cm in 24 hours, while an Orange alert means very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm of rains. A yellow alert denotes heavy rainfall between 6 to 11 cm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-6-districts-in-kerala-from-october-12-1039359.html
10-10-2021||South||Shot in the arm for Kerala CPM's fight against central agencies||A statement of an accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case that the Enforcement Directorate pressurised him to link Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and two others in the previous left front government with the smuggling racket seems to have come as a relief to the left front. Sandeep Nair, who was the fourth accused in the gold smuggling case, told the media on Saturday after getting released on bail that the ED pressuried him to link Vijayan, former Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and former minister K T Jaleel. Former CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan swiftly reacted that the court should take note of Nair's revelation as it was quite serious one. It may be recalled that though the Kerala government earlier initiated a case against ED official accusing them of pressuring the gold smuggling case accused to name the Chief Ministers and others, the Kerala High Court quashed it. A judicial probe initiated by the Kerala government against the central agencies was also stayed by the court. Nair, who was made an approver in the case, had earlier sent a letter to the court raising similar allegations. He said that he would stick to it. He also said that he had no involvement in gold smuggling but only knew the accused Swapna Suresh and Sarith P S, who were former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shot-in-the-arm-for-kerala-cpms-fight-against-central-agencies-1039393.html
10-10-2021||South||Kerala cheating case accused Monson Mavunkal faked DRDO letter||A Kerala man accused of cheating using fake antiquities was found to have faked a DRDO document also. Police sources said that a fresh case would be registered against Monson Mavunkal as a document of 'DRDO' recovered from his house was found to be fake. The document was used to make others believe that he was in possession of iridium. Already six cases were registered against him in connection with cheating complaints as well as the allegation of trying to help the accused in a sexual assault case. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cheating-case-accused-monson-mavunkal-faked-drdo-letter-1039394.html
10-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Dream11 app faces police case in Karnataka after introduction of gambling ban||Dream11, one of India's most popular gaming apps backed by Tiger Global, is facing a police case in Karnataka for alleged violation of a new law that prohibits online gaming. The state law, which came into effect this week, bans online games involving betting and wagering and "any act or risking money, or otherwise on the unknown result of an event including on a game of skill". Many gaming apps, including Sequoia Capital-funded Mobile Premier League, have stopped offering services to users in the state, but Dream11 had continued. Police records on Saturday showed a case has been registered in India's tech capital Bengaluru, in Karnataka, against Dream11's founders following a complaint by a 42-year old cab driver who reported the gaming app as being operational after the ban came into force. Dream11 told Reuters it believes "the complaint is motivated," but did not elaborate. The company is examining its legal remedies and "we are a responsible, law abiding company and will extend our full cooperation to any authorities," a spokesperson said. The Dream11 app was still allowing users in Karnataka to play fantasy games on Saturday. The Karnataka ban has intensified concerns that growing state regulations could hit the nascent but booming gaming sector in India, where foreign investors have pumped in millions of dollars in recent months. The Dream11 and MPL platforms, offering paid contests with cash prize for players, have expanded rapidly in recent months with extensive marketing and hires. Dream11 is seeking a US listing by early 2022, local media has said. The Karnataka law imposes hefty fines and prison terms on violators and has been implemented amid growing concerns that online gaming platforms, like gambling, are addictive and can cause financial harm.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dream11-app-faces-police-case-in-karnataka-after-introduction-of-gambling-ban-1039159.html
10-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||As breast cancer cases rise, Bengaluru second only to Chennai||It is estimated that 26,000 to 30,000 breast cancer cases are prevalent in Karnataka every year, out of which over 9,800 cases are detected. Over the years, Bengaluru has shown the second-highest increase in incidence of breast cancer in the country, next to Chennai. A total of 1,688 new cases are diagnosed every year in the city while 4,558 are prevalent. Breast cancer is also the most common form of cancer (28 per cent) among women in Bengaluru. The city sees a 4.2 per cent increase in cases each year.  The incidence of breast cancer has gone up from 15 per one lakh population in 1982 to 40.5 per lakh in recent years, and it is likely to increase further, said Dr C Ramachandra, Director, Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology (KMIO). At KMIO, around 800 cases of breast cancers are registered every year, accounting for 17 per cent of all female cancers seen there.  “What is concerning is that more than 50 per cent of patients with breast cancer present symptoms in stage 3 or stage 4. If detected in the initial phase, the chance of cure is 90 per cent. Unlike in western countries, the survival rates for breast cancer are less in India, with a five-year overall survival of around 65 per cent to 70 per cent compared to USA (89 per cent) and the UK (82 per cent),” he said. Risk factors for breast cancer include early menstruation, late menopause, reproductive factors (late age at first birth), use of oral contraceptives, hormone replacement therapy, nutrition, alcohol intake, obesity, weight gain, and body fat distribution. While factors like age, height and history of benign breast disease are non-modifiable, around 5 per cent to 10 per cent of breast cancer cases are hereditary. “Genetic risk factors such as inherited mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 are the most common cause of hereditary breast cancer (40 per cent to 80 per cent increased risk) apart from family history of breast cancer. The other modifiable factors include obesity, change in body weight and age at full-term pregnancy,” he said. Breast cancer screening can be easily done even at district hospitals and it will ensure early diagnosis of cancers. “It has been proposed that all district hospitals need to be equipped with oncology units to diagnose and manage three major cancers — of cervix, breast and oral — beside many other cancers,” he said. Cancer prevalence in Karnataka -- 78,384 new Cancer cases-- 1,74,000 prevalent Cancer cases-- 43,640 total female cancer cases-- 9,837 breast cancer cases (22 per cent of total female cancers)-- 26,560 breast cancer prevalence Bengaluru (Population-based Cancer Registry) -- Total female cancer cases: 6,431-- Age-adjusted rate: 142.1 (per 100,000)-- Breast Cancers: 1,688 cases (26 per cent of total female cancers)-- Age-adjusted rate: 40.5 per 100,000-- Breast Cancer Prevalence: 4,558 (Source: GLOBOCAN 2020) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/as-breast-cancer-cases-rise-bengaluru-second-only-to-chennai-1039160.html
10-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Veteran Kannada actor Satyajith passes away||Veteran Kannada actor Satyajith, who was suffering from age-related issues, passed away at Bowring Hospital in Bengaluru in the wee hours of Sunday. He was 72. The actor, who was admitted to the hospital earlier this week after he suffered a heart stroke, was battling several health issues for a long time. One of his legs was amputated in the past due to gangrene. Born as Syed Nizamuddin, Satyajith was a bus driver who pursued his acting dreams by actively participating in theatre. Starting his film career as an antagonist, he went on to act in more than 600 films. Till the early 2000s, he was a highly in-demand actor for villainous and supporting roles in Kannada cinema. Some of his popular films are 'Shiva Mecchida Kannappa' (1988),  'Chitrada Premanjali', 'Putnanja' (1995), and 'Apthamitra' (2004). The actor was in the news in February when his daughter had accused him of harassing her for money. Satyajith had refuted the allegations. The mortal remains of the actor will be kept at his residence at Hegde Nagar for people to pay their final tributes. He will be cremated around 3 pm. The Kannada film industry condoled his death. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/veteran-kannada-actor-satyajith-passes-away-1039208.html
10-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Call on reducing fuel prices based on state finances, revenue: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||As diesel prices hit Rs 100 in parts of the state, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the government would take a call on reducing excise duty on fuel based on the finances of the state. Commenting on the coal crisis, he said that the issue will be addressed as soon as the mines allotted to Karnataka are operational in Maharashtra and Odisha. "The government will take a call on reducing excise duty on fuel based on the financial situation and revenues of the state. We will look into it," he said, responding to media queries. "The coal shortage faced by the state will be addressed as soon the mines allotted to Karnataka become operational. Coal blocks are allotted to the state in Chandrapur, Maharashtra and Mahanadi Coal Fields, Odisha which are awaiting required clearances," he said. "For instance, the mine at Chandrapur requires forest clearance. Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Bhupendra Yadav has assured that the mine will be operational as soon as Maharastra Principal Chief Conservator of Forest issues a clearance letter. This will be done in a week," Bommai said. On the coal blocks allotted in Mahanadi Coal Fields, he said that the state had already received the required clearances and convinced the Ministry that the same clearances were not required again for Karnataka. "If these two mines are cleared, it will benefit the state. Coal supply from the Maharashtra mines will bring down transportation costs. When extraction from mines allocated to Karnataka begins, it will reduce our dependence on other mines also," he said. The state government has urged Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi and Yadav to ensure that production in these mines are started at the earliest. The state has also petitioned the Centre to increase supply. Joshi has also directed officials to ensure the same, the CM said To a question on starting primary classes in schools, Bommai said that the government will take a call after Dasara celebrations. "Expert committee will meet after Dasara. Based on its recommendations, we will take a call," he said. Bengaluru in-charge Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai played down the differences among his Cabinet colleagues over allocation of Bengaluru in-charge minister portfolio, saying that he would sit with everyone and address the issue. "This is not a major issue. We will all sit together, listen to everyone's views and address this harmoniously," he said. Bommai said that he was regularly in touch with all Bengaluru MLAs. "May it be development works, or the issue of Bengaluru in-charge, I will talk to them and address it." On whether he would take charge of Bengaluru, he said that the outcome was dependent on the discussions. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/call-on-reducing-fuel-prices-based-on-state-finances-revenue-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1039303.html
10-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Have asked Centre to increase allotment of coal to Karnataka, says CM Basavaraj Bommai||In view of a possible power crisis in the State due to the shortage of coal, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said he has asked the Centre to increase the coal supply. "I have already stated that we have requested the Centre to increase the supply of coal by four racks," he said. He said Karnataka has got an allotment of coal from mines in Chandrapur in Maharashtra and Mahanadi Coalfields Limited in Odisha and both the projects need clearances. "I have met the Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Bhupendra Yadav, who, too, has assured me that once the letter from Maharashtra reaches him, he will expedite the process," Bommai said. Regarding Mahanadi Coalfield, Bommai said a number of clearances have been obtained but a few more are needed. The Chief Minister was optimistic that once the coal from the two mines was allotted, the production cost would reduce. He said he has made the request to Yadav, and Pralhad Joshi, Union Minister for Coal and Mines, to speed up the allotment process. He said he has also asked Joshi to increase the coal supply. To a query on reduction in petrol and diesel prices, Bommai said the decision would be taken keeping in mind the financial condition of the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/have-asked-centre-to-increase-allotment-of-coal-to-karnataka-says-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1039355.html
10-10-2021||West||Mumbai's R-value rose over 1 in September-end||Mumbai's R-value, which reflects how rapidly the Covid-19 pandemic is spreading, increased to over 1 in September end, according to a study. The Reproduction number or R refers to how many people an infected person infects on an average. In other words, it tells how 'efficiently' a virus is spreading. An R-value smaller than 1 means the disease is spreading slowly. Conversely, if R is greater than 1, the number of infected people is increasing in each round - technically, this is what is called the epidemic phase. The bigger the number than 1, the faster the rate of spreading of the disease in the population. The R-value of Mumbai was 0.70 between August 10 and 13. It rose to 0.95 between August 13 and 17, went up further to 1.09 between August 25 and September 18, and dropped to 0.95 between September 25 and 27. However, it again rose to 1.03 between September 28 and 30, as per the R-value calculated by researchers of the Chennai-based Institute of Mathematical Sciences. The increase in the R-value of Mumbai comes at a time when the Covid-19 figures here have seen an upward trend, amid the festival season. The city logged 629 new cases on October 6, the highest after July 14 when it had recorded 635 cases. From October 7, the first day of the nine-day Navratri festival, the Maharashtra government allowed reopening of religious places in the state. While the R-value of Mumbai climbed over 1 last month-end, it is better placed than Kolkata and Bengaluru. The R-value of Kolkata has been over 1 since August and was 1.06 between September 29 and October 4. The R-value of Bengaluru remained close to 1 since last month and was 1.05 between September 28 and October 1, as per the study. The R-value of Delhi, Chennai and Pune remains below 1. “If you look at these cities, you see that things aren't that rosy. At least three of the metros (Mumbai, Kolkata or Bengaluru) have R greater than 1 or very close to 1," said Sitabhra Sinha, who is leading the research at the Chennai-based institute. Also, these places exhibit large fluctuations. For example, Delhi had R-value greater than 1 between September 27 and 30, but less than 1 between September 30 and October 4, he said. "Things can switch very quickly from good to bad in smaller regions, because of the higher degree of variability when you are dealing with smaller populations, so it is difficult yet to say whether we are finally seeing the end-game (of the pandemic),” Sinha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-r-value-rose-over-1-in-september-end-1039263.html
10-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs case: NCB arrests Nigerian national; 20 people held so far||The Narcotics Control Bureau arrested a Nigerian national on Sunday in connection with the cruise drugs party raid case, an NCB official said. With this, 20 people have so far been arrested by the NCB in connection with the case, including Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, he said. Giving details of the latest arrest, the official said a team of the NCB laid a trap in suburban Goregaon and apprehended the accused, identified as Okaro Ouzama, "along with an intermediate quantity of cocaine" on Saturday. This is the second arrest of a foreign national in the case, the official said. Earlier also, the NCB had arrested a Nigerian in the case. The NCB is making effort to explore the foreign linkages in the case on the basis of interrogation of the all accused persons, the official said. He also said that two men, whom NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik had claimed as "outsiders" involved in the raid, were actually among the nine independent witnesses involved in the whole operation. He said the duo was not known to the NCB before October 2, when the raid was conducted on the Goa-bound ship. A total of nine independent witnesses were involved in the whole operation (cruise ship raid) and Manish Bhanushali and K P Gosavi were among them. "None of the independent witnesses, including the two (Bhanushali and Gosavi) were known to the NCB before October 2," the official said. The NCB had earlier said all the allegations levelled against it in connection with the cruise ship raid were "baseless, motivated afterthoughts and prejudicial". NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede had said the anti-drugs agency works professionally. "We do not see any political party and religion. We do our job professionally," he added. Based on a tip-off, an NCB team raided the Goa-bound cruise ship on October 2 and claimed to have recovered banned drugs. The case took a political turn when NCP leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday claimed that the raid was "fake" and that "outsiders" were involved in it. On Saturday, Malik alleged that the NCB had initially detained 11 people from the Goa-bound cruise ship, but let off three of them, including the brother-in-law of a BJP leader, a couple of hours later. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-case-ncb-arrests-nigerian-national-20-people-held-so-far-1039287.html
10-10-2021||West||Protest against Jawaharlal Nehru Port to be relaunched in Raigad||Protesting against what they describe as “all-round failure” for 37 years to resettle the people of erstwhile Sheva village displaced due to the development of Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Raigad district, the project affected families have decided to resume their ‘Channel Bandh’ agitation blocking ship movements to the country’s largest container port. The ‘Channel Bandh’ agitation, launched on February 26, had been suspended due to the intervention of Raigad MP Sunil Tatkare and promises by the Raigad District Collector and the police that the issue would be resolved.  “But seven months down the line we do not find any signs of a solution,” said Suresh Damodar Koli, president of Hanuman Koliwada Village Reforms Committee, spearheading the agitation In all, 256 families, predominantly the fishing community, have been evacuated from Sheva village and they have been living in transit camps at Hanuman Koliwada since 1984. For the uninitiated, JNPT, formerly NSPT, has been formed with the acquisition of lands at Nhava and Sheva villages. Despite a series of meetings, including one with then Shipping Minister Nitin Gadkari and present Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, the people have not got justice, Suresh, president of Hanuman Koliwada Gram Sudharak Samiti, said. Then Raigad Collector proposed to allot 17 hectares at mangrove-dominated Bori Pakhadi in Uran, but the people themselves opposed it saying they were not in favour of destroying nature and violating the High Court order against the destruction of the sea plants, Mangesh Anant Koli, vice president of the Samiti, said. “Unfortunately, the then collector insisted on us accepting the plot chopping the mangroves and we stuck to our point as it could lead to legal tangles in future which would further aggravate the people’s problems rather than solving any,” Suresh said. “Now, it is up to the Collector and CIDCO to find a suitable 17-hectare plot which does not violate environmental conditions,” he said. In a press statement, NatConnect Foundation director B N Kumar appreciated the people of Hanuman Koliwada for their respect for Nature, particularly when the various project proponents are hell-bent on destroying mangroves and wetlands in Uran. Apart from resettling these families, the State government must also ensure that the benefits of Blue Economy and mangrove-based business benefits reach the people for overall socio-economic development of the backward region, Kumar said. “We are still giving time till November 30 for the authorities to allow us the land and resettle us,” Suresh said, declaring that they would all head for the sea in hundreds of fishing boats on December 1. The required area was recorded in the State Gazette on March 12, 1987, after detailed land surveys by the Revenue Department. “It is sad that the authorities have been testing the people’s patience all these years,” lamented Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan. Fishing communities from across the state will support the Channel Bandh, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/protest-against-jawaharlal-nehru-port-to-be-relaunched-in-raigad-1039329.html
10-10-2021||West||Lakhimpur Kheri: MVA allies urge people to support Maharashtra bandh on Oct 11||The three partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra have appealed to the people to wholeheartedly support Monday's state-wide bandh called by them to protest the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. The shutdown has been called by the ruling allies - Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress. "The state-wide bandh will commence from 12 midnight," NCP spokesman and state minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday. The workers of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress are meeting citizens with an appeal to participate in the bandh wholeheartedly and express their solidarity with farmers, he said. "The BJP-led central government has allowed the loot of agriculture produce through the three newly-enacted farm laws and now the kin of its minister is killing farmers. We have to show solidarity with the cultivators," he said. The MVA demands that Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Misha be sacked, the NCP leader added. "It was only after the Supreme Court's intervention that the minister's son was arrested," he said. The Union minister's son Ashish Mishra was arrested on Saturday night by the police in Lakhimpur Kheri in connection with the October 3 violence there. He was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit last Sunday. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole said that the workers and leaders of his party would observe "maun vrat" (vow of silence) outside the Raj Bhavan in Mumbai to register their protest. "We appeal to all Congress workers and people to participate in the bandh and ensure its success," he said. Shiv Sena's Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut had on Saturday said his party would participate in the bandh with full force. He had also said that it was necessary to wake people up against the "anti-farmer" policies of the central government. The three ruling allies have made it clear that the bandh was not stated government-sponsored, but called by the parties. The Kisan Sabha has extended support to the bandh and said its workers in 21 districts of the state are coordinating with like-minded organisations to ensure that the bandh gets a good response.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lakhimpur-kheri-mva-allies-urge-people-to-support-maharashtra-bandh-on-oct-11-1039358.html
10-10-2021||West||Ahmedabad civic body gives edible oil pouches, phones to increase Covid vaccination pace||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in Gujarat, in order to encourage people in slums pockets to get vaccinated against Covid-19 so as to achieve 100 per cent first dose target, is offering 1-litre edible oil pouches and a lucky draw scheme with mobile phones as prizes. Vaccine hesitancy has been observed in some slum pockets here and the move was aimed at overcoming it, an AMC official said, adding that 10,000 edible oil pouches were distributed to those who got their vaccine jabs on Saturday. The number of pouches distributed reached 20,000 on Sunday, while 25 people have also won mobile phones worth Rs 10,000 each so far as part of the lucky draw, he said. "As part of the Covid-19 vaccination mega drive from October 9 to ensure 100 per cent eligible people get their first dose of the vaccine, beneficiaries in slum areas identified by the urban health centres were offered 1-litre pouch of edible oil with the help of Yuva Unstoppable organisation as part of its CSR activity," the AMC said in its release. "In a slum in Chandlodia, we have so far distributed 183 pouches of edible oil to as many beneficiaries after giving them vaccination shots," said Dr Rajnikant Hemraj, Medical Officer, AMC. Around 98 per cent of eligible beneficiaries in the city have received the first dose of the vaccine, the AMC said in its release. It said 68,32,514 doses have been administered in the city so far, comprising 45,46,745 people who have got their first dose, and 22,85,769 who have been administered the second one as well. The first dose of the vaccine is mandatory for entry into BRTS bus service, Kankaria lakefront, zoo, Sabarmati riverfront, libraries, gymkhanas, swimming pools, sports complexes, city civic centre, and all other buildings of AMC. The AMC has also made provisions to vaccinate at home those who are above 50 or the differently-abled above 18 years of age.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-civic-body-gives-edible-oil-pouches-phones-to-increase-covid-vaccination-pace-1039389.html
