11-10-2021||Analysis||Air India: Government has no business to be in business||Several decades ago, a young, talented, wealthy prince on the cusp of greatness, nurtured with passion, discipline and hard work, was abruptly, and for no apparent reason, seized by the State. After 68 long years, the return of the Maharajah to his original home – but now emaciated, impoverished, and a shadow of his former self — is bittersweet! Little wonder, that Ratan Tata said “Welcome back, Air India”, but added ruefully, “It will take considerable effort to rebuild Air India”. While it is an emotional and historic moment, it must serve as an allegorical tale; one that tells us, from an economic perspective, of a past imperfect and a future tense. It is symptomatic of a problem that stares us in the face, the solution to which has eluded us over the past 75 years. When Air India was nationalised in 1953, it set the country on a path that has been difficult to return, or even turn, from. It put economic India in a state of mind, and grew a State apparatus doing business, that smothered innovation and excellence; and in its place spawned a culture of inefficiency and corruption. While the precipitous decline of the Maharajah was sad, the price that India has paid since is the greater tragedy. There can be little doubt that the nationalisation of Air India was a pivotal event in India’s economic history, and formed the basis for what was to follow — the nationalisation of banking, insurance, and several other drivers of growth. It is now a collective state of mind that we are yet to recover from. What we lost as a nation and a people was epitomised by JRD Tata in his letter to the Air India staff on the eve of its nationalisation: “The time has come to say goodbye...What we did was worth doing. We set our standards high and would not lower them.” That spirit is what we lost, and ever since in our national work culture, with few exceptions, we have embraced mediocrity, unable to foster excellence. Why might this be the case? Even a passing acquaintance with independent India’s economic history points to the one economic question that successive governments have failed to resolve — to strike the right balance between the State and the market to meet our development needs. Regardless of political ideologies, all governments since Independence have systematically disregarded the prevalence and the cost of ‘government failure’. This is more by design than by default, because the public sector serves as the handmaiden of politics. The State has, in the past 75 years, often intervened arbitrarily without evidence of ‘market failure’. This is true as much of the states as the Centre. Interventions for redistributive justice, on the other hand, while a desirable end, have often been inept and inefficient, using price controls that distort resource allocation and relative prices, and rendering the administrative delivery mechanisms costly and corrupt — the food procurement and public distribution system is evidence enough. The command-and-control strategy that we continue to wade through has accorded a dominant role for the public sector, little recognising that reconciling managerial independence and public accountability is an intractable problem. This is primarily because of the ‘agency’ problem best described as the moral hazard — when a public entity has an incentive to increase its exposure to risk, because it does not bear the full costs of that risk (after all, there is a ready bailout package in case of failure), it is the citizens that pay. While Tata Sons wresting back control of Air India is cause for celebration, we must recognise that for the government, it was more a compulsion than a choice. The response to the central question concerning the choice between the State and the market in organising economic activity remains ad hoc, unclear, and less than strategic.  The time is right to settle this ideological dilemma. The underlying principles to strike the right balance must begin with Adam Smith’s abiding first principle of the ‘invisible hand’. Competition is the engine of a productive society, and that self-interest will eventually come to enrich the whole community, as if by an invisible hand. It is, therefore, best to leave to the market the business of flying planes, running trains, operating hotels and manufacturing soap, as an illustrative list if you will. On the back of the Air India sale, government/s would do well to sell all other businesses simply because others can run them better and governments have far more important things to do. Second, neglect of the social sector has been a direct result of the preoccupation of governments with running businesses. In particular, poor progress on health, education and gender equality has been a human development constraint to rapid economic growth, besides putting us on the path of non-inclusiveness. Government/s ought to focus on the provision of ‘public goods’, the efficient provision of which by their very nature would benefit all — maintenance of law and order, administration of justice, water and sanitation, primary health care, primary education, and skill development — and do that well. Finally, in the backdrop of the impending climate change challenge, another important area of market failure and hence a role for the government is to act decisively to prevent the ‘tragedy of the commons’; to regulate the unfettered market exploitation resulting in overuse or even exhaustion of scarce common resources. If there is one lesson from the Air India saga, it is that government/s must make the distinction between the public sector producing goods and services, and the State paying for goods and services. The return of the Maharajah must serve to break the dogma of the public sector. Government/s must eschew, to paraphrase J R R Tolkien, “One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them all, One Ring to bring them all, and in the darkness bind them.” This will be a fitting tribute to the excellence that India is capable of. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/analysis/air-india-government-has-no-business-to-be-in-business-1039731.html
11-10-2021||First Edit||Nobel: An affirmation of journalism’s role today||The award of this year’s Nobel Prize for Peace to two journalists who have practised free and independent journalism in authoritarian regimes is an affirmation of the fact that freedom begets peace and lack of freedom creates strife and turmoil. The Nobel committee has awarded the prize to Maria Ressa of the Philippines and Dmitry Muratov of Russia “for their efforts to safeguard the freedom of expression, which is a precondition for safeguarding democracy and peace.” It is an acknowledgement of the role of free press in a democratic society. These linkages are sometimes lost and often distorted and misrepresented by those who have a vested interest in denial of freedom. So, the narrative is made that freedom creates chaos which leads to strife and disruption of peace. But the historical experiences of societies and lessons from the working of both democratic and authoritarian systems prove that it is a false narrative, and that it is freedom that holds societies peacefully together and it is its absence that creates strife and war.   Ressa and Muratov live and practise their profession in countries where governments wield absolute power, but both have shown great courage and commitment to the best traditions and values of journalism for many years. Ressa founded the news portal Rappler in 2012 which has published many reports about rights violations and arbitrary killings in the country and has criticised President Rodrigo Duterte and his government for them. Muratov is the editor-in-chief of the independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta in 1993 and has been a trenchant critic of the Vladimir Putin regime. Journalists have been persecuted, punished and killed in both countries for exposing the crimes, corruption and misconduct of those in government and their cronies. Ressa has faced criminal charges, investigations and online attacks. She is on bail after being convicted in a libel case. Many journalists in Russia have been jailed and killed, some of them from Muratov’s paper.   Both Ressa and Muratov have dedicated their Prize to journalists who have been killed and others who take great risks and write and speak against authority, living dangerously. Journalists have not won a Nobel Prize in the past for practising their profession. So, as Ressa put it, it is “a recognition of the difficulties, but also hopefully of how we’re going to win the battle for truth”. Speaking truth to power is important in a world where falsehood and fake news are created and promoted by those in authority. But journalism is threatened and endangered the world over, even in democracies, and ironically that creates an environment in which it can make itself more relevant and achieve excellence. Again, as Ressa said, it gives journalists a chance to assert that “we hold the line”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/nobel-an-affirmation-of-journalism-s-role-today-1039738.html
11-10-2021||In Perspective||Mental health in an unequal world||The theme adopted for World Mental Health Day 2021, which was on October 10, was apt, and a poignant reminder of the existing multi-layered inequality all around, resulting in skewed access to something as basic as quality healthcare, much less mental healthcare. It is pertinent to ponder over certain basic issues that continue to plague mental health. Among all the health conditions in the world, mental health stands out as unique and paradoxical. It suffers from mixed baggage of being frequently discussed but little understood, widely prevalent but strongly stigmatised, often over-diagnosed but under-treated. Living in an increasingly polarised world today, where large sections of the population continually struggle with discrimination, disparity, denial and despondency, where people repeatedly experience a volley of negative emotions like fear, anger, hatred and sorrow, mental health is undeniably the biggest casualty. Adding fuel to fire is the pandemic that has taken millions of lives and left many more devastated and broken, exposing once again a wide chasm of inequality in every sphere of human life, and even death. The physical health crisis of Covid-19 is highly visible, its psycho-social impact on people’s mental health is less apparent, though it is as real and as acute. Considering a worldwide decline in mental health and wellbeing and the disconcerting likelihood of the trend lingering on for years, the World Health Organisation (WHO) sees it as nothing short of a “mass trauma.” But even during normal times, WHO statistics indicate that neuropsychiatric disorders make up 13% of the global burden of disease, depression and anxiety, and almost eight lakh people die by suicide globally every year, of which India’s share is a whopping 36.6%, ranking highest in South-East Asia. Yet, mental health receives unequal priority from all quarters, including policymakers, parents, teachers, work places, insurance companies, and even medical fraternity. While India’s budgetary allocation in 2021 increased appreciably by 137% for overall healthcare, strangely, mental health did not find even a mention in the budget speech or budgetary provision. The paltry sum allocated for it is only to the country’s three centrally-run mental health institutes, veritably ignoring the serious access and treatment gaps existing in rural and remote areas. With educational institutions slowly limping back to normal, the uppermost priority is placed on making up for the lost learning, revising curriculum, altering examination mode, and implementing the New Education Policy. Amidst all this, Covid-related mental health challenges in students and teachers, which is as vital, if not more, remains least addressed. Returning to office, employees face similar disregard to their mental health conditions. The neglect stems from approaching mental health almost always from the premise of a disease model rather than a health model, viewing a person as either sick or healthy. This either/or view discounts that the absence of disease does not necessarily spell health or wellbeing. Many suffering from mental disorders require psychiatric treatment and prolonged medication, but vast majorities who occasionally face milder emotional, psychological and behavioural issues either get totally ignored or get pigeonholed into mental illness categories and medicated without even trying the harmless and effective non-medical options. Similarly, on the one hand, millions who are still shrouded in ignorance, stigma and myths continue to suffer severe mental illness that go under-recognised and under-treated. On the other hand, growing awareness, better education and higher access to mental health support systems in the higher income groups have eased as well as complicated the diagnosis process and perceptions of psychological disorders in equal measure. Uncritical web search, self-diagnosis, simple life problems deemed as illness, overzealous consultations and needless medication are becoming far more common among them. To a significant level, the growth in recent times of mental health disorders, especially among urban, high-income youth, can be attributed to over-diagnosis. This is as much a matter of disquiet as under-diagnosis and under-treatment. The pharmaceutical industry must share a large part of the blame for selling sickness and fuelling over-treatment and over-medicalisation. Mental health and ensuing wellbeing are an inseparable part of a happy, healthy and productive life. It’s necessary to look more from a preventive and fostering perspective. Emulating countries like New Zealand and some European countries, emphasis should be placed on imparting mental health literacy and instilling mental hygiene from a tender age, starting from schools. This would act as a prophylactic measure, ensuring a healthier and more harmonious society. (The writer is a psychologist, author and founder-director of Eudaimonic Centre for Positive Change & Wellbeing) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/mental-health-in-an-unequal-world-1039736.html
11-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Operation to capture leopard suspended in Mangaluru||The forest department officials have suspended an operation to capture a leopard after the big cat could not be spotted even after several days of drive at Maroli, on the outskirts of Mangaluru. The leopard was spotted near a house on the fourth cross of Jayanagar in Maroli on October 3 and 6. Even the pug marks, that were spotted, were confirmed to be that of a leopard. Later, the officials could not trace the leopard. Hence, the operation to capture leopard has been suspended, said Range Forest Officer Prashanth Pai. The operation was carried out under the directions of Deputy Conservator of Forests Dinesh and Assistant Conservator of Forests Subrahmanya Rao. Cage, camera trap The forest department officials had placed a cage and a camera trap to capture the movement of the big cat. The officials had rushed to the spot after the video of a leopard crossing the road in Maroli, shot by a local resident, was received by the forest department. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/operation-to-capture-leopard-suspended-in-mangaluru-1039418.html
11-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru police arrest four in connection with murder case||Mysuru police have arrested four persons in connection with a murder of a person in the city. On Sunday evening, a gang of eight persons had killed one Nandkishore and also attacked his friend Sanjay at Gundurao Nagar. While Nandkishore died on the spot as he was stabbed five times, Sanjay is currently undergoing treatment in a hospital. The police successfully arrested four out of eight accused. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-police-arrest-four-in-connection-with-murder-case-1039559.html
11-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Water lilies and lotuses bloom on this Mangaluru woman's rooftop||The love for flowers and gardening got Sneha Bhat into growing aquatic plants, including a variety of lotus and water lilies, on the rooftop of her house at Pilar, on the outskirts of Mangaluru. "It is a bliss to watch water lilies bloom with the rising sun, and slowly close the petals with the nightfall. This process continues for four days, after which the petals of these flowers fold up. Lotus never folds its petals after dusk and remains fresh for a few days till it dries up," said Sneha while explaining her newfound love and passion to DH. An assistant professor at SDM College of Business Management in Mangaluru and an announcer at AIR in the city, Sneha has around 85 varieties of aquatic plants. "There are water lilies that bloom daily and some only in the night. These water lilies and lotus have been attracting butterflies and stingless bees which in turn help other flowering plants through pollination. Each water lily and lotus has its own fragrance. The structure of the leaves varies. Normally, the flowering slows down during the winter season,'' Sneha added. "People have a notion that water lilies and lotus are grown in lakes and ponds. I used to collect the plants from lakes and try growing them in the past. After trial-and-error methods and learning from various sources, I started growing these aquatic plants in water tubs on my rooftop. Some of these varieties are locally available. I was able to procure some varieties from sellers on WhatsApp groups from Odisha, Gujarat, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and so on and also through friends,” she explained.   There are 15 varieties of lotus on the rooftop of Sneha. Some of the varieties are ‘Purple Joy- Day bloomer or Komale’, White Foreigner Lotus, Yellow Peony Lotus, New Star Lotus, Jinse Lotus, Lady Binglie Bowl Lotus, Charming Lips Lotus, Buddha Seat Lotus, Queen of Hearts Lotus and so on. "All the tubs have guppy fish in it, to check breeding of mosquitoes and also to keep the water fresh. The water in the tubs need not be changed unless it develops algae,'' explained Sneha. There are some non-flowering aquatic plants like Azolla and Parrot's feather as well. "My husband Ravish Bhat has been supporting my passion and also helps in taking care of these plants," she said. Further, Sneha has not used any chemical fertilisers for growing these plants. "Many use chemical fertilisers for speedy growth of tubers and leaves and for early flowering. Though snails and dragonflies sometimes damage the leaves of these water lilies and lotus, I remove these snails manually rather than using insecticides," she added Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/water-lilies-and-lotuses-bloom-on-this-mangaluru-womans-rooftop-1039564.html
11-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mild quake in Karnataka's Kalaburagi district again||People living in and around Chincholi in Kalaburagi district woke up to a mild earthquake of 2.5 magnitude on the richter scale, barely 24 hours after the first jolt was felt. However, there was no loss of life or damage to any property, officials said. The quake hit Gadikeshwar village and its surrounding areas, where people panicked and rushed out of their homes, they said. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, the epicentre was Maniyarpalli village in Sangareddy district in Telangana, which is located "very close to Karnataka". "The epicentre was 1.9 km North East of Shivarampur village in Chincholi Taluk of Kalaburagi," the KSNDMC said in a statement. This is the fourth tremor in the North Karnataka region in the last 11 days. The first two tremors on October 1 and 5 occurred near Basavakalyan in Bidar district, which is in a close proximity to Latur and Killari in neighbouring Maharashtra, which had faced the worst earthquake in September 1993 killing several people. It is learnt that the Kalaburagi district administration has written to the Mines and Geology Department to study the spate of tremors in the region. Already the Karnataka Mineral Administration department has instructed its geologists to study the phenomena and ascertain whether there was any disturbed area in terms of geological events in the past. The department has also decided to carry out awareness drive to deal with a situation in the event of some major untoward incident. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mild-quake-in-karnatakas-kalaburagi-district-again-1039570.html
11-10-2021||National||Blow to researchers as Covid portal set to fall silent||A portal that provided granular data and helped researchers build mathematical models to predict Covid-19 surges in the country is set to fall silent, triggering panic among the scientific community which is scrambling to arrange an alternative. The closure of Covid-19India.org was announced by the over 300-strong collective of data volunteers from across India, who said they will cease updating the website from October 31. “With our work and personal lives limping back to normalcy, we believe it is time for us to look ahead and focus on them,” the collective said in a statement issued on the portal. The volunteers were instrumental in collating data from all states and making it available to the public since the start of the outbreak in March 2020.  The closure will have grave ramifications for researchers and data firms involved in Covid-19 projections, as they use an Application Programming Interface (API) to automatically collect data from the portal for use in their mathematical models.  For Professor Sashikumar Ganesan, the website's demise will be a big blow.  Ganesan, Chair of Centre for Computational Sciences at the Indian Institute of Science, co-developed the partial differential equation (PDE)-based model, which was at the forefront of Covid case predictions in the country. His model, which helped predict the peak of the first wave and the duration of the pandemic in Karnataka, may now be crippled. “We have raised concerns about this matter with the National Task Force on Covid-19 in August. We have asked that some means be used to keep the portal alive or create an alternative. We have not heard anything back,” Ganesan said. He explained that data from Covid-19India.org is critical to running simulations. “While Karnataka gives good district-level data in the daily bulletins, the information must be in digital form to be captured by our API. We don’t have the resources to manually tabulate the data everyday,” he said. “If the government comes forward, it will be nice, but I am not optimistic,” he added. Duplication of site The concern over data unavailability was shared by Professor Manindra Agrawal, Head of the Department of Computer Science at IIT Kanpur, who helped develop the famed Sutra model. Part of a three-member team of experts tasked with projections, he had accurately predicted the peak period of India’s second wave in India.  He said urgent steps are on to duplicate the site at IIT Hyderabad. “When the portal is inactivated, we will certainly have a challenge collecting the data. While overall Covid-19 numbers are not challenging to get, the lack of Covid-19India.org will be keenly felt in the collection of district-level data,” he said. The backup plan is to hire a team to collate the data and update the site regularly, Agrawal said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blow-to-researchers-as-covid-portal-set-to-fall-silent-1039417.html
11-10-2021||National||Punjab BJP leader takes exception to SKM's announcement of burning PM's effigies on Dussehra||Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma on Sunday took a strong exception to farmer leaders' decision to burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Dussehra, saying this is a holy festival of Hindus and any sort of politics over it cannot be tolerated. Sharma's statement came a day after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer organisations spearheading the stir against the farm laws, said farmers would burn effigies of the prime minister and Home Minister Amit Shah on Dussehra to protest the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. The Punjab BJP leader criticised the farmer leaders for their announcement, saying Dussehra is a holy festival of Hindus and any kind of politics on it cannot be tolerated. Sharma alleged that farmer leaders were trying to "create disturbance" during Hindu festivals for the last one year. He said that on the same occasion last year, farmer leaders had tried to indulge in petty politics and there was anger in the Hindu community because of it. Sharma said that farmer bodies had also announced that they would observe 'black' Diwali and hold protests during festivals like 'Dhanteras'. He said the 'Kisan morcha', during the course of their protests, had celebrated many festivals of other religions last year. The BJP leader said such protests by farmers on festivals were not only hurting the sentiments of Hindus but also affecting businesses adversely.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-bjp-leader-takes-exception-to-skms-announcement-of-burning-pms-effigies-on-dussehra-1039426.html
11-10-2021||National||Jaishankar arrives in Kyrgyzstan as part of India's effort to deepen bilateral ties with Central Asian countries||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar arrived here on Sunday as part of his four-day visit to Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan and Armenia with an aim to further expand bilateral ties with the three Central Asian countries. Jaishankar will be in Kazakhstan from October 11 to 12 to attend the 6th Ministerial meeting of the Conference of Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA), the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Saturday. The CICA meeting is being held in Nur-Sultan, the capital of Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan is the current Chair of the grouping. "Delighted to arrive in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan at the invitation of FM Ruslan Kazakbaev. Looking forward to a productive visit," Jaishankar tweeted soon after he landed at the Manas International Airport here. Jaishankar was welcomed at the airport by Kyrgyz Deputy Foreign Minister Aibek Artykbaev and Indian Ambassador Alok A Dimri, the Indian Embassy here tweeted, sharing pictures of the minister's arrival in Bishkek. Delighted to arrive in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan at the invitation of FM Ruslan Kazakbaev. During his stay in Bishkek, Jaishankar will hold talks with his Kyrgyz counterpart apart from calling on President Sadyr Japarov. "This will be his first visit to the country as the external affairs minister," the MEA had said, adding that some agreements are also expected to be signed during the visit. Jaishankar's three-nation visit will be a continuation of India's increased engagement with countries in its "extended neighbourhood", according to the MEA. It is learnt that the developments in Afghanistan are expected to figure prominently in Jaishankar's talks with leaders of the three central Asian countries. Jaishankar will visit Armenia on October 12 to 13 during which he will have meetings with his Armenian counterpart Ararat Mirzoyan and call on Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-arrives-in-kyrgyzstan-as-part-of-indias-effort-to-deepen-bilateral-ties-with-central-asian-countries-1039428.html
11-10-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Nobel' Indian Journalists||Veteran Philippine journalist Maria Ressa on Saturday said her Nobel Peace Prize was for "all journalists around the world", as she vowed to continue her battle for press freedom. Ressa, co-founder of news website Rappler, and Russian journalist Dmitry Muratov were awarded the prize on Friday for their efforts to "safeguard freedom of expression".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-nobel-indian-journalists-1039453.html
11-10-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices burn a hole in the pocket as rates hiked again||Petrol and diesel prices continue to burn a hole in the pocket of the common man as rates were increased for the seventh day in a row on the back of rising international fuel prices on Monday. Petrol price rose by 30 paise in Delhi to reach Rs 104.44 per litre while diesel was hiked by 35 paise to cost Rs 93.17 per litre to the consumer. Similarly, Mumbai saw a hike of 29 paise in petrol price, to touch Rs 110.41 per litre, while diesel now costs Rs 101.03 per litre, after a hike of 37 paise. In Bengaluru, petrol is priced at Rs 108.08 a litre and diesel Rs 98.89 a litre. Chennai saw petrol price rising to Rs 101.79 per litre and diesel to Rs 97.59 a litre on Monday. Today's hike pushed fuel rates to a new record high.   The relentless fuel price hike has also pushed petrol above the Rs 100 mark in all but one state capital, with Dehradun, Chandigarh and Gwahati joining that list. Ranchi is the only state capital with petrol less than that mark. The rise in fuel prices is because the international benchmark Brent crude has soared to over $82 per barrel after the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-burn-a-hole-in-the-pocket-as-rates-hiked-again-1039457.html
11-10-2021||National||LAC stand-off talks fail; China accuses India of insisting on 'unreasonable, unrealistic' demands||The latest round of negotiations between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has failed to make any headway to resolve the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. India has alleged its "constructive suggestions" for the mutual withdrawal of troops from the remaining face-off points along the LAC were not accepted by China. China has accused India of insisting on “unreasonable and unrealistic demands” when the senior military commanders of the two nations held the 13th round of negotiations to resolve the military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) eastern Ladakh. The Chinese PLA has also alleged that the Indian Army’s insistence on its demands made the negotiations ‘difficult’. Lt. Gen. P G K Menon, the commander of the XIV Corps of the Indian Army, met Maj Gen Liu Lin, his counterpart in the South Xinjiang Military District of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The meeting took place on the communist country’s side at the Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on Sunday. It started at 10:30 am and continued till 7:00 pm. During the meeting, the Indian side made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals, the Ministry of Defence said in a statement in New Delhi. "The meeting thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas." India insisted on the unreasonable and unrealistic demands, which made the negotiations more difficult, Senior Colonel Long Shaohua, the spokesperson for the Western Theatre Command of the Chinese PLA, alleged in a statement released early on Monday. “China hopes the Indian side will not misjudge the situation, cherish the hard-won situation in the China-India border areas, show sincerity and take actions, and work with China to jointly safeguard peace and stability in the border areas,” he added. China hopes the Indian side will not misjudge the situation, cherish the hard-won situation in the China-India border areas, show sincerity and take actions, and work with China to jointly safeguard peace and stability in the border areas. The 18-month-long stand-off along the LAC is still continuing at several places along the LAC, although the two sides mutually withdrew soldiers on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso (lake) in February as well as the Gogra Post in August. The Chinese PLA claimed that it had made great efforts during the talks with the Indian Army to “promote easing and cooling of the border situation” and fully demonstrated its sincerity in maintaining “overall interests of bilateral military relations”. “However, the Indian side still persisted in its unreasonable and unrealistic demands, which added difficulties to the negotiations,” it alleged The Chinese PLA refused to accept the Indian Army’s demand for discussion for mutual withdrawal of front-line troops from all the remaining face-off points, including the Patrol Point 15 or ‘Hot Springs”. The Indian Army asked the Chinese PLA to stop mobilising large numbers of troops in the ‘depth’ areas along the LAC as such deployment was in violation of the 1993 bilateral agreement. The Indian Army chief Gen M M Naravane on Saturday said that the continuing large-scale build-up by the Chinese PLA along the LAC remained “a matter of concern”. He also said that India would continue with its counter-deployment as long as China would not withdraw the additional troops it amassed in the border areas over the past 18 months. The incursion attempts by the Chinese PLA soldiers in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh in the recent weeks fuelled speculation about the possibility of the stand-off along the LAC in the western sector of the disputed boundary between the two nations spreading to the middle and eastern sectors too. After India and China pulled out troops from both the banks of Pangong Tso earlier this year, the disengagement in Gogra Post and Hot Springs were perceived to be the “low hanging fruits” for the negotiations to resolve the stand-off along the LAC. But the 11th round of talks between the military commanders of the two sides on April 9 last ended in a stalemate, which was broken only after the senior diplomats of the two sides had a video conference on June 25 and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Dushanbe on July 14. The senior military commanders of India and China had the 12th round of talks at Chushul-Moldo meeting point on the LAC on July 31. The two sides discussed a possible agreement on disengagement on Gogra and Hot Springs. But the Chinese PLA backtracked from a deal with the Indian Army on withdrawal of troops from Hot Springs and only agreed on disengagement from Gogra Post. The top brass of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi too finally gave its nod for resolving the face-off at Gogra Post only. The two sides announced disengagement of troops from Gogra Post on August 6 – about a week after the 12th round of talks between the military commanders. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lac-stand-off-talks-fail-china-accuses-india-of-insisting-on-unreasonable-unrealistic-demands-1039466.html
11-10-2021||National||Union Bank of India staff asked to follow 'Navratri' dress code or pay fine!||In a bizarre development, public sector lender, Union Bank of India had mandated a section of its staffers compulsorily adhere to a special 'Navratri' dress code or be ready to cough out fines. The detailed order came on a colourful circular issued on October 1 by the Digitisation Department, at the Central Office in Mumbai, signed by General Manager, A. R. Raghavendra. Following an uproar on social media, the UBI management has reportedly yanked off the circular, it emerged late on Sunday night. In the multi-coloured order, Raghavendra had asked all staff and on-site vendor partners to follow a daily colour dress code for the festival -- from October 7, yellow, green, grey, orange, white, red, royal blue, pink, and purple for the last day -- October 15. To ensure compliance, he warned of a Rs 200 fine each for not adhering to the colour code plus daily group photos of all staffers. On October 14, there will be a 'Chaat Party' and staffers have been advised not to carry their lunch boxes, besides indoor games for staff and executives, post-lunch from 3 p.m. onwards. "We request you all to make yourself available and not to keep any meeting," Raghavendra said, signing off with a 'request' to all to follow the day-wise colour code scheme and make the celebration a grand success. The All India Union Bank Employees Federation (AIUBEF) has not taken kindly to the diktat and shot off a letter to the UBI Managing Director and CEO Rajkiran Rai G., demanding stringent action against the GM. Eminent litterateur and Madurai CPI-M MP, S. Venkatesan, has dashed off a letter to the UBI, terming Raghavendra's circular as "highly atrocious". "It would damage not only image of the state-run bank and also is an infringement of human rights and secular values of this great country," Venkatesan said, demanding withdrawal of the circular and action against the erring official. Taking umbrage, AIUBEF General Secretary Jagannath Chakraborty has said that issuing official instructions for celebrating a religious festival in office, fixing a dress code, and imposition of penalty are not routine matters and would have required the permission from the top management. "This has never happened in the 100 years' history of the Bank. He should immediately withdraw the circular," the AIUBEF leader said. "We believe he did not obtain the permission... However, whether he was granted permission or not, we hereby lodge a strong protest against such wishful & dictatorial action of Raghavendra," Chakraborty said. He pointed out that a religious festival like Navratri should be observed and celebrated privately and "not officially in a PSB that maintains a high esteem towards the secular fabric of our society". "Celebration of any festival is a voluntary phenomenon that has no room for any instruction/coercion far to speak of imposition of penalty. The GM should know that for exercising a power, one should possess the power first," added Chakraborty. The AIUBEF asked the MD under what rule the GM derived the power to impose penalties for not adhering to the nine-colour dress code, even on holidays! "We demand for fixing of accountability upon him and also for appropriate action for using Bank's logo, platform, etc. to accomplish his personal desire by abusing official power," said Chakraborty. Bankers said they do not recall "such a thing ever" as dress codes, photo-sessions, parties and indoor games in the office, in the entire banking industry and said the UBI must immediately act against the officer concerned to convey the correct message to the national banks fraternity. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-bank-of-india-staff-asked-to-follow-navratri-dress-code-or-pay-fine-1039469.html
11-10-2021||National||India logs 18,132 new Covid-19 cases, 193 deaths||India logged 18,132 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 215 days, taking the country's total tally of cases to 3,39,71,607, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 98 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,50,782 with 193 fresh fatalities. The active cases have declined to 2,27,347, the lowest in 209 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 17 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 106 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.67 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. A decrease of 3,624 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 10,35,797 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 58,36,31,490. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.75 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 42 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.53 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 108 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,32,93,478, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 95.19 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 193 new fatalities include 85 from Kerala and 28 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,50,782 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,39,542 from Maharashtra, 37,885 from Karnataka, 35,783 from Tamil Nadu, 26,258 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,905 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-18132-new-covid-19-cases-193-deaths-1039480.html
11-10-2021||National||Maharashtra Bandh: Here are key things to know||Amid a bandh call across Maharashtra by three partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to protest the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district, eight BEST buses were vandalised in different areas of Mumbai between midnight and 8 am today. Here are key things to know about the Maharashtra bandh: 1. Bus services were affected in Mumbai and neighbouring areas on Monday and most of the shops and commercial establishments remained closed. 2. Buses of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST- the transport undertaking of the city civic body) and many of the traditional 'black-yellow cabs' remained off roads. 3. There were huge crowds on suburban railway stations to commute by local trains, which were running as per schedule.  4. In the morning, shops and other commercial establishments, barring those engaged in selling essential items, remained closed in Mumbai.  5. Local trains, considered as the lifeline of Mumbai, were operating normally, but running packed as road commuters shifted to suburban rail services.  6. The Metro rail services were also operating normally in the city. 7. In Pune, the Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) president Fattechand Ranka said all shops, except those dealing in essential items, will remain closed till 3 pm on Monday. 8. Over 2,000 traders dealing in fruits, vegetables, flowers, grains, onions and potatoes etc will support the bandh to show solidarity with farmers who play an all-important role in their sector, said Rohan Ursal, secretary of the Shree Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard Adate (Traders) Association. 9. Transport is also likely to be hit in Maharashtra's second-largest city as rickshaw unions have decided to not ply their vehicles during the duration of the shutdown on Monday. "Our organisation and several other transport groups will be supporting the bandh," said Rickshaw Panchayat functionary Nitin Pawar.  10. There was extra traffic police deployment on the city roads, where people were mostly seen travelling in private vehicles. Many senior police officials were seen visiting the 'bandobast' points.  (With PTI inputs) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-bandh-here-are-key-things-to-know-1039494.html
11-10-2021||National||Here's a list of states impacted by the coal crisis||Power Minister R K Singh termed fears of blackouts “entirely misplaced” and said daily despatch of coal to power plants has exceeded consumption, indicating a shift to gradual building up of stocks. However, some states are already facing a crunch in power supply and are resorting to blackouts.  Here is the list of states getting affected:  -Punjab: The state government has stated that three-hour power cuts will take place every day until October 13. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi slammed the Centre for inadequate coal supply. -Delhi: The national capital will be seeing intermittent power cuts, residents were informed. Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal had urged PM Modi to get involved and solve the problem. Union Power Minister R K Singh said CM Kejriwal "should've spoken to me directly" about the issue and told L-G Delhi Power Minister Satyendar Jain, on Monday took to Twitter to speak on the issue. "There is coal shortage in most of the power plants. The stock is left for only 2-3 days. NTPC capped production capacity of its plants to 55 per cent. Earlier we used to get 4000 megawatts of electricity but now we are not getting even half of that", he said. Delhi CM Kejriwal said, "the situation is critical and many CMs have written about it to the Central govt. We all are working together to improve the situation". -Kerala: Kerala may have to resort to load-shedding as its coal stocks deplete. On Monday, ANI reported that CM Pinarayi Vijayan chaired a high-level meeting on the issue. -Rajasthan: Rajasthan has hour-long daily power-cuts. "There are a lot of unscheduled outages. We have almost never have power in the night," Vaishali Master, a 52-year living in Rajasthan told Reuters, adding that in the last 4 days alone she has faced about 12-14 hours of power outages. -Tamil Nadu: The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), which is carrying out maintenance work in Chennai, said that power will be suspended in parts of the city. -Andhra Pradesh: In Andhra Pradesh, power stations have coal reserves that would last for just a day or two -Bihar: The state is already heavily impacted by the power supply crunch.  "For the last several days, we haven't had power for 7-8 hours a day," Prashant Raj, an electronic store manager in the Madhubani district of Bihar was quoted telling Reuters. Check out the latst DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-a-list-of-states-impacted-by-the-coal-crisis-1039496.html
11-10-2021||National||Maharashtra bandh: Shops shut, bus services hit, NCP stages sit-in protest||The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi parties -- Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress -- are undertaking a day-long bandh on Monday in Maharashtra to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri killings in Uttar Pradesh.  The suburban local trains of Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, however, have been exempted, as the essential services are directly dependent on them.  The Government Railway Police (GRP) has beefed up security measures at all railway stations across the state.  The BEST, the popular civic bus transportation system of Mumbai and big cities like Pune and Nashik were affected. There were reports of some buses being stone-pelted, however, there was no independent confirmation.  From Thane, there were reports of some alleged Shiv Sainiks beating up auto drivers.  At the Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, a two-minute silence was observed and a resolution was passed condemning the violence. Later, the three parties -- Shiv Sena, Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress -- announced the bandh, however, made it clear that emergency services would not be affected.  The three parties and their allies demanded the resignation or sacking of Union Minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the incident.    The opposition BJP and Raj Thackeray-led MSS, however, have opposed the bandh.  Very few autos and cabs were on the roads and serpentine queues were witnessed at several places with people waiting for road transport facilities.  The Agricultural Produce Market Committee-run sabzi mandis were also shut. Several NCP leaders including state chief and water resources minister Jayant Patil, minority affairs minister Nawab Malik and Baramati MP Supriya Sule were among those who staged a sit-in at the Hutatma Chowk, the martyrs’ square in Mumbai. “What has happened in Lakhimpur Kheri is barbaric... Ajay Mishra should own up moral responsibility and resign,” said Sule. “The bandh is just a way to express anguish over what has happened,” said Patil.  Meanwhile, the Congress-led a delegation to Raj Bhavan to meet Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, however, he was out of Mumbai. A delegation comprising state Congress president Nana Patole, his Mumbai counterpart Bhai Jagtap, state public works minister Ashok Chavan and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat later went to meet the Governor's secretary to hand over a memorandum.  Reacting to BJP’s criticism of the bandh, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said: “This is not a political bandh, but for the farmers.” "All the major political parties, organisations and labour unions have supported the Maharashtra bandh. Our bandh is successful,” added Malik.  Meanwhile, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil said that the ruling parties in the state are trying to reap political mileage from the bandh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-bandh-shops-shut-bus-services-hit-ncp-stages-sit-in-protest-1039497.html
11-10-2021||National||Being a politician doesn’t mean you run over anyone with a Fortuner: BJP leader||Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh on Sunday said that being a politician doesn’t mean one can loot or run people over with a Fortuner. While addressing party workers at an inaugural session of the state executive of BJP’s minority front, the leader said, “Elections should be won on basis of one’s conduct. Politics is about serving your society, your nation. There is no caste and religion involved. Being a political leader doesn’t mean that you loot, it doesn’t mean that you run over anyone with a Fortuner. We are in this party to serve the poor,” he said. This comes amid allegations that Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, ran over eight people in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur with his vehicle, four of whom were farmers. Ashish Mishra was produced before a court late Saturday, which sent him to a 14-day judicial custody in connection with the Lakhimpur violence. The political space in Uttar Pradesh is heating up as the Lakhimpur violence has sparked a political row with Opposition leaders making a beeline to visit families of farmers killed in the incident. The uproar holds significance as the Yogi Adityanath-led state goes to polls early next year, campaigning for which has begun in full swing. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/being-a-politician-doesn-t-mean-you-run-over-anyone-with-a-fortuner-bjp-leader-1039498.html
11-10-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Jayaprakash Narayan, Nanaji Deshmukh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to Jayaprakash Narayan, a socialist icon who led the anti-Emergency movement, and Nanaji Deshmukh, a towering Jana Sangh leader, on their birth anniversary and hailed their contribution to the country.    "Tributes to Loknayak JP on his Jayanti. He was a remarkable personality, who left an indelible mark on India's history. He devoted himself to public welfare initiatives and was at the forefront of protecting India's democratic ethos. We are deeply inspired by his ideals," Modi said in tributes to Narayan, fondly called JP.    In tributes to Deshmukh, he said, "Pranams to the great visionary, Bharat Ratna Nanaji Deshmukh on his Jayanti. He dedicated himself towards the development of our villages and empowering the industrious farmers. Sharing a speech I had delivered in 2017 to mark Nanaji's birth centenary." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-jayaprakash-narayan-nanaji-deshmukh-1039509.html
11-10-2021||National||Coal crisis: States fear blackouts even as Centre assuages ‘unnecessary’ panic||Despite assurances from the Centre about “sufficient” power availability across the country, states are grappling with fears of blackouts amid a coal crunch. Power Minister R K Singh said on Sunday that fears of blackouts were “entirely misplaced”, while Union Minister Pralhad Joshi reiterated that there is “absolutely no threat of disruption” in power supply. But these statements are not calming the nerves of states, who have already alerted the public of possible power cuts. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia dubbed Singh’s statement “irresponsible”, likening it to the government’s stand during the oxygen shortage in Delhi at the peak of the second coronavirus wave. “When we had an oxygen crisis, they kept saying there was no such crisis. The coal situation is similar. We have a crisis today,” Sisodia said. He added in a tweet that even Uttar Pradesh is experiencing power issues and the government should accept the problem. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier written to PM Narendra Modi that the national capital stares at blackouts if supplies are not restored. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had also reached out to PM Modi, calling the situation “quite alarming”.  Singh maintained on Saturday that the rumours have come about due to miscommunication from GAIL and Tata to power consumers counselling judicious use of electricity. The Centre warned them of action for sending such SMSes and triggering panic. He added that CM Kejriwal should have spoken to me about Delhi’s power issue. Punjab power plants are already running at reduced capacity and have started load-shedding at several places, with reports of 2-3 hour-long power cuts. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has also slammed the Centre for inadequate coal supply to states. Rajasthan has been resorting to one-hour power cuts so far. Tamil Nadu power distribution body has suspended power in many parts of Chennai. Odisha industries have also reached out to the state government over coal shortage and Jharkhand and Bihar have also been experiencing massive power cuts. But the Coal Ministry has said coal stock at power plant stood at about 72 lakh tonnes, sufficient for four days of requirement, and that the Coal India Limited (CIL) has more than 400 lakh tonnes of stocks, which is being supplied to power plants. The country is the world's second-largest importer of coal despite also being home to the fourth-largest coal reserves in the world. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-crisis-states-fear-blackouts-even-as-centre-assuages-unnecessary-panic-1039525.html
11-10-2021||National||Private industry must step in to provide cutting-edge space technology to army: CDS||The Indian private industry must step in to provide cutting-edge space technologies and products to boost operational capabilities of the Indian armed forces, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said on Monday. "Space and cyber domains have become critical to our ability to undertake operations across the spectrum, both in peace and conflict," he said. While the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will continue to provide leadership and guidance, the expanding needs of the nation and the armed forces require that the private industry must step in and step forward, General Rawat said. "The armed forces look forward to the Indian industry to provide products and innovations...and cutting-edge technologies towards war winning capabilities," he said. The CDS was speaking at the launch ceremony of the Indian Space Association, a space sector industry body comprising companies such as Bharti Airtel, Larsen and Toubro, Agnikul, Dhruva Space and Kawa Space. Opening of our space to the private industry in India is indeed a landmark and historic decision which was taken by the prime minister in June last year, he said. The privatisation of the space industry will catapult the space industry into the future as the central driver of nation building, the CDS said. "The concept that higher exploratory space domain, research and development activities, new technologies, human space flights, continues to be ISRO's mandate while many upstream and downstream space products as well as technological innovations be taken over by the private industry is an idea whose time has finally come," he said. The initiative will surely help in making India a new global space hub in the years ahead, General Rawat said. Like the armed forces the world over, the Indian armed forces are significant users of diverse space products including communication, position navigation and timing, and of course, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, he said. "And apart from this, space situational awareness, and protection of our space based assets have become important domains," the CDS said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-industry-must-step-in-to-provide-cutting-edge-space-technology-to-army-cds-1039527.html
11-10-2021||National||CBI raids premises of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in Nagpur, Mumbai||The CBI on Monday conducted searches at the premises of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh at multiple locations in connection with the leak of confidential documents related to the preliminary enquiry against him on allegations of corruption, officials said Monday. A team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials reached the residence of Deshmukh in Nagpur and Mumbai this morning with necessary warrants, they said. The CBI on September 2 had arrested Deshmukh's lawyer Anand Daga and its own sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari for allegedly leaking confidential documents related to the preliminary enquiry against Deshmukh, they said. The agency had started a PE on the orders of the Bombay High Court which had issued the directions while hearing a public interest litigation on allegations of corruption against Deshmukh. The PE findings showed the Deputy SP probing the matter had purportedly opined that no cognisable offence was made out against Deshmukh but it was later converted into an FIR based on a contrasting opinion of the Deputy SP. The opinion mentioned in the FIR said that cognisable offence is made out against Deshmukh. The findings giving clean chit to Deshmukh got leaked to the media causing an embarrassment to the CBI after opposition parties accused the agency of conducting a motivated probe against the then minister. Soon after the leak, the CBI booked Tiwari and Daga on the allegations of leaking documents. It has been reliably learnt that Sub-Inspector Tiwari came in contact with Nagpur-based advocate Daga during the course of the inquiry, the FIR alleged. It said that Tiwari had been in regular contact with him, it alleged. The FIR alleged that Daga handed an iPhone 12 pro as illegal gratification to Tiwari for passing details of the enquiry and investigation pertaining to corruption allegations against Deshmukh. The agency also alleged that Tiwari had been receiving illegal gratification from Daga at regular intervals.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-raids-premises-of-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-in-nagpur-mumbai-1039533.html
11-10-2021||National||Space sector needs to be opened for private players: Ajit Doval||India has to augment its commercially available indigenous satellite communication solutions, tracking capabilities across geographies and protection of space assets, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval said on Monday. He was speaking at the launch ceremony of the Indian Space Association, a space sector industry body comprising companies such as Bharti Airtel, Larsen and Toubro, Agnikul, Dhruva Space and Kawa Space. "Economic growth and technology development are the most important ingredients of national power. In such an environment, the national governments can no longer be the only stakeholders in evolving policies for national security and development," he said. The private sector is an equal stakeholder in nation-building, Doval added. "Hitherto, exclusive domains such as space that were dominated by the public sector, therefore, need to be opened up to the private sector to ensure that we remain ahead of the curve," the national security advisor (NSA) said. Doval said, "Private investments in the space sector will generate high tech jobs, facilitate technology absorption, and ensure involvement of foreign partners through joint ventures." These steps will make India a manufacturing hub of space assets, he said Doval said that a strong private sector industry will also contribute to meeting growing security challenges. "India needs to focus on augmenting capacities in several areas such as...commercially available indigenous satellite communication solutions, research and development into futuristic technologies, tracking capabilities across geographies and protection of space assets," Doval said. Creating an appropriate regulatory environment to address safety, security and legal liability issues will be central to this effort, he said. The NSA said rapid strides have been made by the private sector in development of niche technologies. "Many of these technologies are dual use. They have revolutionised activities in several areas including navigation, remote sensing, weather monitoring, agriculture, satellite communication and broadband internet," he said. According to some estimates, the global space industry is poised to grow exponentially, the NSA said. "With appropriate policy and regulations, the Indian private sector can become a co-traveller on India's space journey," he mentioned. The excellent work done by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to develop an ecosystem of high quality suppliers provides India a solid base on which to upscale the involvement of private sector in space domain, the NSA noted.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/space-sector-needs-to-be-opened-for-private-players-ajit-doval-1039536.html
11-10-2021||National||Amitabh Bachchan steps down as face of paan masala brand||Megastar Amitabh Bachchan has withdrawn from an advertising campaign of a paan masala brand and said he has returned the money he received for promoting it. The 79-year-old actor had faced backlash for featuring in an advertisement of a paan masala brand. Several fans of the screen icon had expressed their displeasure over the actor's decision. A blog post, addressed by "the office of Mr Amitabh Bachchan", on Sunday night informed that he is no longer associated with the promotions. "A few days after the commercial was aired, Mr Bachchan contacted the brand and stepped out of it last week. Upon checking why this sudden move - it was revealed that when Mr Bachchan became associated with the brand, he wasn’t aware that it falls under surrogate advertising. "Mr Bachchan has terminated the contract with the brand, has written to them his termination and has returned the money received for the promotion," the post read. Last month, the National Organization for Tobacco Eradication (NOTE), an NGO, had also appealed to Bachchan to not be part of advertisements that promote paan masala brands. In an open letter, NOTE president Dr Shekhar Salkar had said that the actor should withdraw from "surrogate" paan masala advertisements and support the cause of the anti-tobacco movement. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amitabh-bachchan-steps-down-as-face-of-paan-masala-brand-1039539.html
11-10-2021||National||Over 96.75 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states, UTs: Centre||More than 96.75 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. Over 8.43 crore balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, it said. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-9675-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-centre-1039549.html
11-10-2021||National||Justice Satish Chandra Sharma takes over as Telangana HC CJ||Justice Satish Chandra Sharma was on Monday sworn in as the Chief Justice of Telangana High Court. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan administered the oath of office in a brief ceremony held at Raj Bhavan. Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao and senior officials attended the function. Born on November 30, 1961 in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, Justice Sharma was the Acting Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court before being elevated as the Chief Justice of Telangana High Court. In 2003, he was designated as a Senior Advocate by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at the young age of 42. Elevated as a Judge of Madhya Pradesh High Court in January 2008 and appointed as a Permanent Judge in January, 2010. He was transferred to Karnataka High Court in January this year.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-satish-chandra-sharma-takes-over-as-telangana-hc-cj-1039550.html
11-10-2021||National||Kamal Nath's son, AgustaWestland accused Rajiv Saxena on Pandora Papers list: Report||As the Pandora Papers opened the lid on offshore businesses of the world's elite, the names of Indians with offshore links are being unfurled too, one by one. Records accessed by the publication allegedly pointed towards new evidence in the corruption case being handled by the CBI and ED. During the interrogation, Saxena, on bail at the moment, had name-dropped Bakul Nath. Saxena who was allegedly operating illegally with Gautam Khaitan, a Delhi-base lawyer, reportedly got €12.40 million from AgustaWestland deposited in the account of Interstellar Technologies, 99.9% of the shares of which were taken over by Saxena (by 2000). The embezzled money was then used to pay other middlemen. By 2000, Saxena had taken over 99.9% of the shares of Interstellar Technologies. “We (he and co-accused Sushen Mohan Gupta) received bridge funding through Pristine River Investments, a company managed by John Docherty for Bakul Nath, son of Kamal Nath. Thus, indirectly funds from Interstellar Technologies were used to repay the loans from Pristine River Investment", Saxena had told The Indian Express in November last year. An offshore company, Spector Consultancy Services, set up by Trident Trust in February 2018 linked the NRI Bakul Nath to Swiss national Docherty, the Pandora Papers revealed. Spector Consultancy Services says that Nath is the Beneficial Owner and lists him with a Dubai address. Docherty, it says, is its first Director. The shareholder of Spector Consultancy Services is another BVI firm by the name Cellbrook Limited, which has its purpose listed as 'owning real estate'. Its first 3-year assets are reported to be pegged at $10 million. In Saxena's case, in 2014 he allegedly set up a trust for personal assets with its underlying company in the BVI being Tanay Holdings Limited, linked to shares or ownership of 14 other assets, inclusive of the shares of his Palm Jumeirah villa, reported The Indian Express. Tanay Holdings Ltd, based in Belize, was another underlying company of Tanay Trust. It controls banks accounts of the likes of UBS Bank and Credit Suisse in Zurich. Matrix UAE Trust, Saxena's business trust, was set up as an offshore venture with Matrix International Limited as its underlying BVI firm in 2014. Many flagship companies of Saxena, including some linked to AgustaWestland - a deal cancelled by the Centre in 2014, were reportedly pledged to Matrix UAE Trust. In 2017 Shivani Saxena, Raiv's wife, was arrested at Chennai airport in connection with the AgustaWestland helicopter scam, triggering a link that would could Saxena to it too. After her arrest, Rajiv asked Trident Trust to liquidate the structures of Tanay Trust, Matrix UAE Trust, and their linked BVIs, and hand their shares over to him urgently. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamal-naths-son-agustawestland-accused-rajiv-saxena-on-pandora-papers-list-report-1039555.html
11-10-2021||National||Delhi Congress leaders stage 'maun vrat' to protest Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Delhi Congress leaders and workers sat on a 'maun vrat' near the lieutenant governor's office here on Monday to protest the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and demand the resignation of Union Minister Ajay Mishra. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar and former Union ministers Ashwini Kumar and Krishna Tirath were among those who attended the protest. Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Ajay Mishra's son Ashish was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. "Congress is staging 'maun vrat satyagrah' outside offices of governors and lieutenant governors in states and UTs, demanding resignation and arrest of Union minister of state for home (Ajay Mishra), who may influence the probe in the Lakhimpur incident," Kumar said before starting the protest. Indian Youth Congress leaders and workers also sat on a 'maun vrat' at the Jantar Mantar. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-congress-leaders-stage-maun-vrat-to-protest-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-1039565.html
11-10-2021||National||Seven more HC judges transferred in second higher judiciary reshuffle this week||The Centre has notified the transfer of seven High Court judges, including one of Karnataka, and the appointment of three advocates and two judicial officers as judges of the Rajasthan High Court. The development comes days after the Union government's decision to clear the recommendations made by the Supreme Court Collegium on the appointment of Chief Justices of eight High Courts and transfer of Chief Justices of five other High Courts. On Monday, a statement by the Department of Justice said, “In exercise of the power conferred under the Constitution of India, President of India, in consultation with Chief Justice of India, is pleased to transfer the seven High Court judges." With this, Justice Rajan Gupta has been transferred from Punjab and Haryana High court to Patna High Court; Justice T S Sivagnanam from the Madras High Court to the Calcutta High Court; Justice Sureshwar Thakur from the Himachal Pradesh High Court to Punjab and Haryana High Court; Justice P B Bajanthri from the Karnataka High Court to the Patna High Court; Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma from the Rajasthan High Court to the Patna High Court; Justice T Amarnath Goud from the Telangana High Court to the Tripura High Court; and Justice Subhash Chand from the Allahabad High Court to the Jharkhand High court. The government also issued orders on the appointment of three advocates Farjand Ali, Sudesh Bansal and Anoop Kumar Dhand and two judicial officers Vinod Kumar Bharwani and Madan Gopal Vyas as judges in Rajasthan High Court. Speaking in a programme on October 2, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana pointed out, "Since May onwards, we have recommended more than 106 judges to different High Courts and nine Chief Justices to various High Courts. The government has cleared seven names out of the 106 judges and one out of the nine Chief Justices, so far." He expected that the government will clear the rest of the names very soon. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-more-hc-judges-transferred-in-second-higher-judiciary-reshuffle-this-week-1039572.html
11-10-2021||National||Court not to rescue uncooperative, absconding accused, says SC||The court shall not come to the rescue of an accused who is not cooperating with the investigating agency and is absconding, the Supreme Court has said while refusing to grant anticipatory bail to a man in an alleged rioting case. The apex court noted that the charge sheet has already been filed in November 2018 against the petitioner and other co-accused in connection with the case lodged in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 307 (attempt to murder) and 147 (punishment for rioting), for the incident that had happened in March 2017. Hearing the accused's plea against the Allahabad High Court order which in June this year rejected his application seeking anticipatory bail, the top court said he has been continuously absconding and proclamation proceedings under section 82 of the Code of Criminal procedure (CrPC) has also been initiated against him. A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said the high court had in December 2019 directed that in case the petitioner appears and surrenders before the court within 30 days and applies for bail, his prayer for bail shall be considered and no coercive steps can be taken against him in the case for a period of 30 days. It said that despite the December 2019 order of the high court, which had dismissed an application seeking quashing of the charge sheet, the petitioner did not surrender and apply for regular bail and thereafter, non-bailable warrant was also issued against him. “The court shall not come to the rescue or help the accused who is not cooperating the investigating agency and absconding and against whom not only non-bailable warrant has been issued but also the proclamation under section 82 CrPC has been issued,” the bench said in its October 7 order. The top court said that submission advanced by the petitioner’s counsel that initially he was not named as accused in the FIR has been dealt with by the trial court which has observed that even in the first FIR, one person was shown as unknown. “Thus, from the aforesaid it is found that there is a prima facie case found against the petitioner for the aforesaid offences and even the charge-sheet has been filed and the petitioner is found to be absconding,” the bench said, adding, “Therefore, this is not a fit case to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner.” During the arguments before the apex court, the counsel representing the petitioner had said that he has been falsely implicated in the case and since investigation was complete and charge sheet was already filed, it was a fit case to grant anticipatory bail to the applicant. The high court had rejected the anticipatory bail application of the accused while noting that he was not cooperating in the trial court. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-not-to-rescue-uncooperative-absconding-accused-says-sc-1039574.html
11-10-2021||National||Diesel hits Rs 100/litre mark in Kerala, Karnataka||Diesel price on Monday breached the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Kerala and Karnataka as fuel prices were hiked yet again to align domestic rates with firming international oil prices. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The seventh straight day of price hike pushed fuel rates to a new record high. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 104.44 a litre and Rs 110.41 per litre in Mumbai, the notification showed. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 101.03 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 93.17. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in several states, with Kerala and Karnataka being the latest ones. Diesel costs Rs 100.15 a litre in Thiruvananthapuram. Some cities in Karnataka including Shimoga and Davanagere also saw those levels on Monday. In Bengaluru however, diesel comes for Rs 98.85 per litre. Besides Kerala and Karnataka, diesel has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Leh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. For six days in a row, the price of petrol has been hiked by 30 paise a litre and diesel by 35 paise, the biggest rally in rates. Prior to that, petrol price was increased by 25 paise and diesel by 30 paise. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has soared to a seven-year high of over $80 per barrel after producers cartel OPEC+ choose not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day. A month ago, Brent was around $72 per barrel. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 4.35 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 3.25. Prior to the July/August price cuts, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diesel-hits-rs-100/litre-mark-in-kerala-karnataka-1039575.html
11-10-2021||National||PM Modi to speak at NHRC foundation day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will speak at a programme to mark the 28th foundation day of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday through video conferencing, the PMO said.    The commission was set up under the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, on October 12, 1993, for the promotion and protection of human rights.    The NHRC takes cognisance of human rights violations, conducts enquiries and recommends compensation to victims from public authorities besides other remedial and legal measures against the erring public servants. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-speak-at-nhrc-foundation-day-1039579.html
11-10-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Non-compliance of safety norms rises, triggers concern||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-non-compliance-of-safety-norms-rises-triggers-concern-1039581.html
11-10-2021||National||Over 99% crimes registered in 2020 under POCSO Act were against girls: NCRB data||More than 99 per cent of crimes registered under the POCSO Act in 2020 were against girls, according to NCRB data which showed that girl child continues to be part of one of the most vulnerable sections of the society. An analysis of the latest NCRB data by NGO Child Rights and You (CRY) revealed that among 28,327 children who were victims of crimes reported under the POCSO Act, 28,058 were girls. A deeper analysis of the cases reported under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act showed that crimes against adolescent girls within the 16 to 18 age group were the highest at 14,092, followed by 10,949 crimes against girls within the 12 to 16 age group. Though both boys and girls are almost equally prone to abuse, the NRCB data revealed that girls irrespective of all age-groups are more vulnerable to sexual offences than boys. On the occasion of International Day of the Girl Child on Monday, CRY said girls are being celebrated all across the world and much being talked about their rights but they continue to be one of the most vulnerable sections of the society as shown by the NCRB data. According to the latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) last month, more than 99 per cent of crimes committed in 2020 under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act were against girls. Priti Mahara, the director of policy research and advocacy at CRY, said recent trends of girls bearing the brunt of crimes against children should not be seen in isolation. "It is vital to understand that along with the protection-related challenges, aspects linked to education, social protection, poverty, etc. also play a significant role in the empowerment of the girl child; and assessing impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic on these parameters is equally crucial,” she said. "During the crises, girls face multiple vulnerabilities – their access to education is further restricted and they become more exposed to the risks of child marriage. They are also more likely to experience violence and sexual exploitation in multiple forms and degrees," said Mahara. Emphasising on the emerging need of a strong child protection mechanism, Mahara said over the past few years, some progress has indeed been made in terms of girls' education and strengthening child protection systems, but the pandemic has derailed the growth. Since the vulnerability has now increased multifold, chances of girls dropping out of the education system and falling from the protection safety-net has correspondingly increased, she added. Mahara said girls, particularly the ones in their adolescence, face many protection risks during and after any humanitarian crisis. "Given the immediate and long-term risks arising from the Covid-19 pandemic, the need of the hour is therefore to reinforce gender responsive protection interventions and ensure that these are implemented to the fullest,” she said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-99-crimes-registered-in-2020-under-pocso-act-were-against-girls-ncrb-data-1039590.html
11-10-2021||National||Space tech, telecom to push digital services to remote areas, aid inclusive development: Vaishnaw||The combination of space technology and telecom will propel the reach of digital services to remote locations across the country and help in inclusive development, Minister for Communications and IT Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Monday. Asserting that the government is fully committed to reforms and ensuring healthy competition in the sector, the Minister exhorted the industry to study the global best practices and come up with suggestions to contribute in formulation of enabling policy. "It is very obvious that space and telecom combined can help us reach areas which are conventionally not reachable... like forested areas, the tribal areas which are in very remote places... in North Eastern parts of our country, the Himalayan sections, the desert areas... Many of these sections where conventional methods could not take digital services, I hope with space technologies we will be able to reach those areas," he said. The combined might of space technologies and telecom would also contribute "in a big way" towards inclusive development, the Minister said speaking at an event to mark the launch of the Indian Space Association. Space and telecom are organically connected sectors, especially with regard to managing spectrum, he said. Terming it a "complex subject", the Minister urged the industry leaders to study best global practices on the subject and come up with benchmarks that India can adopt. "We are an open-minded government. We want to reform this sector and provide level-playing-field to everybody. We want that there should be healthy competition in this sector. So please come up with recommendations which will help us formulate policy in that direction," Vaishnaw added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/space-tech-telecom-to-push-digital-services-to-remote-areas-aid-inclusive-development-vaishnaw-1039591.html
11-10-2021||National||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Chidambaram leads Congress' silent protest in Goa||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram led a silent protest in Goa on Monday against the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on October 3. Eight people, comprising four farmers, two BJP workers, a driver and a journalist were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, the chain of violent events starting after an SUV mowed down farmers protesting against the Centre's three agri-marketing laws. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-chidambaram-leads-congress-silent-protest-in-goa-1039593.html
11-10-2021||National||Rajasthan BYJM holds protests, demands cancellation of REET||Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) workers on Monday held demonstrations in all districts of Rajasthan, including state capital Jaipur, over the alleged paper leak of the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers-2021 (REET). The protestors demanded a CBI inquiry into the alleged paper leak case and resignation of Education Minister Govind Dotasra from the post. A large number of workers led by the state president of the BJYM, Himanshu Sharma, participated in the demonstration at Bais Godam circle here. "There should be a CBI inquiry. The agitation will continue till the investigation is done. BJYM has decided that it will reach out to 2.5 lakh unemployed youth to raise awareness and create a big movement and today it is beginning of it," the party's state president Satish Poonia told reporters.  He demanded that the government should sack the education minister. Sharma said that there should be a fair investigation in the matter and this investigation should be done by the CBI. The examination should be cancelled and held afresh, he demanded. The Rajasthan government has suspended an RAS, two RPS officers, 13 personnel of the education department and three policemen in the case. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-byjm-holds-protests-demands-cancellation-of-reet-1039594.html
11-10-2021||National||India gets 3rd set of Swiss bank details under automatic info exchange framework||India has received the third set of Swiss bank account details from Switzerland as part of an annual exercise under which the European nation has shared particulars of nearly 33 lakh financial accounts with 96 countries. The Federal Tax Administration (FTA) of Switzerland said in a statement on Monday that the exchange of information this year involved 10 more countries -- Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, Dominica, Ghana, Lebanon, Macau, Pakistan, Qatar, Samoa and Vauatu. While the exchange was reciprocal with 70 countries, Switzerland received information but did not provide any in the case of 26 countries -- either because those countries do not yet meet the international requirements on confidentiality and data security (14) or because they chose not to receive data (12). While the FTA did not disclose names and further details of all 96 countries, officials said India figured among those having received the information for the third year in a row and the details shared with Indian authorities pertained to a large number of individuals and companies having accounts in Swiss financial institutions. The exchange took place last month and the next set of information would be shared by Switzerland in September 2022. India had received the first set of details from Switzerland under AEOI in September 2019. It was among 75 countries to get such information that year. Last year, India was among 86 such partner countries. According to experts, the AEOI data received by India has been quite useful for establishing a strong prosecution case against those who have any unaccounted wealth, as it provides entire details of deposits and transfers as well as of all earnings, including through investments in securities and other assets. On the condition of anonymity, officials said the details relate mostly to businessmen, including non-resident Indians now settled in several South-East Asian countries as well as in the US, the UK and even some African and South American countries. Switzerland had agreed to AEOI with India after a long process, including a review of the necessary legal framework in India on data protection and confidentiality. The exchanged details include identification, account and financial information, including name, address, country of residence and tax identification number, as well information concerning the reporting financial institution, account balance and capital income. For three years now, India has been among prominent countries with which Switzerland has shared these details. Besides, Swiss authorities have already shared information about more than 100 Indian citizens and entities so far this year on receipt of requests for administrative assistance in cases involving probes into financial wrongdoings including tax evasion, the officials added. This count has been similar in the past few years. These cases mostly relate to older accounts that might have been closed before 2018, for which Switzerland has shared details with India under an earlier framework of mutual administrative assistance as Indian authorities had provided prima facie evidence of tax-related wrongdoing by those account holders. AEOI is applicable only to accounts that are active or were closed during 2018. Some of these cases relate to entities set up by Indians in various overseas jurisdictions like Panama, the British Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands, while the individuals include mostly businessmen and a few politicians and erstwhile royals as well as their family members. The officials, however, refused to share details about the exact number of accounts or the quantum of assets held in the accounts held by Indians, for which the information has been shared with India, citing strict confidentiality clauses governing the exchange framework. The exchanged information allows tax authorities to verify whether taxpayers have correctly declared their financial accounts in their tax returns. For the first time, Switzerland has also agreed this year to share details about real estate assets owned by foreigners there, but the information about contributions to non-profit organisations and other such foundations, as also details on investments in digital currencies still remain out of bounds from AEOI framework. This is being seen as a key milestone in the Indian government's fight against black money allegedly stashed abroad, as authorities will be able to get the complete information on flats, apartments and condominiums owned by Indians in Switzerland as also on earnings made from such properties to help it look into tax liabilities associated with those assets. The move assumes significance on the part of Switzerland which is trying hard to reposition itself as a key global financial centre while warding off the long-persisting perception about the Swiss banking system being an alleged safe haven for black money. Experts and those engaged in the business of attracting investments to Switzerland believe the move would also help clear misconceptions about all fund inflows into Swiss assets being illicit and would go a long way in establishing Switzerland as a preferred investment destination, including for real estate properties. The FTA said it sent information on around 33 lakh financial accounts to the partner states and received information on around 21 lakh accounts from them. "The FTA cannot provide any information on the amount of financial assets," it added. Switzerland's first such exchange took place at the end of September 2018 and involved 36 countries, but India did not figure in the list at that time. The Global Forum of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) reviews AEOI implementation. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-gets-3rd-set-of-swiss-bank-details-under-automatic-info-exchange-framework-1039608.html
11-10-2021||National||Finance Ministry releases Rs 9,871 crore grant to 17 states||The Finance Ministry on Monday said it has released Rs 9,871 crore of revenue deficit grant to 17 states. The states which will receive money from the grant as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. "The Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance has released 7th monthly installment of Post Devolution Revenue Deficit (PDRD) Grant of Rs. 9,871.00 crore to the States here today. With the release of this installment, a total amount of Rs 69,097.00 crore has been released to eligible states as Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant (PDRD) in the current financial year," an official statement said. The grants are released as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission in monthly installments to meet the gap in revenue accounts of the states post devolution. The Commission has recommended this grant to 17 states during 2021-22. The eligibility of states to receive this grant and the quantum of grant was decided by the Commission based on the gap between assessment of revenue and expenditure of the State after taking into account the assessed devolution for the financial year 2021-22. "The 15th Finance Commission has recommended a total Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant of Rs 1,18,452 crore to 17 States in the financial year 2021-22. Out of this, an amount of Rs 69,097.00 crore (58.33 per cent) has been released so far," the statement added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-ministry-releases-rs-9871-crore-grant-to-17-states-1039619.html
11-10-2021||National||Amid shortages, Coal India scales up fuel supply to power plants to 1.51 MT per day||State-owned CIL on Monday said it has scaled up the supply of coal to power utilities across the country to 1.51 million tonnes (MT) per day during the past four days of the current month, and stressed that it is building up adequate evacuation logistics to transport the dry fuel. The development assumes significance in the wake of reports that warned of a power crisis looming large due to the coal shortage in the country. "With calls for more coal gaining tempo, Coal India Ltd (CIL), amid renewed urgency, scaled up supplies to power utilities of the country to 1.51 million tonnes (MT) per day during the past four days of October ahead of the festival," it said. The average supplies to the coal-fired power plants during October so far has been 1.43 MT per day, which has now been augmented to 1.51 MT in the past four days. CIL added that it is marshalling all its efforts to bridge the demand-supply gap to the extent possible. With 40 million tonnes stock at its pitheads and increasing, the availability of coal would not be a problem. The total offtake has gone up to 1.73 MT per day during October (till Sunday), posting a 10 per cent jump over the same period last year. CIL Director (Marketing) S N Tiwary said, "The aim is to ramp up supplies to the power sector even higher which we hope to achieve after Puja. Once the despatch rate is maintained, the stock build-up will help tide over the tight situation." Despite heavy rainfall, CIL produced about 126 MT of coal during the second quarter of the current financial year, setting a record high for the second quarter, posting a 9.6 per cent year-on-year growth. During the first 10 days of October, CIL's output has logged 6.5 per cent growth over last October. Going forward, the production will increase further when the attendance at coalfields improves after festival holidays. CIL's supplies to power generation companies (gencos) have been at an all-time high till now this fiscal but it is the never-experienced-before hunger for the dry fuel, spurred by an unmatched increase in power generation that upset the demand-supply scales. Once October and major festivals are over, conditions will improve and the power demand is expected to be down by a notch, easing the pressure, it said. During the first half of the current fiscal, loading to the power sector at 225.3 rakes per day was up 28 per cent compared with 176.3 rakes of last year same period. "The company is building up adequate evacuation logistics to transport coal," it said. The major pain point for CIL has been 14 imported coal-based power plants scaling down their generation due to skyrocketing coal prices in the international markets. Domestic coal-based thermal power plants had to step in to fill in the generation shortfall, which in turn placed an un-factored load of around 10 MT on CIL. Had this not happened, the stocks at power plants would have been around 17-18 MT instead of the bleak seven MT now. During September, the generation from these plants at 2.041 MW fell short by 75 per cent against the target of 8.114 MW. The generation logged negative growth of 72 per cent compared to September 2020, when they generated 7.238 MW. Progressive up to September, the contraction in the generation was 30 per cent over the same period a year ago. Coal India Ltd (CIL) accounts for over 80 per cent of the domestic coal output. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-shortages-coal-india-scales-up-fuel-supply-to-power-plants-to-151-mt-per-day-1039620.html
11-10-2021||National||PM Modi to participate in G20 leaders' summit on Afghanistan on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually participate in a G20 leaders' summit on Afghanistan on Tuesday that is expected to deliberate extensively on the overall situation in the war-torn country after its takeover by the Taliban. Announcing Prime Minister Modi's participation, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the agenda of the summit will include a discussion on response to humanitarian needs, security and the fight against terrorism and human rights in Afghanistan. "At the invitation of the Italian Presidency of the G20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in the upcoming G20 Extraordinary Leaders' Summit on Afghanistan on October 12 in virtual format," it said. The summit is being convened by Italy, the current chair of the G20 that comprises 20 of the world's major economies. "The agenda of the meeting will include a discussion on response to humanitarian needs and access to basic services and livelihood; security and the fight against terrorism; and mobility, migration and human rights," the MEA said. Modi had participated in the SCO–CSTO (Collective Security Treaty Organisation) outreach summit on Afghanistan last month. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar participated in the meeting of G20 foreign ministers on Afghanistan on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York recently. The MEA said that G20 is an important platform to help build international consensus and facilitate a coordinated approach between multilateral organisations, including the UN and its agencies, and global and regional actors to address the worsening humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-participate-in-g20-leaders-summit-on-afghanistan-on-tuesday-1039621.html
11-10-2021||National||PM Modi, Boris Johnson connect to discuss vaccine certification, trade, climate||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had a call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday during which the two leaders took stock of India-UK trade and defence talks, opening up of international travel between the two countries and climate action targets in the lead up to the COP26 summit in Glasgow, Downing Street said. The UK’s recognition of “Indian vaccine certification” was among the welcome developments highlighted on both sides, as Covishield-vaccinated Indians travelling to the UK will no longer be required to undergo a compulsory 10-day quarantine at a declared address starting Monday. "The Prime Minister and Prime Minister Modi discussed the shared fight against coronavirus and the importance of cautiously opening up international travel,” a Downing Street spokesperson said, with reference to a readout of the conversation. “They agreed the UK’s recognition of Indian vaccine certification is a welcome development to that end,” the spokesperson said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-boris-johnson-connect-to-discuss-vaccine-certification-trade-climate-1039626.html
11-10-2021||National||Rs 16,000 crore of Air India's unpaid bills to go to government's AIAHL||The government will transfer about Rs 16,000 crore of unpaid fuel bills and other pending dues that Air India owes to suppliers, to a special purpose vehicle before handing over the loss-making airline to the Tata Group, a senior official said. Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), which will hold non-core assets of Air India such as land and building, will also be saddled with 75 per cent of the airline's debt that the Tata Group is not taking over. Besides the debt, the excess liability going to AIAHL comprises unpaid fuel bills to oil companies, airport operators and vendors, said Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Secretary to the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) – the department running the privatisation programme of the government. Pandey said he does not expect these dues to increase much by December-end as the government would continue to support the airline's operations by giving the Rs 20 crore fund required daily to maintain it as a going concern. Before the handover of the airline to Tatas, the government would again work on the balance sheet of Air India for the remaining 4-month period (September-December) and whatever liabilities arise would be transferred to AIAHL. As on August 31, Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore. Of this, Tata Sons holding company Talace Pvt Ltd will take over Rs 15,300 crore and the remaining Rs 46,262 crore will be transferred to AIAHL. Besides, non-core assets of Air India, including land and building, valued at Rs 14,718 crore are being transferred to AIAHL. As much as Rs 15,834 crore due to operational creditors, like those for fuel purchases and other day-to-day operations, as of August 31 too would be transferred to AIAHL, Pandey said. "The dues to operational creditors may not go up further in the September-December period if the government continues with the funding... They are dependent on Rs 20 crore/day, if the government shuts down funding then the dues will add up. So more or less it will not very much increase," Pandey said. After adjusting for all the dues to lenders and operational creditors and also the assets of AIAHL, the net liabilities with AIAHL as of August 31 is Rs 44,679 crore. The government has been incurring per day expenditure of Rs 20 crore to keep Air India afloat. Excessive debt in the airline's balance sheet had pushed equity value to negative at (-)Rs 32,000 crore and the option before the government was to either privatise or close it down. Between 2009-10 and till now, the government has infused over Rs 1.10 lakh crore into the ailing airline. This includes Rs 54,584 crore as cash support and Rs 55,692 crore as loan guarantee. The government on October 8 announced that salt-to-software conglomerate Tatas have won the bid to acquire debt-laden national carrier Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. This includes a cash payment of  Rs 2,700 crore and taking over Rs 15,300 crore debt.  The deal, which is expected to be completed by December-end, also includes sale of Air India Express and ground handling arm AISATS. As a precursor to Air India sale, the government in 2019 had set up a special purpose vehicle – AIAHL – for holding debt and non-core assets of the Air India group. Four Air India subsidiaries — Air India Air Transport Services Ltd (AIATSL), Airline Allied Services Ltd (AASL), Air India Engineering Services Ltd (AIESL) and Hotel Corporation of India Ltd (HCI) — along with non-core assets, painting and artefacts, and other non-operational assets, was transferred to the SPV. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-16000-crore-of-air-indias-unpaid-bills-to-go-to-governments-aiahl-1039637.html
11-10-2021||National||RTI Act completes 16 years as watchdogs paint dismal picture||The Right to Information (RTI) Act completes 16 years of its existence on Tuesday but analysis by transparency watchdogs paint a dismal picture of the transparency regime in the country with the Information Commissions not at all functional in at least three states, 21 per cent vacancies in state and central commissions, and rise in pending appeals and complaints. Activists feel the role of Information Commissions is far greater given the unprecedented crisis gripping the country due to Covid-19, as the official watchdogs need to monitor the information flow at a time authorities are allegedly using the pandemic as a pretext to deny or delay furnishing information that are critical. The 'Report Card on the Performance of Information Commissions in India 2021' by the Satark Nagrik Sangathan (SNS) showed that three states are "completely defunct" at present with not a single Information Commissioner. Jharkhand has been defunct for the last 18 months while Meghalaya is is non-functional for seven months and Tripura for last three months. "Sixteen years after the RTI Act was implemented, experience in India...suggests that the functioning of information commissions is a major bottleneck in the effective implementation of the RTI law. Large backlog of appeals and complaints in many commissions across the country have resulted in inordinate delays in disposal of cases, which render the law ineffective," it said noting that one of the primary reasons for the backlogs is the failure by the Centre and states to appoint information commissioners without delay. The study said three states -- Manipur, Nagaland and Telangana -- have no Chief Information Commissioners appointed while some of them have given additional charge of the chief to an existing Information Commissioner, for which there is actually no provision in law. Amid vacancies, the SNS report has counted 2,55,602 appeals and complaints as pending as on June 30 this year in the 26 information commissions, from which data was obtained. Maharashtra has the highest pendency at 74,240 followed by Uttar Pradesh (48,514) and Central Information Commission (36,788). Its calculation on estimated time required for disposal of an appeal or complaint for Odisha was six years and eight months, Goa five years and 11 months and Kerala four years and 10 months. "Performance of information commissions, in terms of exercising their powers to ensure proper implementation of the law, has been a cause of great concern to the RTI community. Commissions have been found to be extremely reluctant to impose penalties on erring officials for violations of the law. Unfortunately, the transparency watchdogs themselves have not had a shining track record in terms of being transparent and accountable to the people of the country," Anjali Bharadwaj of SNS said. Commissions did not impose penalties in more than 95 per cent of the cases where penalties were imposable. Between August last year to June this year, 11,742 show-cause notices were issued to PIOs under the penalty clause of the RTI Act for delay or wrongful denial of information. The 'State Transparency Report (2021): RTI in India Since 2005' by Transparency International showed that 36 out of 165 posts of Chief Information Commissioner and Information Commissioners are vacant in states and at the centre. In the past 16 years, it said more than 3.70 crore RTIs and around 25 lakh second appeal or complaints were filed. After the Centre with 1.06 crore RTIs, Maharashtra tops the list for receiving RTIs at 69. 37 lakh since 2005 followed by Tamil Nadu 33.64 lakh, Karnataka 30.50 lakh and Kerala 21.92 lakh. "Even after 15-16 years, Information commissions are perceived as a burden on the government across all political regimes. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought into focus several drawbacks within the RTI legislations which have undermined one of the most important good governance initiatives in India as they have not adopted technology in their working," the report said. "From average delay of two years at information commissions, huge pendency of appeals, one fourth post of Information Commissioners post vacant, appointment of retired bureaucrats as commissioner, casual attitude by public information officer while rejecting RTI Application, RTI E-filing still rare facility in states," TII Executive Director Rama Nath Jha said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rti-act-completes-16-years-as-watchdogs-paint-dismal-picture-1039647.html
11-10-2021||National||CBI raids Mumbai IT company for defrauding SBI of Rs 862 cr||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) carried out raids in multiple locations including Mumbai and Kolhapur against a company and its officials for allegedly defrauding the State Bank of India (SBI) and seven other consortium banks to the tune of over Rs. 862 crore. Those who have been booked by the CBI in their FIR are M/s Trimax IT Infrastructure & Services Ltd (TIISL), Surya Prakash Madrecha, Managing Director, TIISL, Chandra Prakash Madrecha, Director, TIISL and unknown public servants and unknown others. The irregularities were reported between 2009 to 2017. According to a CBI press statement, it was further alleged that during the period 2009 to 2017, the accused were sanctioned credit facilities under consortium banking which were enhanced from time to time.  It was also alleged that the directors of the company in conspiracy with others manipulated the books of accounts, diverted the funds released by banks and thereby cheated seven consortium member banks including State Bank of India to the tune of Rs 862.06 crore. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-raids-mumbai-it-company-for-defrauding-sbi-of-rs-862-cr-1039664.html
11-10-2021||National||IEA invites India to become full-time member, says Hardeep Singh Puri||International Energy Agency (IEA) has invited India, the world's third-largest energy consumer, to become its full-time member - a proposal if accepted will require New Delhi to raise strategic oil reserves to 90 days requirement. Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday said he held online discussions with IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol. "As a natural corollary to the India IEA strategic partnership, Dr Birol invited India to deepen its cooperation with IEA by becoming a full Member," Puri tweeted without saying if the full-time member was acceptable to the government or not. India in March 2017 became an associate member of the Paris-based body which advises industrialised nations on energy policies. In January this year, IEA members and India agreed to enter into a strategic partnership, strengthening their collaboration across a range of vital areas including energy security and clean energy transition. On its website, IEA states that "India is becoming increasingly influential in global energy trends." Its in-depth report on India's energy policies, which was released in January 2020, states that the country's demand for energy is set to grow rapidly in the coming decades, with electricity use set to increase particularly fast. The country's reliance on fuel imports makes further improving energy security a key priority for the Indian economy, IEA had said in the report. IEA is made up of 30 member countries and eight associate nations. Four countries are seeking accession to full membership - Chile, Colombia, Israel and Lithuania. According to IEA, a member country must maintain "crude oil and/or product reserves equivalent to 90 days of the previous year's net imports, to which the government has immediate access (even if it does not own them directly) and could be used to address disruptions to global oil supply." India's current strategic oil reserves equal 9.5 days of its requirement. Also, a member of IEA has to show "a demand restraint programme to reduce national oil consumption by up to 10%." India has the fastest-growing energy market in the world. "Had a productive online conversation with Dr @ieabirol, Executive Director @IEA. Dr. Birol lauded India's major achievements under Hon’ble @narendramodi Ji to improve energy access for its citizens like PM Ujjwala Yojana & UJALA schemes," Puri tweeted referring to the government scheme to provide free cooking gas connections to poor households. The IEA was founded in 1974 by industrialised countries - within the framework of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) - in response to the oil embargo. "As a result, countries seeking to become members of the IEA must also be members of the OECD and hold 90 days of oil imports as commercial stocks," IEA said on its website. "But over the years, the IEA's mission has expanded substantially and today the agency is working with major economies around the world to enhance energy security and to help accelerate their clean energy transitions." Starting in 2015, the IEA has been opening its doors to major emerging economies that are at the centre of the global conversation on energy. Since then, eight countries have joined the IEA's Association programme: Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Morocco, Singapore, South Africa and Thailand. Along with the 30 members and the countries formally seeking accession, this expanded IEA now represents 75% of global energy demand, the website said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iea-invites-india-to-become-full-time-member-says-hardeep-singh-puri-1039686.html
11-10-2021||National||Petition urges Goa govt to take charge of mining leases; Bombay HC issues notice||The Bombay High Court in Goa on Monday issued notice to the state government, following a petition filed by a green NGO, which has questioned the delay on part of the state government to take back mining leases and stacked iron ore in lease areas, despite a Supreme Court order directing the state government to take back mining leases and take charge of the already excavated ore.  The petition filed by Goa Foundation, a local green NGO, had said that the state government had disregarded the directions in a Supreme Court order in 2018, which has scrapped all 88 mining leases in the state, citing irregularities in the renewal of mining leases.  “The state of Goa has consciously ignored this direction and – in flagrant violation of the above directions – has gone out of its way to illegally encourage former lease-holders – even after 31.1.2021 – to simply continue paying royalties and transporting the minerals from lease areas. The Goa government has, in fact, taken a Cabinet decision permitting such transport of ore,” the petition filed by Goa Foundation states.  The petition also said that despite the Supreme Court order, the Goa government had allowed mining companies to allow transportation of iron ore.   “Instead, the Goa cabinet, at its meeting held to discuss various mining-related issues, accepted the unprecedented proposal of the Director of Mines to allow transportation of ore mined prior to 2007 and took a decision to permit sale and transport of minerals from mining leases despite the apex court’s direction,” the petition has said. “As a result of the cabinet decision, large-scale movement and pilferage of ore were resumed from various lease areas, scandalising the public. Some, in fact, commenced even prior to the cabinet decision,” the Goa Foundation petition said.  Earlier this year, the Supreme Court had dismissed petitions filed by the state government and a private mining company seeking review of a February 2018 order of the apex court, which had scrapped all operational mining leases in the state.  All mining exploration and extraction activity in Goa has stopped following the 2018 SC order, but the government had allowed transportation of the already extracted iron ore, which the petition now has challenged.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petition-urges-goa-govt-to-take-charge-of-mining-leases-bombay-hc-issues-notice-1039692.html
11-10-2021||National||India pitches for 'honest introspection' by NAM to stay relevant||India on Monday urged the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) to carry out an honest introspection about its functioning with an aim to ensure the grouping's continuing relevance and influence on contemporary global issues. In an address at a meeting in Belgrade to mark the 60th anniversary of the NAM, Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi also talked about the Afghanistan crisis and emphasised that the Afghan soil "cannot be and should not be" used to mount terror attacks against any country while referring to a UN Security Council resolution. Talking about the NAM's journey, she said its core principles provided the moral impetus for the decolonisation process, leading to the independence of many of the countries represented at the grouping. "It brought to the fore an international culture of justice and peace, and an emphasis on promoting mutual interest, solidarity and respect for national sovereignty," Lekhi said. "However, while we reflect on past achievements, this is equally a time for honest introspection about our Movement -- what must we do to ensure the continuing relevance and influence of NAM on global outcomes," she said. In the recent past, Lekhi said the NAM has been effective in some areas where it spoke in one voice but the grouping has increasingly become ineffective in certain other areas, particularly in tackling new and emerging challenges. "This is primarily due to the tendencies of some NAM members to deliberately take up divisive issues, or to use the NAM platform for bilateral score-settling, thereby creating division among us," she said. "Such pursuance of partisan agenda rather than working towards strengthening our collective effort has resulted in an increasing number of members having to disassociate themselves from NAM positions," she added.  The NAM is a grouping of around 120 developing countries. "Whether it is achieving 2030 developmental targets, countering the scourge of terror, combating climate change or defeating the pandemic -- these are all issues which surpass our individual capacities," Lekhi said. She said the way in which the Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc across the globe has exposed the inadequacies of the multilateral system in effectively responding to perhaps the biggest challenge of contemporary times. "NAM, with its diversity, shared developmental experience, and youthful and dynamic population, has the potential to take the lead and be a force for global good," she said. She said the NAM's willingness to make compromises for the sake of its collective interests, and for the sake of effectively addressing new global challenges like the pandemic, terrorism and climate change will determine whether the grouping remained relevant in a fast challenging world. "Following recent developments in Afghanistan, it is absolutely imperative that the approach of the international community is guided by UN Security Council Resolution 2593, that was adopted under India's August Presidency of the UNSC," Lekhi said. She said the resolution has clearly reaffirmed that Afghanistan soil cannot be and should not be used to mount terror attacks against any country. The UNSC resolution, adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body, talked about the need for upholding human rights in Afghanistan, demanded that Afghan territory should not be used for terrorism and that a negotiated political settlement should be found out to the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pitches-for-honest-introspection-by-nam-to-stay-relevant-1039693.html
11-10-2021||National||PM Modi to launch Gati Shakti master plan on Oct 13||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unveil on October 13 PM GatiShakti - National Master Plan for multi-modal connectivity to economic zones, a digital platform which will bring 16 ministries including rail and roadways together for integrated planning and coordinated implementation of infrastructure connectivity projects, a top government official said on Monday. The official said the 16 ministries/departments have put all these projects in GIS mode, which are to be completed by 2024-25, at the platform.   The platform will provide high resolution satellite images, infrastructure, utilities, administrative boundaries, land and logistics. "Gati Shakti will be a National Infrastructure Master Plan for our country which will lay the foundation of holistic infrastructure. Right now, there is no coordination between our means of transport. Gati Shakti will break the silos and will remove all these obstacles," the official added. It would help in increasing productivity of industry, support local manufacturers, enhance competitiveness of industry and also help in developing new possibilities for the creation of future economic zones. It has been prepared depicting economic zones and the infrastructure linkages required to support them that can ensure the seamless movement of goods, besides integrating the planning and designing of projects with a common and holistic vision. "It will resolve issues of disjointed planning, lack of standardisation, issues of clearances and timely creation and optimal utilisation of capacities. It seeks to use latest technologies like a Geographic Information System base Enterprise Resource Planning with over 200 layers of evidence-based decision making, planning tools for route planning, dashboard based periodic monitoring and use for latest satellite imagery," the official added. The Bhaskaracharya National Institute for Space Applications and Geo-Informatics under the Ministry of Information Technology (MeITY) has developed this geo-spatial digital platform. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) will be the nodal ministry for monitoring and implementation of all the projects. A national planning group will meet regularly to take stock of the projects. There will be an empowered group of secretaries under the Chairmanship of Cabinet Secretary will be constituted for approving any changes in the master plan to meet any emerging requirements. All the states have also been urged to join the initiative as it would help in proper implementation of infrastructure projects across the country and going ahead, data of the platform could also be provided to the private sector. Explaining further, the official said that projects of ministries such as roads, railways, telecom, oil and gas are there on the platform and this can also help textiles and food processing ministries to plan their parks. Officials also said that seamless multi-modal connectivity will ensure the seamless movement of goods and people and enhance the ease of living as well as the ease of doing business. All the existing and proposed economic zones have been mapped along with the multimodal connectivity infrastructure in a single platform ranging in three time periods - status as on 2014-15, achievements made by 2020-21 and planned interventions up to 2024-25 for for movement of people, goods and services. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-gati-shakti-master-plan-on-oct-13-1039713.html
11-10-2021||National||If India starts a war, it will definitely lose, says Chinese mouthpiece||China should be prepared for a military struggle in the event of a deteriorating scenario with India, Chinese mouthpiece Global Times said. "New Delhi needs to be clear about one thing: It will not get the border the way it wants. If it starts a war, it will definitely lose. Any political maneuvering and pressure will be ignored by China," an editorial in Global Times said. "In handling the border dispute with India, it is of the utmost importance for China to do two things. First, we should stick to the principle that no matter how India makes trouble, China's territory belongs to China and we will never cede it. India is still sleepwalking on the border issue. We can wait for it to wake up," Global Times said. "The Chinese people know that both China and India are great powers with enough national strength to sustain a long-time border standoff with each other. Such mutual attrition is regrettable, but if India is willing to do so, China will keep it company until the end," Global Times said. The Galwan Valley conflict proves that China will not hold back from taking action to safeguard its territorial sovereignty for the sake of easing China-India relations, it said. "If New Delhi continues to misjudge the underlying dynamics between China and India and underestimates China's resolve and determination, it will only create new misinformation for itself and expose India to further losses," Global Times said. "India's attitude in the negotiations is opportunistic. New Delhi assumes that China needs India's help because of China's desire for stability in its western borders to achieve its overall national strategy," it said. "In particular, India sees the deterioration in China-US relations as an opportunity to gain key strategic bargaining chips. New Delhi anticipates Beijing softening its stance over the border issue and yielding to its demands to prevent New Delhi from aligning itself with Washington against Beijing," the editorial said. "However, the border issue between China and India remains stuck. The root cause is that the Indian side still hasn't developed a correct attitude in the negotiations. It always makes unrealistic demands, not in line with the real situation or its strength," it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-india-starts-a-war-it-will-definitely-lose-says-chinese-mouthpiece-1039722.html
11-10-2021||National||As talks hit impasse, China’s aggression makes Modi government be upfront about security challenge to India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government went public about the stalemate in India-China negotiations as growing belligerence of the communist country’s People’s Liberation Army raised concerns about the possibility of a stand-off in the western sector of the disputed boundary between the two nations, extending to the middle and eastern sectors too. The statement issued by the Ministry of Defence in New Delhi on Monday candidly indicated that the negotiations between the commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA hit an impasse. The stalemate came at a time when China’s aggressive military posturing against Taiwan fuelled speculation about a flashpoint in the Indo-Pacific region, where India joined Japan, Australia and the United States to contain the geo-political influence of the communist country, albeit with the seemingly benign programme of cooperation of the Quad. The Modi Government last year drew flak from the opposition parties for not acknowledging that the Chinese PLA soldiers had encroached into the territory claimed by India, not only in Galwan Valley, where a violent clash took place on June 15, 2020, but also on the northern bank of Pangong Tso and other places all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sectors. The opposition parties as well as several strategic affairs analysts also questioned the deal India struck with China earlier this year for disengagement of troops on the banks of Pangong Tso, giving up the leverage the Indian Army had gained by occupying dominating heights in the Kailash Range on the south bank of the lake in a swift overnight operation on August 29-30, 2020. The government and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party dismissed the criticism though. But as China of late stepped up its military preparedness all along its disputed boundary with India, the Modi Government apparently decided to go upfront about it. The chief of Indian Army, Gen M M Naravane, himself, of late repeatedly articulated New Delhi’s concerns over the Chinese PLA’s continued build-up all along the de facto boundary between the two nations, not only in the western sector, but also in the middle and the eastern sectors. He also said recently that the situation along the LAC between India and China might become somewhat like that along the Line of Control (LoC) between India and Pakistan if the PLA continued with its massive build-up and the Indian Army too had to keep its counter-deployment. And, after the talks between the Indian and Chinese commanders failed on Sunday, New Delhi went public and made it clear that although the two sides had mutually withdrawn troops from both banks of Pangong Tso and Gogra Post in February and August this year, the negotiations for disengagement in other face-off points along the LAC were not proceeding well. The war of words between India and China over the military stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh escalated on September 24 last – just hours before Modi joined the United States President Joe Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and the then Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga in Washington D.C. for the first in-person summit of the Quad. It continued even after the summit with Beijing on September 27 accusing the Indian Army of pursuing a forward policy to encroach the territory of China. New Delhi dismissed the allegation on September 28 and alleged that it was because the Chinese PLA continued to deploy large number of troops and armaments along the LAC that the Indian Army had responded with appropriate counter deployments. New Delhi repeatedly insisted before and after the summit that the Quad — unlike the AUKUS (the newly launched grouping of Australia, United Kingdom and the United States) — was not a security alliance against China. But Beijing’s recent rhetoric against New Delhi, the Chinese PLA’s incursion bids at Barahoti in Uttarakhand as well as near Yangtse in Arunachal Pradesh and its hard-line stand in negotiation with the Indian Army on Sunday made it clear that President Xi Jinping’s “Middle Kingdom” was not convinced and chose to step up pressure on India. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-talks-hit-impasse-china-s-aggression-makes-modi-government-be-upfront-about-security-challenge-to-india-1039734.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||Illiteracy a big burden on India as people may lack knowledge of their rights and duties: Amit Shah||Illiteracy may impact India's progress as lack of education can become a roadblock in understanding fundamental rights and duties, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said in an interview to Sansad TV. Outlining the success of efforts in strengthening Gujarat's education system using innovative programs which led to almost 100 per cent enrolment and less than 1 per cent drop-out rate, Shah said that it is matter of research to find out how much this literacy campaign helped Gujarat to become the most developed state in India. "An illiterate person can become a big burden on the country as they are not aware of their constitutional rights and we cannot expect them to undertand their fundamental duties. How can a person without constitutional knowledge become a good citizen?" Shah remarked.  He also lauded the prime minister for taking steps that helped reduce Gujarat's school dropout rate from "37 per cent to less than 1 per cent" and hailed him as a “democratic leader”. "Even his critics would agree that the Union Cabinet has never functioned in such a democratic manner as it has during the current regime," the Union home minister said. "I have closely seen both Modi and his style of working. I have never seen a patient listener like him. Whatever may be the issue, he listens to everyone and speaks least, and then takes a proper decision,” Shah said rejecting allegations that PM Modi is an autocratic leader. "Therefore, he does not hesitate taking harsh and risky decisions which may be against the party’s supporters but are in the interest of the nation and the people,” he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/illiteracy-a-big-burden-on-india-as-people-may-lack-knowledge-of-their-rights-and-duties-amit-shah-1039499.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||India eyes role in global supply chains in space sector||India has to move beyond being a supplier of space components and emerge as a provider of end-to-end space systems in the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. Modi was speaking at the launch of the Indian Space Association, an industry association of private players in the space sector that represents companies such as L&T, NELCO, OneWeb, MapmyIndia, Walchandnagar Industries among others. The Prime Minister said that it was possible for India to be a part of the end-to-end supply chain of space systems with the partnership of all stakeholders. “The government has been supporting the industry, young innovators and start-ups at every stage and will continue to do so,” he said. Modi added that India was among the few countries that have the end-to-end capability in the space sector ranging from building satellites, launch vehicles, applications and interplanetary missions. “Government's approach to space reforms is based on four pillars – freedom of innovation to the private sector, the role of the government as an enabler, preparing youth for the future, and to see the space sector as a resource for the progress of the common man,” the prime minister said. Modi noted that his government had opened up the space sector for private players and expressed readiness to remove any obstacle in the growth of the sector. “This new thinking is required as this is no longer the time for linear innovation for India. This is the time for exponential innovation,” he said, adding that the government will play the role of an enabler for growth in the sector. He said the launch of the Indian Space Association was timely as the suggestions and inputs shared by the industry would help in the formulation of the space communication and remote sensing policies which are being finalised. Citing the example of the United Payments Interface (UPI), the prime minister spoke of creating a platform-based approach wherein the government creates an open-access public controlled platform that is made available to the industry. He said that ISRO had already opened up its facilities for the private sector and new entities such as InSpace, New Space India Limited have been supporting start-ups and the private sector. “Rules related to the geospatial mapping sector have been made simpler to enable start-ups and private enterprises to explore opportunities,” Modi said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-eyes-role-in-global-supply-chains-in-space-sector-1039534.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||Speculation of change in Chhattisgarh CM has ended: Bhupesh Baghel||After being appointed as a senior observer in Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel had a marathon meeting with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Following the meeting, he said the issue of a rotational CM in his home state has ended, and the party under Priyanka's leadership in Uttar Pradesh is going to effect a change. Speaking to IANS in Lucknow, Baghel said: "State in-charge P L Punia has spoken about the issue of the rotational Chief Minister in my state. He clearly said that there is no such formula and with that the matter has ended. "There is no change happening as the state. State in-charge has himself said that there was no such formula. The Congress is united in the state, there are no differences and the issue is settled now." Ahead of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), when asked about the leadership issue in the party, Baghel said that speculating CWC outcome is not right. But he added that he wanted Rahul Gandhi to become the President of the party as he has been fighting the BJP vehemently. Talking about the Uttar Pradesh elections, he said: "Its too early to guess about the election outcome now as the Congress is trying to take its view point to the people Priyanka Gandhi is working hard to strengthen the party and its organisation by taking up issues which are connected directly to the people of the state." He said: "The people are not going to vote on the basis of BJP's emotive issues, but the people's issue are going to dominate the elections in the state. And these are unemployment, inflation and farmers' distress." While rejecting claims that the Congress has a weak organisation in the state, he said: "From the village level the work to strengthen the organisation is going on with Priyanka Gandhi taking utmost interest in the party organisational issues." He said the Congress is going to change the narrative in the state and will raise peoples' issues as in the Lakhimpur Kheri and Hathras cases and our struggle for justice will continue in the state. He said the crowd during Priyanka's Sunday rally makes it clear that the people want a change in the state as they are fed up with the style of functioning of the chief minister here. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speculation-of-change-in-chhattisgarh-cm-has-ended-bhupesh-baghel-1039582.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||UP Congress leaders observe 'maun vrat' to protest against Lakhimpur violence||Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, along with party leaders and workers, sat on a 'maun vrat' on Monday demanding the dismissal of Union minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The minister's son Ashish was arrested on Saturday by the UP Police in connection with the October 3 violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. He was produced before a court late on Saturday night, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody. Congress spokesperson said the party is demanding the dismissal of the minister of state for a home for ensuring free and fair investigation in the case. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, who is in the state capital, is also expected to join the dharna at the GPO park here, a party spokesperson said. Meanwhile, UP Minister Siddharth Nath Singh said that the law will take its own course and will not get influenced by any kind of pressure. Singh said if the Congress leaders want to sit on a 'maun vrat' or hold protests, it is their democratic right. In an apparent jibe at former prime minister Manmohan Singh, the UP government spokesperson said he had been on 'maun vrat' for 10 years. Siddharth Nath Singh asked why no protests were being held in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, where atrocities were allegedly being committed against Dalits and farmers. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-congress-leaders-observe-maun-vrat-to-protest-against-lakhimpur-violence-1039597.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||Regional parties garner Rs 447.49 crore via electoral bonds in 2019-20: ADR report||Fourteen regional parties garnered Rs 447.49 crore through electoral bonds in 2019-20 and it accounted for more than half of their income during the fiscal, according to an analysis by private election watchdog Association for Democratic Rights (ADR). Altogether 42 regional parties garnered an income of Rs 877.95 crore while only 14 parties, including TRS, TDP, YSR Congress, JD(U) and RJD, got donations through electoral bonds. Ruling TRS in Telangana tops the list of regional parties that received donations through electoral bonds at Rs 89.15 crore followed by TDP at Rs 81.60 crore. The ruling YSR Congress in Andhra Pradesh came third with Rs 74.35 crore. Naveen Patnaik's BJD got Rs 50.50 crore through electoral bonds while ruling DMK in Tamil Nadu got Rs 45.50 crore, Shiv Sena Rs 40.98 crore and AAP Rs 17.77 crore. JD(U) received Rs 13 crore and its rival RJD Rs 2.5 crore. Samajwadi Party received Rs 10.84 crore and AIADMK got Rs 6.05 crore through electoral bonds during 2019-20. While donations through electoral bonds accounted for 50.97 per cent, the income generated through Interest Income and fixed deposits was Rs 113.761 crore or 12.96 per cent. Donations and Contributions amounted to Rs 228.82 crore or 26.06 per cent of the total income. H D Deve Gowda-led JD(S) managed to amass Rs 7.50 crore through electoral bonds while Akali Dal (Rs 6.5 crore) and JMM (Rs one crore) also got money via the same route. An earlier report by ADR had shown that 62.92 per cent (Rs 2,993.82 crore) of the total income of four national parties — BJP, Congress, Trinamool Congress and NCP — came from donations through electoral bonds. While ruling BJP's income rose by 50.34 per cent to Rs 3,623.28 crore in 2019-20 with the bulk coming from redemption of electoral bonds, three national parties CPI(M), CPI and BSP did not receive any donation through electoral bonds.  When it comes to total income, TRS topped the list collecting Rs 130.46 crore followed by Shiv Sena (Rs 111.40 crore), YSR Congress (Rs 92.739 crore), (TDP Rs 91.53 crore) and BJD (Rs 90.35 crore). The income of the top five parties accounted for 58.83 per cent of the total income of the political 42 parties analysed. Details of 11 regional parties are not available in the public domain. According to the report, there are 24 regional parties who declared a part of their income as remaining unspent for 2019-20 while 18 parties spent more than the income collected during that year. TRS has more than 83.76 per cent of its total income remaining unspent while AIADMK and JJP have 67.82 per cent and 64 per cent, respectively, of their income remaining unspent. TDP, BJD, DMK, SP, JDS, AJSU, JVM-P, INLD, PMK, MGP, GFP, SDF, MNF, AIFB, NPF, JKPDP, IPFT and MPC are the 18 regional parties that declared to have spent more than their income. BJD has declared spending the highest amount of Rs 95.78 crore or 106.01 per cent more than its income. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/regional-parties-garner-rs-44749-crore-via-electoral-bonds-in-2019-20-adr-report-1039598.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||Mehbooba Mufti says Aryan Khan being 'targeted' because he is Muslim||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday alleged that Bollywood star Shahrukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was being targeted by the central agencies just due to his surname, claiming that Muslims are targeted to please the core vote bank of the BJP. Instead of making an example out of a Union Minister’s son accused of killing four farmers, central agencies are after a 23 year old simply because his surname happens to be Khan.Travesty of justice that muslims are targeted to satiate the sadistic wishes of BJPs core vote bank. "Instead of making an example out of a Union Minister's son accused of killing four farmers, central agencies are after a 23-year-old simply because his surname happens to be Khan. Travesty of justice that Muslims are targeted to satiate the sadistic wishes of BJP’s core vote bank," Mehbooba tweeted. She was referring to Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra, who is accused of mowing down farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh last week. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mehbooba-mufti-says-aryan-khan-being-targeted-because-he-is-muslim-1039602.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||Uttarakhand Transport Minister Yashpal Arya, son Sanjeev join Congress||BJP on Monday suffered a jolt in poll-bound Uttarakhand as its state Health Minister Yashpal Arya and his MLA son Sanjeev quit the saffron party and joined Congress. This is a homecoming for Arya as he was president of Uttarakhand Congress for seven years between 2007 and 2014. Arya had quit Congress in 2017 ahead of the Uttarakhand Assembly elections. Arya's entry along with his son came after a meeting he had with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi at his residence. Arya's joining, the Congress believes, will help the party in attracting Dalit votes. Arya and his son joined the Congress in the presence of Congress General Secretaries Harish Rawat, KC Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala at the party headquarters in the national capital. "It is an important day for me as I have returned to my family. It is my 'ghar wapsi'. There can't be a happier day for me. I feel relieved after my return...If the Congress emerges stronger, then democracy will be strengthened further," Arya told reporters. Arya, who earlier won from Mukteshwar and was Speaker and a Minister in the previous Harish Rawat Ministry, represents the Bajpur (SC) assembly constituency. A six-time MLA with over 40 years of political experience, he has been Youth Congress president, twice Uttarakhand Congress president and Speaker of the first Uttarakhand Assembly. Two of the six terms of MLAs were in Uttar Pradesh when Uttarakhand was part of it. Sanjeev Arya, who is involved in the cooperatives sector in the state, represents the Nainital Assembly constituency. Another BJP leader Harinder Singh Laddi, who had earlier been the vice chief of Uttarakhand's Irrigation Advisory Committee, also joined the Congress. Rawat said that Arya is joining back at a time when the party is fighting several challenges and that he had felt pain when Arya had to leave the Congress for some reason. "This is one of the happiest moments for the Congress party as Yashpal Arya and Sanjeev Arya have decided to join the Congress, giving a clear-cut indication of coming elections in Uttarakhand...The wind is in favour of the Congress in Uttarakhand," Venugopal said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttarakhand-transport-minister-yashpal-arya-son-sanjeev-join-congress-1039606.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||Rajasthan bypolls: Gehlot, Pilot among star campaigners for Congress||The Congress has included Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot among its star campaigners for the bypolls to the Vallabhgarh and Dhariyawad Assembly seats. The list released by party general secretary K C Venugopal also has names of Ajay Maken, the incharge of the Rajasthan affairs at the AICC; and state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra. The ruling Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had last Thursday announced names of their candidates for the bypolls, which will be held on October 30. The Congress has fielded Preeti Shaktawat from Vallabhnagar and Nagraj Meena from Dhariyawad. In Vallabhnagar, the BJP has given ticket to Himmat Singh Jhala. For Dhariyawad, the BJP has fielded Khet Singh. The bypolls have been necessitated due to the demise of Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar Gajendra Shaktawat and BJP MLA from Dhariyawad Gautam Lal Meena. In the Assembly of 200, the ruling Congress at present has 106 MLAs, BJP 71, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) 3, CPI(M) and Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) 2 each and the Rashtriya Lok Dal 1. Thirteen are Independent legislators.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-bypolls-gehlot-pilot-among-star-campaigners-for-congress-1039610.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||Adityanath accuses Congress-led states of 'blackmailing' during Covid crisis||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday alleged that various opposition-ruled states resorted to "blackmailing" during the Covid crisis, claiming a shortage of medical oxygen. Speaking during a function at the IIT-Kanpur, he claimed that the demand for the life-saving gas "reduced to half" as soon as the Centre ordered an oxygen audit. "You must have seen that various states were shouting for oxygen. As soon as the Centre declared an audit of oxygen, their demand fell to half. They had resorted to political blackmailing during the crisis," Adityanath alleged. Adityanath's remarks came a day after Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia likened the coal situation in the country to the shortage of oxygen during the coronavirus crisis. He alleged that the Centre is not ready to accept that there is a coal crisis. The UP CM during the programme also listed a number of achievements of his government. Adityanath said the 13 Covid-19 patients detected on Monday were those who have been to Maharashtra, Kerala or West Bengal.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/adityanath-accuses-congress-led-states-of-blackmailing-during-covid-crisis-1039661.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||BJP govt purchasing goods, services from 'fugitives' who ran away from India with public money: Congress||The Congress on Monday alleged that the BJP government was purchasing goods and services from "fugitives" who have fled the country with public money. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh, at a press conference, alleged that the BJP government was first aiding fugitives escape from the country and then was buying goods from their companies. He cited the example of Sandesara brothers of Sterling Biotech. There were no comments from the government over the charges. Vallabh alleged that those declared 'fugitive economic offenders', after they duped banks, ran away with public money and were relaxing in foreign locations, are now selling goods and services from these locations to the government. He alleged that crude oil worth Rs 5,701.83 crore was purchased by oil PSUs from Sandesara group company even after a special court in September 2020 declared Nitin Sandesara, Chetan Sandesara, his wife Dipti and one Hiteshkumar Narendrabhai Patel as 'fugitive economic offenders' on the Enforcement Directorate's request. He said the promoters of Baroda-based Sterling Biotech fled India just before the CBI and the ED registered cases against them in 2017 for allegedly siphoning off loans of government banks worth Rs 15,000 crore. The Congress leader alleged that from January 1, 2018 to May 31, 2020, shipments worth Rs 5,701.83 crore of OKWUIBOME Crude Oil were received from Sterling Oil Exploration and Energy Production Company Ltd (SEEPCO), Nigeria by our oil PSUs. SEEPCO has been producing OKWUIBOME Crude Oil And PSUs like Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) have been actively purchasing oil from (SEEPCO) Nigeria, he said. Vallabh also alleged the recent Pandora papers have revealed that Sandesara brothers formed six offshore firms to increase oil trade to India. All of these companies were formed between November 2017 and April 2018, and none of them have been investigated by central agencies like the ED and the CBI. "These points clearly indicate that the central government, PSBs and central agencies like the CBI and the ED have not only been going soft on the Sandesara brothers but also helping them escape law and contributing to their wealth and fortunes by repeatedly indulging in business with them," he alleged. "The Congress party asks from the Modi government why there have been no attempts to extradite the Sandesara brothers? Do banks and central agencies treat other loan defaulters and economic offenders in the same manner," Vallabh asked. He also questioned whether the Modi government even considers the Sandesara brothers as fugitive economic offenders, and why oil PSUs were repeatedly engaging in business with the economic offenders. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-govt-purchasing-goods-services-from-fugitives-who-ran-away-from-india-with-public-money-congress-1039684.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||Not being included in BJP national executive panel doesn't reduce my stature: Maneka Gandhi||Days after failing to find a place in the BJP national executive committee, MP Maneka Gandhi on Monday said she is satisfied to be in the party for 20 years and that her non-inclusion in the panel does not reduce her stature. "I am satisfied to be in the BJP for 20 years. Not being in the executive does not reduce one's stature. My first religion is to serve. It is more important that I get a place in the hearts of people,” Gandhi said when asked about not including her name along with that of her son and Pilibhit MP Varun Gandhi in the party executive committee. Maneka Gandhi is on a two-day visit to her parliamentary constituency here. “There are other senior leaders who also have not got a place in the executive committee. New people should also get an opportunity. I am aware of my duties and serving the people of my constituency is my first duty,” she stressed. The BJP had recently announced its 80-member national executive with the likes of Varun Gandhi and Birender Singh, who have taken a sympathetic stand with farmers protesting against the Centre's three agri laws, and Maneka Gandhi being among those replaced with a new crop of leaders. The development comes at a time when opposition parties are targeting the ruling BJP over the killing of eight people, including four farmers, in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Varun Gandhi had posted a purported video of the incident and said that the protesters cannot be silenced through murder. "The video is very clear. Protesters cannot be silenced through murder. There should be accountability for the blood of innocent farmers and justice should be given before the message of arrogance and cruelty enters the mind of every farmer,” the Pilibhit MP had tweeted. He had also written a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, demanding immediate identification of suspects of the incident and registration of murder case and investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) under the supervision of the Supreme Court. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-being-included-in-bjp-national-executive-panel-doesnt-reduce-my-stature-maneka-gandhi-1039689.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||Killings negate BJP's claim of 'integration' of Kashmir with India: CPI(M)||Faulting the Narendra Modi government for the flare-up in Jammu and Kashmir, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Monday said the latest round of killings "negate" the ruling BJP's claim that revocation of special status have integrated Kashmir with India and warned that the heightened violence is further alienating people. Yechury also targeted the government for the privatisation of Air India, saying it was "not a sale but a gift to the Tatas" and a "complete daylight highway robbery that is being committed by Modi government" in which common man is made to pay for the debts incurred by airline while the salt-to-software conglomerate would enjoy the assets acquired by the same money. He was speaking at a press conference after the conclusion of the two day meeting of the party's Politbureau, which started last Saturday. Referring to the recent killings of Kashmiri Pandits, Yechury described the situation in Kashmir as "alarming". "The killing of innocent civilians in a spate of terrorist attacks that are continuing completely negates the claim of this government that with the abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35A, the complete integration of Kashmir with India has happened and now there will be a total control over terrorist organisations. Instead, under the direct rule of the Centre, Kashmir has been brought to this pass of heightened violence further alienating the people of the region," he said. He said diabolically targeting religious minorities is aimed at sharpening communal polarisation, which is what the BJP seeks. "Clearly, the Prime Minister’s meeting with the leaders of Kashmir in June this year with promises of erasing 'Dil ki doori, Dilli se doori’ remains an empty rhetoric. Neither 'dil ki doori' or 'Dilli se doori' has not been erased. Arbitrary detentions and excessive use of force cannot be the norm. The confidence of the people of J&K must be earned to ensure peace and tranquility," he said. On Air India, he said the Centre is continuing with its "relentless loot" of India’s national assets. "Actually, it is not a sale but a gift of Air India to the Tatas. The Centre will get a cash transfer of meagre Rs 2,700 crore for the entire carrier with all its core assets. Of the debt of over Rs 60,000 crore, the Tatas will take care of Rs 15,300 crore while the government will retain more than Rs 46,000 crore. This Rs 46,000 crore that has to be paid back from people's money, from the central revenue, that is the burden on people," he said. "You are gifting the airline to the Tatas, and making the people pay the debt that was incurred by Air India. The debt that has been incurred by Air India was incurred in order to purchase new assets, including a brand new fleet of aircraft. All these aircraft and assets will go to the Tatas but the debt, because of which these assets were created, will have to be paid by the Indian people. This is the outright loot of the national assets that is going on," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/killings-negate-bjps-claim-of-integration-of-kashmir-with-india-cpim-1039695.html
11-10-2021||National Politics||100 reasons why NDA govt must go, price rise biggest one: P Chidambaram||The National Democratic Alliance at the Centre must go for 100 reasons, but for the sheer price rise alone the central government should be ousted, former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram said on Monday. Speaking at a Congress party meeting in North Goa's Mandrem assembly constituency, Chidambaram also said that even a child would be able to explain the linkage between increase in fuel prices and steep rise in the prices of essential goods and commodities. "If you pay Rs 1,000 for fuel alone, what can you buy, eat, cook. This government must go for 100 reasons, but on price rise alone this government should go," Chidambaram said. The former Union Finance Minister was in Goa to address a string of meetings in the state. Chidambaram has been appointed as the All India Congress Committee senior advisor in-charge of the 2022 state assembly polls. Chidambaram also said that the central government does not care about the rising prices of diesel and petrol because Prime Minister Narendra Modi has a "huge appetite for money". "Why are prices rising? Prices are rising because petrol prices are rising everyday, diesel prices are rising every day. Today is the seventh consecutive day that prices have increased. Why? because Mr Modi has huge appetite for money. The central government earns Rs 3.50 lakh crore from petrol, diesel taxes," Chidambaram said. "They are running on your sweat and blood and your miseries. The central government is running only because you are squeezed and you are paying taxes. Even a child will know if petrol and diesel prices increase, prices of everything will increase. Transportation cost increases, cost of producing coal increases. every cost will increase," Chidambaram also said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/100-reasons-why-nda-govt-must-go-price-rise-biggest-one-p-chidambaram-1039701.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||We are not in politics to loot or crush someone under a Fortuner: UP BJP chief to party workers||With the BJP facing flak over Lakhimpur Kheri violence, its UP chief Swatantra Dev Singh on Sunday urged party workers to win people’s confidence with their conduct, saying “we are not in politics to loot” or “crush someone under a Fortuner”. His remarks came after Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra was arrested on Saturday in connection with mowing down of four farmers by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Addressing a meeting of UP BJP's minority morcha, Singh said, "We have not come in politics to loot (people), nor have we come to crush someone under a Fortuner (SUV). "You will get votes by your behaviour. If 10 people of your locality are praising you, my heart swells (with pride). Your behaviour should be such that people do not turn away their faces after seeing you,” he asserted. The BJP leader’s comments came hours after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra accused the government of trying to “save” a Union minister's son in the case and said except BJP leaders and their "billionaire friends" nobody was safe in the country. Four farmers were mowed down by the SUV when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was demonstrating against the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Two BJP workers and a driver were allegedly beaten to death by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. The incident has triggered a political storm and put the BJP government on the back foot in the poll-bound state. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three farm laws, had alleged that the violence was held under a pre-planned conspiracy and demanded the arrest of the minister and his son. The farmer unions said if the government does not accept their demands by October 11, they will take out a 'Shaheed Kisan Yatra' from Lakhimpur Kheri with the ashes of slain farmers. A nine-member team headed by Deputy Inspector General of Police (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others in the violence case. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/we-are-not-in-politics-to-loot-or-crush-someone-under-a-fortuner-up-bjp-chief-to-party-workers-1039435.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||3 arrested in J&K for association with ISIS: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) Sunday arrested three people over their alleged association with the banned terror organisation Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), an official said. According to an NIA spokesperson, the agency conducted searches at eight locations in Srinagar and Anantnag in South Kashmir and arrested Tawheed Latief, Suhail Ahmad and Afshan Parvez, all residents of Srinagar. The agency said they had received information that banned ISIS has hatched a conspiracy to radicalise and recruit impressionable Muslim youths in India to wage violent jihad against the Indian State. Their plan was to execute their nefarious design which involves supplementing their on-ground terror financing activities with cyber space campaign, the official said. ISIS terrorists operating from various conflict zones, along with their cadres in India, have created a network by assuming pseudo-online identities wherein their propaganda material is disseminated for radicalising and recruiting members, the spokesperson said. Earlier this year, the agency had arrested four accused in this connection after registering a case. Investigation has further revealed that the arrested accused were associated with Pakistan and Afghanistan-based foreign ISIS operatives and certain other associates of the arrested accused based in Kashmir are involved in on-ground and online activities of ISIS, including in content creation and translation of India-centric propaganda magazine ‘Voice of Hind’. Searches in the case on Sunday led to the recovery and seizure of incriminating documents and digital devices such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops, hard disks etc, the spokesman said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-arrested-in-jk-for-association-with-isis-nia-1039436.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Bhupesh Baghel will continue to be CM of Chhattisgarh: State home minister Sahu||Amid speculation about a possible change of guard in the Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, state Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu on Sunday said Bhupesh Baghel will continue to be the chief minister. Notably, Sahu was also one of the contenders for the CM's post after Congress came to power in Chhattisgarh in December 2018. "We believe those who become chief minister, they continue to hold the post. According to circumstances, sometimes they are shifted in just two-four months while sometimes they last for 15-20 years. As of now Bhupesh Baghel is the chief minister and he will continue (on the post)," Sahu told reporters in Gaurella-Pendra-Marwahi (GPM) district when asked about the speculation regarding the change of guard. The speculation started doing rounds after Baghel completed two-and-a-half years as the chief minister in June 2021. Loyalists of Congress leader TS Singh Deo had claimed the party high-command had agreed in 2018 for a rotational chief ministership between Bhupesh Baghel and Singhdeo. Chhattisgarh Congress in-charge P L Punia had denied that any such deal was struck in 2018 when the party came to power by dislodging the BJP. The Congress leadership had summoned both Baghel and Singh Deo to Delhi in August to resolve the feud. It appeared that Baghel had won that round when he told reporters upon return that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had agreed to visit the state 'on his invitation', and those talking about rotating the CM's post were promoting political instability. Singh Deo had said the decision regarding the leadership change lies with the party high command. Several Congress MLAs, considered close to Baghel, visited Delhi multiple times in the past two months apparently to express solidarity with the CM.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhupesh-baghel-will-continue-to-be-cm-of-chhattisgarh-state-home-minister-sahu-1039437.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||A day may come when govt will be sold to a company and run through outsourcing: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav Sunday attacked the BJP dispensation for "selling everything", saying a day may come, "when the government will be sold to a company, and it will operate through outsourcing". He also sought to equate the BJP-led government with the East India Company. "The BJP government at the Centre is selling everything. You must be knowing that the English had come to trade in India. The East India Company used to do business in 2-3 things (initially), but their business increased gradually and the English passed a law under which the East India Company itself became a government," he told a rally in Saharanpur. "The BJP is selling one thing after another. A day may come, when the government will be sold to a company, and the government will operate through outsourcing. When everything will be sold, then the rights, which we have got in the Constitution, will also be snatched," he said. He termed the upcoming 2022 UP Assembly elections one related to the country's destiny. "This will decide the future of the youth and farmers," Yadav said. "If the country has to be saved, the BJP has to be defeated. We had forged an alliance with the BSP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls to stop the BJP. We did whatever pacts we could do, but the BJP got more seats in Uttar Pradesh. "If the BJP was defeated in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the three black farm laws would not have been enacted," Yadav said. Further sharpening his attack, the SP chief said, "Farmers are called 'mavaali' (people indulging in violence without any reason), and they may be called terrorists. The BJP may have insulted the farmers, but the farmers did not relent, and they have resolved that the protests will continue till the black farm laws are withdrawn." Referring to the COVID-19 pandemic, Yadav said, "When the public needed the government the most, it left them orphan. In Lakhimpur Kheri, the farmers were run over by a vehicle. When the SP protested, a case was registered. The people in government could do anything, so we need to be alert." Attacking Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, he said, "Those who change names will be changed by the public in the election."  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-day-may-come-when-govt-will-be-sold-to-a-company-and-run-through-outsourcing-akhilesh-yadav-1039439.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Suspected spy who shared information with Pakistan handlers arrested in Jammu||A man from Uttar Pradesh suspected to have shared information of vital installations including through videos with Pakistan-based operatives was arrested here on Sunday, officials said. He was nabbed by the Special Operations Group of the Jammu & Kashmir Police from the Gandhi Nagar area, they said. A case under relevant sections of the law was registered and further investigation is on, the officials said. According to preliminary investigation, the officials said, the arrested person had reportedly shared videos of vital installations, including places of worship, with his Pakistani handlers. In a separate case, the police arrested a criminal who had stolen a pistol from the Nagrota area of Jammu. Mohd Mushtaq, alias Gungi, had snatched the weapon from a person in the Miran Sahib area recently and had gone underground, a police official said. The stolen pistol was recovered as well, he said. "The arrested person is a notorious criminal and was facing charges in many cases at different police stations, ranging from theft, rape, smuggling of bovine animals and narcotics," the official said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-spy-who-shared-information-with-pakistan-handlers-arrested-in-jammu-1039440.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Over 60% believe Ajay Mishra's statement responsible for Lakhimpur incident: Survey||Over 60 per cent people believe that the 'statement' of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra became the reason for the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, according to the ABP-CVOTER-IANS State of States 2021 tracker. The tracker found that about 60.6 per cent of participants think Mishra's statement is the reason behind the incident. About 39.4 per cent think that the minister's statement is not the reason behind the incidents. The survey revealed that about 57.6 per cent people believe that the opposition party is making it a political issue in view of the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh despite the agreement between the farmers and the government after the Lakhimpur incident. About 42.4 per cent participants think that the opposition is not politicising the incident. More than two third participants believe that incidents like Lakhimpur have tarnished the image of Uttar Pradesh. While 69.6 per cent respondents believe that the image of the Uttar Pradesh government is getting tarnished due to incidents like Lakhimpur 30.4 per cent think the image of Uttar Pradesh government was not tarnished, the survey found. The survey further revealed that 59.6 per cent respondents feel that the Lakhimpur incident will prove to be harmful for the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh while 40.4 per cent feels it will have no impact on BJP in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. "About 63.2 per cent participants think the image of the Uttar Pradesh government has tarnished because of the law and order situation in the state in the past few days. About 36.8 per cent feel that it has no impact on the image of the state government," the survey reveals. About 58.5 per cent believe that farmers are right on the issue of their movement and only 41.5 per cent think the government's stand is right on farmer's movement. The survey was conducted from October 5 to 8 in all the 403 constituencies of Uttar Pradesh with a sample size of 2,805 participants. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-60-believe-ajay-mishras-statement-responsible-for-lakhimpur-incident-survey-1039468.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||TRF militant who killed civilian gunned down in Bandipora: J&K police||A militant,who police said was involved in the recent killing of a civilian was killed in an encounter with the security forces in Gundjehangir village of Hajin area in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district on Monday. While J&K police said the militant identified as Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar was affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF)/ Lashker-e-Taiba (LeT), and was involved in recent civilian killing at Shahgund, Bandipora, the family of the slain denied the charges. A local journalist from the area, Sajad Gul, uploaded several videos on his Twitter handle where the family denied the charges of the police that Dar was a militant. “Imtiyaz was dragged from home by the army and was killed in a staged encounter: Family,” reads the caption of a video posted by Gul. Later in the evening, Gul in another tweet alleged that he was being threatened by the police after he posted these videos. “After my several videos on the #Encounter in Gundjehangir I am receiving calls from police, threatening me to report at the police station,” he claimed. However, in the evening J&K police denied the allegations. “A video clip is being circulated on social media in which false allegations are being made about the facts of todays operation at Gundjahangeer Hajin. The clips are being engineered to rouse passions and to disturb law and order (sic),” Bandipora police tweeted. Pertinently, four alleged militant associates were arrested by the police in Bandipora on Sunday. The police claimed they were involved in the killing of Mohammad Shafi Lone, a cab driver, who was killed on October 5 evening. A president of a taxi stand in Bandipora, Lone was one of three civilians killed in three separate incidents in the Valley on October 5. In another encounter, which broke out at Khagund village in Verinag area of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, a militant was killed while a policeman got injured. The identity of the slain militant was not ascertained immediately. The latest encounters come at a time when security forces are on a high alert in the wake of recent civilian killings in Kashmir. Seven civilians, including four members of the minority community, were killed by militants last week in the Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trf-militant-who-killed-civilian-gunned-down-in-bandipora-jk-police-1039470.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Agitation will continue till farmers' demands are met: Rakesh Tikait||The farmers' agitation will continue till all demands are met, including repealing of the three farm laws and legal guarantee on minimum support price for crops, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait has said. Talking to reporters in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district on Sunday evening, he said that the Centre is overlooking "the one-year long agitation of farmers in which 750 farmers have died". Farmers have been protesting against the legislations at Delhi border points since their enactment in September last year and demanding these be repealed. Tikait claimed that farmers' income has not increased despite the price of goods. The three farm laws and the BJP are "anti-farmer", he said, claiming that the government is not ready for a dialogue to resolve the issue. The BJP government at the Centre only supports industrialists, he alleged. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/agitation-will-continue-till-farmers-demands-are-met-rakesh-tikait-1039519.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Class 9 student raped in Muzaffarnagar||A class 9 student was reportedly raped by her classmate's brother in a village here, police said on Monday. The incident took place on Sunday when the 15-year-old girl had gone to her classmate's house in the village, they said. The accused had also recorded a video of the incident. On the basis of a complaint lodged by the girl's family, a case was registered against the man under relevant sections of the IPC and efforts were underway to nab him, the police added. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/class-9-student-raped-in-muzaffarnagar-1039521.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Mayawati condemns gang-rape of Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh, calls for justice||BSP chief Mayawati on Monday condemned the gang-rape of a Dalit woman in Gautam Buddh Nagar and called for immediate action against the accused. A middle-aged Dalit woman was allegedly raped in Jewar area by men known to her on Sunday morning, officials said. The incident took place when the woman had gone outside her village to cut grass while the key accused, 28, had come there to graze his cattle, they said. "The gang-rape of a Dalit woman in Gautam Buddh Nagar is extremely sad and shameful. The BSP demands that the BJP government in UP take strong actions against accused persons, and give justice to the affected family," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. An FIR has been lodged in the case but no arrest has been made yet, the officials added.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-condemns-gang-rape-of-dalit-woman-in-uttar-pradesh-calls-for-justice-1039528.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Prominent Dogra leaders from Jammu join BJP after quitting NC||Prominent Dogra leaders from Jammu Devender Rana and Surjit Singh Slathia on Monday joined the BJP, a day after quitting the National Conference. Rana and Slathia, who were welcomed into BJP by Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri, Dharmendra Pradhan and Jitendra Singh, are votaries of the Jammu Declaration that seeks to give Jammu Division primacy in the affairs of the Union Territory of J&K. The two leaders also met Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP President J P Nadda before formally joining the party. “Jammu needs to be made the voice of Jammu and Kashmir,” Rana told reporters after joining the BJP. Rana, who is a former MLA and the younger brother of Union minister Jitendra Singh, has also served as a political advisor to former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah. The Jammu Declaration, seen as a counter to the Gupkar Declaration, seeks restoration of statehood to the Jammu region and opposes the “demotion” of the state of J&K to a Union Territory. The Gupkar Alliance, formed by political outfits in the Kashmir valley, sought restoration of the special status and statehood to J&K. The National Conference was critical about the Jammu Declaration which prompted the two leaders to move to the BJP, which was receptive to the idea. “Jammu Declaration was about the generation of a secular and inclusive political narrative for the entire J&K. This should be the natural follow up of the 'Ek Pradhan, Ek Nishan, Ek Samvidhan' that has already taken place,” Rana said. He argued that a Jammu-centric narrative was vital for preserving the secular ethos of J&K and rejected the support to the Dixon Plan that envisaged the division of J&K. Rana had won the Nagrota assembly seat thrice and is considered to enjoy the support of Gujjar Muslim communities in the region.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prominent-dogra-leaders-from-jammu-join-bjp-after-quitting-nc-1039532.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||MP: Disappointed burglar doesn't find much at govt official's home, leaves behind note||Disappointed at not being able to find enough cash and valuables at the residence of a government official in Madhya Pradesh's Dewas district, a burglar left behind a note there asking "why was the house locked when there was no money" kept at home, police said on Monday. A copy of the note also surfaced on social media in which the burglar wrote "Jab paise nahi they toh lock nahi karna tha collector” (when there was no money, it should not have been locked, collector). Kotwali police station in-charge Umrao Singh said Rs 30,000 cash and some jewellery items were stolen from the residence of Trilochan Singh Gaur, currently posted as sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) at Khategaon town in the district. The SDM came to know about the theft when he returned home on Saturday night after a gap of a fortnight. Notably, top district police officials live in the area where the SDM's official residence is located. Singh said a hand-written note, possibly written by the burglar, was found at Gaur's residence. The thief apparently used the government officer's note-pad and pen to write the note, police sources said. The police have launched an investigation into the incident and registered an FIR against unidentified persons, Singh said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-disappointed-burglar-doesnt-find-much-at-govt-officials-home-leaves-behind-note-1039535.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||5 soldiers killed in gunfight with terrorists in J&K||In one of the bloodiest encounters this year, five army soldiers, including an officer, were killed during an ongoing anti-insurgency operation in Jammu and Kashmir’s border Poonch district on Monday. The operation was launched in a village close to Dera Ki Gali in Surankote, Poonch during the early hours of Monday following inputs about the presence of terrorists, who had infiltrated from across the Line of Control (LoC), Jammu-based Army spokesman Lt. Col. Devender Anand said. “The hiding terrorists opened heavy fire on the search parties resulting in critical injuries to a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) and four other ranks. They died from their injuries,” he said. Two unidentified militants were also reportedly killed in the gun battle, which has now spread to Bhangai village of neighboring Rajouri district, adjacent to the earlier site where forces and militants exchanged gunfire. “The entire operation area is the same but half of it falls in Poonch and half in Rajouri district jurisdiction,” a police official said. “Fresh contact has been established in Bhangai village of Rajouri and intermittent firing is going on.” Reinforcements of both army and police, including senior officers, have rushed to the spot to plug all escape routes to ensure the militants don’t flee, reports said. Preliminary reports suggested that a group of five to six heavily armed militants may be hiding in the area. The slain soldiers were identified as Naik Subedar Jaswinder Singh from Kapurthala, Naik Mandeep Singh from Gurdaspur, Sepoy Gajjan Singh from Ropar, Sepoy Vaisakh from Kollam and Sepoy Saraj Singh from Shahjahanpur, UP. The twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine militants in separate encounters. Three soldiers also laid down their lives in the previous operations. The fresh encounter comes after a series of targeted attacks left seven civilians dead in the Kashmir Valley last week. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-soldiers-killed-in-gunfight-with-terrorists-in-jk-1039540.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Kashmir receives season’s first snowfall||The upper reaches of Kashmir received the first light snowfall of the season on Sunday night, resulting in a chill in the plains which received moderate rainfall. Reports said the upper reaches in the valley, including Amarnath cave shrine and its periphery besides Sheshnag, Mahaguns, Pisso top, Panjtarni and other heights in Pahalgam, Kangdoori in Gulmarg received light snowfall. Light snowfall was also received at Zojila on Srinagar-Leh highway, connecting Ladakh region with Kashmir.   However, the Srinagar-Leh and Srinagar-Jammu national highways remained open for vehicular traffic. The upper heights in Sonmarg and Baltal, base camp of Amarnath cave, also received snowfall. The snowfall brought down both the night and day temperatures in the Valley. A MeT department official said minimum temperatures dropped across Kashmir with Srinagar recording a minimum temperature of 9.8 degrees Celsius, Pahalgam 6.7 and ski-resort Gulmarg 1.5. As a cold breeze from the snow-clad mountains plummeted temperature, people were forced to put on woolen clothes, including the traditional pheran (Kashmiri gown). Meanwhile, people were seen looking for heating gadgets in Srinagar markets. The sale of heating appliances, kangris (local heaters), woolens and blankets have picked up in the market. The MeT office has predicted isolated light rain or thundershowers across Jammu and Kashmir in the next 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-receives-season-s-first-snowfall-1039543.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Dengue menace in Delhi: 480 cases this season, 139 in October alone||At least 480 cases of dengue have been reported in the national capital this season, including nearly 140 in October, according to a civic report released on Monday. The total number of cases till October 2 had stood at 341.  Nearly 140 fresh cases have been recorded in the last one week. Of the total count of dengue cases in Delhi this year, 139 have been reported this month till October 9. In September, 217 cases were logged, the highest count for this month in the last three years. According to the civic report on vector-borne diseases released on Monday, a total of 480 dengue cases have been recorded this season till October 9, which is the highest count since 2018 for the same period. The number of cases reported for the January 1-October 9 period in the previous three years were 316 (2020), 467 (2019) and 830 (2018), as per the report. A total of 1,072 cases and one death, were logged in the entire year in 2020, according to the report released by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, the nodal agency for tabulating data on vector-borne diseases in the city. Last year, 188 dengue cases were reported in the entire month of September, and 190 in 2019. In preceding years, the corresponding figures had stood at 374 (2018), 1103 (2017), 1,362 (2016) and 6,775 (2015), according to data shared by Delhi health department on September 22. However, no deaths have been reported due to dengue in the city this year till now, it said. Seventy-two cases were reported in August, as per the report.  Dengue mosquito larvae breed in clear, standing water, while those of malaria thrive even in dirty water. Cases of vector-borne diseases are usually reported between July and November, but the period may stretch till mid-December. As per the civic report, 127 cases of malaria and 62 cases of chikungunya have also been reported till October 9 this year. The month-wise distribution of dengue cases are January (0), February (2), March (5), April (10) and May (12), June (7) and July (16), it said. In the previous years, the total dengue cases reported were 4,431 (2016), 4,726 (2017), 2,798 (2018), 2,036 (2019) and 1,072 (2020), as per the report. Malaria, dengue and chikungunya are accompanied with high fever and therefore, doctors feel that people might suspect that they have contracted COVID-19.  Civic bodies in Delhi have intensified their measures to prevent outbreak of vector-borne diseases.  The Delhi government was alert and all prepared to handle any situation that might arise out of dengue cases, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had told reporters early September. He recently had also said that the government's anti-dengue drive, '10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute' was running for the last several weeks to raise awareness on its prevention, and it would be further intensified. Jain had also told reporters that instructions had been issued to the heads of various departments of the city government to take part in its anti-dengue campaign on working days to ensure no breeding of mosquito larvae is found on its premises. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation had run an intensive week-long campaign from October 2-7 to keep vector-borne diseases under control. South Delhi Mayor Mukesh Suryan recently had alleged that the Delhi government was playing "campaign politics" when it came to the fight against the vector-borne diseases, and had termed its anti-dengue drive an "eyewash". Standing Committee Chairman of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Jogi Ram Jain recently had held a meeting with the officials of public health department on prevention of dengue, malaria and chikungunya. Jain had directed officials to conduct awareness campaigns in all areas under the NDMC so that maximum citizens can be made aware. He had also directed them to regularly check for breeding of mosquito larvae on premises of government buildings, schools, offices, community buildings and dispensaries. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dengue-menace-in-delhi-480-cases-this-season-139-in-october-alone-1039557.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||‘Veteran Pakistani terrorists taking over leadership role in Kashmir’||As security forces have been successful in wiping out local leadership of Lashker-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammad and Hizbul Mujahideen outfits in the recent years, militant handlers across the border are trying to push in senior Pakistani terrorists to fill the vacuum in the Valley, sources told DH. They said Pakistani terrorists, in their 30s, who have had previous stints in the Valley, are being pushed in to provide relevant leadership to the militant outfits. “A Pakistani terrorist nicknamed Chhota Waleed, who is believed to be the mastermind of the attacks on members of minority community in Srinagar last week, is one among them,” sources said. ‘Chhota Waleed’, who reportedly infiltrated into Kashmir last month through Line of Control (LoC), is believed to have had at least two previous stints in Kashmir. “Besides Waleed, a few more veteran Pakistani terrorists have also infiltrated the Valley in the recent months and are hiding in forest areas of north Kashmir,” they added. A senior police officer told DH that this ‘Chhota Waleed’ and a few other Pakistani militants have activated several sleeper cells, who are carrying out attacks on soft targets. “Among local militants active at the moment, no one has the popularity which slain commanders like Burhan Wani, Sabzar Bhat, Riyaz Naikoo, Abbas Sheikh and others had. Now Pakistani terrorists having Kashmir experience are taking over the leadership role which could prove more dangerous,” he revealed. Elaborating further, the officer said, “There was pressure on local militants from their Pakistani handlers to target civilians, particularly from the minority community, for several months. However, they were reluctant and due to this reason, Pakistan sent dreaded terrorists like Chhota Waleed to Kashmir,” he added. According to media reports, in the last two months, four to five groups of militants have managed to infiltrate from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, with each group consisting of four to six ultras. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/veteran-pakistani-terrorists-taking-over-leadership-role-in-kashmir-1039558.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal launches 'Desh ke Mentor' programme aimed at guiding students on career choices||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched a programme under which students of Delhi government schools will be provided guidance on career choices by citizens who are successful in their respective fields. The "Desh ke mentor" programme entails "adopting" one to 10 government school students who can be mentored by citizens who are successful in their respective fields. Mentors will take out 10 minutes every week to guide students over the phone. Interested citizens can adopt between one to 10 children studying in the city's government schools as part of the initiative. "If our students get right guidance, they can excel in every sphere of life. We have launched this programme to help them chalk a future path with mentors guiding them beyond the role played by their teachers," Kejriwal said at the launch. The Delhi government had in August announced that Bollywood actor Sonu Sood will be the brand ambassador for the mentors' programme. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-launches-desh-ke-mentor-programme-aimed-at-guiding-students-on-career-choices-1039592.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||2 Delhi HC judges take oath of office||Two new judges of the Delhi High Court took the oath of office on Monday, taking the total number of judges to 31. Chief Justice D N Patel administered the oath of office to Justices Yashwant Varma and Chandra Dhari Singh who were transferred as judges to the Delhi High Court from Allahabad High Court on October 5. The new appointments take the number of judges in the high court to 31 against a sanctioned strength of 60. Justice Varma was elevated as Additional Judge of Allahabad High Court in October 2014 and took oath as Permanent Judge in February 2016. Justice Singh was appointed as Additional Judge of Allahabad High Court in September 2017 and he took oath as Permanent Judge in September 2019. The Supreme Court collegium headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, in the September 16 meeting, had recommended the transfer/re-transfer of 17 high court judges including that of Justices Varma and Singh.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-delhi-hc-judges-take-oath-of-office-1039596.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Won't let power blackout take place in Punjab, assures CM Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday said his government will not let a power blackout take place in the state and he has asked the Centre to ensure an adequate supply of coal. Channi's statement came amid a power crisis triggered by a severe coal shortage in the state's thermal power plants. "Not only Punjab, but the entire country is also facing the power crisis because of coal shortage," Channi told reporters, adding that he spoke to the coal minister and even had written a letter in this regard. He has also asked the Centre to ensure an adequate supply of coal to Punjab at the earliest. To a question on fears of a power blackout, Channi said that his government will not let it happen in the state. The power supply situation continued to remain grim in Punjab as the state-owned utility PSPCL has been imposing up to three-hour daily power cuts across all categories of consumers to bridge the gap between demand and supply. Severe coal shortage has forced Punjab State Power Corporation Limited to cut down power generation. Because of depleted coal stock, the coal-fired power plants were operating at less than 50 per cent of their generation capacity, officials had said on Sunday. While the private power thermal plants had coal stock of up to 1.5 days, the state-owned units had coal for up to four days, the officials said. PSPCL Chairman and Managing Director A Venuprasad on Sunday said the power utility was facing acute coal shortage in all of the coal-based plants situated across the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wont-let-power-blackout-take-place-in-punjab-assures-cm-channi-1039615.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Ashish Mishra remanded to police custody, Priyanka observes 'maun vrat'||Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who was accused of running over four farmers, was on Monday remanded to three-day police custody by a district court in Lakhimpur Kheri. Ashish was arrested on Saturday by the special investigation team (SIT) probing the incident after grilling him for eleven hours. The police, in its remand application, said that Ashish did not cooperate with them during the questioning and that he answered only a few questions during 12-hour grilling. The CJM court later allowed three-day remand of Ashish though the prosecution had sought 14-days' remand. While both Ashish and his father Ajay Mishra had claimed that the former was not present in any of the vehicles, one of which ran over a crowd of farmers killing four of them, the farmers claimed that the minister's son was in one of the SUVs with a friend of his. Eight people, including four farmers and a local scribe, were killed in the violence at Tikonia in the district when hundreds of farmers held protests against Ajay Mishra over the latter's remarks threatening them of dire consequences if they continued to oppose the new farm laws. Meanwhile, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday observed 'maun vrat' along with scores of party leaders before the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the GPO Park here demanding dismissal of Ajay Mishra from the union cabinet. Priyanka had said while addressing a public meeting at Varanasi on Sunday that her party would not rest till Ajay Mishra was sacked. UP minister and senior BJP leader Siddharth Nath Singh slammed Priyanka for what he termed an attempt to exert pressure on the police in the Lakhimpur violence case. "The police are doing their job....pressure tactics will not work," Singh added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-ashish-mishra-remanded-to-police-custody-priyanka-observes-maun-vrat-1039635.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi government gives Rs 1 crore to family of IAF pilot Sunil Mohanty killed in air crash||The Kejriwal government provided 'samman rashi' of Rs 1 crore to the family of flight lieutenant Sunil Mohanty who lost his life during an air maintenance mission in 2019. According to a government statement, the amount was handed over to Monhanty’s parents at their Dwarka residence by Palam Vihar MLA Bhavna Gaur. "We cannot put a cost on their lives. But this provision gives strength and support to their families. We will always stand by the families of martyrs and support them in every way possible," Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. Mohanty was working as a lieutenant in the Indian Air Force, and was posted to 43 Squadron Air Force from June 24, 2016. He was commissioned on June 3, 2019 to fly AN-32 KA 2752 aircraft to undertake an air maintenance mission for Mehkuka Airfield in Arunachal Pradesh during which his plane went missing. Subsequently, the wreckage of the aircraft was found on June 12, 2019 at Mechuka en route to Pari Hills, Siang, Arunachal Pradesh. Mohanty was among those who lost their lives in the accident. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-gives-rs-1-crore-to-family-of-iaf-pilot-sunil-mohanty-killed-in-air-crash-1039649.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Chhath Puja to be celebrated grandly, says Delhi BJP amid ban on its celebration in public places||The politics over the ban on Chhath puja celebrations at public places here intensified further on Monday with Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta declaring that the festival will be celebrated in a grand manner and the municipal corporations ruled by the party will make arrangements for it. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in an order last week prohibited Chhath Puja celebrations at public places, including riverbanks, water bodies and temples, in view of the Covid-19 situation. Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari has also started a 'Rath Yatra' to take the opinions of Purvanchalis (people of Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh settled in Delhi), and had also warned that the DDMA order will be defied if people are stopped for celebrating Chhath. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, however, had earlier alleged that the opposition was playing "dirty politics" over the issue. "The BJP declares that we will celebrate Chhath Puja, and arrangements will be made for it by the municipal corporations," Gupta said at a press conference along with Tiwari. The BJP has vocally protested the Chhath Puja ban imposed by the Arvind Kejriwal government, and party leaders, including Tiwari, had been interacting with puja committees over the issue, Gupta said. "We will make arrangements along with Chhath Puja Samitis. Not just symbolically, Chhath will be celebrated grandly with BJP workers systematically making all the arrangements," Gupta said. Earlier, reacting to Tiwari's Rath Yatra against the Chhath ban, Kejriwal had said the decision to not allow celebrations at public places was taken in view of the safety of the people and opposition was doing "dirty politics" over a sensitive issue. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhath-puja-to-be-celebrated-grandly-says-delhi-bjp-amid-ban-on-its-celebration-in-public-places-1039650.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Politicians barred from entering stage during final prayer for farmers killed in Lakhimpur violence||No politician will be allowed to share the stage with farmer leaders at the Tuesday 'antim ardas' prayers for the four farmers who were killed in the violence here on October 3, a BKU-Tikait office bearer said. Preparations for the 'antim ardas' (final prayers) are underway at a field, away from the spot where the violence took place in Tikonia village in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. "The 'antim ardas' for all the deceased farmers will be held on Tuesday at Tikonia," BKU-Tikait's district president Amandeep Singh Sandhu said on Monday. On whether politicians will be part of the prayers, BKU-Tikait district vice president Balkar Singh said, "No political leader will be allowed to share the stage where only Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders will be present." The SKM is an umbrella organisation of farmer unions and it is spearheading the protest against three farm laws, which were enacted last year. "Farmers and leaders of various farm unions from various states and districts of Uttar Pradesh will participate in the 'ardas' and 'bhog' programme in Tikonia," Sandhu said, adding that "no other programme apart from the 'antim ardas' and the 'bhog' has been communicated so far." Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers claimed that Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. The SKM had demanded the arrest of the father-son duo. Ashish Mishra was arrested after 12 hours of questioning here late on Saturday night. The farmer unions had said if the government does not accept their demands by October 11, they will take out a 'Shaheed Kisan Yatra' from Lakhimpur Kheri with the ashes of the slain farmers. The SKM has also given a call for a rail roko protest across the country from 10 AM to 4 PM on October 18 and a mahapanchayat in Lucknow on October 26. Ajay Mishra should be dismissed from the cabinet and arrested on charges of spreading disharmony, murder and conspiracy. He is also protecting the culprits in the case, SKM leader Yogendra Yadav had alleged during a press conference in Delhi on Sunday. A nine-member SIT team headed by Deputy Inspector General of Police (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal has been formed to investigate the FIR lodged against the minister's son and others in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. After two men were arrested on Thursday in the case, police had put up a notice outside Ashish Mishra's house who appeared before the SIT on Saturday and was questioned for over 12 hours leading to his arrest. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/politicians-barred-from-entering-stage-during-final-prayer-for-farmers-killed-in-lakhimpur-violence-1039651.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Tribal teen raped repeatedly, forcibly given abortion pills by accused in Raj’s Jhalawar||A teenager belonging to a tribal community was allegedly raped repeatedly for over a year by her neighbour who later gave her abortion pills to terminate her pregnancy in Jhalawar district, police said on Monday. While the girl’s family has claimed that she is above 18 years, police are trying to determine her exact age and sections of POCSO Act may be incorporated in the case accordingly, an officer said. The incident reported from Mandawar Police Station area of Jhalawar district came to light on Saturday when the girl complained of stomach ache and was taken to a local hospital where doctors found that she was six months pregnant. However, the foetus was dead due to the abortion pills given by the accused to cover the crime, Deputy Superintendent of Police and Circle Officer Rajiv Parihar said. The girl’s family members lodged a complaint against Dawood who was booked under section 376 (rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman's consent), 315 (an act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth) of the IPC and SC/ST Act but is yet to be nabbed, the officer said. The girl, who belongs to the Bhil community, is recovering in hospital and her condition is reported to be out of danger, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tribal-teen-raped-repeatedly-forcibly-given-abortion-pills-by-accused-in-raj-s-jhalawar-1039652.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Power situation 'very critical' in entire country, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the power situation is "very critical" in the entire country even as his cabinet colleague Satyendar Jain claimed that the Delhi government has to depend on costly gas-based power and spot purchase at high market rate as the NTPC has halved electricity supply to the city. Kejriwal said all efforts were being made to address the power crisis and his government did not want that any "emergency situation" is created. "The situation is very critical in the entire country. Several chief ministers have written to the Centre about it. All are trying together to improve the situation," he told mediapersons. Earlier in the day, Power minister Satyendar Jain said the Delhi government has to depend on costly gas-based power as well as spot purchase at high market rate as the NTPC has halved power supply to the city from the usual 4,000 MW. NTPC has adequate coal supplies to meet any power requirement in Delhi, sources at the Centre claimed, and added that the discoms can schedule power from its Dadri Power plant. Jain claimed most of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) plants are running at 50-55 per cent capacity as their coal stocks are reduced to meet one-two days' need. Delhi purchases most of its power from NTPC but supply has been halved, Jain told reporters. "NTPC which supplies us 4,000 MW power has reduced it to half currently. This has led us to generation of power through gas that costs Rs 17.25 per unit," he said. Delhi has three gas-based plants with a total capacity of 1,900 MW, he said. "The Centre has terminated the quota of cheap gas. We have to purchase it and the generation cost is Rs 17.50 which is not sustainable. Also, we have to resort to spot purchase of power due to the crisis at a high rate of Rs 20 per unit," said the power minister. Sources at the Centre said even though the Delhi government has been seeking to surrender power from coal-based power plants in the past, the discoms in the city can schedule power from NTPC's Dadri Power plant.  "There is ample rolling coal stock available, which means coal is being replenished everyday," they claimed. Jain said the Centre should accept that coal crisis and address it instead of being in denial mode. Chief ministers of many states, including Yogi Adityanath of Uttar Pradesh, have written to the Centre on the issue. Punjab is also facing power cuts, he said. "If there is no power crisis, then why has Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath written a letter to the central government. There is a power crisis in the country; the central government should consider it as a problem, then only its solution can be found," he said. The demand for electricity in Delhi at present is low. At one time, the electricity demand was more than 7,300 MW, which has come down to 4,562 MW. Even after the demand is low, we have to buy electricity at the rate of Rs 17 to Rs 20, he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-situation-very-critical-in-entire-country-says-kejriwal-1039679.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||NC gets another jolt as 6 prominent faces among three dozen workers resign||The National Conference has got yet another jolt as over three dozen party activists, including a provincial secretary, two district presidents and two Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC) corporators, resigned on Monday. “Provincial secretary, two district presidents, two municipal corporators, one block president and several district and block committee members of National Conference from Jammu district resigned from the party and conveyed their support to Rana,” an aide in the office of Rana said. He said the leaders, who resigned from the National Conference include provincial secretary, Jammu, Arshad Choudhary, district president, Jammu Urban, Dharamveer Singh Jamwal, district president, Jammu Rural 'A', Som Nath Khajuria, block president Bhalwal Ashok Singh Manhas and municipal corporator S Sucha Singh and block president Women Wing, block Mathwar, Rekha Langeh. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nc-gets-another-jolt-as-6-prominent-faces-among-three-dozen-workers-resign-1039685.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Burj Khalifa in Kolkata? This Durga Puja pandal in Salt Lake draws huge crowd||Big-ticket Durga Pujas in Kolkata are known to bring up a slice of life from exotic and far away places through their theme-based pandals for the audience. This year pandal hoppers will witness a depiction of Dubai’s Burj Khalifa by a major Durga Puja in Salt Lake on the eastern fringes of Kolkata. A 145 feet tall pandal resembling the famous building has been set up by the Sreebhumi Sporting Club. The structure has been constructed using more than 5000 acrylic sheets and stunning lightning works. However, the theme of the puja is not the only crowd puller. The Durga idol is decked with 45 Kgs of gold. The organisers said that it was not an easy task to set up the structure as it required both artistic and technical expertise.   They said that 250 workers were appointed for the work. They tirelessly worked for three and half months to materialise the projects. The unique structure has been drawing huge crowds for the last few days resulting in severe traffic snarls in adjoining areas. However, this is not the first time organisers came up with such unique themes. Last year their pandal resembled the Kedarnath temple. “This year our artist was sent so that he can observe the Burj Khalifa in detail. We are aware of the pandemic situation and will ensure that Covid-19 protocol is strictly maintained,” said senior TMC leader and Minister Sujit Basu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/burj-khalifa-in-kolkata-this-durga-puja-pandal-in-salt-lake-draws-huge-crowd-1039688.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||IARI data shows spike in farm fires post monsoon; situation better than last year||Punjab and Haryana have recorded a significant increase in farm fires after the withdrawal of the monsoon from north India, though the situation so far is better than last year, data from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) suggests. Between September 15 and October 10, Punjab has recorded 764 incidents of crop residue burning in 2021 compared to 2,586 in the corresponding period last year. Haryana has recorded 196 farm fires so far against 353 logged during the period last year. IARI data shows the number of farm fires remained considerably low till October 6, when the southwest monsoon started withdrawing from northwest India. Punjab recorded only 63 stubble burning incidents from October 1 to October 5 as compared to 486 cases from October 6 to October 10. Similarly, Haryana recorded 17 such events from October 1 to October 5 compared to 172 cases from October 6 to October 10, the IARI data showed. Vinay Sehgal, a scientist at IARI, said the number of farm fires remained low till the first week of October because of the delayed paddy harvesting on account of an extended monsoon season. “Even the farmers who had harvested their produce could not burn the straw because it was wet,” he said, citing reports from the ground. Sehgal said the IARI expects that there will be lesser farm fires this season compared to last year. “Governments are more conscious about stubble management this time. Also, a large number of farmers had burnt paddy straw in protest (against farm laws) last year,” he said. Though stubble burning has increased since October 6, the daily number is still low as compared to 2020, Sehgal added. The IARI scientist said the states recorded a gradual decrease in paddy straw burning from 2016 to 2019 and the spike last year can be attributed to farmers’ protest. “We don’t expect to do better than 2019, but we hope the number will be less than last year,” he added. Punjab had recorded 1.02 lakh incidents of stubble burning in 2016. The number decreased to 67,079 in 2017; 59,684 in 2018 and 50,738 in 2019 from October 1 to November 30. The state logged 79,093 such incidents last year, according to the IARI. Haryana saw 15,686 farm fires in 2016; 13,085 in 2017; 9,225 in 2018; 6,364 in 2019 and 5,678 in 2020. Punjab and Haryana attract attention during the paddy harvesting season in October and November. Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iari-data-shows-spike-in-farm-fires-post-monsoon-situation-better-than-last-year-1039694.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Congress appoints Kuldeep Rai Sharma and Punjab MLA Raminder Singh Awla as party secretaries||Lok Sabha MP Kuldeep Rai Sharma and Punjab MLA Raminder Singh Awla were on Monday appointed Congress Secretaries attached to AICC in charge for Karnataka Randeep Surjewala. The appointment was cleared by Congress President Sonia Gandhi. Sharma (54), a mechanical engineer, is a former president of the Andaman and Nicobar Pradesh Congress Committee. He won the Lok Sabha polls from Andaman and Nicobar for the first time in the 2019 Assembly polls. Awla (47) is an MLA from the Jalalabad constituency in Punjab. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-appoints-kuldeep-rai-sharma-and-punjab-mla-raminder-singh-awla-as-aicc-secretaries-1039709.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Fresh gunfight breaks out between security forces and militants in Kashmir’s Shopian||A fresh encounter erupted between security forces and militants in Tulran Imamsahib village of south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Monday evening. Police said at least three to four militants are believed to be trapped in the area. “Two operations have been launched in Shopian this evening on credible input. Encounter started at Tulran Shopian [where] 3-4 terrorists are trapped,” J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh said. He said another operation has been launched in the Kheripora area of the same district “and a contact is expected soon." Earlier in the day, two militants were killed in two separate encounters in Bandipora and Anantnag districts of the Valley while five army soldiers were slain in border Poonch district of Jammu region in an anti-insurgency operation. The Poonch operation was launched to eliminate militants, who had infiltrated from across the Line of Control (LoC). Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-gunfight-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-militants-in-kashmir-s-shopian-1039710.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||BJP workers tried to attack me in UP’s Jalalpur, says Sanjay Singh||AAP Rajya Sabha MP and party's Uttar Pradesh in-charge Sanjay Singh on Monday alleged that BJP workers tried to attack him in Jalalpur in Ambedkar Nagar district and threw black ink on the national flag. "When I reached Jalalpur to hold a meeting on 300 units of free electricity, BJP workers also reached there and showed me black flags. But (CM Yogi) Adityanathji sent more people as BJP is very weak and afraid of AAP, due to which it was involved in such a cowardice practice," Singh said in a tweet in Hindi. "This is the reality of the BJP. They show black flags in front of tiranga (tricolour). Why BJPites hate tiranga," he asked in a separate tweet. He also alleged that black ink was thrown on the national flag. "Adityanatji, apologise to the people of the country, your worker has thrown black ink on tiranga, the pride of India. Attack me but don't insult the tricolour. The tricolour is being insulted and your police remain a mute spectator," he said. Police was not available for comment. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-workers-tried-to-attack-me-in-up-s-jalalpur-says-sanjay-singh-1039717.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||HM Amit Shah meets power, coal ministers amid supply crisis||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, on Monday, held a meeting with Power Minister R K Singh and Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi and asked them to prepare a contingency plan to face any challenge in the event of a shortage of coal faced by thermal power plants. During the hour-long meeting, Shah discussed the availability of coal to power plants and the current power demand. In the meeting, Singh and Joshi briefed him about the steps taken to meet the current crisis, sources said. While asking the Coal Ministry to ramp up the production, Shah also instructed them to increase production from hydropower plants. The meeting came in the wake of several states warning of a possible power crisis due to the shortage of coal supply to power plants, officials said. Separately, State-owned CIL on Monday said that it had scaled up the supply of coal to power utilities across the country to 1.51 million tonnes (MT) per day during the past four days of the current month. The average supply to the coal-fired power plants during October so far has been 1.43 MT per day. The CIL, the largest supplier of dry fuel said that it was building up adequate evacuation logistics to transport coal. According to Power Ministry data, the power consumption of 3,900 MU on October 8 was the highest this month so far (from October 1 to 9) which also became a cause of concern during the ongoing coal shortage. According to reports, over half of India's 135 coal-fired power plants, which in total supply around 70 per cent of electricity, have fuel stocks of less than three days. Coal stocks at power plants on October 7 were not adequate as there were 16 plants with a cumulative capacity of 16,880 MW that had dry fuel for zero days. Electricity supplies are under strain globally as coal prices surge and demand and supply chains are strained by the recovery of consumption following lockdowns to contain the pandemic. In India heavy rains in September in coal-producing states-Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chattisgarh and Odisha hit the domestic coal production. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hm-amit-shah-meets-power-coal-ministers-amid-supply-crisis-1039728.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Ellenabad bypoll: Former Haryana minister Jagdish Nehra joins Congress||Former Haryana minister Jagdish Nehra returned to the Congress party ahead of the October 30 Ellenabad assembly bypolls. Nehra had switched over to the BJP in 2014 but he came back to the Congress at a party workers’ meeting at Sirsa on Monday. The meeting had been organised in support of Congress candidate for the bypoll Pawan Beniwal. Nehra joined the Congress in the presence of state unit chief Kumari Selja, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Congress general secretary Vivek Bansal, who is party in-charge of Haryana affairs. On the other hand, Ramesh Bhadu, who was earlier with the Congress in Sirsa district, joined the ruling BJP in the presence of Chief Minister M L Khattar. The October 30 bypoll for the Ellenabad assembly seat in Haryana was necessitated after Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Chautala quit as the MLA in January in protest against the three central farm laws. Chautala is in the fray again as he filed his nomination Friday. Gobind Kanda, brother of Haryana Lokhit Party chief and legislator Gopal Kanda, had joined the BJP recently and has been fielded by the BJP-JJP combine. Beniwal, who had unsuccessfully contested the previous assembly poll against Abhay Chautala, had recently switched over from BJP to the Congress. Hooda on Monday again trained guns on Abhay Chautala and asked why the INLD leader entered the fray again as the very reason for which he resigned still remains unresolved. Senior Haryana BJP leader Subhash Barala, while talking to reporters in Sirsa, also hit out at Abhay Chautala and dubbed his resignation as MLA earlier a “political drama”. “Abhay Chautala resigned saying till the time farm laws are not rolled back he will not enter Vidhan Sabha. It is clear that he only did political drama by resigning. How will he seek votes from people now?” asked Barala. He also said it was not for the first time that the Chautala family had “thrust” bypolls on the people of Ellenabad. Barala reminded that in 2010 too bypoll to Ellenabad was necessitated after INLD supremo O P Chautala had vacated the seat as he had won from Uchana Kalan as well as Ellenabad in the 2009 assembly election. “Chautala sahab had fought on two seats, he vacated Ellenabad seat, necessitating a bypoll. Have they made Ellenabad a laboratory for experiments? The people of Ellenabad are asking this question,” said Barala. However, a few days ago, Abhay Chautala had said that he had resigned in support of the farmers after seeking views of people of his constituency. He had said that had all 31 MLAs of the principal opposition party Congress resigned with him it would have built pressure on the BJP-led government over the farm laws issue. Abhay Chautala had claimed that many MLAs from the ruling combine too would have been compelled to resign in solidarity with the farmers leading to the fall of the “anti-farmer” government. “Had the Congress MLAs resigned, we would have had a mid-term poll in the state and not a bypoll,” said Chautala. He had said farmers will make the BJP-JJP combine realise that “black farm laws are their (farmers') death warrants”. Bypolls for the Ellenabad seat will be held on October 30 and votes will be counted on November 2. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ellenabad-bypoll-former-haryana-minister-jagdish-nehra-joins-congress-1039740.html
11-10-2021||North and Central||Teenage boy kills self, urges PM in suicide note to fulfil his last wish of music video with Arijit Singh's song||A 16-year-old boy from Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior committed suicide as he "failed to become a good dancer" but left behind a purported suicide note in which he requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fulfil his last wish of producing a music video in which a song should be sung by famous singer Arijit Singh and dance be choreographed by Sushant Khatri, a Nepali artist, police said on Monday. The class 11 student, a resident of the Cancer Hospital area in Gwalior city, killed himself by lying on the railway track on Sunday night, Jhansi Road police station in-charge Sanjiv Nayan Sharma told PTI. He said a suicide note, purportedly written by the boy, was found with his body in which he stated that he could not become a good dancer as his family and friends did not support him. "In the suicide note, the teenager also said that a music video should be made after his death in which a song should be sung by Arijit Singh and dance be choreographed by Sushant Khatri, a Nepali artist. The note said this music video will give peace to his soul and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to complete his last wish," Sharma said. Further investigation is underway, he said.  Check out DH's lates videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenage-boy-kills-self-urges-pm-in-suicide-note-to-fulfil-his-last-wish-of-music-video-with-arijit-singhs-song-1039743.html
11-10-2021||Opinion||Facebook should stop pretending it has such high standards||By Matthew Yglesias   Facebook whistle-blower Frances Haugen has bequeathed to the world a trove of documents about the downsides of social media. What the internal records show, she told the Senate last week, is that Facebook’s leaders “have put their astronomical profits before people.” This is, of course, true. It is also unsurprising. Facebook is a public company that aspires to maximize profits for its shareholders. The Atlantic’s Derek Thompson argues that social media is “attention alcohol” — a product that is fun but addictive, and “unwholesome in large doses” — and the metaphor is even more apt than that: America’s beer, liquor and wine manufacturers and distributors also put profits over people. The difference is that, for the most part, they don’t pretend otherwise. There are all kinds of businesses, whether they’re making potato chips or reality TV, which thrive by taking advantage of human foibles and weakness. One of the things that makes Facebook exceptional — and helps explain the disgruntlement of many employees — is the refusal of Facebook’s leadership to acknowledge this obvious fact. In the minds of anti-capitalists, the profit motive at the beating heart of the US economy is an indictment of the entire system. I remember being captivated and entertained by the 2003 documentary The Corporation, which quotes an FBI expert saying that if a corporation were a person (in more than just a legal sense), its single-minded focus on shareholder value would qualify it as a psychopath. Then I grew up and realized that industrial capitalism and the market economy have actually driven huge improvements in living standards. At the same time, it is true that the basic purpose of a business is to make money, even if doing so is bad for your cholesterol (think of those potato chips again) or degrades civic life by undermining the economics of local news (consider the rise of the internet advertising). Which brings us back to Facebook. What’s fascinating about the company is that it is held to an unfairly high standard not only by its critics, but also by its own executives. Founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg angrily denied Haugen’s complaints as “just not true.” Speaking on behalf of Facebook employees, he said: “At the most basic level, I think most of us just don’t recognize the false picture of the company that is being painted.” I know people who formerly worked on various worthy-sounding Facebook initiatives —and they confirm both Haugen’s charge and Zuckerberg’s response. In practice, Facebook is not interested in making any changes that would result in users spending less time on Facebook, regardless of what other positive impacts those changes might have. Meanwhile, the rank-and-file employees with in-demand technical skills who make the company run actually do believe that they are engaged in something more high-minded than making potato chips. This is an idea deeply embedded in Silicon Valley culture. In 1983, when Steve Jobs was recruiting then-Pepsi executive John Sculley to Apple, he famously asked him: “Do you want to sell sugar water for the rest of your life, or do you want to come with me and change the world?” Technology companies clearly have changed the world in ways that soft-drink companies have not. But today’s tech giants aren’t exciting startups anymore. Some still tackle big, tough technical problems (think of Google and self-driving cars), while others find niches of genuinely idealistic behavior (think of Apple’s consistent drive to deliver world-best accessibility features for the blind). But no company is idealistic enough to compromise major profit-and-loss considerations for humanitarian concerns; ask Apple about human rights in China, for example. And what about Facebook? Its core business may well be closer to selling sugar water (or potato chips) than it cares to admit. It’s pretty clear by now that the invention of mass-produced sweeteners has been a decidedly mixed blessing for humanity — contributing to major health problems like obesity and diabetes, but also delivering doses of genuine pleasure to billions of people daily. If you tried to ban sugar, there’d be an uprising. Whether it should be regulated is another question, but there is no such hesitation when it comes to regulating social media. Nobel laureate Paul Romer’s idea of a progressive tax on digital ad revenue to discourage gigantism makes a lot of sense, but it would be neither desirable nor possible for a federal agency to micromanage content moderation decisions by private companies, as so many seem to want. Meanwhile, Facebook’s best strategy going forward might be to acknowledge the banal nature of its business. Like everyone else, it has products with pros and cons. All it really cares about is getting more people to spend more time using them. Such an admission would cause quite a public-relations headache, of course. But the larger issue is whether Facebook’s recruiting and retention efforts could handle that kind of bracing honesty. To return to those potato chips: Nobody drags Big Snack executives before Congress and accuses them of “putting profits before people,” even though everyone pretty much agrees that selling highly processed snack foods is not a particularly beneficent act. On the other hand, the junk food industry does not necessarily have its pick of the top graduates of the top schools every year. If Facebook admitted that it is essentially selling a digital version of sugar water (or potato chips, or any other suitably unhealthy alternative), it might attract less negative attention. But more of its employees might be inclined to jump ship. They could form or join exciting startups that better align with their values. Or they could or just to go work infusing non-tech companies with much-needed technical skills. It may be that, while all giant companies are in some sense putting profits over people, Facebook itself is uniquely vulnerable to this critique. Its core product is not tangible, like Apple’s or Amazon’s, and not obviously useful, like Google’s. If that is the case, then a smaller, less influential Facebook might be a net benefit for the world. It’s unlikely that Zuckerberg would agree — or, for that matter, that he would be willing undergo any exercises in brutal corporate self-reflection. Not so long ago, after all, he himself was a smart, hard-working, idealistic young Ivy Leaguer. He understood the potential of Facebook at a time when few did, and no doubt he sincerely believed that creating peer-to-peer interconnections at scale would have a more unambiguously positive social impact than turns out to have been the case. Still, it’s a heck of a great business. Over time, many corporate titans conclude that the relentless pursuit of shareholder value simply isn’t that satisfying once you’re already unimaginably rich. Bill Gates long ago stepped down from Microsoft to focus on charitable pursuits, following a trail blazed by Andrew Carnegie and other so-called Robber Barons of the distant past. Zuckerberg has the Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative, a foundation he started with his wife Priscilla Chan in 2015, but for now he is very much involved in the day-to-day operation of his company and the endless series of controversies it generates. The debates about those controversies tend to careen between absurd self-puffery and uninformed criticism. If the company — and its employees, starting with its first one — were more honest about what they do, then maybe America could have a less fraught, more sensible conversation about the nature not only of Facebook but of social media itself. Check out  the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/facebook-should-stop-pretending-it-has-such-high-standards-1039471.html
11-10-2021||Panorama||'Vijayanagar needs to win challenges in education, malnutrition, health infra'||The state government recently inaugurated Karnataka's thirty-first district, Vijayanagar. Anirudh Sravan P, the first deputy commissioner (DC) of the new district, in an interview with Shruthi HM Sastry of DH, gives a glimpse into the effort that goes into setting up a new district and measures to be taken for its development. The new district has six new taluks including Hosapete, Kottur, Hagari Bommanahalli, Hoovina Hadagali, Kudligi and Harapanahalli, with Hosapete as the district headquarters. Excerpts from the interview: What are the immediate goals to kick-start the administration of the new district?  The immediate concern is to set up offices in the new district so that officials can begin fulfilling their roles. For example, there are about 63 posts in the deputy commissioner’s office. As of now, only the DC has been appointed. Similarly, we need to set up the office of the superintendent of police, the district health office, agriculture office, registrar’s office, among others. There is also work to be done in terms of certain legislation, for instance, the law pertaining to Stamps and Registration. We will have to notify Vijayanagar as a registration district where there will be a district registrar. The idea is that the services that are presently available in Ballari should also be available in Vijayanagar.  From an administrative point of view, what is the larger vision for the new district?  From my end, I will hold several consultations with subject-matter experts and public representatives on setting a larger development agenda for the new district. Overall, with the new district, we want to ensure a people-friendly, responsive and transparent administration. With Hosapete as the district headquarters, it is not just about geographical proximity to all the taluks but people should also feel that the new district has made accessing government facilities easier. This is also the vision of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Vijayanagar is the seventh district in the Kalyana Karnataka region. The region has largely lagged behind in Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). What are some of the challenges that you foresee?  The district has immense scope for improvement on SDGs. When it comes to education, we need to focus on setting up higher education institutions. At present, most of the higher education institutions are in Ballari and students from here have to depend on the colleges there. This is also important from the perspective of ensuring higher education for girls. If they have to travel too far, there is a risk of them dropping out. That apart, there is much work to do in terms of tackling malnutrition too.  As we stand at the threshold of a post-pandemic situation, is there a road map for strengthening health infrastructure in the district?  Since Ballari was supplying oxygen to the rest of the state, the district administration has done a good job of equipping hospitals with oxygen generation plants. Infrastructure in taluk hospitals is also not an issue as equipment was purchased during the pandemic. However, there are gaps when it comes to healthcare at large. We don’t have a district hospital as of date. But the good thing is that the government has already sanctioned it. We will ensure it begins functioning at the earliest. There are also gaps with regard to the number of Primary Health Centres per population and the doctors available. We will get these issues addressed.  The other challenge for the region has been the lack of industrial development and employment generation. What do you think are the interventions required?  During the Chief Minister’s recent review, he had emphasised the development of Hampi as a tourist destination. In terms of employment generation, it might not be manufacturing-driven but it is tourism that will be the mainstay. If Hampi receives a boost, hopefully, this will lead to positives all around. Tourism minister Anand Singh, who represents the district, has been putting efforts to initiate several tourism projects. Taluks such as Kottur, Koodligi and Harapanahalli are agriculture-centric. Hence these taluks see agri-allied commerce. There are complaints that funds under the Special Development Plan as envisaged under the Nanjundappa committee are not allocated to the taluks in need. In the new district, except Hosapete, the other five taluks qualify for SDP, with Harapanahalli and Kudligi being the most backward taluks. Allocations under SDP are made according to the recommendations of the Nanjundappa Committee. The region has been ravaged by mines over time. What measures will be taken for environmental conservation?  Close to 85% of the mining areas are in Sandur taluk in Ballari. In Vijayanagar, Hosapete and Harapanahalli have been affected by mining. In terms of environmental degradation, almost 30% of the impact of mines located on the hills of Sandur is on Vijayanagar. This challenge will be addressed over a period of time using the available funds.  There are concerns that Ballari and Vijayanagar will be contesting over the District Mineral Fund. This issue has been discussed. The government will take an appropriate decision and will issue directions in this regard. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/vijayanagar-needs-to-win-challenges-in-education-malnutrition-health-infra-1039739.html
11-10-2021||Panorama||Infrastructure measures for booming economy||It is beyond doubt that India began laying emphasis on infrastructure-led economic growth during the Vajpayee regime. The decade lost between the Vajpayee regime the Narendra Modi government failed to continue it, but the Modi government walked that course despite inheriting an economy burdened with the absence of a conducive economic entourage for investments. The first term saw the doubling up of cumulative capital expenditure. Concurrently the contours of the strategy for infrastructure investments were conceived along the lines of economic and banking reforms, planning, monitoring and resolution, in that order. The seven years of the Modi government spelt out various economic measures categorised under starting a business, construction permits, taxation, trading across borders etc leading to the Ease of Doing Business ranking jumping to 63 in 2019 from 142 in 2014. India now has a strong banking sector aided by measures such as the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, the merger of banks, recapitalisation and the setting up of National Asset Reconstruction Company. A Development Financial Institution (DFI) to be set up under NABFID Act will complement the banking sector. A stable and low-interest rate regime was fostered by flexible inflation targeting. Amidst the aforementioned economic and banking reforms, the government announced National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). The final NIP Task Force report estimates that Rs 111 lakh crores ($1.6 trillion) need to be invested in five years from FY20 to FY25 with the aim of a $5-trillion economy by FY25. NIP is a compendium of investable infrastructure projects - greenfield or brownfield, under implementation or conceptualisation. The report emphasises that India needs to make $4.5 trillion of infrastructure investments by FY30 including $1.6 trillion to sustain high economic growth rates. The Centre and states have an almost equal share in executing the NIP followed by the private sector. As per a 2013 RBI paper, the multiplier effect of infrastructure investments is higher when undertaken at the level of states. This Is why states are included as stakeholders in NIP. Politically too, NIP will have the least resistance. Union Budget 2021-22 allocated 5.54 lakh crores towards capital expenditure whose share in government expenditure is highest in a decade. The NIP Task Force’s final report suggests a National Monetization Pipeline (NMP) to meet elevated capital expenditure. It intends to monetise operational public infrastructure assets excluding land for tapping private-sector efficiencies, thus helping create a cycle of developing, commissioning, monetising and investing. Through this, the government hopes to garner over Rs 6 lakh crores over four years from FY22 to FY25. The government will own the assets but will lease them out to the private sector for a stipulated time after which they will be handed back — a transfer of operational rights, not ownership rights. Picking up from Union Budget 2021-22, NMP incentivises states to undertake divestment and asset monetisation for channelling investments into infrastructure. Both NIP and NMP will be driven by real-time dashboards to showcase investment opportunities to domestic and international investors. NIP has 7,400 projects to choose from, while NMP has operational assets from 13 sectors including roads, railways, telecom, power and more. Investors choose the projects from NIP or assets from NMP, bid and access capital for execution or operation. This will lessen the failure of investments. There will be bottlenecks, delays and cost overruns once this takes off. However, the projects will be monitored in real-time with high priority. NIP and NMP are the first exercises in India to select projects/assets to resolve problems. NIP will serve as a template for infrastructure investments for decades beyond FY25. Likewise, NMP will serve as a template for the monetisation of public infrastructure assets. The reforms-to-resolution approach will promote seamless and sustainable infrastructure investments from all stakeholders. This will ensure inclusive and equitable access to infrastructure. Every citizen will have equity in the economic growth of India. Along with socio-economic benefits, PM Modi believes this approach can help make India self-reliant. (The writer is Joint Convener, Election Commission Cell, Telangana BJP) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/infrastructure-measures-for-booming-economy-1039741.html
11-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Monsoon musings||Commercialism has its own little charm. While driving during a monsoon evening, I was jolted by the tagline 'Monsoon Dhamaka'; an advertisement on a billboard showing the sale of washing machines with an insane discount. A little ahead, a telecom company advertised its exclusive talk-time as 'Monsoon Bonanza' to its privileged customers. For city-dwellers, monsoon is associated with filth coming out of the drain, diseases like cholera, typhoid or dangerous dengue. For most, the monsoon season is when traffic jams occur due to waterlogging, irritable insects such as mosquitoes and flies breed and plaster peels off from walls. This is when biscuits and namkeens lose their taste and crispness. The season of monsoon gives enough nightmares to the government agencies like municipal corporations, traffic police departments, electricity departments, PWD etc for timely restoration of the ever-crumbling public infrastructure. While rain holds an entire city in its grip, in the countryside, monsoon is just like the arrival of a new festival. With the onset of the first rain, watermelon and mangoes give their way to jamuns (blackberries) and bhutta (corn-cob). Rain-kissed jamuns are believed to be the tastiest. And what can beat the taste of corn gently heated over embers, rubbed with salt and fresh lemon? The rainy season brings its own festival such as teej associated with swings, popularly known as saawan-swings. It is the time to send gifts to sisters during the Rakshabandhan, an everlasting bond for brother-sister. Janmashtami is yet another day to celebrate. As a child, listening to Door Darshan and DD News, the entire family eagerly awaited the rain forecast, including the date of monsoon hitting the Kerala coast, which is considered the onset of monsoon in the Indian subcontinent. With the onset of the first rain, it is the onset of the season of sowing paddy. As farmers plough through muddy water to set up the farm for sowing fresh paddy, white birds park themselves in the water-filled field to feast on the insects. The womenfolk singing while at work is a sight straight from a picture postcard. The children splash water everywhere while adults are busy measuring rainfall in their own rustic way. Monsoon is a time when purple clouds bring joy, the sound of music is everywhere while the gentle rainy breezes bring earthy perfumes and soothe the hearts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/monsoon-musings-1039732.html
11-10-2021||Second Edit||Sale of Air India: It had to be done||The sale of Air India to the Tatas marks the most difficult disinvestment event ever in the country. It is important for many reasons. The government gets only Rs 2,700 crore from the sale but the gains are much bigger because a part of the load of accumulated debt and continuing losses are off its back now. It is the first sale of a PSU in two decades, and so breaks a jinx. Selling Air India was complex and difficult. Huge debt and losses that kept soaring, the influence that its employee unions wielded in decision-making and, for the present, the poor state of the airline industry presented difficulties. But even when the industry was growing, Air India was ailing. Repeated attempts to turn it around and infusions of money failed to work. But finally, the deal has now been done.   Because of the historical and operational difficulties involved, the deal needed proper planning and problem-solving acumen. The efforts had collapsed more than once. The bid value was arrived at through enterprise valuation, as in mergers and acquisitions. As much as Rs 46,262 crore of debt had to be parked in a State-owned holding company. The airline was sold without its valuable real estate in major cities, as selling those assets would have been controversial. But the government can now breathe easy and the civil aviation ministry can turn its attention to the issues that plague the sector. The long-suffering industry has nose-dived during the pandemic time and recovery will be a long process. The government can think of policies and decisions that will help the sector to look up.  The Tatas seem happy that the airline has come back to them. Tata Airlines, later Air India, pioneered aviation in India under JRD Tata and so there are sentiments attached to its return to the family. The group already has a presence in the sector with Vistara and Air Asia, and Air India will add to it. The airline will need a lot of investment and hard work to make it competitive. But Air India also has strengths that will stand it in good stead. It has landing slots in all the major airports of the world and flying rights on some very important routes. It has valuable infrastructure and technical and human resources. It should be noted that the unions have not objected to the deal. This may be because they have realised that there is no other option. The goodwill that the Tatas evoke may also be a factor.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/sale-of-air-india-it-had-to-be-done-1039737.html
11-10-2021||South||Kerala youth found guilty of murdering wife using snake||A youth has been found guilty of murdering his wife by inflicting snake bites in Kerala's Kollam district. Uthara, 25, a native of Anchal in the suburbs of the district, was found dead in her house after suffering snake bites on May 7, 2020. Police investigation found that her husband, Sooraj, 27, used a snake to murder Uthara, who had some deformities, with the intention of grabbing her wealth. An additional sessions court in Kollam on Monday found him guilty. The sentence will be pronounced on Wednesday. The case was considered as the first murder in Kerala in which a snake was used. Uthra had survived a similar attempt by Sooraj earlier. While a viper was used initially, a cobra was used in the second attempt. Her family became suspicious over the death and hence sought a police investigation. Suresh, who supplied snakes to Sooraj, was initially made an accused in the case. But since he was found to be unaware of the murder plan, he was made a prime witness. As part of gathering evidence, the investigation team also recreated the murder using a live snake and dummy of the victim to find the pattern of the snake bites. It was done with the help of forest officials. A postmortem examination of the cobra used for the killing was also conducted as part of the investigation. As many as 87 witnesses, 288 documentary evidence and 40 material evidences were produced by the prosecution. A police team led by SP S Harishankar investigated the case. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-youth-found-guilty-of-murdering-wife-using-snake-1039571.html
11-10-2021||South||Alleged thief killed in police encounter near Chennai||A man, who allegedly snatched a chain from a woman at gunpoint near a toll plaza on the Chennai-Bengaluru highway, was shot dead by the police in an encounter on Monday. The deceased, identified as Murthasha, was killed in an encounter in Sriperumbudur, 50 km from here, on Monday afternoon. Police shot dead Murthasha while capturing his accomplice Akthar alive. The encounter comes a day after the duo snatched a gold chain from a woman near the Irungattukottai toll plaza on the Chennai-Bengaluru highway on Sunday morning. After snatching the chain, the duo escaped into the forest area and were hiding. Police personnel surrounded the lake and used drones to survey the location since Sunday afternoon. A police official said one of the accused tried to shoot at the police party in the forest area following which he was shot dead. While Murthasha was killed, Akthar was caught alive. The body of Murthasha has been sent to the government hospital in Sriperumbudur for autopsy. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alleged-thief-killed-in-police-encounter-near-chennai-1039682.html
11-10-2021||South||DMK MP surrenders before a court in murder case||DMK Lok Sabha MP from Cuddalore, T R V S Ramesh, on Monday surrendered before a court, two days after the CB-CID wing of the Tamil Nadu police registered a case against him and five others in connection with the murder of a worker in a cashew processing unit owned by him. Ramesh, who was on the run since Saturday when the police named him in the FIR, surrendered before the Judicial Magistrate Court-I in Panruti in Cuddalore district. Ramesh has been booked for the murder of 60-year-old Govindarasu who was working at the cashew processing unit in Panikankuppam village in the district. Along with Ramesh, five others were named as accused – while the MP surrendered today, all five were taken into custody on Saturday. As the CB-CID team could not find the MP at his residence on Saturday when they went to serve summons, the police was under pressure to arrest Ramesh. Police said Govindarasu, a resident of Melmampattu village in the district, was found dead inside the cashew processing unit owned by the MP on September 20, hours after he was allegedly beaten up by five labourers of the unit.  The group of five, according to police, assaulted Govindarasu after accusing him of stealing 7 kg of cashew nuts from the unit. At the Kadampuliyur police station where Govindarasu was taken after the alleged assault, the police asked him to take to a hospital. However, Govindarasu was found dead inside the factory a few hours later. Before his surrender, Ramesh issued a statement saying the case was being politicised by the Opposition parties for political gains. “I am confident that I will prove my innocence,” he said, adding he was surrendering before the court only to ensure that his party, DMK, does not get a bad name. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mp-surrenders-before-a-court-in-murder-case-1039687.html
11-10-2021||South||Prakash Raj quits actors' body after drubbing in MAA polls; blames 'Telugu regionalism' for defeat||Veteran actor Prakash Raj has announced his exit from the Telugu Movie Artists Association (MAA), a day after he was trounced by actor Manchu Vishnu in the presidential elections. Raj, associated with Telugu cinema for over two decades and known for playing villainous and other character roles, alleged that “voting on regionalism basis, with some categorising him as an outsider – a non-Telugu,” resulted in his failure. MAA has over 900 members, who are all actors in the Telugu film industry, and the biennial polls are held to instate a new panel consisting of president, vice-presidents, secretaries, treasurer etc office bearers. The elections this time were marked by an unprecedented campaign which often turned unpleasant with serious accusations and counter charges. While 657 votes were polled on Sunday for the president post, Vishnu, son of senior actor Manchu Mohanbabu, defeated Raj with a majority of 109 votes. The participation of Raj in the MAA elections had attracted the attention of political parties too this time. Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay thanked MAA voters for drubbing “anti-national elements.” “This is the correct lesson for those who supported the tukde gang wishing to dismantle our nation,” Bandi tweeted after the poll results came out on Sunday night. Raj is known for his anti-BJP, anti-Modi stance in politics. During the 2019 elections, the actor-turned politician had campaigned in Bihar's Begusarai in support of former JNU student leader Kanhaiya Kumar. Kumar who was unsuccessful as a CPI candidate has now joined the Congress party. Raj himself lost in Bengaluru, the place he hails from. As an independent candidate, Raj could muster only about 29,000 votes in the Bangalore Central constituency. On Monday, addressing reporters in Hyderabad, Raj alleged that senior most actors like Mohanbabu, Kota Srinivasa Rao “have openly stated that I should behave (in Hyderabad) like a guest.” “So, I have decided to remain (in the Telugu film industry) as an invitee, not as a MAA member. I was defeated in the (Lok Sabha) elections too but I did not quit politics. I am only leaving MAA, I would continue to act in Telugu films,” Raj said. While maintaining that he “respects the voter verdict,” Raj charged that “even nationalism made its way in here.” “BJP leader Bandi has congratulated (the other side). I thought political support was not needed in MAA elections.” President elect Vishnu pleaded with Raj not to take a hasty decision, adding that success and failure should be accepted with the same spirit. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prakash-raj-quits-actors-body-after-drubbing-in-maa-polls-blames-telugu-regionalism-for-defeat-1039715.html
11-10-2021||South||'No relevance': Kerala man moves HC against PM Modi's picture on Covid vaccine certificate||A Kerala man has moved the Kerala High Court challenging the requirement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's picture on the Covid-19 vaccination certificate. The Kerala HC sought a report from the Centre and Kerala government on the matter. According to the petitioner, M Petre hailing from the Kottayam district, there was no relevance of the Prime Minister's picture on the vaccination certificate and it was a violation of the fundamental rights of citizens. It gives an impression that the fight against Covid is a one-man show. Petitioner's lawyer Ajit Joy said that carrying the picture of Modi on the vaccination certificate affects the Right to Privacy as the picture has no relevance. Such propaganda would also affect the freedom of voting of individuals and it was for that reason Modi's picture was not allowed on Covid vaccination certificates during the elections in some states. Vaccination certificates of 12 countries were also produced by the petitioner before the court. The court directed the Centre and state to give a response in two weeks' time. Meanwhile, health department sources said that in order to prevent the chances of manipulation of Covid certificates it would be desirable to carry a picture of the individuals in the vaccination certificate. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-relevance-kerala-man-moves-hc-against-pm-modis-picture-on-covid-vaccine-certificate-1039716.html
11-10-2021||South||Tirumala Brahmotsavams: AP CM Reddy offers silk vastrams to Lord Venkateshwara||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy presented silk robes to Lord Venkateshwara in Tirumala on Monday, on behalf of the state government. Reddy took part in a procession from the Bedi Anjaneya Swamy temple opposite the main shrine and presented the vastrams to the main deity. He later participated in the Garuda vahana seva as part of the ongoing Brahmotsavams. Earlier, the CM inaugurated the Sri Padmavati Children's Heart Centre, set up in the Balaji Institute of Research and Rehabilitation for the Disabled (BIRRD) super specialty hospital in Tirupati. The exclusive children heart care hospital is first of its kind in Andhra Pradesh. The 50-bed hospital will be initially housed in the TTD-run BIRRD. The total expenditure incurred on civil, electrical work, medical equipment including Cath Lab, heart-lung machine, Cardiography system machines etc. was Rs 25 crore. The Chief Minister also inaugurated the renovated Alipiri pedestrian route and a Gau Mandiram near Srivari Padalu. On Tuesday, Chief Minister Reddy would launch the Sri Venkateswara Bhakti channels in Hindi and Kannada, and inaugurate the second boondi mixture complex near the Tirumala shrine. The annual temple event is this time free of the controversy that surrounded the CM's visit in 2020. Questioning Reddy's faith in Lord Venkateshwara, the opposition TDP and BJP had last year renewed their demand that the CM should sign the Tirumala declaration required for non-Hindus to enter the premises. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirumala-brahmotsavams-ap-cm-reddy-offers-silk-vastrams-to-lord-venkateshwara-1039720.html
11-10-2021||South||82.6% adults in Kerala have Covid antibodies, finds sero-survey||More than 80 per cent of those 18 years old and above in Kerala have Covid-19 antibodies according to the latest sero prevalence study carried out by the LDF government, State Health Minister Veena George said on Monday. The Minister, answering queries regarding the survey raised in the State Assembly, said that 82.6 per cent of the population of 18 years and above had Covid-19 antibodies and the reason for that was vaccination and infection by the virus. The survey, which concluded at the end of September, also found that sero prevalence was comparatively low -- 65.4 per cent -- in pregnant women between the age of 18-49 years, she said. This was due to the precautions that women take during pregnancy, which kept them safe from infection, and delay in vaccination, the Minister said. By comparison, those above 18 years in urban slums and coastal areas of the State were found to have a much higher rate of sero prevalence -- 85.3 per cent and 87.7 per cent respectively, she said. The reason for this, according to the Minister, was the high density of population in these areas and the high number of Covid-19 cases being reported from there. In tribal areas, the sero prevalence of those above 18 years of age was found to be 78.2 per cent which was lower than that of 82.6 per cent as tribal areas have low population density, the Minister said. She said the percentage can be increased by increasing the vaccination in these areas. Of the six categories from which samples were collected, the 5-17 years age group was found to have the lowest sero prevalence rate -- 40.2 per cent -- according to the study, she said. This was due to the reason that children have been kept indoors since the Covid-19 outbreak with classes being held online and therefore, they were kept away from most sources of infection. Moreover, vaccination of children was also miniscule and therefore, antibodies presence was also less, the Minister said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/826-adults-in-kerala-have-covid-antibodies-finds-sero-survey-1039729.html
11-10-2021||State||Coal crisis to be resolved in 2 days, assures Karnataka Energy minister ||Allaying fears of power cuts, Energy minister V Sunil Kumar on Monday clarified that the current crisis due to the inadequate supply of coal will be resolved in two days. Taking part in the induction programme of junior power man (Linemen) at the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL) in Bengaluru, he expressed hopes that the situation will be normal in two days.  "A rake of coal dispatched from Mahanandi Coal Fields in Odisha will be reaching Karnataka on Tuesday. One more rake of coal will arrive on Wednesday and this will be resolving the prevailing crisis," Sunil Kumar said. Adding further, the minister said, "We were supplied with about 10 rakes all these days. Now we have requested the Union Coal minister Pralhad Joshi to increase it to 14 rakes. Out of these, the two rakes will immediately deliver the required coal for our thermal plants and the other two will arrive in November."  Acknowledging that the shortage of coal may have led to serious problems in the state Sunil Kumar said, "We were anxious and trying our best to resolve the crisis. Led by CM Basavaraj Bommai, we had even submitted a memorandum to the union and the centre has also responded quickly to our request."  Clarifying that no thermal plant was shut due to the shortage, Sunil Kumar replied, "Only in a few plants, the generation was brought down by a few hours. But no thermal plant was shut for the shortage of coal."  In the meantime, the state government has appealed to the Union minister for the environment and Forests Bhupendra Yadav to grant permission to carry out coal mining at Mandakini and Baranji in Maharashtra where coal blocks were allocated to Karnataka. "As soon as we get permission to extract coal, we will proceed with that work as well ensuring an adequate supply of coal to Karnataka," Sunil Kumar explained.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coal-crisis-to-be-resolved-in-2-days-assures-karnataka-energy-minister-1039563.html
11-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rahul should lead Congress as Sonia not keeping well: Siddaramaiah||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Monday said that Rahul Gandhi should take up the responsibility of the Congress president and lead the party as early as possible in view of Sonia Gandhi not keeping well. "I have suggested to Rahul ji that he should become the president of the All India Congress Committee," Siddaramaiah told reporters here on the sidelines of a function. "It is not that Sonia ji is incapable of discharging her duties of the president. Sonia ji is not keeping good health. That is why I suggested Rahul ji to take over as early as possible," he added. To a question on shortage of coal in Karnataka, the Congress stalwart said that the Centre has already clarified that there was no shortage. He also opined that Karnataka does not require so much coal when renewable energy is abundantly available in the state. Siddaramaiah said that the Centre has already made it clear that there is no shortage of coal in the country. "In Karnataka also, according to my information, there is no scarcity of coal. If the government says that there is a scarcity, then it is artificial scarcity, according to me, because so much coal is not required for the production of power," the former Chief Minister said. "There is hydel power, wind and solar power available. Hence, so much coal-based power is not required," he explained.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rahul-should-lead-congress-as-sonia-not-keeping-well-siddaramaiah-1039646.html
11-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Statement on modern women unwilling to marry and bear children was taken out of context: Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Monday said his statement on modern women unwilling to marry and bear children at an event in NIMHANS was taken out of context and that he had no intention of singling out women and it was based on a survey, which cited statistics on what the younger generation felt about it. During the World Mental Health Day at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences (NIMHANS) on Sunday, Sudhakar had said, "Today, I am sorry to say this, lots of modern women in India want to stay single. Even if they get married, they don't want to give birth. They want surrogacy. So there is a paradigm shift in our thinking, which is not good." Issuing a clarification on Monday, Sudhakar said, "It is unfortunate that a small part of my address out of the nineteen and a half minutes long speech during the World Mental Health Day programme at NIMHANS on Sunday is taken out of context and thereby losing out on the larger point I was trying to make at the prestigious National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences." He said that being a father of a daughter and medical doctor by training, he understood the sensitivities around women and also the mental health issues. Sudhakar said that it is widely established through research and studies that in a situation where the mental health resource is a scarcity, families form a valuable support system, which could be helpful in management of various stressful situations. Indian society is collectivistic and promotes social cohesion and interdependence. The traditional Indian joint family, which follows the same principles of collectivism, has proved itself to be an excellent resource for the care of the mentally ill, he said. "Unlike western society, which puts the impetus on 'individualism', the Indian society is 'collectivistic' in that it promotes interdependence and co-operation, with the family forming the focal point of this social structure," the minister said. According to him, the Indian and Asian families are therefore, far more involved in caring of thier members and also suffer greater illness burden than their western counterparts. Sudhakar added that the Indian families are more intimate with the patient, and are capable of taking greater therapeutic participation than in the west. To substantiate his claim, he cited a research paper published in the Indian Journal of Psychiatry. Sudhakar said his statement about younger generation shying away from marriage and reproduction is also based on a survey. The findings of YouGov-Mint-CPR Millennial Survey shows that, among millennials, 19 per cent aren’t interested in either children or marriage, the Minister said. He added that another eight per cent want children, but are not interested in marriage. "Among post-millennials (or Gen Z adults), 23 per cent aren’t interested in either children or marriage. As in the case of millennials, eight per cent want children, but are not interested in marriage. There are very little gender-wise differences in these trends. It is applicable to both boys and girls," Sudhakar said. The minister said he was trying to convey that youth can find solution and solace to mental health issues like anxiety, depression and stress in our traditional family and its value system, which offers a wonderful support system. "I would like to clarify that I had no intention to single out women nor did my words mean so," Sudhakar clarified. He also asked people to go through his full speech on his Facebook page. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/statement-on-modern-women-unwilling-to-marry-and-bear-children-was-taken-out-of-context-sudhakar-1039655.html
11-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi sworn in as Karnataka HC's Chief Justice||Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi was on Monday sworn in as the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court. Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot administered the oath of office to him at the Raj Bhavan. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Irrigation and Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar and other top officials were present. The post of Chief Justice fell vacant after Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was elevated as a Supreme Court Judge and Justice Satish Chandra Sharma was appointed as the acting Chief Justice of the High Court. Justice Awasthi had graduated in Law from Lucknow University in 1986 and enrolled as an advocate on February 1, 1987. He had worked as the Assistant Solicitor General of India at Lucknow before elevation. He was elevated as Additional Judge of High Court of Judicature at Allahabad on April 13, 2009 and took oath as permanent Judge on December 24, 2010. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/justice-ritu-raj-awasthi-sworn-in-as-karnataka-hcs-chief-justice-1039673.html
11-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cauvery panel asks Karnataka to release water to TN||Cauvery Water Regulation Committee on Monday asked Karnataka to release water to Tamil Nadu based on availability of water in its Cauvery basin reservoirs. In the Committee meeting, Tamil Nadu demanded that Karnataka should release 45 tmc feet of water without any delay. However, Karnataka said it can’t release 45 tmcft of water due to shortage in storage. The committee chairperson Naveen Kumar, who is also chief engineer of Central Water Commission, asked Karnataka to release water to lower riparian state by taking into account of current storage. The meeting was attended by officials from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. The committee, which also took the stock of current situation in Cauvery basin including inflow and outflow, will submit its report to Cauvery Management Authority. The Authority will take a call on quantity of water to be released from Karnataka to Tamil Nadu. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cauvery-panel-asks-karnataka-to-release-water-to-tn-1039742.html
11-10-2021||West||Maharashtra bandh: BEST bus services shut in Mumbai after stone-pelting||Bus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) were closed in Mumbai on Monday after incidents of stone pelting at some places here in the wake of the Maharashtra bandh called by three ruling parties in the state to protest the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district, officials said. Nine buses, including one hired on lease, were damaged in areas like Dharavi, Mankhurd, Shivaji Nagar, Charkop, Oshiwara, Deonar and near Inorbit Mall here early morning, said a statement issued by BEST, which is the transport undertaking of the city civic body. "The BEST administration has called for police protection and buses will be operated from all depots after reviewing the situation," the statement said. Suhas Samant, a leader of the BEST Kamgar Sena which is affiliated with the ruling Shiv Sena, in a video clip on Sunday appealed to all the BEST employees to support the bandh.   As the BEST buses and many of the traditional 'black-yellow cabs' remained off roads, there were huge crowds on suburban railway stations to commute by local trains, which were running as per schedule. The three allies - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress - in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra have appealed to people to wholeheartedly support the bandh, which began at midnight, to express their solidarity with farmers. In the morning, shops and other commercial establishments, barring those engaged in selling essential items, remained closed in Mumbai and neighbouring areas. Viren Shah, president of the Federation of Retail Traders welfare Association said they decided to keep the shops shut for half-a-day in support of the bandh. "The shops will reopen from 4 pm onwards," Shah said. Shiv Sena's Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut last week said his party will participate with full force in the Monday bandh in Maharashtra. He said it was necessary to wake people up against the "anti-farmer" policies of the central government. Eight people, including four farmers, died in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The farmers died after being knocked down by vehicles reportedly carrying BJP workers, after which an angry mob allegedly lynched some people in these vehicles. On Saturday night, Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was arrested by the police in Lakhimpur Kheri in connection with the October 3 violence. NCP spokesman and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Sunday said the MVA demands that Union minister Ajay Misha be sacked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bandh-best-bus-services-shut-in-mumbai-after-stone-pelting-1039506.html
11-10-2021||West||Ahead of Goa Assembly polls, GFP gears up to forge alliance against BJP||Goa Forward Party (GFP) chief Vijai Sardesai has said his party would forge an alliance with other political outfits by this Diwali to counter the ruling BJP in the state Assembly polls due next year. Addressing a gathering on the occasion of the ongoing Navratri festival in his constituency Fatorda in South Goa district on Sunday evening, Sardesai accused the Congress, the main opposition party in the coastal state, of “abdicating its responsibility and duty” to heed the call for a pre-poll alliance with them. He said for the last two years, his party was rooting for a united 'Team Goa' to challenge and defeat the BJP. "We cannot sit idle forever and waste time because of the inefficiency and indecision of others," he said. "We will awaken the Durga in us and ensure Goa gets a new dawn @ Diwali," the GFP chief tweeted after the programme. The GFP has three MLAs in the 40-member Goa Assembly. In 2017, it supported BJP leader Manohar Parrikar to form government in the state. But, in 2019, after Parrikar's death, the GFP ministers were dropped from the state cabinet led by current Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahead-of-goa-assembly-polls-gfp-gears-up-to-forge-alliance-against-bjp-1039507.html
11-10-2021||West||Aryan Khan's bail plea in drugs case to be heard on October 13||A special court here Monday directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to file its reply on October 13 to a bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in connection with the seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Special Judge V V Patil, hearing matters related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, said it would hear the bail plea on Wednesday (October 13). Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3. He is currently in judicial custody and lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai. He approached the special court for bail after his plea for the same was rejected by a magistrate's court last week on the ground that it did not have the jurisdiction to decide the matter. On Monday, when Aryan Khan's counsel Amit Desai mentioned the bail plea, NCB's advocates A M Chimalkar and Advait Sethna sought a week's time to respond and file their affidavit. They said the investigation in the case was still on and there was quite a lot of material collected by the agency and at this stage, it needs to be seen if releasing Aryan Khan on bail would hamper the probe into the case. Desai, however, objected to it, saying a person's liberty is at question here, and argued that releasing the accused on bail would not stop the investigation in the case. "The bail will not stop the investigation. The NCB can continue their probe. That is their duty. But, keeping my client (Aryan Khan) in custody, especially when there has been no recovery (of drugs) from him, is not required," Desai said. "He (Aryan) has not been found in possession of any narcotics and there is no other material against him. Since his arrest, he has been in the custody of the NCB for a week and his statement was recorded twice. Why does he still need to be in jail?" the senior counsel argued. Chimalkar, however, said that the agency needs at least a few days time to file its reply. "What Desai is arguing appears to be rosy, but this is not what the investigation reveals or divulges. Aryan Khan is in judicial custody. Whether his release on bail will affect or hamper our investigation needs to be seen," Chimalkar said. Sethna, appearing for NCB, told the court that there was no extreme urgency for the bail plea to be heard immediately. Desai then sought the court to hear and decide Aryan Khan's plea separately, saying the recovery of drugs from each accused in the case was different. But, Chimalkar and Sethna opposed it and said the conspiracy is the same. Apart from Aryan Khan, four other accused in the case - Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sateja, and Mohak Jaiswal - have also filed bail pleas in the special court. The court said it would start hearing Aryan Khan's bail plea on Wednesday. Aryan Khan has been charged with offences under Sections 8(c), 20(b), 27, 28, 29 and 35 of the NDPS Act pertaining to possession, consumption and purchase of drugs. The NCB has so far arrested 20 people in the case.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aryan-khans-bail-plea-in-drugs-case-to-be-heard-on-october-13-1039523.html
11-10-2021||West||Woman gang-raped in Mumbai-bound train, all 8 accused arrested||The Government Railway Police have arrested all the eight accused involved in the case of rape of a 20-year-old woman on board the Lucknow-Mumbai Pushpak Express train between Igatpuri and Kasara railway stations in Maharashtra, an official said on Monday. The incident took place on Friday night when the accused boarded the Mumbai-bound train at Igatpuri and allegedly committed the crime while the train was passing through the ghat section. The police had then arrested four persons in this connection. According to a police official, they have now arrested all the eight accused in the case. They have been identified as Prakash alias Pakya Damu Pardhi (20), Arshad Sheikh (19), Arjun alias Pavya Subhash Singh Pardeshi (20), Kishor Nandu Sonawane alias Kaliya (25), Kashinath Ramchandra Telam Kashya (23), Akash Shenore alias Akya (20), Dhananjay Bhagat alias Guddu (19) and Rahul Aadole alias Rahulya (22). According to a GRP official, the accused consumed marijuana before entering the train. They had initially not planned to commit robbery in the train. But, after they entered the train, one of the accused tried to commit the offence by threatening a passenger with a knife, he said. The scared passenger gave him cash. Seeing the robbery bid successful, the other accused also started threatening passengers with knives. They thought they would not be recognised in the dark, the official said. Deputy Commissioner of Police, GRP, Manoj Patil said, “We have arrested all the eight accused in the case from Ghoti area of Igatpuri. Four of the accused have some criminal record, while the remaining do not have any previous case against them." During the investigation into the case, the police found that the accused robbed 16 passengers of their cash and also took away nine mobile phones. The accused sexually assaulted the 20-year-old woman, who got married recently and was coming to settle in Mumbai. When the woman's husband tried to save her, he was also assaulted by the accused, the official said. The police have registered offences against the accused under various Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections, including 395 (dacoity) and 376(D) (gang rape), he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-gang-raped-in-mumbai-bound-train-all-8-accused-arrested-1039546.html
11-10-2021||West||Shiv Sena backs Varun Gandhi over his stand on Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Backing BJP MP Varun Gandhi for his support to the farmers' movement, especially after the Lakhmipur Kheri incident, the Shiv Sena on Monday said all farmer organisations should pass a resolution applauding him for his stand on the issue. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' also asked whether the blood of other MPs had “turned cold” even after seeing the “horrific” incident at Lakhmipur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh where eight people, including four farmers, were killed earlier this month. The death of the four cultivators triggered strong reactions from farmer leaders, while opposition parties launched an attack on the BJP-led central and the UP governments. “The country cannot afford attempts being made to spread animosity. Varun Gandhi is the grandson of (former prime minister) Indira Gandhi and son of Sanjay Gandhi. After seeing the Lakhmipur horror, his blood boiled and he expressed his opinion,” the editorial said. Varun Gandhi showed political courage without thinking of any consequence and condemned the killing of farmers, the Marathi publication noted. “Farmers' leaders should pass a resolution applauding Varun Gandhi,” said the Sena, which parted ways with long-term ally BJP after the Maharashtra Assembly polls in 2019 over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. The editorial said the 'Maharashtra bandh', called by the ruling allies Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress in the state on Monday, is for those who cannot express their feelings openly. Varun Gandhi on Sunday warned against attempts to turn the Lakhimapur Kheri incident into a "Hindu vs Sikh battle", saying it is dangerous to create these fault lines and reopen wounds that have taken a generation to heal. The Pilibhit MP, who was recently dropped from the BJP national executive, said the struggle for justice in Lakhimpur Kheri is about the "cruel massacre of poor farmers in the face of an arrogant local power elite," and the issue has no religious connotations. "To use the word 'Khalistani' liberally to describe the protesting farmers is not only an insult to the generations of these proud sons of the Tarai who have fought and shed blood on our borders, it is also extremely dangerous for our national unity if this provokes the wrong kind of reaction," he had said. Police on Saturday arrested Ashish Mishra, the son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, in connection with the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers during their protest over Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit last Sunday. Varun Gandhi has been sympathetic towards the farmers' cause over their protests against three agricultural laws and often tweeted in their support, a stand which is said to have not gone down well with the BJP leadership. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-backs-varun-gandhi-over-his-stand-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-1039595.html
11-10-2021||West||Maharashtra govt misusing power to ensure shutdown: Devendra Fadnavis||Lashing out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government for the Maharashtra bandh, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the government is misusing police and administrative machinery to ensure the shutdown. “The government is of complete double standards…they just want to grab media attention,” Fadnavis told reporters in Mumbai. According to him, if there is any true saviour of farmers, it is prime minister Narendra Modi. “The incident has happened in Uttar Pradesh…the government there is doing the needful,” he said, pointing out that because of back-to-back floods in Maharashtra the farmers are dying by suicides. “The farmers have not got a single ‘naya paisa’ help or very little help,” he said. “They equate the Lakhimpur Kheri incident with the Jallianwala Bagh massacre but what about the Maval firing incident (of Pune district) in which farmers were killed,” he said targeting NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. “When farmers are lathi charged in Rajasthan, they remain silent but for farmers' death in Uttar Pradesh they will shut down the entire Maharashtra,” he said. “This is like state-sponsored bandh imposed and implemented with the help of police and administration. The traders and businessmen and their unions are being threatened to participate in it. The ruling parties are misusing police and sales Tax/GST administrations to impose bandh," he said. On the bandh and legal issues, he said: “The stone-pelting on BEST buses and then the stopping of BEST buses is all planned. It appears to be planned by the BMC and Maharashtra government. I request the Bombay High Court to take cognisance of this as the Supreme Court has prohibited such kind of bandhs. The Maharashtra government should compensate for the vandalism on BEST buses. This is the first time a cabinet which is responsible for the functioning of the state has called for a state bandh,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-misusing-power-to-ensure-shutdown-devendra-fadnavis-1039616.html
11-10-2021||West||Existing drugs used for diabetes can be used to treat Covid: Study||New research that reviewed biomolecular relationships among Covid-19, ageing and diabetes, suggested that existing drugs used to treat diabetes can be potentially used to treat Covid-19.  Additionally, the study found naturally existing biomolecules that can be also explored in combination for Covid treatment.  The study was presented by Dr Amjad Husain, Principal Scientist at Bhopal-based Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), along with researchers from University of Arizona.  Dr Husain said, ”With the nearly two-year-long Covid-19 pandemic continuing to ravage the world, we are beginning to slowly understand the virus and its functioning.”  It is now known that the effects of the viral infection are severe on the aging population and people with existing diabetic conditions. There are studies being conducted worldwide on the effects of aging and diabetes on the short- and long-term outcomes of the Covid-19 infection. “There is an urgent need to shortlist effective therapeutics from the existing pool of potential compounds,” as the time taken to discover a new drug and its approval takes longer, said the lead researcher. Published review shows that at the molecular level, there are intersecting pathways that are common to diabetes, ageing, and Covid-19.  All three conditions are associated with oxidative stress and lowering of the immune response and complications arising from them lead to the onset of numerous other diseases such as cardiovascular disorders, eye diseases, neuropathy (nerve diseases), and nephropathy (kidney problems). "Researchers believe that an ideal therapeutic candidate for Covid-19 should be able to target the pathways that are common to diabetes, ageing and the SARS-CoV-2 infection. There are classes of compounds such as polyphenols found in plant-based food — curcumin (found in turmeric), and resveratrol (found in grapes), have been shown to not only slow down the ageing process but also possess anti-viral properties,” said Dr. Husain.  Some other polyphenols that the researchers have identified as being useful for both Covid-19 treatment and comorbidity conditions such as diabetes and ageing may include catechins (present in green tea, cocoa and berries), procyanidins (found in apples, cinnamon and grape skin), and theaflavin (found in black tea). Researchers also present evidence of some existing potential anti-ageing drugs such as Rapamycin that can be explored for the Covid-19 treatment because of the common biochemical pathways associated with these diseases. Another such example is Metformin, which is usually used to control blood sugar. The study has also performed computational studies to show that lipids present in cell membranes play an important role in coronavirus infectivity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/existing-drugs-used-for-diabetes-can-be-used-to-treat-covid-study-1039622.html
11-10-2021||West||Vanishing wetlands change migratory bird flight pattern, may pose threat to aircraft at NMIA||As apprehended several times, the five ‘vanishing wetlands’ of Navi Mumbai have begun to show a telling impact on the migratory bird flight pattern and this could increase the bird-hit threats to the aircraft at the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA), a top BNHS scientist said quoting latest studies. BNHS scientist Mrugank Prabhu expressed concern over the landfill of wetlands at Belpada, Bhendkhal and Panje in Uran and said the migratory birds have been flocking to the DPS Lake, the NRI and TS Chanakya waterbodies in Nerul. If the birds continue to miss their usual destinations, they would get attracted to the vast high grounds of the Navi Mumbai airport for nesting and rooting and this could definitely pose a risk to flights, Prabhu said, delivering the keynote address at an online discussion organized by NatConnect Foundation on the occasion of the World Migratory Bird Day. The theme of the NatConnect’s campaign was “Save Ambassadors of Environment”. Another key factor that has to light during the BNHS studies is that birds from the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary also take refuge on the Navi Mumbai wetlands, apart from the mudflats at Mankhurd, when the creek gets flooded during high tides. According to a press statement by NatConnect Foundation, the BNHS study report has called for conserving the five wetlands of Navi Mumbai. Asked about the CIDCO stand against the wetlands often quoting a BNHS recommendation against the presence of birds in the vicinity of the NMIA, the scientist asserted that the advice was given in a different context altogether. BNHS gave this opinion when CIDCO had planned a mangrove park near the airport. It was not against the wetlands. In fact, BNHS had inits Baseline Study for NMIA way back in March 2015 itself cautioned against the landfill on wetlands. Ever since, BNHS has been periodically alerting CIDCO, he said. NatConnect Foundation director B N Kumar pointed out that it is significant that the BNHS had also recommended conservation of the Panje, NRI and TSC wetlands, along with Mahul-Sewree stretch, as an environmental mitigation measure for the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL). “All in all, it is high time that we paid attention to these vanishing wetlands,” he said. In a fresh missive to the Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, NatConnect has drawn his attention to these study reports and the need to instruct the State to conserve the five wetlands listed by BNHS to avert bird-hit crisis that could endanger flights. Speaking as the chief guest at the WMBD event, Divisional Forest Officer Adarsh Reddy of Mumbai Mangrove Conservation Unit said the department planned to restore mudflats in the Thane Creek where new mangroves have grown due to the silt etc. This will be done on an experimental basis to see if birds would start using these places for nesting and roosting.Initially, 30 hectares would be cleared of the newly grown mangroves for which the High Court permission would be sought, he said. Reddy also explained that the process of taking over 1,900 hectares of mangroves for conservation together from CIDCO and JNPT is already on as per the Bombay High Court directive to protect the sea plants as reserve forests. The migratory birds, apart from a host of fish, thrive on mudflats – the flat, wet areas in the high tide zones. Nanda Kumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, regretted that the wetlands in Uran have been under constant attack. “Despite the government and NGT orders, the tidal water flow that has been blocked at Panje is yet to be restored,” he said. Sunil Agrawal of Save Navi Mumbai Environment regretted that CIDCO had given a wrong statement that the NRI and TSC water bodies are not wetlands despite them figuring in the National Wetland Inventory and Assessment (NWIA). It was on the basis of this statement that the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) had cleared the proposal for a golf course on these wetlands. Subsequently, on Agrawal’s petition, the Bombay High Court scrapped the golf course project. CIDCO had since moved the Supreme Court. Activist Jyoti Nadkarni requested BNHS to include Kharghar wetlands for the latter’s studies. A large number of different species of birds visit these wetlands which also face threats from illegal shrimp farming and reclamation, she said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vanishing-wetlands-change-migratory-bird-flight-pattern-may-pose-threat-to-aircraft-at-nmia-1039639.html
11-10-2021||West||Nine-year-old Mumbai boy wins West Region National Design Championship for coding||Meghnaad Vijaykar, a nine-year-old Grade 4 student of Billabong High International School (BHIS) at Santacruz in Mumbai bagged top spot in the National Design Championship 2021 for coding in the junior category. Students from all over India participated in this championship. Meghnaad participated from the West region. Meghnaad achieved the top position for designing a code for a memory game using his Microbit V2 mini-computer. He is now eligible for the National Level championship, where the winners of all 4 regions will participate and compete with him, a BHIS statement said. Meghnaad started learning coding at the beginning of the pandemic by watching YouTube videos. He increased his knowledge and levels of learning by himself. Upon coming to know about the National Design Championship 2021, he was very excited and chose to participate in the competition. Elated on winning, Meghnaad said, "I am delighted to have won and to represent the west region. I love coding. At the event, the topic given to me was a memory game. I designed a code and used my Microbit V2 to bring the idea alive. I designed a simple yet very catchy memory game, where people had to remember a secret code in a flash of 5 seconds.” He added: “The secret code had just 2 letters, A and B for the game. If someone gets it wrong, the microbit would flash across along with a sound, and the answer is right, it would flash a tick mark along with a different sound. In the jury round, I was asked many questions regarding my knowledge about coding this game. I would like to thank my parents and teachers including my principal for their continuous support, guidance and motivation, as a result of which I won this championship.” Delighted with the student's achievement, Nikhat Azam, Principal, BHIS Santacruz said, "Our goal is to encourage children to find their north star- the thing they truly love and are passionate about. This is facilitated through constant encouragement when our Billabongers wish to explore different pursuits. We also have a dedicated 'genius hour' which is part of our curriculum that ensures our children spend 1 hour a week on their passion projects. This is something that large MNCs do, however we have started it in school itself. Children can take up any project and hone it over the year.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nine-year-old-mumbai-boy-wins-west-region-national-design-championship-for-coding-1039712.html
