12-10-2021||Analysis||Congress: Signs of welcome change||Punjab has been a fiasco for the Congress. But it comes alongside one of the better things that has happened in recent years – the induction of Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani into the party, and the subsequent discomfort voiced by some of its senior leaders. This is just the kind of disturbance and change the party needs as it is pushed to the wall, desperate in its attempt to prepare to stand up to the BJP and have a fighting chance in the elections, be they the coming Assembly polls or the later national round. When the chips are down, disturbance is better than peace; any change is better than no change. In the Congress, the standard operating system for hopefuls to rise has been pretended reverence and visible obeisance to the first family of the party. What kept the arrangement going was reward power and coercive power, marking the capacity of the Gandhi family to reward, punish and keep delinquents in check. It worked as long as there was a capacity to give something or take it away. Now, when the ‘high command’ is no longer in a position to do either, the framework has collapsed. The ‘high command’ legitimacy and competence is in question. While the family is the butt of criticism for getting it all wrong in Punjab, the curious case of the Congress is that the rest of its leadership is also a set of mini durbars. These second-line durbars represent a set of entrenched interests, privileged connections and power games, without in any way delivering on the political arena. Some of them are highly educated, suave and savvy, but they do not speak the language of the people, they cannot hold political meetings, they are more comfortable in clubs and TV studios, not in the hurly burly of the grassroots where the issues are decided. The fact is, the Congress has been brought down as much by this list of mini leaders as by the fabled command and control of the Gandhis. None of these Delhi-centric operators capture the imagination of the people; they cannot turn the burning issues before the nation, the crisis that threatens the very fabric of India, into crowds and votes. In fact, the party has not even been able to fire the imagination of the so-called intelligentsia. Who really in the Congress stands up as a credible voice on finance, external affairs, security, health, education today? Look for the names and all that emerges is the second round of durbaris who have long sat in power, have lost credibility, and are often, if not always, tainted in some way. If the “hiring” of Kumar and Mevani indicates that the second-level durbars of the Congress are being displaced, it is a good sign. But that is only a beginning. Alongside comes the question on whether the two inductions are to be seen as an acquisition by the Congress or an assimilation, and if this is to be read as a signal of bigger change within the Congress fold. The acquisition format would mean that Kumar and Mevani, both ambitious young leaders, will become one more durbar within the Congress with their own set of power claims as long as they begin to deliver what the Congress desperately wants – crowds and votes. That would be a national replay of the regional drama seen in the ugly antics of Navjot Singh Sidhu – give me this or I quit. The other way would be for the Congress to allow them to grow, build their base and, in due course, challenge the entrenched interests within the party. This would demand a fundamental change in the way the party operates – from a hold-and-control operation it can turn into a vibrant, if sometimes chaotic, life force. But this kind of perestroika will carry the risk of destroying the very structure of command-and-control that has worked in the party for long years. It is never easy to change the operating system, even if the eventual benefits are many. Yet, the party has little choice. The change also signals that the Congress will have to move sharply to the Left and open new routes to catching the imagination of the people by focusing on the issues of the poor, the marginalised and the weaker sections. Under the BJP, the national frame has moved too far Right for the comfort of many key constituencies in India. The aggressive and naked push toward neo-liberal policies under Narendra Modi, the over-corporatisation of power structures, the new ways and means to push public assets into private hands (as seen, for example, in the National Monetisation Pipeline), the obstinacy on the farm laws in the face of an agitation that has stood remarkably strong and peaceful one year down the line, are all polices and indications that add to the strife and discomfort index of India. But a change cannot be forced by pussyfooting on these issues. The ambivalence of some in the Congress on issues like Article 370, the illegitimate fear that Kumar will be seen as part of the “tukde-tukde” team which will open Congress to questions on nationalism, and indeed the thinking that seems to buy into the present-day economic policies and environmental plunder will not help the party. Indeed, the Congress has been as much guilty on these counts in the past, and it can be argued that the BJP has just upped the ante. That past has to be discarded and erased for a new journey forward. At the same time, the Congress must manage and build strategic partnerships, like the alliance with the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra. This taps into the dissatisfaction of the eco-system with the BJP’s ‘ogre-ish’ style of gobbling up everything for itself. It opens new routes to alliances that can help reform the toxic political climate. This is a complex balancing act. Therefore, the Kumar-Mevani entry into the Congress may indicate the coming of some big change. It is about time for the Congress to herald that change. There is a long road ahead. It is the Congress that gave us the Soviet-style five-year plans, the “commanding heights of the economy” in the public sector and the approach of ‘garibi hatao’. It is the Congress that put us on the path to neo-liberal policies as the treasury stood empty in 1991. It may well be the Congress that pushes back the agenda to the needs and aspirations of the marginalised sections. That would be a good route to a happy revival. (The writer is a journalist and a faculty member at SPJIMR. Views are personal)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/analysis/congress-signs-of-welcome-change-1040035.html
12-10-2021||Analysis||Rebuilding our democracy||The Taliban-scripted Afghanistan catastrophe is not a one-off tragedy. It is indicative of a larger trend at play: a meteoric rise of abject totalitarianism soaring high on the wings of regressive thought and inhuman atrocities. Taliban may be an extreme example of autocracy reminiscent of the dark ages, but the rapidly deteriorating fabric of democracy is a global phenomenon, as contagious as the pandemic, if not more.  No wonder, we are already witnessing the tell-tale signs of impending mayhem. All around us, we see fake narratives based on flawed notions of nationalism and religious protectionism playing havoc, what with minorities labelled as a downright threat to the majority, secular principles mocked at with unfailing regularity, selfless activists unabashedly belittled, and public broadcast heavily censored and blatantly sponsored. Defamation laws and government machinery are being abused left, right and centre, and dissent is being nipped in the bud with sedition cases. Even the most serious ‘eavesdropping’ accusations have been kept away from fair scrutiny.   There’s no denying the fact that India has a very transparent electoral system, theoretically devoid of any voter suppression. The inexcusable stain, however, is the fact that votes are cast based on caste, creed, language, and religion. Given that this glaring socio-cultural bias happily meets political sanction, it is no surprise that corruption and favouritism loom large, evident in the disgraceful manner in which names are proposed, seconded, and nominated as electoral candidates or awarded ministerial berths. Vote banks continue to thrive on communal disharmony, largely the fallout of the ingenuous British move to form separate communal electorates in India. Having said that, we can’t absolve ourselves of our role in depriving democracy of its vigour and vitality. Come what may, all we do is to look away, keep mum or worse, relish heated but impotent debates in the cosy comfort of our living rooms. The onus is on us, the citizens of India, to restore and revitalize our priceless democracy. We all know it is the most potent vehicle to ensure that our preferences and aspirations steer good governance and effective policymaking. But what are our preferences? Are there any in the first place?  We must first cherish the value of our votes before we cast them, which calls for deep introspection into the very meaning and significance of democracy and the pillars that uphold it - freedom of speech and expression, individual dignity, and mindful protection of the marginalised sections. Casting our votes is not about typecasting them with insular preferences based on caste, creed and religion. The much-talked-about EVMs have only ensured quick electoral turnarounds, yet propaganda has made us believe as if they are harbingers of a new era in Indian democracy, which is yet neither in sight nor in mind. Let’s take it on ourselves to bring it back in sight and mind.  Changing the way people vote is a colossal and formidable challenge in India, a country where the majority of voters hail from rural and remote areas and hence are largely uneducated and ignorant. Hence, we need to organize a series of focused rural campaigns to sensitize rural voters on why caste, creed, religion, momentary gains and freebies should not be the basis of their invaluable votes. Persuasive and persistent effort is required to help them internalise the fact that citizen votes must be necessarily cast on the basis of key issues towards electing genuine candidates with clean records and a clear conscience, rather than placing faith in people with shady pasts and suspect motives, only to lament in hindsight.  Let’s rebuild our democracy from scratch. Let’s join hands to try and steer a movement that alone will help us avert a despondent future led by despotism. (The writer is Executive Chairman, HCG Cancer Hospitals)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/analysis/rebuilding-our-democracy-1040046.html
12-10-2021||First Edit||Coal crisis: Denial won’t work||The government's denial of any shortage of coal has not put an end to concerns over its short supply and lack of availability in many parts of the country. There is a serious energy crisis as many thermal power plants are facing coal shortage. As many as 104 of the 135 thermal plants have been hit, and a number of them have reported that their buffer stocks may last for only two or three days. The recommended norm is over 20 days’ stock. Some of them have stopped working. Some states have already imposed power cuts and load-shedding and there are warnings that more severe measures may be needed. The Delhi government has issued a power shutdown warning. Power production has fallen below the normal levels and that is affecting domestic and industrial consumption. The textile industry in Surat has reportedly decided to close down for a month.  Coal shortage during the last months of the year is not uncommon, but this year it has been aggravated by mismanagement and lack of planning on the part of Coal India (CIL). About 55 per cent of the country’s energy production depends on coal and CIL accounts for 83 per cent of it. It had cut its production of coal during the pandemic months but did not foresee the rise in demand after the economy started recovering. Its production had actually been slowing down and it did not seem to have planned for the sudden rise in demand. The monsoon also affected production and there were problems in transportation of coal from pitheads to thermal plants. Better foresight and planning would have averted the situation. The shortage led to an increase in imports but the spike in international prices made matters difficult. Power production using imported coal fell and the price of power increased. Some power producers have been unable to honour their contracts to supply power to states.  Since power is a critical input, disruption of its supply will adversely affect the nascent recovery of the economy. If scarcity of power leads to increase in the price of electricity, it will lead to inflation. But governments may not allow prices to be hiked and that will put pressure on the finances of power distributors. Union power minister R K Singh has said that some states are creating unnecessary panic. He has issued warnings to discoms against load-shedding and pulled up GAIL and Tata Power CEOs for “irresponsible behaviour’’. Another minister, Piyush Goyal, has blamed the UPA government for the present crisis. The government cannot solve the impending crisis either by denying its existence or shifting the blame. It has to address the situation as it exists today.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coal-crisis-denial-won-t-work-1040045.html
12-10-2021||In Perspective||War and wildlife||The world is facing an eminent mega extinction. Wildlife population dropped by 68 per cent between 1970 and 2016. In developed countries, these extinction trends are even more prominent. In the 50 years since 1970, the tropical ecozone of the US has seen a 94 per cent decline in wildlife population. Some 80 per cent of the world’s species live in only 6 per cent global area -- the tropical rainforests. But the world has lost 0.1 billion hectares of tropical forests between 1980 and 2000. Illegal wildlife trade, land conversions for agriculture, palm cultivation, animal husbandry are some key causes for this condition. The impact of wars on wildlife and wildlife conservation is another major reason for these extinctions. Since the 1950s, 80 per cent of the world’s wars have taken place in its biodiversity hotspots. Most of the tropical rainforests are scattered across Latin America, Africa and South-East Asia. This entire region has seen intense war and conflicts that make it difficult for international bodies to stress upon conservation values. It also increases the risks of poaching and illegal trade in wildlife parts. Between 1946 and 2010, 71 per cent of Africa’s conserved areas have been impacted by war. According to a study published in Nature, conflicts have been one major reason behind Africa’s wildlife crisis. The Mozambique civil war (1977-1992) was responsible for about a million lost lives. It was also harmful for wildlife conservation efforts in Mozambique. During this war, both rebel and government forces used the Gorongosa National Park as their base of operations. The park was home to unique Savanna wildlife -- zebra, wildebeest, dik-dik, elephants and lions. But this war has seen a 95 per cent reduction in wildlife populations. These populations have been hunted to near extinction in the quest for poaching to amass funds for war. Even after decades since the war ended and dedicated conservation efforts, Gorongosa’s wildlife population has not been revived. During the Rawandan civil war (1994), around 90 per cent of large mammals in the Akagara National Park were killed. Amongst them are the shy mountain gorillas. This conflict displaced around seven million people. Of these, about 860,000 people took shelter in the Virunga National Park while 332,000 resided near the Kahuzi Biega National Park in the Democratic Republic of Congo. This has taken its toll on the wildlife in these reserves. Civil war was responsible for the deaths of around 2,000 elephants in the Central African Republic in 2007. The Sudanese civil war (1983-2005) has resulted in the reduction of Sudan’s elephant population from 100,000 to a mere 5,000. Similar situations echo across the rainforest belt of South-East Asia. The Vietnam wars (1955-75) resulted in extensive poaching of the Javan Rhino. This species is on the verge of extinction and is designated ‘Critically Endangered’ by the IUCN. This war witnessed the use of a chemical weapon -- Agent Orange. It was sprayed across the South-East Asian rainforest to destroy the forest cover. It resulted in the deaths of tigers, Asian elephants, gibbons, civets and leopards residing in that region. Political instability in Myanmar is making the country a crossroad for the entry of illegal wildlife trade products into the markets of China. This indirectly fuels wildlife poaching across the world to enable supplies to ‘Chinese medicine’ demands. The Iraq-Iran war (1980-88) resulted in the wiping out of entire populations of wolves, otters, pelicans, striped hyenas, river dolphins across the Middle East. The Latin American state of Venezuela is in a socio-economic crisis. Fuelled by hydrocarbons under its soil, the country is in a state of anarchy. Situated in the north of the Amazonian rainforest, this is a warning for the unique biodiversity of the nation. If the crisis spills out of its border into neighbouring Brazil, it can turn into a wildlife catastrophe. Already, the environmentally oblivious Brazilian government is letting the unique Amazonian rainforest to be converted into croplands and ranches. With a conflict, the situation can get even more dire for the threatened South American wildlife. International interventions are required to protect wildlife during times of political instability in a country. In situ conservation is part of the 1992 Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). Area-based conservation requirements hold even during conflicts. The UNESCO World Heritage Convention also has provisions for protection of conserved spaces during wars. In 1995, a Draft Convention on the Prohibition of Hostile Military Activities in Protected Areas was drafted by the International Council of Environmental Law and the Commission on Environmental Law of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. But this has never materialised into an international treaty. Wars and conflicts are as hazardous to wildlife as they are to humans. In order to save the wildlife populations from a human-induced mega extinction, all international bodies must join hands to conserve wildlife. Peaceful existence is beneficial for conservation efforts and for saving the planet from the furies of climate change, global warming and wildlife extinctions. (The writers are Associate Professor and Dean respectively, at Jindal School of Environment and Sustainability, O P Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/war-and-wildlife-1040042.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Work on Shivamogga-Ranebennur railway line to begin soon||The Railways is set to spend Rs 1,000 crore to provide a direct link between Shivamogga and Ranebennur by building a new line via Shikaripura, a project said to have been taken up due to the demand by former chief minister B S Yediyurappa. The South Western Railway (SWR) has prepared a detailed project report for the 90-km line, which will require 1,431.29 acres of land, including forest land. The project is estimated to cost Rs 994 crore, of which the state government will share 50%, besides providing land free of cost. SWR chief signal and telecom engineer E Vijaya, also the incharge spokesperson, told DH that the project will be taken up in two phases. The Kote Ganguru-Shikaripura section will be taken up in the first phase, while the work on the Shikaripura-Ranebennur section will be taken up in the second. “Phase 1 requires a total of 616 acres, of which final notification has been issued for acquiring 500 acres in 27 villages. For phase 2, 815 acres in 27 villages are required, for which the Railways has proposed land acquisition between October 2019 and June 2020,” she said. As many as 22 major bridges, 62 road under bridges, 20 road over bridges and 48 minor bridges will be constructed for the railway line. They, however, are yet to fix a deadline for the project. A source told DH that deadlines are fixed only after land acquisition is completed. “Construction of a railway line can take about two years. However, if major bridges are involved, the period may extend by another year and a half,” the source said. The railway line will have 12 stations, including the existing Shivamogga Town and Ranebennur. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/work-on-shivamogga-ranebennur-railway-line-to-begin-soon-1039774.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||2 killed in lightning strikes as rains continue in north Karnataka, Mysuru region||Two farmers were killed in lightning strikes and ready-to-harvest sugarcane and other crops worth lakhs of rupees were damaged as thundershowers continued to lash parts of north Karnataka districts, including Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Bagalkot on Monday. A 48-year-old farmer was struck dead in a lightning strike while working at his farm at Saidapur in Annigeri taluk of Dharwad district. Deceased has been identified as Sangappa Warad, a native of the village. In another incident, Mahesh Dyamanna Jhunjungoudar (18) was killed in a lighting strike at Mushtigeri village near Kerur of Bagalkot district. Sharp spells of rain in the afternoon left many roads and residential areas in the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad waterlogged. Motorists had a torrid time negotiating the flooded Srinagar Cross road near Unkal. Vehicular movement between Alnavar and Dharwad was affected badly after a low-lying bridge at Kambarganavi went under floodwater. The heavy downpour affected normal life in Annigeri town. Rainwater mixed with sewage gushed into several houses in low-lying areas and stalls of TMC commercial complex, causing untold hardships to the residents and traders. Good inflows have swelled the water level in Tungabhadra reservoir near Hosapete. On Monday, the inflow to TB dam clocked 30,000 cusec. Locals came to the rescue of a tourist who got stuck in the middle of a submerged bridge at Mahalgod near Balehonnur as parts of Chikkamagaluru district experienced downpour. Incessant rain the region has swelled the water level in Bhadra river. Many parts of Mysuru region continued to see intermittent spells of rain. Incessant showers in the last two days left four houses damaged in Nagamangala town. Hours after Revenue Minister inspected the flooded KSRTC bus stand, rain resumed and submerged it again. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-killed-in-lightning-strikes-as-rains-continue-in-north-karnataka-mysuru-region-1039775.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada gram panchayats get incinerators for safe disposal of sanitary napkins||In a bid to find a solution to challenges posed regarding the safe disposal of sanitary napkins in rural areas, the rural drinking water and sanitation department, under the Swachh Bharat Mission, has taken up an initiative to install incinerators in all Gram Panchayats.  Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Kumar said that the installation of incinerators in all the 223 Gram Panchayats had been taken up. Training has also been imparted on the use of incinerators for safe disposal of the sanitary napkins, he added. A committee with members of self-help groups, GP members, health officials, Anganwadi and Asha workers will be constituted to monitor the safe disposal, he said. Awareness will be created among women about the incinerator. The waste collectors have been asked to collect the napkins separately. The residents have been asked to cover it in paper and mark X on it before handing it over to the waste collectors, sources in the ZP said. The incinerator runs on electricity. On an average 200 to 300 napkins can be burnt in a day. There is a separate tray to collect ash and the incinerator has a LED display as well. The incinerators comply with the guidelines of Pollution Control Board and Solid Waste Management rules 2016. A sum of Rs 45.60 lakh has been released for the purchase of incinerators, Kumar said. On the other hand, Kilpady Gram Panchayat in Dakshina Kannada has shown the way in managing menstrual waste. The Gram Panchayat has launched ‘Rutu’, a campaign dedicated to menstrual health and hygiene under Swachh Bharat. As a part of the campaign, they have distributed pink boxes to schools, anganwadi and panchayat building so that women can dispose of sanitary pads in these boxes after wrapping them in a paper. The napkins are collected and later incinerated. The staff will collect it from these centres daily and will dispose it off. According to Gram Panchayat authorities, people are encouraged to take up pipe composting for wet waste, while for dry waste door to door collection has been taken up. The panchayat has already installed incinerator that disposes the napkins by burning them. The incinerator can burn about 60 pads at a time in 20 minutes. The burnt ash will be flushed in the toilet, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-gram-panchayats-get-incinerators-for-safe-disposal-of-sanitary-napkins-1039787.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gram panchayat member steps in to clean drain in Shivamogga district||When elected representatives give excuses for not implementing development works, Abbalagere gram panchayat member Alamelu has become a role model to others by cleaning the drain, on Monday.  She was elected as gram panchayat member six months ago. Though drain was filled with waste disrupting flow of water over the last one year, contract workers were not keen to clean it. So, she got into the drain with equipment and started cleaning it. Inspired by her initiative, workers joined hands with her and cleaned the drain.  She told DH that she owns one acre of land and it has been the source of livelihood for many years. "With the support of people, I was elected as gram panchayat member. Why should I hesitate to work for the welfare of people? I always wanted to keep the village clean. Each village was given grant of Rs 50,000 to clean drains. It was outsourced to workers in urban areas.  But they were not keen to do it earlier. So I decided to clean the drain. Later, six workers joined the work." Gram panchayat Development Officer Prema has hailed the initiative of Alamelu and said it has become a role model to people's representatives.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gram-panchayat-member-steps-in-to-clean-drain-in-shivamogga-district-1039826.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two mild earthquakes reported in Kalaburagi's Chincholi||Earthquakes of 3.5 and 2.8 magnitudes were reported from Chincholi taluk in Kalaburagi district of Karnataka within 10 minutes. This is the seventh tremor people have witnessed in the region in a week. While two had occurred in Basavakalyan on October 1 and 5, four were recorded in Kalaburagi on October 9, 11 and 12.  Panic-stricken people spent the night outdoors in Gadikeshwar and Kupnoor following the tremors. The walls of over 10 houses have collapsed and hundreds of houses developed cracks. In the absence of private vehicles, people are moving out of the village on their motorbikes. Around 100 families have left surrounding villages. The Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority commissioner Manoj Rajan told PTI that he has convened a meeting of the geologists to understand the phenomena. He added that the disaster management teams in the north Karnataka region has been put on alert. They have also been briefed about the do's and don'ts in the event of any major earthquake. The KSNDMC said in a statement that the intensity observed on Monday night was "little higher than low intensity". "The earthquake might be felt up to a radial distance of 50 to 60 km or even more. These types of earthquakes do not create any harm or damage to the local community, although there will be vibrations felt up to a distance of 50 to 60 kms based on the local geology," it said. The earthquakes assume significance as the epicentres are in close proximity to Latur and Killari in Maharashtra, which had witnessed a massive earthquake in September 1993 killing a large number of people.  (With inputs from PTI) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-mild-earthquakes-reported-in-kalaburagis-chincholi-1039869.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 17.54 lakh seized at Mangalore Airport||Officers of Mangaluru customs seized 364 grams of 24-carat purity gold, at Mangalore International Airport (MIA) from a passenger on Tuesday. According to officials, the value of the seized gold is Rs 17,54,480. The passenger hailing from Kasargod had arrived from Dubai in the Air India Express flight. The gold in paste form was pasted with gum inside a brown coloured thick sheet and was concealed between two layers at the bottom of the trolley bag. A case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-1754-lakh-seized-at-mangalore-airport-1039905.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Continue old system of Arivu education loan scheme: GIO to Karnataka govt||Girls Islamic Organisation (GIO) has urged the state government to solve loopholes in the new order on the Arivu education loan scheme of Karnataka Minority Development Corporation and continue the scheme as it was before. GIO DK district unit convener and state advisory committee member Dr Ayesha said that majority of the beneficiaries of the scheme were female students. By reintroducing the old scheme, the government should reduce the burden on their parents. More than 30,000 students were availing of the benefits of the Arivu scheme across the state. Unfortunately, with the government stopping the release of the amount during the Covid-19 pandemic, the students are inconvenienced. The GIO has urged the officials and minister to restart the scheme. As per the new application form, only those students who have been admitted to private or government colleges under government quota through CET or NEET are eligible for the loan scheme. Those students who have availed of management quota seats are not eligible to avail the benefits. The applications are accepted only if the students apply in the first year of their course, she said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/continue-old-system-of-arivu-education-loan-scheme-gio-to-karnataka-govt-1039908.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||4 missing from Bengaluru traced in Mangaluru||Three minor children and one young woman who were missing from Bengaluru, were traced near KMC hospital at Ambedkar Circle in Mangaluru on Tuesday. The children, who have been rescued by the police, hail from Chikkabanavara in Bengaluru. The rescued are Amritavarshini, Bhoomika, Chintan and Rayan. On noticing all four near Ambedkar Circle, some auto drivers had informed the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-missing-from-bengaluru-traced-in-mangaluru-1039911.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Basavaraj Bommai manages to convince rebel BJP candidate Ballary||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai seems to have ended the dissidence that emerged in the Hangal assembly constituency ahead of the by-poll by convincing Channabasappa R Ballary, BJP's rebel candidate to withdraw the nomination papers. It may be mentioned that Ballary filed nomination papers as an independent candidate for the by-poll to Hangal assembly constituency slated to be held on October 30 after the party decided to field Shivaraj Sajjanar as its nominee. This turned out to be a setback for the ruling party.  Speaking to media persons, after holding a meeting with the chief minister in GMIT Guest House in the city on Tuesday,  BJP's rebel candidate Channabasappa R Ballary said that he was the aspirant of BJP's ticket for the by-poll to Hangal assembly constituency. But he does not know the reason for denying the ticket to him. "Following the pressure from people of Panchamasali Lingayat community, I decided to face the by-poll as an independent candidate. The chief minister held talks with me for more than 30 minutes. I would take a call on withdrawing nomination papers on October 13, the last day for withdrawal of nomination papers, after consulting people of the community in Hangal," Ballary said.   He said that he and Bommai were good friends and if the results of the by-polls become negative, it would bring disrespect to the chief minister. He further said, "So, I am thinking on those lines. I will abide by the decision of the community."  He also made it clear that he has not put forth any demand before the leadership. When asked about family politics, he said "Like Jarkiholi brothers family, my younger brother (Virupakshppa Rudrappa Ballary) is BJP MLA from Byadagi. So,  can't I become an independent MLA?" he questioned. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he held talks on poll strategies to emerge victorious in the by-elections to Hangal and Sindhagi assembly constituencies slated to be held on October 30. He also exuded confidence that BJP would win both the seats.  On Ballary, he said, "We are good old friends and he was a close aide of the former minister the late CM Udasi. I have discussed with him and Ballary will take a call on withdrawing nomination papers after holding talks with people of the community." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/basavaraj-bommai-manages-to-convince-rebel-bjp-candidate-ballary-1039949.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Yakshagana Bhagavatha Padyana Ganapathi Bhat passes away||Renowned Thenkuthittu Yakshagana Bhagavatha Padyana Ganapathi Bhat passed away due to a cardiac arrest on Tuesday morning. He was 66. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Hailing from a family of Yakshagana artistes, his father Tirumaleshwar Bhat was a maddale player while his grandfather Puttu Narayana was also a famous bhagavatha. He learned ‘bhagavathike’ from late Mambady Narayana Bhagavatha at an early age and entered the Yakshagana world at the age of 15. A leading bhagavatha of Tenkuthittu style of Yakshagana, he had served Yakshagana melas like Chowdeshwari, Kundavu, Surathkal, Mangaladevi, Edneer, Hosanagara and Hanumagiri for nearly five decades.   He had a hold over Tulu and Kannada languages and also composed new Yakshagana songs. Padyana Ganapathi Bhat gave his voice to over 1,500 Yakshagana related CDs. He performed in foreign countries and other major cities in India. He is a recipient of Dakshina Kannada Rajyotsava award, Malpe Shankaranarayana Samaga Prashasthi among others. He won the title of ‘Yaksharathna’. Udupi Yakshagana Kalaranga President Gangadhar Rao and Secretary Murali Kadekar have condoled the death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yakshagana-bhagavatha-padyana-ganapathi-bhat-passes-away-1039955.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Have been speaking agaisnt RSS since 1977: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Tuesday clarified that he has been speaking against the "divisive conspiracy" of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangha (RSS) since 1977. Replying to the remarks made by Rural Development and Pachayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa that speaking against the RSS is like playing with fire, the ex-CM said, "Not now, I have been speaking against the policies of the RSS since long." On bypolls to Sindagi and Hangal assembly segments, Siddaramaiah said we didn't expect the byelection, it was necessitated following the demise of M C Managuli and C M Udasi respectively. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/have-been-speaking-agaisnt-rss-since-1977-siddaramaiah-1039956.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||'No dissidence' among BJP leaders in Hanagal ahead of bypolls||BJP candidate for Hanagal bypolls Shivaraj Sajjan rubbished rumours of dissidence between him and Haveri MP Shivakumar Udasi, son of former minister C M Udasi, stating that they "will face the bypoll together". Speaking to media persons at GMIT guest house in the city on Monday night, he said he and Udasi are like brothers. "We have been together for 38 years. He helped me to get the ticket for the assembly polls in 2004 and in the council polls in 2008. So, there is no dissidence." Admitting that there was agitation when he was given a ticket for the bypoll, he said the leaders resolved the issue and all workers have decided to work together for the party's victory. Hanagal assembly constituency is part of the Haveri district represented by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. He said voters are keen to back BJP in the bypolls.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-dissidence-among-bjp-leaders-in-hanagal-ahead-of-bypolls-1039957.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM Bommai holds closed-door meeting on Karnataka bypolls||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai held a closed-door meeting on the bye-elections to Hanagal and Sindhagi Assembly constituencies at the GMIT guest house belonging to Davangere MP GM Siddeshwara on Monday night. Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar and Agriculture Minister B C Patil, among others, were present in the meeting. Speaking on the occasion, Agriculture Minister B C Patil said former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his son B Y Vijayendra will campaign for BJP ahead of the bypolls and the saffron party would win both seats. He also reiterated that Yediyurappa stepped down from the top post on his own and the Central leadership made another Lingayat as chief minister. So people of the community are still with BJP. The raids by Income tax department officials and price rise issues won't have any impact on the bypolls, he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-bommai-holds-closed-door-meeting-on-karnataka-bypolls-1039910.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||2023 Karnataka Assembly polls will be my last, says H D Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said that the 2023 assembly elections in Karnataka will be his last, and sought an opportunity from the people to independently run a government for five years, so as to implement programmes for the larger public good. "I have been the Chief Minister twice with your blessings. I have decided that the 2023 assembly election will be my last fight. It is not for me to come to power or become the Chief Minister. With the blessings of God, I have already been Chief Minister twice, despite not having a majority," Kumaraswamy said. Speaking to party workers and the public, he sought their blessings and support in bringing JD(S) to power independently, for implementing 'Pancharatna', the fivefold programme envisaged by him that include quality education, health, housing, farmer welfare and employment. "I'm marching ahead with a challenge...I request you with folded hands to give us (JDS) an opportunity to run an independent government in this state for five years. I seek your blessings," the former Chief Minister added. JD(S) has already announced: "mission 123" (winning 123 seats in the 224 member assembly) to bring the party to power, after the 2023 assembly polls. Pointing at farm loan waiver announced by him as Chief Minister of the Congress-JD(S) coalition government and a beneficiary farmer from Hangal inviting him for his housewarming ceremony, Kumaraswamy said, "but our farmers forget Kumaranna (as he is popularly called) while voting, this is the situation we are in." "Give one opportunity to the party you have nurtured, bless us to form a government on our own strength, believing in me...If I don't live up to my words on implementing Pancharatna, I will never come to you again, seeking votes for my party. Test us, you have seen both BJP and Congress," he added. Kumaraswamy had headed a coalition government with both national parties in the past, for 20-months with BJP from February 2006 and with Congress for 14-months after the May 2018 assembly polls. Earlier in the day, speaking to reporters, the JD(S) leader claimed that the recent Income Tax raids specifically on a person who is said to be former CM BS Yediyurappa's Personal Assistant and Water Resources department related contractors was an attempt by the BJP to "control" Yediyurappa, following his alleged late-night meeting with Congress leader Siddaramaiah. "Anyone with the slightest understanding of politics can understand that the recent IT raids were for what reasons...IT raids were with a political motive...it is to control or checkmate Yediyurappa...as both (Siddaramaiah and Yediyurappa) had a late-night meeting about political developments, and the BJP that has a government both at Centre and state got to know about it from their sources, and probably have tightened things," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/2023-karnataka-assembly-polls-will-be-my-last-says-h-d-kumaraswamy-1040015.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah invites those spreading rumours against him to open discussion on caste census||Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah invited those spreading rumours that he is opposing the report on the caste census to an open discussion on the issue and said that they will then understand whether he is in favour of or against the report. He was speaking at a protest convention organised by Karnataka State Backward Communities’ Federation urging to accept the caste census report in the City here on Tuesday. The ex-CM reiterated that instead of issuing statements sitting somewhere, they should come to a platform to discuss the issue. “I had constituted a Commission when I was chief minister and had released Rs 170 crore to it. About 1.6 lakh teachers took up the socio-economical and educational survey which lasted for two years. When I have had constituted the commission, how can I opposite it,” he asked and said, the report was not ready before my term could complete. Therefore, the question of accepting or rejecting the report will not arise. Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy has alleged that he has got the report written. He should not give such an irresponsible statement, he said and asked is it possible to dictate about 1.6 lakh teachers to write the report? ‘No connection’ Training his gun at Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa calling him foolish for his remarks that the secretary of the commission has not signed the report and it has not been accepted deliberately, Siddaramaiah said, Eshwarappa will be having no connection between his brain and tongue while speaking. That is why he call him as stupid, he quipped. Siddaramaiah also said, he doesn’t know what is there in the report and it is also not against or in favour of anyone. The population of a particular community will be known clearly with the caste-wise census. “Somebody is alleging that I have not raised the question in this regard in the session. How can I raise the query if the house is not conducted properly,” he said and added that his first question will be on the caste census report during the next Assembly session likely to be held in December, he clarified. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-invites-those-spreading-rumours-against-him-to-open-discussion-on-caste-census-1040067.html
12-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Former Union minister Muniyappa requests Sonia to restructure district, state party units||Former Union Minister K H Muniyappa on Tuesday requested Congress president Sonia Gandhi to approve pending proposals to restructure party district units in Karnataka. Muniyappa, who met Sonia here, also requested her to offer more representation to Dalit Left (Madigas) in the party in both the national and state level. Muniyappa also demanded that Rahul Gandhi be made the party national president again. "I have requested Soniaji to finalise the appointment of new office bearers at national level also," he told reporters after meeting. "I have also requested Soniaji to appoint a new president at the earliest in the interest of the party," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/former-union-minister-muniyappa-requests-sonia-to-restructure-district-state-party-units-1040072.html
12-10-2021||National||Mamata silent on Aryan Khan arrest to please BJP: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Monday questioned the silence of state Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan in connection with alleged seizure of banned drugs onboard a cruise ship, and wondered whether the Trinamool Congress supremo is keeping mum on the issue to please her "friends in the BJP". Chowdhury alleged that a conspiracy had been hatched to "defame" Shah Rukh Khan and his family as he did not bow before the BJP. "Our Chief Minister speaks on every topic, but she has maintained a stoic silence on the issue of the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan. "Shah Rukh Khan is the brand ambassador of West Bengal. Mamata Banerjee calls him her brother. Then why is she silent on the issue? It seems she is desperate to please her friends in the BJP," he said. Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 after the NCB raided a Goa-bound cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have recovered drugs from some persons. He is currently in judicial custody and lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai. "A conspiracy has been hatched to defame Shah Rukh Khan and his family as he did not bow before the BJP leadership. We had seen a similar incident last year when Rhea Chakraborty was hounded in the Sushant Singh Rajput case," he said. On Monday, Chowdhury, who is also the Leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha, conducted a sit-in demonstration at Baharampur in Murshidabad district in protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The Congress leader slammed poll strategist Prashant Kishor and Banerjee for questioning the grand old party's fight against the BJP. "We are fighting against the BJP across the country. It is only Prashant Kishor and Mamata Banerjee who are questioning us. A few months back, we saw Prashant Kishor meeting our leaders and speaking a lot on ways to revive the party. Now he is saying something different. This only shows his true colours," he said. The relationship between the Congress and the TMC touched a new low with Mamata Banerjee's party taking a dig at Rahul Gandhi's defeat in Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, wondering whether the Congress can erase the loss through a Twitter trend. The ties between the Congress and the TMC got strained recently after the latter's mouthpiece, 'Jago Bangla' asserted party supremo Mamata Banerjee and not Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-silent-on-aryan-khan-arrest-to-please-bjp-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-1039759.html
12-10-2021||National||Congress attacks Modi govt over its 'failure' on national security front in J&K||The Congress hit out at the government over its "failure" on the national security front in Jammu and Kashmir after five Army soldiers lost their lives in an operation in Poonch on Monday. The opposition party said the Union territory is burning and terrorists are killing innocent people due to the government's "weakness". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared on Facebook pictures of the five soldiers who lost their lives and said, "Salute to these brave martyrs of the country." "This incident is not only a reflection of the Modi government's failure on the national security front but also exposes their 'nationalism' facade. J&K is burning, terrorists are running rampant through the region and our people are paying for this government's weakness with their lives," the Congress said on its Twitter handle. The party also sent its deepest condolences to the families of the soldiers who died in the operation. "The nation is shocked and saddened to learn about the martyrdom of five brave soldiers in an encounter with terrorists in J&K's Poonch," the party said. Five Army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), lost their lives in a fierce gunfight with terrorists during an operation in Poonch district, officials said. The operation was launched in a village close to Dera Ki Gali (DKG) in Surankote in the early hours following intelligence inputs about the presence of terrorists who had infiltrated from across the Line of Control (LoC). A defence spokesman said the ultras opened heavy fire on search parties, resulting in critical injuries to the JCO and four other personnel. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh, when asked, said Kashmir was once again burning even when it was directly under the control of the central government. He said innocent people, including teachers, were being killed in Kashmir and asked why was the valley burning despite being directly under the central government's control. "My only question is that has investment in the Kashmir valley increased, or employment risen or FDI come in big numbers after the abrogation of Article 370? The reply is a big no," he said. He claimed that the employment level and capital inflow got reduced in comparison to the era when Article 370 was in place. "Whatever you do is for political reasons and not for the betterment of people. Today terrorist activities in Kashmir are increasing. Your misgovernance has led to all this," the Congress leader alleged. The Jammu and Kashmir unit of Congress expressed grief and shock over the killing of the Army personnel and urged the BJP-led government to take effective measures to contain Pakistan-sponsored terrorism in the Union Territory. The party described the terror-attack as a "cowardly" act and also paid rich tributes to the soldiers. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-attacks-modi-govt-over-its-failure-on-national-security-front-in-jk-1039789.html
12-10-2021||National||Where will money come from for free Covid-19 vaccines: Minister on soaring fuel prices||As petrol and diesel prices soar to a new record high in the country, Union Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas Rameswar Teli has claimed that "free" Covid-19 vaccines provided to the citizens have resulted in a hike in fuel prices.  "Fuel prices aren't high but include the tax levied. You must've taken a free vaccine, where will the money come from? You haven't paid the money, this is how it was collected," the minister has said.  On Monday, petrol and diesel prices were hiked for seventh day in a row. Petrol price rose by 30 paise in Delhi to reach Rs 104.44 per litre while diesel was hiked by 35 paise to cost Rs 93.17 per litre to the consumer. In Bengaluru, petrol is priced at Rs 108.08 a litre and diesel Rs 98.89 a litre. Chennai saw petrol price rising to Rs 101.79 per litre and diesel to Rs 97.59 a litre on Monday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/where-will-money-come-from-for-free-covid-19-vaccines-minister-on-soaring-fuel-prices-1039803.html
12-10-2021||National||75 years of Independence: British Council announces project to boost Indo-UK art collaborations||With India set to complete 75 years of Independence in 2022, the British Council of the UK has issued an open call to artists in both the countries to co-develop cross-cultural creative collaborations and other new artistic works to mark the occasion next year. The 'India-UK Together 2022' programme also takes forward British Council's commitment to strengthen Indo-British bilateral ties through greater artistic collaborations and cultural exchange, according to an official statement issued on Monday. "India-UK Together 2022 is an open call, worth Rs 25 million (in total) that invites artists in both countries to jointly submit creative proposals. The call promotes mutual and equitable collaboration between  emerging and established  organisations, festivals and institutions in India and the UK," it said. Ideas are invited to celebrate the India-UK relationship while inculcating the cross-cutting theme of the programe to influence perception change around global challenges, including equality, diversity, inclusion, and environmental consciousness, the statement said. The programme marks India's 75th anniversary of Independence and promotes opportunities to "co-develop cross-cultural creative collaborations, skills and knowledge exchange and new artistic work," it added. British Council, the UK's international organisation for educational opportunities and cultural relations, said the aim of this programme is to boost India-UK creative collaborations.  The 'India-UK Together 2022' programme offers an opportunity to a wide array of artists and arts organisations to think creatively of newer ways of expression. The programme encourages inter-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary practices across all art forms - theatre and dance, visual arts, new media, music, film, architecture, design and fashion, and literature, the statement said. The projects submitted could range across virtual art residencies, co-productions, tours, exhibitions, showcases, conferences, performances; augmented, virtual reality projects and installations; film, online archives, guides, learning kit or toolkit; digital broadcast and even cross-disciplinary creative collaborations, it said. "Three winning projects will receive grants up to Rs 5 million each and the fourth project will receive a grant up to Rs 10 million. Projects will need to be delivered in India between January 2022 and March 2023 with public-facing activity (digital or hybrid) taking place between September 2022 and March 2023. The winning teams will have the opportunity of touring across India and the UK," the statement said. “Our strong shared culture and arts binds India and the UK together from the past to present and is an important pillar of the bilateral future relationship. The intent of the 'India-UK Together 2022' programme is to mark India's 75th anniversary of independence, with some of the best creative minds across both nations to make connections and create together for the wider world,” Jonathan Kennedy, Director Arts India, British Council was quoted as saying in the statement. The last date for submission of proposals is October 31, 2021, it said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75-years-of-independence-british-council-announces-project-to-boost-indo-uk-art-collaborations-1039809.html
12-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Keeping people in dark amid power crisis||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, on Monday, held a meeting with Power Minister R K Singh and Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi and asked them to prepare a contingency plan to face any challenge in the event of a shortage of coal faced by thermal power plants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-keeping-people-in-dark-amid-power-crisis-1039828.html
12-10-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Vijaya Raje Scindia on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday paid tributes to Vijaya Raje Scindia, who was from the Gwalior royalty and one of the founding members of the BJP, on her birth anniversary and lauded her contribution to the party. He tweeted, "Tributes to Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindia Ji on her Jayanti. Hers was a life totally dedicated to Jan Seva. She was bold and kind. If the BJP has emerged as a Party the people trust, it is because we had stalwarts like Rajmata Ji who worked among people and strengthened the Party." Born in 1919, Scindia actively espoused the cause of the Jana Sangh and then the BJP. Her daughters Vasundhara Raje and Yashodhara Raje are senior party leaders while grandson Jyotiraditya Scindia is a Cabinet minister in the Modi government. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-vijaya-raje-scindia-on-birth-anniversary-1039852.html
12-10-2021||National||India logs 14,313 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in 224 days||India recorded 14,313 fresh coronavirus cases, the lowest in 224 days, taking the infection tally to 3,39,85,920 on Tuesday, while the national Covid recovery rate increased to 98.04 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll reached 4,50,963 with 181 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 18 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 107 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 2,14,900 comprising 0.63 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.04 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 12,447 cases has been recorded in the active Covid caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 11,81,766 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the number of cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 58,50,38,043. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.21 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 43 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.48 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 109 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,33,20,057, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. Over 95.89 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 181 new fatalities include 84 from Kerala, and 36 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,50,963 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,578 from Maharashtra, 37,895 from Karnataka, 35,796 from Tamil Nadu, 26,342 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,914 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-14313-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-224-days-1039856.html
12-10-2021||National||BJP restarts 'sahyog' programme, ministers to listen to public||After Covid, the BJP on Monday restarted the 'sahyog' programme to help out party workers and the general public. BJP chief JP Nadda inaugurated the 'sahyog' programme - an initiative in which every day, one Union Minister will interact with the public at party headquarters in the national capital and listen to their grievances and redress them. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday listened to the problems of the workers and the general public. BJP national vice president AP Abdullakutty also met Mandaviya and gave a representation concerning the health ministry. On Tuesday, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju will listen to grievances of the public and workers. On Wednesday, union information and broadcasting and sports minister Anurag Thakur and on Thursday Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw will listen to public grievances. Due to public holiday on Friday no minister will sit at party headquarters to hear grievances. Coordinator, BJP's Sahayog department, Nawin Sinha told IANS this programme has been going on for the last seven years and just had a break due to Covid pandemic. "Today it started once again. Around 100 people met the union health minister with their grievances," he said. Mandaviya addressed grievances concerning the union health ministry and forwarded the rest of grievances to the concerned ministry. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had attended the last sahyog programme held on March 20, 2020 before the pandemic. After coming to power at the center in the year 2014, initiative was started to listen and redress the problem of workers and people in general. As per the plan a minister will sit at party headquarters for two hours for five days in a week from Monday to Friday. Roster of the union minister for the programme for next week will be finalised by every Friday and put on the party website. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-restarts-sahyog-programme-ministers-to-listen-to-public-1039860.html
12-10-2021||National||Looking forward to investing 'even more' in India: Bain Capital leadership after meeting with Sitharaman||American private investment firm Bain Capital, with investments of about $5 billion in Indian companies, is looking forward to investing “even more” in the country and the next decade will be very important for both India and the US to work together to build businesses on a global basis, top executives of the company said. Bain Capital Co-Chairman Stephen Pagliuca and Co-Managing Partner John Connaughton met Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman here on Monday, with Pagliuca describing the meeting as “fantastic”, during which they talked about the Financial Services District in Gujarat. Sitharaman arrived in the US on Monday for a week-long trip to attend the annual meet of the World Bank and IMF in Washington as well as G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (FMCBG) meeting. During the official visit to the US, Sitharaman is expected to meet US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen. Connaughton said that “whenever you see the kinds of reforms that we're seeing in India, and we've been there for almost over a dozen years, it really allows us to accelerate our investment activity, particularly across the broader sectors that we participate in,” such as banking, outsourcing and pharmaceuticals. Connaughton said the ability to reform all those industries that the government is now reforming “allows us to participate in a broader way” and “we're looking forward to investing even more. We've invested $5 billion already and we see it accelerating.” Pagliuca said the markets can be made more business-friendly and “I think that's happening in India right now. It'll make it a great attractive climate for foreign direct investment." Pagliuca added that Bain Capital has invested over $5 billion in a dozen companies and “had great success in India. And I think the next decade will be very important for both countries to work together to build businesses on a global basis and really increase the GDP of both countries.” The Finance Ministry in a tweet said that Connaughton appreciated the friendly business atmosphere in India and mentioned that he is upbeat about investment in India. Sitharaman spoke about exploring opportunities in Gift City in Gujarat and other opportunities in infrastructure in India.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/looking-forward-to-investing-even-more-in-india-bain-capital-leadership-after-meeting-with-sitharaman-1039864.html
12-10-2021||National||Centre mulls revoking 'safe harbour' for social media platforms amid Facebook controversy||This comes as countries across the world try to regulate Facebook and other social media companies and curb misinformation and hate speech on the internet. A source in the government told the publication that the government may be rethinking the "blanket exemption" given to social media companies operating in India.  The Centre has formulated IT Rules 2021 for social and digital media companies in the country to check misinformation including setting up a grievance redressal mechanism. Notably, companies have to follow these rules if they want to claim the "intermediary safe harbour" status, which means protection from being held liable for any third-party content that they carry on their platform. “The platforms have to be accountable for the content; they can't shield behind the safe harbour, they have to be much more proactive in identifying and removing harmful and hateful content,” the government official added. While the new IT Rules address some concerns around flagging and removing content, an overhaul is possible only by modifying the larger Information Technology Act, 2000, which was last amended in 2008, the report added. Whistle-blower Frances Haugen alleged that the US-based social media network harms children's mental health, stokes division in society by promoting hateful and violent content and cares more about its profitability. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mulls-revoking-safe-harbour-for-social-media-platforms-amid-facebook-controversy-1039867.html
12-10-2021||National||'Crisis of credibility' a challenge before judiciary: Justice Oka||Justice Abhay S Oka, who was recently appointed judge of the Supreme Court, has said "crisis of credibility” is a challenge being faced by the judiciary at present and members of the legal profession should ensure the backlog of cases because of the Covid-19 pandemic is cleared. He was speaking at a function organised on Monday evening by the Thane District Courts Bar Association here in Maharashtra to felicitate him on his appointment as the judge of the country's top court. On the occasion, Justice Oka said "crisis of credibility" was the challenge being faced by the judiciary and even if the third wave of Covid-19 strikes, judicial officers and lawyers should ensure the legal work goes on uninterrupted and people get justice. Members of the legal profession should work towards restoring faith of the country's citizens in the judiciary, he said. He gave an example of the Karnataka High Court, where judges decided to work for 11 Saturdays during the pandemic to clear the backlog of cases, and said such ways should be found in other courts as well. Noting that the judge to population ratio in the country currently stood at 17 or 18 judges per million people, he said the issue of shortage of judges in courts needs to be addressed and this ratio needs to to be improved. In his speech, Justice Oka also recalled his journey from a practising advocate in a Thane court in 1983 to becoming the judge of the Supreme Court. Justice Oka enrolled as an advocate in 1983, and was elevated as the additional judge of the Bombay High Court in 2003. He became the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court in 2019. In August this year, he was elevated to the SC. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crisis-of-credibility-a-challenge-before-judiciary-justice-oka-1039871.html
12-10-2021||National||VHP puts up posters banning entry of non-Hindus in pandals in Ratlam||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has put up posters prohibiting the entry of "non-Hindus" in the pandals where garba dance is performed hailing Goddess Durga during the ongoing Navratri festival in Madhya Pradesh's Ratlam district. The VHP said it has placed the posters stating the "entry of non-Hindus is prohibited" across 56 pandals. The move is to allegedly avoid the repeat of "controversial incidents" of the last year.  Chandan Sharma, VHP's Dharm Prachar Vibhag district secretary for Ratlam, said non-Hindu men indulge in objectionable activities by entering the garba pandals where dance is performed hailing Goddess Durga. Madhya Pradesh: Posters barring entry of non-Hindus in Durga puja pandals put up in Ratlam allegedly by Vishva Hindu Parishad “The entry of non-Hindu youths had led to controversies at many places last year. By putting up such posters, non-Hindu people are being told not to enter the garba and Durga pandals so that such incidents can be avoided,” he said. Sharma said VHP workers are placing such posters with the consent of the festival organising committees. Ratlam Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Abhishek Gehlot said the administration has not received any complaint in this regard. "The administration will look into the issue (the posters) in case of any complaint," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-puts-up-posters-banning-entry-of-non-hindus-in-pandals-in-ratlam-1039880.html
12-10-2021||National||PM Modi cautions against selective approach to human rights||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday cautioned against “selective approach” to issues of human rights violations for political gains, saying such a tactic is harmful for democracy. Addressing the 28th Foundation Day celebrations of National Human Rights Commission, Modi said human rights are violated in the real sense when the issue is viewed through a political prism and weighed on the scales of political gains or losses. “Some people define human rights from their own perspective. They see violation of human rights in some incidents but do not find violation of human rights in similar cases elsewhere. This selective approach is harmful for human rights. We have to be wary of such people,” the Prime Minister said. Modi's remarks came against the backdrop of allegations and counter-allegations in the Lakhimpur Kheri killings. The Prime Minister also said that the duties of an individual are closely linked to human rights. “Rights and duties are two tracks on which the journey of human development and human dignity takes place. Duties are equally important as rights and they should not be discussed separately as they complement each other,” Modi said. Earlier, Home Minister Amit Shah had said the Modi government has been relentlessly working for the welfare of the poor, backward and deprived sections of the society, thereby protecting their human rights. Meanwhile, Justice Arun Mishra, who took over as Chairman of the National Human Rights Commission in June, said the rights body, since its establishment, has resolved over 20 lakh cases and awarded compensation worth Rs 205 crore to victims. Mishra said the press, media and cyberspace have been given freedom in the country, which was within the obligations of constitutional duties and human responsibilities. “But no one has the freedom to destroy the prestige of the Republic's fundamental pillar, the judiciary, through contemptuous behaviour, and neither should anyone be given this freedom,” he said.   Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-cautions-against-selective-approach-to-human-rights-1039887.html
12-10-2021||National||Mundra port drugs seizure: NIA conducts searches in NCR||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday raided multiple locations in the National Capital Region in connection with its probe related to the recent seizure of 2,988 kg of heroin at Gujarat's Mundra port, an official said. The searches are being carried out at five locations in Delhi and Noida. The federal agency early this month took over the case from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on directions of the Union Home Ministry and registered a criminal complaint under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Raids were carried out by the NIA soon after filing the case too. The case relates to the seizure of 2,988.21 kg of narcotic substance (heroin) at Mundra port and the involvement of foreign nationals in the procurement and delivery of the consignment, an NIA official had said. On September 13, the DRI detained two containers that had arrived at Mundra Port from Kandahar in Afghanistan via Bandar Abbas port of Iran. The declaration accompanying the containers claimed they had "semi-processed talc stones". However, a thorough examination had established that the two containers in fact contained 2,988 kg of heroin worth Rs 21,000 crore, which was concealed in "the lower layers" of "jumbo bags" topped with talc stones, an official release had said. The DRI had arrested eight persons, including five foreign nationals, in connection with the seizure of the drugs Searches were then conducted by the NIA in Chennai, Coimbatore and Vijayawada at premises of the accused. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mundra-port-drugs-seizure-nia-conducts-searches-in-ncr-1039888.html
12-10-2021||National||Expert panel recommends Covaxin for 2-18 age group||An Indian drug regulatory panel on Tuesday recommended emergency use of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on children and adolescents in the age group of 2-18 years, clearing the deck for large scale use of the home-grown Covid-19 vaccine on kids, who are not yet eligible for such shots as per the current norms. “Bharat Biotech has submitted data from clinical trials in the 2-18 years age group for Covaxin (BBV152) to the CDSCO. The data has been thoroughly reviewed by the CDSCO and Subject Experts Committee (SEC), which provided its positive recommendations. This represents one of the first approvals worldwide for Covid-19 vaccines for the 2-18 age group,” the Hyderabad-based company said in a brief statement. Following the SEC approval, the Central Drug Standards and Control Organisation would have to accord the final clearance allowing commercial rollout of the indigenous vaccine for children. “We now await further regulatory approvals from the CDSCO prior to product launch and market availability of Covaxin for children,” the company said. The expert panel’s recommendation is on the basis of the trial results carried out on 525 children who were split into three groups of 175 each (18-12 years / 12-6 years and 6-2 years) and were given the two doses at a gap of 28 days. However, the results of the clinical trial are yet to be published in a peer reviewed journal. Once approved by the CDSCO, it would be the second Covid-19 vaccine for kids in India after Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D, which is not only the world’s first DNA vaccine, but also the maiden Covid-19 shot approved for emergency use in 12-18 years old group in India. ZyCov-D, however, is yet to be available commercially in the market. “It is heartening to have vaccines that pass the test for use in children when needed. At present, adults and immunosuppressed children who are at higher risk of severe illness must have precedence for completing the full course of vaccination,” K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India told DH. “As evidence on the need for and benefit of universal child immunisation is not yet available, we may have to wait till 2022 to get evidence from global experience. Till then, it is good to know we have the vaccines if we need them,” he added. The Union Health Ministry is likely to come out with a policy guideline to identify the children who would get the vaccine first because of the chronic diseases they are carrying. India has nearly 39 crore children in the age group of 2-17 years and prioritisation would be needed as Bharat Biotech’s current production is much below its capacity. India has so far administered more than 96 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines, of which nearly 85 crore are Covishield made by Serum Institute of India, whereas 11 crore are Covaxin. Even though the company claims to have produced 4-5 crore doses of Covaxin since September, 2021, there are question marks on the production figures as it supplied much less to the Centre than what had been committed to. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expert-panel-recommends-covaxin-for-2-18-age-group-1039894.html
12-10-2021||National||Schools can recover fees from defaulting parents: SC||The Supreme Court said a school management can recover pending fees from parents after considering their "just" pleas -- related to more time or some other difficulties -- "compassionately". "It is open to the school management to initiate appropriate action for recovery of the outstanding dues/amount, if any, in accordance with law," a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar said. "At the same time, if the concerned parent or ward seeks some indulgence for just reasons, it will be open to the school management to consider such request compassionately," the bench said. The top court said its May 3 judgement delivered in the case of 'Progressive Schools Association Versus State of Rajasthan' did not extricate the parent or ward from the liability to pay the fees in any manner. The court passed this order on October 1 on an application seeking clarification on the judgement. It said school management can recover the fees "strictly in accordance with law". The school's management led by senior advocate Vikas Singh contended that the top court must clarify paragraph 117 of the judgement that it does not prohibit the schools from taking coercive action against the students who fail to pay the installments as per the arrangement. Amongst others, the top court's judgment had then directed the school management not to debar any student from attending either online classes or physical classes on account of non-payment of fees, arrears, including the installments. It had also then directed them not to withhold the results of the examinations of any student for that reason. The court also also said if any individual request is made by the parent or ward finding it difficult to remit annual fees for the academic year 2020-2021 in terms of the judgment, the school management  should consider such representation on case-to-case basis sympathetically. Passing its order on clarification application, the bench said, "the spirit of the direction was to give time to the concerned parent or ward to pay the fees, including by way of installments." In their contention, the school management said that the last date for paying the installments has already expired long ago and despite that, there are some parents and wards who were still in arrears and had committed default. Allowing the recovery of fees in such cases, the court said the parent or ward can obviously approach the appropriate forum if the demand was excessive and beyond the permissible amount. In the May 3 judgement, the top court had held state authorities do not have any power under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to order reduction in fees of private unaided schools. The top court, however, said private school management, engaged in doing charitable activity of imparting education, is expected to be responsive and alive to the pandemic situation and take necessary remedial measures to mitigate the hardship suffered by students and their parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/schools-can-recover-fees-from-defaulting-parents-sc-1039906.html
12-10-2021||National||Modi govt's welfare policies protecting people's human rights, says Amit Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has been relentlessly working for the welfare of poor, backwards and deprived sections of society, thereby protecting their human rights, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday. Addressing the foundation day of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) here, Shah also appreciated the work being carried out by the rights body for creating awareness among people of the country about their human rights over the last 28 years of its existence. The home minister said a government with absolute majority was formed at the Centre for the first time in a long period in 2014 and since then it has been doing welfare work for the poor and deprived sections. He said that after the Narendra Modi government came to power, 10 crore families were given toilets, thereby protecting the human rights of the women, girls and all others. Four crore families were given electricity connections, which is helpful for the old and children alike, 13 crore families were provided clean cooking gas connections that has helped in saving women and others from various diseases, he said. Shah said the central government has built two crore houses for the poor while five crore more houses will be built soon. Seven crore people were given financial assistance by the central government directly to their bank accounts, which were opened for the first time. He said the Centre has launched an ambitious scheme to provide potable water to every household in the country and two crore families will be given clean water through pipes soon, thereby protecting their basic human rights. The home minister said the NHRC, since its inception, has disposed of 20 lakh cases and awarded Rs 205 crore compensation to scores of people for violation of human rights, which is commendable. The NHRC is a statutory body that was constituted on October 12, 1993 under the Protection of Human Rights Act for the promotion and protection of human rights. The NHRC takes cognisance of human rights violations, conducts enquiries and recommends compensation to victims from public authorities besides other remedial and legal measures against the erring public servants.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govts-welfare-policies-protecting-peoples-human-rights-says-amit-shah-1039913.html
12-10-2021||National||Army Chief General Naravane leaves for Sri Lanka on four-day visit||Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane on Tuesday left for Sri Lanka on a four-day visit to explore ways to further expand bilateral military cooperation and discuss issues relating to regional security challenges. Gen Naravane's visit comes days after the foreign secretary travelled to the island nation and held extensive talks with the top leaders of the country to boost cooperation in a range of areas. "General MM Naravane #COAS proceeded on a four day visit to #SriLanka. #COAS will be meeting the apex civilian and military leadership of #SriLanka and discuss avenues for further enhancing India-Sri Lanka defence cooperation," the Army tweeted. Defence and security ties between India and Sri Lanka have been on an upswing. Currently, the armies of the two countries are carrying out a mega military exercise with a focus on enhancing counter-terror cooperation. The eighth edition of the 'Mitra Shakti' exercise began on October 4 at Combat Training School in Sri Lanka's Ampara and it will conclude on October 15. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval paid a two-day visit to Colombo in November last year to attend a trilateral maritime security cooperation dialogue among India, Sri Lanka and the Maldives.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-chief-general-naravane-leaves-for-sri-lanka-on-four-day-visit-1039916.html
12-10-2021||National||Jaishankar meets Russian counterpart; discusses Afghanistan and Indo-Pacific||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday met his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov here and discussed the progress in bilateral cooperation and exchanged views on Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific. Jaishankar arrived in Kazakhstan from Kyrgyzstan on Monday on the second leg of his three-nation tour to Central Asia with an aim to further expand bilateral ties and discuss key regional issues including the developments in Afghanistan after the Taliban seized control of the war-torn country after the exit of US forces. The minister met Lavrov on the sidelines of the Ministerial meeting of the Conference of Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA). "Good to catch up with Russian FM Sergey Lavrov on the sidelines of the CICA meeting in Nur-Sultan. Noted the progress in our bilateral cooperation. Exchanged notes on Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific," he tweeted. In Bishkek, Jaishankar had said that India was closely following the developments in Afghanistan and underscored the importance of the Taliban regime meeting the expectations of the international community as elaborated in the UN Security Council Resolution 2593. The UNSC resolution 2593 unequivocally demands that Afghan territory not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts; and specifically refers to terrorist individuals proscribed by the UN Security Council, including Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad. Lavrov, who has been openly critical of the Indo-Pacific concept, in December accused the US-led West of attempting to "undermine" Moscow’s close partnership and privileged relations with India. He has said the West is seeking to reinstate the unipolar world order that would include all states but for Russia and China with which it would deal later. India has described the Indo-Pacific strategy as further advancement of its Act East Policy and said Russia can make its full contribution in the region. Jaishankar also met his Mongolian counterpart and discussed with her a strong development partnership between the two countries. "Delighted to meet my new Mongolian colleague @BattsetsegBatm2. Discussed our strong development partnership. India will always remain a strong spiritual neighbour,” he tweeted. From Nur-Sultan, Jaishankar will travel to Armenia where he will meet his Armenian counterpart Ararat Mirzoyan and call on Prime minister Nikol Pashinyan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-russian-counterpart-discusses-afghanistan-and-indo-pacific-1039917.html
12-10-2021||National||India asks international community to unite against terrorism||In a veiled attack on Pakistan, India said on Tuesday that cross-border terrorism is not statecraft but simply another form of the menace as it called upon the international community to unite against this evil, as seriously as it does on issues like climate change and pandemics. Addressing the 6th meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Conference of Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA) here, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also asserted that connectivity must respect the most basic principle of international relations-respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, an apparent reference to India's objection to China's ambitious infrastructure development plans in Pakistan under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). "If peace and development is our common goal, the biggest enemy we must overcome is terrorism. In this day and age, we cannot countenance its use by one state against another. Cross-border terrorism is not statecraft; it is simply another form of terrorism," he told the gathering without naming any country. He said that the international community "must unite against this menace, as seriously as it does on issues like climate change and pandemics." "Any calculation that extremism, radicalisation, violence and bigotry can be used to advance interests is a very short-sighted one. Such forces will come back to haunt those who nurture them. Lack of stability will also undermine our collective efforts to get Covid under control. The situation in Afghanistan is, therefore, of grave concern,” he said. Jaishankar had earlier this week said that India was closely following the developments in Afghanistan and underscored the importance of the Taliban regime meeting the expectations of the international community as elaborated in the UN Security Council Resolution 2593. The UNSC resolution 2593 unequivocally demands that Afghan territory not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts; and specifically refers to terrorist individuals proscribed by the UN Security Council, including Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad. The Taliban, ousted from power by the US shortly after the 9/11 attacks, seized control of Afghanistan in mid-August, ousting the previous elected government which was backed by the West. India has called for ensuring that no country “tries to take advantage of the delicate situation in Afghanistan and use it for its own selfish interests.” Jaishankar said that the voice of the CICA can play a positive role in shaping the global response towards the developments in Afghanistan. "Highlighted that Afghanistan developments have generated understandable concern. Voice of CICA can be a positive factor in shaping a global response," he tweeted. In his speech, Jaishankar also said that the promotion of economic and social activity is intrinsic to progress and prosperity. Asia, in particular, suffers from a deficit of connectivity which is so essential for that purpose, he added. "As we build these modern arteries of commerce, it is absolutely essential that the most basic principles of international relations are observed. Respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations rank foremost among them," he said, amid China’s aggressive behaviour in the Indo-Pacific region. The CPEC, which connects Gwadar Port in Balochistan with China's Xinjiang province, is the flagship project of Chinese President Xi Jinping's ambitious Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Originally valued at USD 46 billion, the CPEC projects were worth USD 62 billion as of 2017. India has protested to China over the CPEC as it is being laid through PoK. "It is also important that connectivity building is a participative and consensual exercise, based on financial viability and local ownership. They must not serve other agendas," he said. China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. Beijing has also made substantial progress in militarising its man-made islands in the past few years. Jaishankar also underlined the forum's relevance in addressing contemporary challenges, including pandemics and protection of global commons. "Even as the world seeks to overcome the pandemic, there are equally pressing challenges it must address. Climate action ranks high among them. In many ways, the mindset required is similar if we are to decisively forge ahead. Both pandemic and climate change require genuine and sincere international collaboration. They must ensure accessibility and affordability, especially to the most vulnerable. And they are a call for us all to adopt a more sustainable lifestyle,” he said. Noting that the post-pandemic world requires resilient and reliable supply chains, he said, “it encourages additional engines of economic growth. It also puts a premium on greater trust and transparency. CICA can make a notable contribution to all these endeavours that will enhance security and sustainable development in Asia." "We have always seen the world as a family, expressed in the concept of ‘VasudhaivaKutumbakam’. Naturally, this applies in even greater measure to Asia. Our belief is expressed in a variety of ways, including in meeting challenges and finding solutions together. This was clearly in evidence during the Covid pandemic when we provided vaccines, medicines and medical supplies, as well as expertise to more than 150 nations,” he said. He said that any collective, including families, are best served by participative and consultative decision-making. "Eight decades ago, when the current global order was being debated, it was a very different world. The members of the UN have quadrupled since then. Asia especially, but also Africa and Latin America, are inadequately represented in its decision-making. The limitations of the multilateral response to the Covid pandemic were starkly evident. This only makes a case for reformed multilateralism more urgent with each passing day,” he said. In his address to the 75th anniversary of the UN last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a clarion call for UN reform and asked for how long will India be kept out of the decision-making structures of the United Nations. Jaishankar also appreciated Kazakhstan's initiative in consolidating the unique CICA forum and underlined its relevance in addressing contemporary challenges, including terrorism, pandemics and protection of global commons. Jaishankar arrived in Kazakhstan from Kyrgyzstan on Monday on the second leg of his three-nation tour to Central Asia. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-international-community-to-unite-against-terrorism-1039928.html
12-10-2021||National||Ladakh stand-off: A look at India-China conflicts at Hot Springs||The 18-month-long stand-off between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) continues in many places as the 13th round of talks between the neighbours failed. Hot Springs, a pass in the Chang Chenmo river valley near Kongka La, southeast of Galwan Valley, remains one of the key points of contention.  China is unwilling to remove its platoon-sized military unit from Hot Springs, which marks the LAC, and other points, labelling India’s demand of mutual de-escalation ‘unrealistic’ and ‘unreasonable’. Hot Springs, or India’s Patrolling Point 15 (PP15), has historically not been identified as a ‘launchpad’ for either side to launch any offensive. It saw some incidents in the run-up to and during the 1962 war. Here’s a look at the history of the area: What is Hot Springs or PP15? There are certain areas along the LAC that Indian troops can patrol, called patrolling points. These are decided by the China Study Group (CSG), set up in 1976 when Indira Gandhi was prime minister. It remains the main authority on China-related decisions. PP15 or Hot Springs is one of the 65 patrolling points in Ladakh along the border. The reason this area is of great importance to China is that it divides China’s two most sensitive provinces, Xinjiang and Tibet.  History of Hot Springs In 1959, three members of the Indian police patrol were held by the Chinese at Kongka La, where the latter had a major base. Twenty more police officers were sent in search of the three, led by a Deputy Superintendent of Police. Near the Chang Chenmo river, the Chinese attacked the search party with rifles and hand grenades, killing nine Indians and one Chinese soldier. The rest were captured and tortured.  Due to this incident, the government handed over the PP15 border area to the army. China had targeted Hot Springs during the 1962 war even though it saw feeble fighting. It ramped up its deployment in the area that year, stationing a regiment during the war. During the war, India had deployed a platoon at Hot Springs. Indian troops were pulled back from the area along the LAC as the Chinese began shelling.  In May 2020, China created a stand-off with India at the LAC at four points including PP15, Galwan Valley and Gogra post. Twenty Indian troops and at least four Chinese soldiers died in clashes here in June 2020. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-stand-off-a-look-at-india-china-conflicts-at-hot-springs-1039933.html
12-10-2021||National||Liberty of individual sacrosanct, bail pleas must be taken up expeditiously: SC||The liberty of an individual is “sacrosanct” and an application seeking bail must be taken up for hearing as expeditiously as possible, the Supreme Court has said. No time limit can be fixed for applications seeking pre-arrest or post-arrest bail but the minimal which can be expected is that such pleas be heard at the earliest, the apex court said. A bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and A S Oka said this while hearing a plea filed by an accused, who was taken into custody in March this year in connection with a case registered at Patiala district in Punjab, urging the court that his application seeking bail which is pending before the Punjab and Haryana High Court be heard expeditiously. The bench noted that a sessions court had dismissed the bail application filed by the accused after which he had filed a plea seeking post-arrest bail before the high court on July 7. The petitioner's counsel told the bench that the matter was listed before the court several times but it could not be heard. “We are not going into the issue at the moment, but liberty of an individual is sacrosanct and we expect that if an application is filed either pre or post arrest, under sections 438/439 of the CrPC, it must be taken up as expeditiously as possible,” the bench said in its order passed last week. “Although, no time limit can be fixed, but that is the minimal which can be expected to give an audience at the earliest,” the top court said. While Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) deals with grant of bail to person apprehending arrest, Section 439 relates to special powers of the high court or a sessions court regarding bail. While disposing of the plea, the bench requested the high court to consider the bail application filed by the petitioner “as expeditiously as possible”. The petitioner was taken into custody in connection with the case registered on March 30 this year for the alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder). Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/liberty-of-individual-sacrosanct-bail-pleas-must-be-taken-up-expeditiously-sc-1039939.html
12-10-2021||National||Capacity cap on airlines to be removed from October 18||With the Covid-19 situation easing, the government on Tuesday announced that airlines will be allowed to carry out all services they used to during pre-Covid-19 times from next Monday. On September 18, the Ministry of Civil Aviation had allowed airlines to operate a maximum of 85 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights instead of the 72.5 per cent till then. "After review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demand for air travel...it has been decided to restore the scheduled domestic air operations with effect from 18 October, 2021 without any capacity restrictions," a Ministry of Civil Aviation order said. The airlines and airport operators should, however, ensure that the guidelines to contain the spread of Covid-19 are strictly adhered to and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is strictly enforced by them during the travel, it added. The carriers have been operating 72.5 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights since August 12 while between July 5 and August 12, the cap stood at 65 per cent. Between June 1 and July 5, the cap was at 50 per cent. The government had earlier allowed carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent when it had resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year and the cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December last year. However on May 28 this year, the government decided to bring down the cap from 80 per cent to 50 per cent after a surge in Covid-19 cases. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/capacity-cap-on-airlines-to-be-removed-from-october-18-1039950.html
12-10-2021||National||At G20, India pitches for waiver of IPR on Covid vaccines||India, on Tuesday, pitched for waiver of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) for equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. It also sought the dismantling of new trade barriers like vaccine differentiations or Covid passports, which impose restrictions on the movement of personnel needed for delivering critical services. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, in his address to G20 Trade and Investment Ministerial meeting in Naples (Italy), raised the issue of vaccine equity and other Covid-related health products by ensuring quick resolution of the supply-side constraints. “Our response to the pandemic needs to ensure equitable access to vaccines and other Covid-19 related health products by ensuring quick resolution of the supply-side constraints. One of the ways to demonstrate this is by accepting the TRIPS waiver proposal,” Goyal said in his address. “Covid-19 crisis is a powerful reminder of our inter-connectedness, and the need for a coordinated global strategy to overcome such an unprecedented public health situation,” he said, underlining the need for an early universal vaccination against the pandemic. Last year, India and South Africa had put forward a proposal for waiving certain sections of the TRIPS agreement, including copyrights, patents, to help low and middle-income nations access Covid-19 vaccines and other medical products. No decision has been taken on the issue. India expects a positive outcome on the issue in the upcoming WTO ministerial conference next month. Apart from focusing on facilitating the free flow of goods, Goyal also invited G20 countries to join in efforts to make health services accessible and more affordable by the citizens of the world by enabling the free flow of health services. “As a quick response to the pandemic, I am happy to inform that our telemedicine initiative “e Sanjeevani”, has been serving millions of Indians. I am happy to offer it to the entire world”.  Last year the government launched its telemedicine service or “e-Sanjeevani” to facilitate health services to patients confined in their homes. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-g20-india-pitches-for-waiver-of-ipr-on-covid-vaccines-1039952.html
12-10-2021||National||Power Ministry asks utilities to import 10% of their coal needs, warns states not to sell power on exchanges||The Government has asked power producers to import up to 10 per cent of their coal needs amid fuel shortages and has warned states that Centre-controlled companies will curb their power supplies if they are found selling electricity on power exchanges to cash in on surging prices. India is the world's second-largest coal producer, with the world's fourth-largest reserves, but a steep surge in power demand that has outstripped pre-pandemic levels means state-run Coal India's supplies are no longer enough. Increased economic activity after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has driven up demand for coal leading to a supply shortage, forcing states like Bihar, Rajasthan and Jharkhand to undertake power cuts for up to 14 hours a day. On Tuesday, the power ministry asked utilities, reliant on local coal, to import up to 10 per cent of coal needs to blend with the domestic grade to meet increased power demand, a power ministry note reviewed by Reuters said. The move could push up already high global coal prices. These power plants usually only import small amounts of coal. Over half of India's 135 coal-fired power plants, which supply around 70 per cent of the country's electricity, have fuel stocks that will last three days or less. Union government-controlled power producers such as NTPC Ltd and Damodar Valley Corp, sign long-term power purchase agreements with distribution companies for the sale of most of their power output. But 15 per cent of their power is controlled by the Union government, which sells this so-called "unallocated" power to the states. The ministry said if any state had a surplus of power, it should inform the federal government which would allocate that electricity to states that needed it. Some states, instead of supplying electricity to their consumers, are imposing rolling power cuts and selling power at higher prices to energy exchanges, the ministry said in a statement, without giving details. The chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to complain about the rising prices on power exchanges. He said prices had trebled to Rs 15 for a unit of power from mid-September to Oct. 8. Day-ahead power prices at Indian Exchange, for example, have surged to Rs 20 a unit, its website showed on Tuesday. Reddy asked for an increase in the supply of coal, a copy of his letter, reviewed by Reuters, said. In a series of tweets on Tuesday, the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM) announced staggered power cuts across the city, with most of the cuts scheduled for over ninety minutes in the afternoon. BESCOM managing director Rajendra Cholan said Bengaluru, home to the technology operations of hundreds of global companies, including Amazon and Infosys, has sufficient power and a scheduled outage is for laying underground power cables in the parts of the city. Other southern states, such as Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, have warned that they may have to have power cuts if the shortages continue. New Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday warned of a power crisis because of the coal shortage that has already brought electricity cuts in some eastern and northern states. The power ministry directed NTPC and Damodar Valley to ensure supplies to the capital's distribution companies. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-ministry-asks-utilities-to-import-10-of-their-coal-needs-warns-states-not-to-sell-power-on-exchanges-1039977.html
12-10-2021||National||30 girls across India take over influential leadership positions||On International Day of the Girl Child Tuesday, 30 girls from all over India took over leadership positions of ambassadors, high commissioners across diplomatic missions, corporate and government bodies for the day, NGO Plan India said. Through these symbolic takeovers, these highly determined gender champions smashed gender stereotypes, encouraged positive discourses, called out on discriminatory social norms and mobilised supporters for a gender equal society, Plan India said in a statement. Mohammed Asif, Executive Director, Plan India, said though symbolic in nature, by occupying such positions of power the “girl changemakers” are able to amplify their voice to a larger audience. It also serves as an inspiration for them as they go about planning for their career and prominent roles in the society. Orly Goldschmidt, Head of Public Diplomacy, Embassy of Israel in India, said: “It was our great pleasure to collaborate with Plan India on such an important campaign. We were very happy to welcome Samta in our Embassy. She is a bright, young girl, with lots of dreams and ambitions. Interacting with her and getting to know her was inspiring. I wish her all the best for her future endeavours.” One of the 30 girls who have taken over influential positions across diplomatic missions and elsewhere in the country, Samta has been placed at Israel embassy. Embassies where these girls carried out the symbolic takeovers from envoys included Mexico, Australia, Canada, Ireland, Germany and Finland, Plan India said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30-girls-across-india-take-over-influential-leadership-positions-1039982.html
12-10-2021||National||Centre notifies appointment of 17 judges to three HCs||The Union government on Tuesday notified the appointment of 15 advocates and two judicial officers as judges of the Allahabad, Madras and the Gauhati High Courts. Besides, it also passed orders for making three additional judges of Gauhati High Court permanent. In a statement, the Department of Justice said in the exercise of the power conferred under the Constitution, the President, in consultation with the Chief Justice of India, has approved the appointment of advocates and judicial officers as judges of high courts. The advocates, appointed as judges of the Allahabad High Court, are Chandra Kumar Rai, Krishan Pahal, Sameer Jain, Ashutosh Srivastava, Subhash Vidyarthi, Brij Raj Singh, Shree Prakash Singh, and Vikas Budhwar. Advocates Sundaram Srimathy, D Bharatha Chakravarthy, R Vijayakumar, and Mohammed Shaffiq were appointed as judges of the Madras High Court.  Advocates Kakheto Sema, Devashis Baruah and Arun Dev Choudhury, and judicial officers Malasri Nandi, and Marli Vankung were appointed as judges of the Gauhati High Court. In another development, the Department of Justice also notified the appointment of three additional judges Justices Soumitra Saikia, Parthivjyoti Saikia, and S Hukato Swu as permanent judges of the Gauhati High Court. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-notifies-appointment-of-17-judges-to-three-hcs-1040003.html
12-10-2021||National||Over 96 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India: Centre||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed 96 crore on Tuesday, the Union Health Ministry said. More than 46 lakh (46,23,892) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 pm, it said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people aged above 60 and those of 45 years of age and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged above 45 from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-96-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-centre-1040017.html
12-10-2021||National||Cabinet okays Rs 28,655 cr subsidy on P&K fertilisers for rabi season to benefit farmers||The government on Tuesday announced a net subsidy of Rs 28,655 crore on phosphatic and potassic (P&K) fertilisers to ensure that farmers get nutrients at affordable prices during the rabi sowing season. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has approved the Nutrient Based Subsidy (NBS) rates for P&K fertilisers for October 2021 to March 2022 period. Rabi (winter-sown) season starts in October. Under the NBS, the per kg subsidy rates of N (nitrogen) has been fixed at Rs 18.789, P (phosphorus) Rs 45.323, K (potash) Rs 10.116 and S (sulphur) Rs 2.374, according to an official statement. The government said the "total amount of rollover will be Rs 28,602 crore". It has also provided a special one-time package for additional subsidy on DAP at the tentative additional cost of Rs 5,716 crore. A special one-time package for additional subsidy on three most consumed NPKs grades viz NPK 10-26-26, NPK 20-20-0-13 and NPK 12-32-16 have been provided at Rs 837 crore cost. The total subsidy required will be Rs 35,115 crore, the statement said. The CCEA also approved the inclusion of potash derived from molasses (0:0:14.5:0) under the NBS Scheme. "Net subsidy required for Rabi 2021-22 after deducting savings will be Rs 28,655 crore," as per the statement. In June also, the CCEA had raised the subsidies for DAP and some other non-urea fertilisers by Rs 14,775 crore. The government had allocated nearly Rs 79,600 crore for fertiliser subsidies in the 2021-22 Budget and the figures could rise after the provisions of additional subsidies. Listing the benefits, the government on Tuesday said the additional subsidy would enable the smooth availability of all P&K fertilisers to the farmers during Rabi Season 2021-22 at subsidised/affordable prices. The Centre is supporting farmers and the agricultural sector by continuing the present subsidy levels and giving special packages of additional subsidies for DAP and three mostly consumed NPK grades. "It will give Rs 438 per bag benefit on Di-Ammonium Phosphate (DAP) and Rs 100 per bag benefit each on NPK 10-26-26, NPK 20-20-0-13 & NPK 1 2-32-16 so as to maintain prices of these fertilisers affordable to the farmers," the statement said. In June, the government had increased the subsidy on DAP by 140 per cent to Rs 1,200 per bag (of 50 kg each) to ensure that farmers continue to get this important fertiliser at an affordable rate despite the rise in global prices. The government is making available fertilisers, namely urea and 24 grades of P&K fertilisers to farmers at subsidised prices through manufacturers/ importers. The subsidy on P&K fertilisers is being governed by NBS Scheme with effect from April 2010. In the case of urea, the Centre has fixed the maximum retail prices and reimburses the difference between the MRP and production cost in form of subsidy. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-okays-rs-28655-cr-subsidy-on-pk-fertilisers-for-rabi-season-to-benefit-farmers-1040018.html
12-10-2021||National||India doing well in terms of vaccinating its own people: Gita Gopinath||India is doing well in terms of vaccinating its own people and this is certainly helpful in its economy, a top International Monetary Fund official said on Tuesday as the global financial institution in its latest outlook projected 9.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021. "We don't have a change to our growth forecast for this year for India. I mean India came out of a very, very tough second wave and that led to a big downgrade in July but we have no change (in its growth rate projections) as of now,” Gita Gopinath, Chief Economist of the IMF, told reporters during a virtual conference call on Tuesday. India’s growth projection released by the latest World Economic Outlook remains unchanged from its previous WEO update of July this summer but is a three-percentage point in 2021 and 1.6 percentage point drop from its April projections. According to the latest WEO update, released ahead of the annual meeting of the IMF and the World Bank, India’s economy which contracted by 7.3 per cent year due to Covid-19 pandemic is expected to grow by 9.5 per cent in 2021 and 8.5 per cent in 2022. The world is expected to grow at 5.9 per cent in 2021 and 4.9 per cent in 2022. The United States is projected to grow at six per cent this year and 5.2 per cent the next year. China, on the other hand, the IMF said, is projected to grow at 8 per cent in 2021 and 5.6 per cent in 2022. Gopinath said there are many challenges that the Indian economy already faces with regard to the financial market, with regard to the fact that the virus is not gone yet. "The Indians are doing well in terms of vaccination rates and that's certainly helpful," Gopinath said in response to a question. Malhar Nabar, who heads the World Economic Studies division in the IMF's Research Department that produces the World Economic Outlook (WEO), said that there is still room to provide more support if needed if the pandemic takes a turn for the worse, to provide it in a targeted manner to the worst affected households and firms. "But going forward over the medium term, it was important to put in place a credible medium-term strategy to bring down the debt to GDP ratio, and create space to meet the future development needs and infrastructure needs of the Indian economy,” Nabar said in response to a question. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-doing-well-in-terms-of-vaccinating-its-own-people-gita-gopinath-1040019.html
12-10-2021||National||Amazon to provide 20,000 digital devices to underprivileged students in India||E-commerce company Amazon India on Tuesday said it will directly provide 20,000 digital devices to students from underprivileged communities to empower them for a brighter future. The company aims to impact 1 lakh students across India in partnership with over 150 large and small non-profit organisations under its 'Delivering Smiles' initiative. "Amazon will directly provide 20,000 digital devices to underprivileged young people, in partnership with over 150 large and small non-profit organisations, impacting over 1,00,000 students across India. Of these 150 organisations, 100 non-profit partners will be selected basis internal employee nominations as part of Amazon's volunteering program,' Amazon India said in a statement. The company is also inviting customers to either contribute in cash or give their old mobile phones that will be refurbished and distributed to provide digital learning devices to about one lakh underprivileged students.  Amazon India vice president Manish Tiwary said that the Covid-19 pandemic has brought to focus the stark digital divide not only in the field of education but also in access to essential services. "Amongst the most adversely affected are young people from marginalised communities. Together with our customers, employees and partners, we aim to bridge the gap by enabling young people with digital devices for continued access to online education and essential services for their families," Tiwary said. He said Amazon is committed to investing in the future of the country. "We are aware that while talent and passion are spread across all young people, the opportunity is not. This also led us to recently launch our global signature computer science education initiative, Amazon Future Engineer, in India that aims to enable access to quality computer science education and career opportunities for underprivileged students,” Tiwary said.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amazon-to-provide-20000-digital-devices-to-underprivileged-students-in-india-1040029.html
12-10-2021||National||Cabinet approves merging 100 schools with Sainik School Society||The Union Cabinet on Tuesday approved the fixation of nutrient-based subsidy rates for phosphatic and potassic fertilisers to ensure their smooth availability during the Rabi season 2021-22. “The net subsidy required for Rabi 2021-22 after deducting savings will be Rs 28,655 crore,” an official statement said. Admission to Sainik Schools easier: The Cabinet also approved a proposal for affiliation of 100 government and private sector schools with the Sainik Schools Society. Beginning from the academic year 2022-23 approximately 5,000 students are expected to receive admission in Class VI in such 100 affiliated schools. At present, the existing 33 Sainik Schools have an admission capacity of approximately 3,000 students in Class VI. The Cabinet also approved the continuation of the Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) till 2025-26 with a focus on achieving scientific processing of Solid Waste in all cities and managing wastewater in cities with a population of less than one lakh. A financial outlay of Rs 1,41,600 crores has been finalised for SBM-U 2.0, including a central share of Rs 36,465 for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26 which is over 2.5 times the financial outlay of Rs 62,009 crores in the last phase of the Mission, an official statement said. The Cabinet also approved the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation – AMRUT 2.0 till 2025-26. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-merging-100-schools-with-sainik-school-society-1040044.html
12-10-2021||National||PhD must for assistant professor's post from July 2023: UGC||The University Grants Commission on Tuesday extended the date of applicability of PhD as a mandatory qualification for direct recruitment of assistant professors in universities in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. "The University Grants Commission (UGC), in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, has decided to extend the date of applicability of PhD as a mandatory qualification for direct recruitment of Assistant Professors in Departments of Universities from July 1, 2021, to July 1, 2023," an official statement said. “The amendment shall be known as UGC (Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and Other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Measures for the Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education), Amendment Regulation, 2021,” it said. The Delhi University Teachers' Association (DUTA) welcomed the move. DUTA president Rajib Ray said that the development comes as a big relief for adhoc teachers working in university departments. "This is a big victory for DUTA as its timely intervention and pursuance forced the UGC to concede to this demand. The DUTA first highlighted this issue with the UGC on August 14 and then met UGC officials on September 15. The Delhi University (DU) must immediately issue a corrigendum to the advertisement to enable all to apply for the posts advertised in various departments," he said. The DU had advertised for 251 posts. DUTA treasurer Abha Dev Habib said that the teachers' body had argued for relaxation in all those clauses pertaining to appointment and promotions which made PhD mandatory in view of the pandemic. "We hope for a similar relief in case of promotions," she said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phd-must-for-assistant-professors-post-from-july-2023-ugc-1040047.html
12-10-2021||National||India, US, Japan, Australia start naval drill amid China's growing aggression||Two warships, an aircraft and a submarine of the Indian Navy on Tuesday joined the naval vessels of Australia, Japan and the United States in a drill in the Bay of Bengal, amid China’s continued build-up along the entire stretch of its disputed boundary with India. The drill, according to the Indian Navy, is "reflective of the commitment” of the four participating nations to support a “free, open, inclusive Indo-Pacific as well as a rules-based international order” – a euphemism to oppose the expansionist moves of China. It ironically commenced exactly two years after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had hosted Chinese President Xi Jinping at a resort on the shore of the Bay of Bengal itself near Chennai in October 2019. Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh also hosted the US Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Michael Gilday, in New Delhi. “India is one of our closest strategic partners, and our relationship is a stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific,” said Gilday, who discussed with Singh ways to enhance interoperability between the Indian and American navies “for decades to come” as well as to “maintain security, stability and prosperity” in the region. Gilday will visit the Indian Navy’s Western Naval Command in Mumbai and the Eastern Naval Command in Visakhapatnam. He will later embark the USS Carl Vinson, an aircraft carrier of the US Navy, off the east coast of India along with a delegation of the Indian Navy. The USS Carl Vinson along with two destroyers, USS Lake Champlain and USS Stockdale, is representing the US Navy in the second phase of the Malabar 2021 exercise, which commenced in the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday. The Indian Navy deployed its INS Ranvijay and INS Satpura as well as its P8I Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft and a submarine for the exercise. The Japanese Maritime Self Defence Force is being represented by JS Kaga and JS Murasame. The Royal Australian Navy sent its HMAS Ballarat and HMAS Sirius for the drill. Modi had hosted Xi at a sea-side resort near Chennai on October 12, 2019 – for a sequel to the first “informal summit”, which they had held at Wuhan in central China in April 2018 to mend ties that was hit by the 72-day-long military stand-off at Doklam in western Bhutan the previous year. Though Modi and Xi had displayed picture-perfect bonhomie during the summit on the shore of the Bay of Bengal, the relationship between India and China worsened after another military stand-off started along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations in eastern Ladakh in April-May 2020 and proved to be much more serious and widespread than the one in 2017. The negotiations to resolve the 18-month-long stand-off hit an impasse on Sunday. The drill in the Bay of Bengal will continue till October 15. Its first phase was conducted in the Philippines Sea from August 26 to 29. The Malabar turned into a four-nation naval exercise in 2020 as Australia joined Japan, India and the US for the drill amid growing belligerence of China, not only in the Himalayas, but also in the South China Sea, East China Sea and the Taiwan Strait. New Delhi, however, insists that the naval exercise is not related to the Quad, apparently to drive home the point that the four-nation coalition, which had its first in-person summit in Washington D.C. last month, is not a ‘security bloc’, unlike the AUKUS – the trilateral grouping recently launched by Australia, the United Kingdom and the US. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-japan-australia-start-naval-drill-amid-chinas-growing-aggression-1040048.html
12-10-2021||National||Savarkar's critics have Vivekananda, Aurobindo as next targets: RSS chief||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Tuesday slammed the critics of Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, saying the freedom fighter was defamed as part of an organised campaign after Independence. Bhagwat said those critical of Savarkar will have Swami Vivekananda, Dayanand Saraswati and Swami Aurobindo as their next targets. “The target of these critics is not the individual, but the ideology of 'dharma' that defines India's cultural history. Our definition of 'dharma' (religion) is a principle that unites,” Bhagwat said. “Our method of worship is different, but the ancestors are the same. They are very patriotic. Those who went to Pakistan during partition, did not get respect there,” he said. He was speaking after releasing the book ‘Veer Savarkar: The Man Who Could Have Prevented Partition’ authored by Information Commissioner Uday Mahurkar and Chirayu Pandit. The RSS supremo said Savarkar had referred to the first war of Independence in 1857 and a united fight of the saffron flag of Hindus and the star crescent of Muslims against the British. “Our two biggest setbacks in that period were the failure to maintain this Hindu-Muslim unity and joining the Khilafat movement,” Bhagwat said. Earlier, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh accused Savarkar's detractors of “spreading lies” about the mercy petitions filed by him with the British government. “His detractors fail to realise that Savarkar had filed the mercy petitions at the advice of Mahatma Gandhi. He did so as his right as a prisoner and not as a stooge of the British government as is made out to be,” Singh said. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/savarkars-critics-have-vivekananda-aurobindo-as-next-targets-rss-chief-1040062.html
12-10-2021||National||Change in authority in Kabul was neither through negotiations, nor inclusive: India at UNSC||The change in authority in Kabul was neither through negotiations, nor inclusive, India said at the UN Security Council on Tuesday, underlining that it has consistently called for a broad based, inclusive process that involves representation of all section of Afghans. The Taliban, ousted from power by the US shortly after the 9/11 attacks, seized control of Afghanistan in mid-August, ousting the previous elected government which was backed by the West. The Taliban had promised an inclusive government that represents Afghanistan's complex ethnic makeup. However, the interim Cabinet announced by the insurgent group last month was dominated by established Taliban leaders who fought against the US-led coalition forces since 2001. No woman has been named in the interim Cabinet. "The change in authority in Kabul was neither through negotiations, nor inclusive. We have consistently called for a broad based, inclusive process that involves representation of all section of Afghans," Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said. As American forces withdrew from war-torn Afghanistan, the Taliban took control of Kabul on August 15. Addressing the UNSC High Level Open Debate on ‘Peacebuilding and sustaining peace: Diversity, state building and the search for peace’, Muraleedharan said the expectations of the international community on Afghanistan, including on combating terrorism, are set out clearly in the UN Security Council Resolution 2593, that was adopted under India’s Presidency of the 15-nation Council in August. "It is important that commitments made in this regard are respected and adhered to,” he said. The UN Security Council resolution 2593 on Afghanistan demands that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999), and noted the Taliban’s relevant commitments. The resolution had noted the Taliban statement of August 27 in which the outfit had committed that Afghans will be able to travel abroad, may leave Afghanistan anytime they want to, and may exit Afghanistan via any border crossing, both air and ground, including at the reopened and secured Kabul airport, with no one preventing them from traveling. Muraleedharan said that the countries facing conflicts or emerging from them, face multiple challenges in their path of peacebuilding and sustaining peace. These are related to causative factors to the conflict, and primarily involve ethnicity, race, and religion, which are dominant identity markers in the society. "In addition, societies also encounter political, social, and economic factors which play a determining role in how countries successfully emerge and move forward in addressing these fundamental challenges of state building," he said, adding that history has shown these challenges are not limited to Africa or the developing world. "Even the developed world, at some points in history, had faced these challenges, including through extremely violent transitions, before eventually emerging successfully.” He emphasised that in a globalised, liberalised, and interlinked world, post-conflict state building has faced increasing societal expectations, in terms of political space and socio-economic development, gender equality, and human rights. "As a result, state building has become more complicated. Building peace and sustaining the same, therefore, is proving more complex than ending the conflict. This is evident more so in the context of the developing world." Muraleedharan noted that there are several successful examples where countries have managed to overcome post-conflict challenges, including South Africa, the transition from apartheid to free and open society; Cote d’Ivoire, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Rwanda and Burundi, each of which have been examples of successful transition of post-conflict state building and South Sudan, where we are witnessing the transition. "These societies are diverse and have managed to sustain peace through inclusive approach, by setting examples for similar states to emulate. We also have several other examples, including in South Asia, where diversity has always been the hallmark of the societies. The political leadership of respective countries respecting universal values of peace, truth and compassion have contributed immensely to state building." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/change-in-authority-in-kabul-was-neither-through-negotiations-nor-inclusive-india-at-unsc-1040073.html
12-10-2021||National Politics||Why don't you show your 'red eyes' to China: Rahul Gandhi to PM Modi||The Congress on Tuesday took on the Narendra Modi government over Chinese incursions, saying an "image-conscious Prime Minister" is trying to maintain his image on a lie that the neighbour has not transgressed into Indian territory, but failing to look straight into China's eyes and holding them accountable. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted tagging a media report that said 'China is not going back, "Mr 56-inch, why don't you show red eyes?" His comments came as the 13th round of talks between India and China failed to make any headway in resolving the 17-month standoff in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh and Army chief General MM Naravane saying the build up on the other side of the border showed that China is going to stay. Addressing a press conference, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said that Modi has refrained from mentioning China by name as the aggressor and has said that 'not an inch of Indian territory had been ceded. Then the question is what was discussed at 13 rounds of military talks? he asked. "The Chinese have been brazenly entering Indian territory, while our soldiers at the borders are bravely countering them but this government and especially the Prime Minister is scared of even taking the name of China and holding them accountable...even the Army Chief of India said, ‘China is here to stay. Why are the Prime Minister, Defence Minister and Minister of External Affairs silent?" he further added. Targeting Modi, Khera said that the Prime Minister gave an "irresponsible clean chit" to China saying nobody has entered the country or stayed here on 19 June 2020 and due to this statement, China is "emboldened today". "If our own Prime Minister gives a clean chit, obviously their confidence will grow. This government responded to Chinese aggression by banning some Apps. After the ban, the same government accepted money for PM-CARES. Then the government ensured that the trade was not impacted. You know trade is a weapon...You cannot have traded as usual but fight on the borders," Khera stated. Recalling the 2013 Depsang episode, he said that the same theatres that saw a face-off between the Indian and Chinese troops during the UPA regime also but the "stark difference" was that then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was able to diffuse the situation within 21 days. "But today, it is almost a year and a half, but no resolution seems to be on the horizon, rather stalemates, build-ups and re-escalation are what one can see," he said. He said that one cannot blame Modi and his Cabinet for being silent on this issue as the reason is simple. "They told the nation there was no transgression into Indian territory, and for an image-conscious Prime Minister, national security does not seem to be as important as maintaining his image, which was created on the premise of a lie," he said. "Because of this strategy of denying that the People's Liberation Army had taken control of parts of  Indian territory, we today face unfavourable settlements across Galwan, Gogra and Hot Spring. We cheaply had to give away our gains at Pangong South but the Government has not even been successful in bringing Beijing to the discussion table about PLA encroachments at Depsang," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-dont-you-show-your-red-eyes-to-china-rahul-gandhi-to-pm-modi-1039924.html
12-10-2021||National Politics||Congress summons Sidhu to Delhi to discuss 'certain' organisational matters||The Congress leadership has summoned Navjot Singh Sidhu to Delhi on Thursday for a meeting with Congress General Secretaries Harish Rawat and K C Venugopal to discuss "certain organisation matters" in Punjab, as the cricketer-turned-politician's actions continue to put the party in bad light. The move is seen as the central leadership putting Sidhu, who resigned as Punjab Congress chief on September 28 over disagreement over Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's decisions, on notice to mend ways or indicating that he be prepared to be "relieved" from party post. The details of the meeting were made public by Rawat, the Congress in-charge of Punjab, in an unusual manner through a tweet on Tuesday evening. Sidhu's resignation has not been accepted till now. "Navjot Singh Sidhu, President Punjab Congress will be meeting me (Rawat) and (General Secretary Organisation) Venugopal-ji for discussion on certain organisational matters pertaining to Punjab Pardesh Congress Committee at Venugopal-ji's office on 14th October at 6 PM," the tweet said. The meeting also comes two days ahead of a crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee where issues related to organisational troubles in several states, including in Punjab, are likely to be hotly debated. The G-23 leaders or the change seekers led by Ghulam Nabi Azad and others have already voiced concerns over the way Amarinder Singh was removed with Kapil Sibal saying nobody knows who takes decisions in the party when it does not have an elected president. Sources said the leadership would prefer to have clarity on the Punjab issue before the CWC meeting and it would not mind reading the riot act if Sidhu does not act according to the larger interests of the party. Sidhu had tweeted his resignation letter but had not handed it over to the AICC. A message was conveyed to Sidhu to take the resignation letter back within a stipulated time but he has not done so publicly. The mood in the central leadership is that if Sidhu does not budge, they will have no option but to let him go. The leadership has already started the process of finding a successor for Sidhu in an eventuality and it is speculated that Punjab Congress Working President Kuljit Nagra and Lok Sabha MP Ravneet Bittu are the frontrunners for the post. The leadership is upset with Sidhu, as he has put Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi under spotlight for the mess in Punjab as they supported him in the fight against Amarinder Singh. Sidhu's resignation and publicising of it through a tweet had not gone well with the leadership. They also feel that his remarks and actions are putting the Channi government in a bad light, especially when Assembly elections are just months away. Channi had held talks with Sidhu soon after his resignation and reached some compromise but there was no let-up in the tension. Sidhu has been sulking since Channi and the leadership chose some leaders whom Sidhu did not prefer as Ministers as well as appointments of Director General of Police and Advocate General. He was also said to be upset that the choice of Channi has virtually dashed his hopes to be the next Chief Minister as the party may not be inclined to remove a Dalit from the seat. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-summons-sidhu-to-delhi-to-discuss-certain-organisational-matters-1039973.html
12-10-2021||National Politics||Mohan Bhagwat praises PM Modi, says India's security policy got priority only after 2014||Praising the work of the Narendra Modi government, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Tuesday said that it was only after 2014 that India's security policy started getting priority in the agenda of the government. Bhagwat said that earlier the security policy was given less preference before the national policy but after 2014 the whole attitude changed and now the security policy gets top priority in the government. Bhagwat's statement came amid continued criticism by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who has been targeting the Modi government for a failed defence policy, especially in view of the India-China standoff in eastern Ladakh. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh was also present there. Speaking at a book release function on Veer Savarkar, Bhagwat alleged that a big game plan to defame the Sangh Pariwar and Veer Savarkar was carried out after Independence, but it failed. Describing Veer Savarkar as a true nationalist, Mohan Bhagwat said that all his predictions are coming true today. The RSS chief once again reiterated that the ancestors of all those living in India are the same irrespective of their caste and creed. All the people living in India are Hindus, he said, adding the meaning of Hinduism here is very broad. He also advised people of all faiths to live together. Bhagwat said, "what happens in our Parliament, except for physical fight, everything happens, but later everyone comes out and laughs together, jokes, hugs."The Sangh chief said all the religions that came to India were welcomed. "So don't talk of separation, don't talk of special rights."Objecting to the use of the word minority, Mohan Bhagwat said that there is no such thing as a minority. "We are one, we are the inheritors of the same culture, in spite of different rituals and languages. No appeasement, and welfare of all. Everyone has rights, so also duties," he added. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, while describing Veer Savarkar as a true nationalist and realist, alleged that people of a particular ideology spread lies and misconceptions about him. He was, is and will be a great hero of the Indian freedom struggle, he said. Rajnath Singh said that a lie was spread about Savarkar that he apologised to the British, whereas the truth is that this petition was filed as legal rights at the behest of Mahatma Gandhi so that he could come out of jail and join the freedom movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mohan-bhagwat-praises-pm-modi-says-indias-security-policy-got-priority-only-after-2014-1040000.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt to recall controversial marriage registration Bill||The Rajasthan government has decided to recall the recently passed marriage registration Bill to re-examine it, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Monday, citing concerns that its provisions will encourage child marriages. Gehlot said that the state government will urge the governor to return the Bill for legal consultations. The opposition BJP and rights activists had objected to a provision in the 'Rajasthan Compulsory Marriage Registration (Amendment) Bill 2021' that allowed registration of marriage even if the bride and the groom had not attained the legal age to tie the knot. "There has been a controversy in the country that this law will encourage child marriage. We decided that it was not a question of our prestige. We will request the governor to return the Bill we have passed," Gehlot said addressing a programme on International Girl Child Day. “After legal consultation from lawyers, it will be considered whether to take the Bill forward or not,” he said. Gehlot said that it is the government's resolve that child marriages do not occur at any cost in Rajasthan. "I want to assure you that I will not compromise on that. We will get it re-examined and if we consider it necessary then we will take it forward or else we will not take it forward. We have no problem," the chief minister said. Despite a ban on child marriages, the state has been reporting such cases over the years. Gehlot said that the Supreme Court had made it necessary to register every marriage after which the Bill was introduced and passed. He said that legal opinion was taken earlier and the government will take it further also so that child marriages never happen in Rajasthan. "The Supreme Court stated that marriage should be registered, be it of anyone. In view of this, a Bill was passed in the assembly, but a controversy erupted that this law will encourage child marriage," he said. The Bill was passed in the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly on September 17 amid objections from opposition BJP MLAs who walked out of the assembly. State Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal had said in the Assembly that the proposed legislation allows registration of marriages but does not state anywhere that these marriages will eventually become valid. If it is indeed a child marriage, the collector of the particular district and the officers concerned will be able to take necessary action against the families, the minister had pointed out. The statement and objective of the amendment Bill say that if the couple has not completed the legal age of marriage, the parents or guardians shall be responsible for submitting a memorandum within a prescribed period. Dhariwal said even the couple can get their marriage registered, provided that they inform their families within 30 days. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-to-recall-controversial-marriage-registration-bill-1039778.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Haryana nullifies decades-old orders banning govt employees from taking part in RSS activities||The Haryana government Monday withdrew two orders, issued in 1967 and 1980, that restrained its employees from taking part in the activities of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), prompting a strong reaction from the Congress which asked if the Khattar dispensation was running a "BJP-RSS Pathshala". "With the coming into effect of the Haryana Civil Services (Government Employees' Conduct) Rules, 2016, government instructions…dated 2.4.1980 and…dated 11.1.1967 are hereby withdrawn with immediate effect as they are no longer relevant," the general administration department said in an order issued on Monday. With the Monday decision, now Haryana government employees can take part in RSS activities. The order prompted strong reaction from the Congress party. "Now, Haryana employees are free to take part in activities of the Sangh (RSS)," Congress leader Randeep Surjewala tweeted, tagging the order issued by the general administration department. Attacking the government led by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who has been an RSS pracharak, Surjewala further asked "are they running a government or a BJP-RSS Pathshala". In April 1980, instructions issued by the then general administration department of the Haryana's chief secretary's office restrained the state government employees from any association with RSS activities. Before that in janua 1967, the political and services branch of the chief secretary's office in Haryana had issued an instruction saying that participation in RSS activities by government employees would invite action under the service rules. The Monday communications nullified these two orders. Khattar became the chief minister in 2014 when the BJP, for the first time, formed a government of its own strength in Haryana. The instructions restraining government employees from taking part in RSS activities had remained in force until now.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-nullifies-decades-old-orders-banning-govt-employees-from-taking-part-in-rss-activities-1039816.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Power situation remains grim in Punjab, PSPCL procures 1,500 MW power||With the power situation continuing to remain grim in Punjab, the state-owned power utility PSPCL on Monday procured 1,500 MW of electricity at a rate of over Rs 14 per unit. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) chairman and managing director A Venu Prasad said the critical coal stock position in the state is still prevailing as only 12 rakes of coal were received on Sunday as against daily requirement of 22 rakes. He said presently, all private coal-based plants in the state have less than two days of coal stock, while the state-owned plants have below four days of coal supply. The plants are still operating at 50 per cent capacity, he said. He said about 1,500 MW of power has been procured at a rate of Rs 14.46 per unit from power exchange. He further said that the power supply to agriculture sector improved considerably on October 10 wherein supply of about six hours was given. In a statement, Venuprasad also added that the quantum of power cuts on other categories of consumers also remained significantly less. The power availability is likely to improve within next one or two days as additional quantum of about 400 MW is expected to be received from state sector and other outside long term sources. Meanwhile, a group of farmers blocked the national highway in Jalandhar district in protest against insufficient supply of electricity to the farm sector. Protesting farmers said they have been demanding adequate power supply for paddy and vegetable crops, but the state-owned power utility failed to ensure the same. The farmers lifted the blockade after the officials assured to redress their grievances at the earliest. The blockade caused inconvenience to commuters who were going to Amritsar, Ludhiana, Pathankot and Jammu. The power supply situation continued to remain grim in the state as the state-owned utility PSPCL has been imposing up to three-hour daily power cuts across all categories of consumers in the state to bridge the gap between demand and supply of electricity. Severe coal shortage has forced the PSPCL to cut down power generation and impose load shedding in the state. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-situation-remains-grim-in-punjab-pspcl-procures-1500-mw-power-1039818.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Five militants killed in separate encounters in Kashmir’s Shopian||A local militant who was involved in the killing of a non-local street-vendor, was among five militants gunned down by security forces in two separate overnight encounters in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Tuesday. Three militants were killed in Tulran village of Shopian, 56 kms from Srinagar, where an anti-militancy operation was launched on Monday evening. The militants were trapped inside a two-storey residential house. Reports said during the night, security forces had closed all entry and exit points of Tulnar and installed lights to ensure that the militants do not flee taking advantage of darkness. The gun battle resumed with the first light of the morning and all the three militants were killed, police said. “Out of three killed terrorists, one terrorist has been identified as Mukhtar Shah of Ganderbal, who shifted to Shopian after killing one street hawker Virendra Paswan of Bihar,” IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar was quoted as saying by Kashmir Zone Police. The other two militants have been identified as Danish Ahmad of Rai Kapran and Yawar Ahmad of Pehlipora Shopian. Police said the slain militants were affiliated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT)/The Resistance Front (TRF) and were given “ample opportunity” to surrender. However, police said that they did not relent. A video purportedly released by police appealing to the militants to surrender has been doing the rounds on social media. Hours later, two more militants were killed in Feripora area of the same district in an encounter with the security forces. A defence spokesman said the operation was launched in Feripora following inputs from the J&K Police. “Repeated surrender appeals were turned down by terrorists, who fired on forces, forcing the forces to take action. In the gunfight, two terrorists were eliminated,” he said and added an AK 47 and war-like stores were recovered from the spot. Violence has witnessed a spurt in Jammu and Kashmir in recent days. On Monday two militants were killed in separate encounters in Bandipora and Anantnag districts of Kashmir. As many as five army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), were killed during a counter-terrorist operation in border Poonch district of Jammu region on Monday. Last week seven civilians, including four from minority communities, were killed by militants in separate incidents in Kashmir. Meanwhile, General officer Commanding (GoC) of Srinagar based 15-Corps, Lieutenant General D P Pandey said he would not like to connect latest anti-militancy operations with the events (civilian killings) that took place in Srinagar or elsewhere. While condemning the civilian killings he said, “Security forces and people need to be very careful to keep the communal harmony intact.” On the infiltration attempts, the GoC said that the Army was alert and ready to foil any such attempts along the LoC. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-militants-killed-in-separate-encounters-in-kashmir-s-shopian-1039850.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Fear continues to haunt minority communities in Kashmir||A spate of civilian deaths last week in Kashmir has again led to widespread unease, particularly among the region’s minority communities. While the government has beefed up security of the minority communities in Srinagar and other major towns of the valley, those living in villages are scared following the recent killings by militants of The Resistance Force (TRF) who made them safe targets to show their presence after a lull. There are over 800 Kashmiri Pandit families comprising around 3,400 people, who had chosen to stay back in Kashmir in 1990. There are also nearly 4,000 Kashmiri Pandits who are employed in different government departments here and were recruited under the Prime Minister’s package for ensuring their return to Kashmir. These Pandits are putting up at the transit accommodations like the one at Sheikpura. Besides, hundreds of Sikh families are putting up in various places in trouble-torn Valley who didn’t migrate in 1990. “A simple knock at the door of our house in the evening increases the heartbeats of my family as they fear the worst. We pass sleepless nights under such situations but the government is a mute spectator,” a Kashmiri Pandit, living in northern Baramulla district, said on the condition of anonymity. He said the family was not so scared even in the early 1990s when the militancy was at its peak. “It is only because of the support of our Muslim neighbors that we stayed here. Even today, they have assured us of all help, but militants don't even spare Muslims when they have to kill somebody,” he lamented. Sanjay Tickoo, president Kashmiri Pandit Sangarsh Samiti (KPSS), an organisation that represents the Pandits living in the Valley, accuses his community members outside Kashmir of “giving irrational statements and creating problems for the minorities living here”. “They don’t understand how problematic these statements can be for their community members in Kashmir who can become safe and easy targets,” he said. While giving credit to local Muslims and neighbours of Pandits who stood with the community through every thick and thin, Tickoo made an appeal to the imams (priests) to make the announcements from local mosques that the minorities living in Kashmir be given full protection. However, he said despite assurances, scores of Pandit families have left in recent days and many are planning to migrate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fear-continues-to-haunt-minority-communities-in-kashmir-1039853.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Power Ministry asks NTPC, DVC to supply as much power as available to Delhi discoms under PPAs||Ministry of Power on Tuesday said that it has issued directions to state-run power giant NTPC and DVC (Damodar Valley Corporation) to supply as much power as available to Delhi discoms under their respective power purchase agreements. The ministry has also issued guidelines on October 11, 2021, regarding utilisation of unallocated power of central generating stations by the states, a power ministry statement said. Keeping in view the declared capacity (DC) offered to the Delhi discoms in last 10 days, the Ministry of Power has issued instructions on October 10, 2021, to NTPC and DVC to secure power supply to Delhi, the ministry stated adding that this will ensure that distribution companies (discoms) of Delhi will get as much as power as requisitioned by them as per their demand. The ministry has directed that NTPC and DVC may offer the normative declared capacity (DC) to the Delhi discoms as per their allocations made to them under respective power purchase agreements (PPAs), from their coal-based power stations. Both NTPC and DVC have committed to provide as much electricity to Delhi as demanded by discoms of Delhi, the ministry stated. It also directed that NTPC may offer the normative DC to the Delhi discoms as per their allocations (from gas based power plants) made to them under respective PPAs. The gas available from all sources including SPOT, LT-RLNG etc may be included while offering the DC to Delhi discoms, it stated. In addition, the ministry stated that guidelines have also been issued regarding utilisation of unallocated power, on October 11, 2021, to meet the increased demand from the coal based power generation. Under these guidelines, states have been requested to use the unallocated power for supplying electricity to the consumers of the state; and in case of surplus power, the states are requested to intimate so that this power can be reallocated to other needy state. Further, if any state is found selling power in power exchange or not scheduling this unallocated power, their unallocated power may be temporarily reduced or withdrawn and reallocated to other States which are in need of such power, the ministry stated. In a factsheet on the power supply situation in Delhi, the ministry stated that the maximum demand of Delhi was 4536 MW (peak) and 96.2 MU (Energy) on 10 October, 2021. As per the information received from Delhi discoms, there was no outage on account of power shortage, as the required amount of power was supplied to them, it stated. It also showed that there was no energy deficit in Delhi during the two weeks period till October 10, 2021. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-ministry-asks-ntpc-dvc-to-supply-as-much-power-as-available-to-delhi-discoms-under-ppas-1039859.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi High Court rejects pleas challenging Rakesh Asthana's appointment as Delhi Police Commissioner||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday declared that the Union government had the power, jurisdiction and authority to make inter-cadre deputation of officers in public interest and the top court's judgements in the Prakash Singh case on appointment of police heads would not apply to Union Territories. It dismissed a plea against the appointment of Gujarat cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi police commissioner on July 27, just before his superannuation on July 31. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Jyoti Singh did not find "any irregularity, illegality or infirmity" in the action of the Ministry of Home Affairs in appointing Asthana, a 1984-batch officer, by adhering to the procedure followed for nearly over a decade. "The Executive, which is responsible for the law and order situation in the National Capital, must have a reasonable discretion to select an officer it finds more suitable, based upon the career graph of such an officer, unless there is anything adverse in the service career of such an officer," the bench said.  The court said the petitioners — advocate Sadre Alam and NGO CPIL, led by advocate Prashant Bhushan — have not been able to make out a case calling for interference or even remotely demonstrate that there is any blot in the service career of Asthana, making him unsuitable for the post of Delhi police commissioner.  With regard to the contention alleging inter-cadre deputation of Asthana from Gujarat to AGMUT in violation of a 2004 order, the bench said it did not find any illegality as there is a power vested in the central government to grant relaxation to it. The court also held that the Supreme Court's judgements in Prakash Singh case I and II on appointment of police heads after empanelment of officers by the UPSC do not apply to Union Territories. "We have carefully perused the guidelines and are clearly of the view that the procedure concerns the appointment of DGP of a State and do not concern themselves with appointment of Police Commissioner/Head of the Police Force in the Union Territories, having a common AGMUT Cadre," the bench said. The court also lent credence to the Union government's categorical stand that as many as eight erstwhile Police Commissioners in Delhi, have been appointed since 2006, by following the same procedure as done in Asthana's case, without any objection to statutory procedure prescribed under the Delhi Police Act, 1978 read with Transaction of Business of GNCTD Rules, 1993 either by UPSC or any other party. The court also said that there can hardly be a dispute on the proposition of law argued by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Asthana's counsel that public interest litigation cannot be entertained in a service matter. The bench agreed to the Centre's argument that it is not open for the court, sitting in a judicial review, to substitute its own decision and wisdom in matters which fell in really the domain and prerogative of the government on the basis of "its subjective satisfaction premised on objective consideration". On a contention made by Mehta and Bhushan that Alam's plea before the court was "cut, copy and paste" of the CPIL's petition filed earlier in the top court, the bench asked him to refrain from indulging in such an exercise in future, saying this practice is certainly unhealthy and deserves to be deprecated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-rejects-pleas-challenging-rakesh-asthanas-appointment-as-delhi-police-commissioner-1039865.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||CBI raids house of ex-advisor to J&K L-G in gun licence case||Days after being relived as advisor to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday carried raid at the house of Baseer Khan in Srinagar.  A local news gathering agency, GNS, quoting unnamed sources said CBI sleuths accompanied by J&K police carried out the raid at the house of Khan, a retired IAS officer, at Bulbul Bagh, Baghat here.  The raids are being carried in connection with fake gun licence scam, they said. Khan, who remained as advisor to J&K LG from March 2020, was last week removed from his position after the CBI reportedly informed Ministry of Home Affairs about his name figuring in the scam.  Khan, who remained as Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, from 2016 till his retirement, was considered as one of the most powerful bureaucrats in the erstwhile state.  The Jammu and Kashmir government had in 2018 recommended a CBI probe into the gun licence racket after names of public officials, especially some IAS officers, surfaced during investigations carried out by Rajasthan police's Anti-Terror Squad (ATS). The unholy nexus between bureaucrats-middlemen-arms dealers was unravelled by the Rajasthan police's ATS in 2017. The probe agency is investigating alleged irregularities in the grant of over two lakh arms licences in different districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Several IAS officers have already been arrested in the scam. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-raids-house-of-ex-advisor-to-jk-l-g-in-gun-licence-case-1039873.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Amid coal shortage, Power Ministry asks states to utilise unallocated power of CGS||Amid the ongoing coal crisis in the country,  the Centre on Tuesday urged all states and UTs to utilise unallocated power of the central generating stations (CGS) to meet the requirements of their own consumers and not to impose load shedding or sell it in power exchanges at higher prices. The Ministry of Power also warned states that central sector power producing companies will curtail supplies of electricity to them if their utilities were found selling power on exchanges to take advantage of surging prices. The states were requested to intimate about surplus electricity available with them so that this power can be reallocated to other needy states, the Ministry said in a statement. As per the guidelines for allocation of power, 15 per cent power from CGS is kept as “unallocated power” which is allocated by the central government to needy states to meet the requirement of power for the consumers. Separately, Union Power Minister R K Singh and Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and discussed ways to increase transportation of coal. The Centre is looking to utilise large imported coal-based power plants to meet the electricity demand, sources in the government said. Speaking to media, Joshi said there has been no let-up in coal supply across India and assured there won't be any shortage amid concerns over power blackouts. "We have continued our supply, even in the past despite dues. We are requesting them (states) to increase stock ... There won't be a coal shortage," Joshi said. He said the shortage of fossil fuel was triggered due to rains in coal mines area and increase in its international prices. The minister, however, assured that adequate supply has been maintained to ensure there is no shortage of coal in the country. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-coal-shortage-power-ministry-asks-states-to-utilise-unallocated-power-of-cgs-1039877.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Encounter underway in Shopian district in Jammu and Kashmir||A fresh encounter broke out between security forces and militants in the Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said.  Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Feeripora area of Shopian in south Kashmir after receiving specific inputs about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting searches in the area, militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated leading to the encounter, the official said.  The gunfight is going on and further details were awaited.  Another gunfight is going on in the Imamsahib area of the district in which three militants were killed. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-underway-in-shopian-district-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1039879.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Suspected Pakistani terrorist arrested in Delhi, terror attack bid foiled||A suspected Pakistani terrorist, who was staying in India illegally for a decade in disguise as a 'peer baba', was arrested in east Delhi ahead of the festival season with police on Tuesday claiming that they have averted a terror strike in the capital. Mohd Ashraf, a resident of Punjab province in Pakistan, was apprehended from Ramesh Park in Laxmi Nagar on Monday. He was living in the guise of an Indian national Ali Ahmed Noori in Shastri Nagar area, police claimed. He allegedly obtained Indian identity cards through forged documents. An AK-47 assault rifle, two magazines along with 60 rounds, one hand grenade, two sophisticated pistols with 50 rounds and an Indian passport obtained on forged documents were allegedly seized from him. He has been charged under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Explosive Act, Arms Act and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Kushwaha said he was part of a sleeper cell and involved in orchestrating subversive activities in several parts of the country. Kushwaha claimed that Ahsraf, who is ISI trained, revealed his involvement in several terrorist activities in Jammu and Kashmir and other parts of the country. Ashraf allegedly got several fake identity cards made and one of them was under the name of Ahmed Noori. He also allegedly managed to acquire an Indian passport and travelled to Thailand and Saudi Arabia. He allegedly entered from Bangladesh through the border in Siliguri. His handler in Pakistan has been identified as one Naseer. Ashraf, who married a woman in Ghaziabad's Vaishali and pretended to be a 'peer baba' (cleric), had been assigned to carry out terror strikes at the behest of ISI during festival season, Kushwaha claimed. According to police, Ashraf got training from ISI in 2004 under one Nasir, who allegedly motivated him to work as a sleeper cell. After entering India, Ashraf went to Ajmer and allegedly befriended a Maulvi at a local Masjid and in 2006, he accompanied the Maulvi to Delhi and visited a factory of the former's relative. Ashraf started 'tilawat' (daily wages prayer job) at factories in Old Delhi and later met other relatives of the Maulvi. He managed to win over their trust and started allegedly receiving money from Nasir using IDs of Maulvi’s relatives, Kushwaha added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-pakistani-terrorist-arrested-in-delhi-terror-attack-bid-foiled-1039882.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Exact revenge for soldiers killed in J&K encounter: Shiv Sena||A day after five army personnel were killed in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir, the Shiv Sena on Tuesday said revenge must be exacted five times the fatality of soldiers in the face-off with terrorists. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' claimed that after the nullification of special provisions of Article 370, which took away the special rights given to Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan sympathisers have been emboldened. Militants are trying to create an environment where people from different faiths cannot enter the Valley, it said. There has been a spurt in terrorist attacks in recent weeks in which several civilians, including a prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman and a school teacher, were killed. Referring to these killings, the Sena said such violent incidents give a feeling whether the situation is becoming like the one in 1990s when thousands of Kashmiri Pandits were compelled to leave the Valley. “The Indian minds will not get peace till the time terrorists who killed the five soldiers are pulverised,” the party said in its editorial. “Before the blood of the five soldiers killed in the Surankote encounter dries, revenge must be exacted five times the soldiers (panch ka pachchis) killed,” it added. Five army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), and two terrorists were killed in three encounters in different districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. The soldiers lost their lives in firing by terrorists in a village close to Dera Ki Gali (DKG) in Surankote area of the border district of Poonch after the army and police launched a joint operation following intelligence inputs about the presence of ultras who had infiltrated from across the Line of Control (LoC). Two militants were killed and a policeman was injured during encounters in Anantnag and Bandipora districts. On Monday, activists of the Shiv Sena and Dogra Front held anti-Pakistan protests after the death of five army personnel and also burnt an effigy of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan for aiding and abetting terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir.  Chek out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/exact-revenge-for-soldiers-killed-in-jk-encounter-shiv-sena-1039892.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal blames neighbouring states for Delhi pollution, appeals to citizens to pitch in||With stubble burning in neighbouring states spiking pollution in the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday asked for the common man's help in bringing down pollution by not using personal vehicles at least once a week and turning off engines of vehicles at traffic signals. Kejriwal has claimed that the pollution level was under safe limits in the capital till recently but has risen in the past couple of days as farmers in neighbouring states started burning stubble. Kejriwal slammed neighbouring states for not helping farmers, prompting them to adopt stubble burning, adding that citizens could take some measures to bring down locally generated pollution by taking steps. "I have been tweeting air quality data for the past one month. It shows pollution has started increasing because neighbouring states did not help their farmers who are forced to burn paddy straw stubble," he said during a digital address. For this, he said, the Delhi government is launching once again the 'Red Light On Vehicle Off' campaign, which will start from October 18. He cited research by Petroleum Conservation Research Association that keeping vehicle engines off at red lights could save Rs 250 crore and reduce pollution by 13-20 per cent. "Secondly, at least once a week, you could decide not to use your car or scooter and instead use public transport or carpool to reduce vehicular pollution," he said. This will lead to a reduction in pollution as well as saving oil, he added. He also asked people to become the eyes and ears of the Delhi government by extensively using the 'Green Delhi App' to register complaints about pollution like garbage burning or industrial pollution. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-blames-neighbouring-states-for-delhi-pollution-appeals-to-citizens-to-pitch-in-1039893.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Ashish Mishra taken to Crime Branch office for interrogation||The Uttar Pradesh Police took MoS Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish to the Crime Branch office on Tuesday for interrogation in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, a day after a court sent him to three-day police custody, an official said. Chief Judicial Magistrate Chintaram on Monday had granted three-day police remand, with the condition that Ashish Mishra would not be harassed and his lawyer would remain present during interrogation. He was arrested on Saturday night in connection with the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. The police had demanded a 14-day remand of Ashish but got a three-day remand beginning October 12 and it will end on October 15, senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav had told reporters. Ashish Mishra was questioned for 12 hours in the Crime Branch office on Saturday before his arrest. Now the Special Investigation Team, set up by the state government to probe the case, will interrogate him about the incident, the senior police official said. Elaborate security arrangements have been made in and around the police line, he added. Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit on October 3. Besides, four farmers, two BJP workers, and their driver were allegedly lynched by angry farmers in the incident. Local journalist Raman Kashyap also died in the violence. Aged around 35, Ashish Mishra alias Monu looks after the political activities of his father in his Kheri Parliamentary constituency and was also vying for party ticket from Nighasan seat to contest assembly polls. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-ashish-mishra-taken-to-crime-branch-office-for-interrogation-1039900.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Massive search operation underway to neutralise hiding terrorists in J&K's Poonch, Rajouri||Security forces continued a massive search operation on Tuesday in a forest area connecting the twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu and Kashmir, where five soldiers including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) were killed in a gunfight the previous day, officials said. There was no fresh contact with terrorists during the ongoing operation in the dense forest areas of Surankote in Poonch and nearby Thanamandi in Rajouri, the officials said. Five soldiers, including a JCO, lost their lives when a group of heavily-armed terrorists opened fire on an army search party in a village close to Dera Ki Gali (DKG) in Surankote early on Monday. After the initial encounter, the terrorists fled to nearby Panghai forest which falls in the jurisdiction of Rajouri's Thanamandi and were chased by the troops and engaged in another encounter, the officials said. The gunfight between the two sides stopped Monday evening after the terrorists took advantage of the dense forest and fled, the officials said, adding that the whole forest belt was cordoned off and a search operation is underway to neutralise the hiding terrorists. The officials said senior police and army officers also rushed to the area to supervise the operation. Earlier, a defence spokesman said on the intervening night of October 10 and 11, a counter-terrorist operation was launched by the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police in the area of Shahdara, near the boundary of Poonch-Rajouri districts. “During the conduct of the operation, terrorists brought down a heavy volume of fire on Army troops leading to fatal injuries to one JCO and four soldiers,” a defence spokesman had said in a statement here. He identified soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty as Naib Subedar (JCO) Jaswinder Singh, a recipient of Sena Medal; Naik Mandeep Singh, Sepoys Gajjan Singh, Saraj Singh and Vaisakh H. The twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters. Three soldiers also laid down their lives in the previous operations. Meanwhile, a group of youth staged an anti-Pakistan demonstration in Poonch town against the killing of Indian army soldiers. The youth, mostly belonging to the Sikh community, also set ablaze an effigy marked as Pakistan for its continued support to terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir, the officials said. "We condemn Pakistan for its continued support to terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. The time has come when the Indian government should teach Pakistan a lesson for sending terrorists who are killing innocent civilians and our jawans," Kamaljeet Singh, one of the protesters said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/massive-search-operation-underway-to-neutralise-hiding-terrorists-in-jks-poonch-rajouri-1039902.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Congress delegation to meet President Kovind on October 13, demand strict action in Lakhimpur incident||A Congress delegation led by former party chief Rahul Gandhi will meet Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday to demand stringent action in Lakhimpur Kheri case and press for the sacking of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra. The seven-member delegation, which include Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, senior party leaders AK Antony and Ghulam Nabi Azad, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Congress General Secretaries Priyanka Gandhi and KC Venugopal, will meet the president at 11:30 AM. A memorandum will be submitted to the President explaining the events and the actions taken by the authorities and the gaps in it. The leaders will also impress upon the President to sack Mishra, whose son Ashish is acussed of driving the car into a crowd of protesting farmers and killing four of them on October 3. Last week, Venugopal had written to the President seeking appointment for the delegation describing the Lakhimpur Kheri killings as "broad day massacre of farmers". “Even more tragic are the open warnings given by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Ajay Mishra Teni and consequent trampling of farmers under a Thar Jeep owned by the Minister and his family,” Venugopal said in his letter. The letter said the "shocking incident" has "shaken the conscience of the nation" and "farmers, who were eyewitnesses, have openly stated that they were run over by a vehicle being driven by the son of the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs. Despite all-round protests and intervention of the Supreme Court, no decisive action has been taken either against the guilty or against the Minister." While Ashish was arrested on Saturday, Congress has been stepping pressure on the government for the ouster of his father. While it held a 'maun vrat' (vow of silence) protest demanding his sacking, Priyanka on Tuesday joined a large gathering of farmers from various states in Tikonia village in Uttar Pradesh as part of last prayers in honour of the four deceased farmers and a journalist, who were killed in the violence. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-delegation-to-meet-president-kovind-on-october-13-demand-strict-action-in-lakhimpur-incident-1039914.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Lawyers can't disrupt court proceedings, put clients interest in jeopardy: SC||It is "unprofessional" and "unbecoming" for a lawyer to refuse to attend the court due to a strike or boycott by the Bar Associations as they cannot disrupt court proceedings and put the interest of their clients in jeopardy, the Supreme Court has said. The top court further observed that an advocate is an officer of the court and enjoys a special status in society. A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna made the observation while hearing a case in which the advocates in the Rajasthan High Court went on strike on September 27, 2021. "...it is unprofessional as well as unbecoming for a lawyer to refuse to attend the court even in pursuance of a call for strike or boycott by the Bar Association or the Bar Council. It is further observed that an Advocate is an officer of the court and enjoys a special status in the society; Advocates have obligations and duties to ensure the smooth functioning of the court; they owe a duty to their clients and strikes interfere with the administration of justice," the bench said. "They cannot thus disrupt court proceedings and put the interest of their clients in jeopardy. Despite the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions and even the concern expressed by this Court against the strikes by the lawyers, things did not improve...," it said. The apex court took note of the submission of Bar Council of India Chairman Manan Kumar Mishra that BCI has issued the notice to the Bar Association of the High Court of Rajasthan at Jaipur. The senior advocate stated that there was a call to boycott only one court. The apex court said even that also cannot be tolerated. "To boycott only one court will hamper the independence of the judiciary and there may be a pressure on the particular judge whose court is boycotted and it may lead to demoralization of the judiciary," the bench said. The bench issued notice to the President, Secretary, and the Office Bearers of the Bar Association of the High Court of Rajasthan at Jaipur to show cause why contempt proceedings may not be initiated against them. The matter is listed for the next hearing on October 25. The apex court directed the Registry to serve notices through the Registrar General of the High Court of Rajasthan at Jaipur. "The Registrar General of the High Court of Rajasthan at Jaipur is directed to see that the notices upon the office bearers/President/Secretary of the Bar Association of the High Court of Rajasthan at Jaipur are served upon them well in time," the bench said in its October 4 order. Referring to its earlier decisions, the top court said that to go on strike by the Bar Association and the lawyers is absolutely contemptuous and just contrary to the earlier decisions of this Court. In its earlier order, the apex court had specifically observed and held that the lawyers have no right to go on strike or even token strike or to give a call for strike. It had also held that nor can they while holding Vakalat on behalf of clients, abstain from appearing in courts in pursuance of a call for strike or boycott. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lawyers-cant-disrupt-court-proceedings-put-clients-interest-in-jeopardy-sc-1039918.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi attends final prayers of slain farmers in Lakhimpur violence||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday attended the 'antim ardas' (final prayers) of the farmers who were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence a few days back even as the farmer leaders continued to press for the dismissal of union minister Ajay Mishra, whose son Ashish Mishra was accused of running over four farmers at Tikonia in the district on October 3. Accompanied by senior UP Congress leaders, Priyanka, who has been at the forefront of leading protests against the BJP governments at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh over the violence, paid her respect to the departed souls. The Kisan Morcha, which had organised the 'antim ardas' and 'langar' (feast), however, did not allow the Congress leader to share the stage saying that they wanted to keep the function 'apolitical'. ''We will not allow any politicians to share the stage,'' said a farmer leader. The farmer leaders, however, thanked Priyanka for attending the final prayers of the slain farmers and extending her support to the ongoing protests by them against the new farm laws. A large number of farmers from UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country had reached Lakhimpur Kheri to attend the final prayers of the slain farmers. The 'antim ardas' was being held in a field close to the spot where eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence during protests by the farmers against the union minister, who had threatened them with dire consequences if they continued their agitation against the farm laws. The Morcha leaders slammed the BJP government for not sacking the minister. ''It is shocking that the minister continues to be in the cabinet...he should be dismissed forthwith,'' said a Morcha leader. The leader also accused the UP government of trying to 'shield' Ashish Mishra, who was arrested six days after the incident. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-attends-final-prayers-of-slain-farmers-in-lakhimpur-violence-1039922.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Violence: Ashish Mishra's friend Ankit Das files surrender application in court||Three days after the arrest of union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish — who was accused of running over four farmers — his friend Ankit Das, who was also allegedly present in the vehicle that sped through a crowd of protesting farmers at Tikonia in Lakhimpur Kheri district — and had been absconding — filed a surrender application in a district court on Tuesday. According to sources, the surrender application was filed in the court of the chief judicial magistrate in Lakhimpur Kheri town. The court has sought a report from the police on the application. The cops have been looking for Ankit, who was the nephew of former union minister Akhilesh Das, but could not be apprehended after conducting raids at several places in Lucknow and elsewhere. The cops had also recovered the SUV, in which he and Ashish were allegedly present, from the former's residence on Friday. Sources in the police here said that Shekhar Bharti, who was driving the SUV, was already arrested. Meanwhile, the special investigation team (SIT) that was probing the incident took Ashish into its custody on Tuesday and his grilling began at the police lines in Lakhimpur. Police officials said that Ashish would also be taken to the spot, where the incident had taken place on October 3. While both Ashish and his father Ajai Mishra had claimed that the former was not present in any of the vehicles — one of which ran over a crowd of farmers killing four of them — the farmers claimed that the minister's son was in one of the SUVs with a friend of his. Eight people, including four farmers and a local scribe, were killed in the violence at Tikonia in the district when hundreds of farmers held protests against Ajay Mishra over the latter's remarks threatening them of dire consequences if they continued to oppose the new farm laws. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-ashish-mishras-friend-ankit-das-files-surrender-application-in-court-1039925.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Akil Kureshi takes oath as new Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Tuesday administered oath to Justice Akil Kureshi as the new Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court here. The swearing-in ceremony was held at Raj Bhavan. Kureshi, who took oath in English, was the Chief Justice of Tripura High Court before being transferred to Rajasthan in place of Indrajit Mahanty, who has been posted as the Chief Justice of Tripura High Court. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and others were present on the occasion. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akil-kureshi-takes-oath-as-new-chief-justice-of-rajasthan-high-court-1039926.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Video shows student cleaning teacher's car; Uttar Pradesh officials order probe||An investigation has been ordered after a viral video recently showed a student allegedly cleaning a teacher's car in a primary school in Sikandrabad block here, officials said. In the video, it purportedly shows the primary school student cleaning his teacher's car in a school in Faridpur village of Sikandrabad block. As the video spread on social media, Basic Education Officer Akhand Pratap Singh has asked officials to investigate the matter and take strict action against the guilty. Singh said he has taken cognisance of the matter and it will be investigated. Strict action will be taken against whoever is found guilty, he added.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-shows-student-cleaning-teachers-car-uttar-pradesh-officials-order-probe-1039927.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Cops quiz 10-year-old Muslim boy for entering temple in Ghaziabad; priest alleges conspiracy||A 10-year-old Muslim boy was taken to a police station for questioning after he “inadvertently entered” the Dasna Devi temple here. In a video clip circulating on social media, temple priest Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati charged that the minor had been sent to snoop on him and in the boy's community, there are "trained killers" of his age. Narsinghanand can be heard accusing the boy standing next to him of entering the temple premises to carry out a “recce” but asserted that he was not “touched or slapped”. The priest said he wanted to tell Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and all senior police officers that a conspiracy is being hatched to kill him. However, the boy told police that he had come to the area to visit his pregnant sister-in-law admitted to the community health centre (CHC) adjacent to the temple. He said that he accidentally entered the temple but was caught by the management and handed over to police. After verifying the veracity of the boy's statements, he was allowed to go, police said. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Iraj Raja told PTI that the boy’s family had shifted here last year and he was not familiar with the area and therefore, entered the temple inadvertently. He also said that the management of Dasna Devi temple was not cooperating with police and denying the personnel to conduct frisking and checking of identity cards of devotees coming to the temple during the ongoing Navratri festival. The strict checking is being carried out due to the past incidents, Raja said, adding that 50 policemen are deployed to provide security to the priest. Earlier this year, a Muslim boy was assaulted after he entered the temple premises to drink water. On August 10, a sadhu was attacked with a knife by an unidentified assailant when he was sleeping on the premises of the temple. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cops-quiz-10-year-old-muslim-boy-for-entering-temple-in-ghaziabad-priest-alleges-conspiracy-1039970.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||NIA raids 16 locations in J&K linked to LeT, TRF||Continuing its raids in Kashmir, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday conducted searches at 16 locations in the valley in a case linked to the Overground Workers (OGWs) of militant outfits, including The Resistance Front (TRF). A spokesperson on the NIA said that the raids were made in connection with the J&K terrorism conspiracy case (RC29/2021/NIA/DLI), pertaining to conspiracy for conducting violent terrorist acts in the Union Territory (UT) and other major cities. The raids were carried out against cadre of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), their affiliates Al-Badr, The Resistance Front (TRF), People Against Fascist Forces and Mujahideen Gazwatul Hind, among others, he said. On October 10, the premier probe agency had conducted searches at seven locations in J&K and arrested two alleged TRF operatives in the LeT-TRF conspiracy case.  Earlier on October 3, the NIA had also raided multiple locations in the Poonch district of the Jammu region in connection with unauthorised trade through the Line of Control (LoC), which was purportedly being used to fund terrorism. Sources said that the raids were part of a crackdown on OGWs, who assisted TRF in recent attacks on civilians and other terror activities in the Valley. TRF was reportedly created by the Pakistani spy agency ISI in response to the 2019 revocation of J&K’s special status under Article 370 by the Center. Police said that is an offshoot of the LeT to claim responsibility for the attacks. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-raids-16-locations-in-jk-linked-to-let-trf-1039978.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Terrorists behind killing of Kashmiri Pandit, others identified: Officials||Security agencies on Tuesday identified the terrorists they believed were behind the civilian killings in the city last week, and the attackers included their 25-year-old kingpin Basit Ahmed Dar, a resident of Kulgam in South Kashmir, officials said here. They said that Dar, who disappeared from his home in Redwani in Kulgam district in April, had been under the scanner earlier also as he worked with Abbas Sheikh, the self-styled chief of The Resistance Front (TRF), an organisation believed to be a shadow outfit of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba. According to officials, Dar and three others -- including Mehran Shalla, a youth in his early 20s and a resident of Nawa Kadal in downtown city, and another young man Adil -- were part of a four-member terror squad that carried out the attacks on civilians in the city. The officials said that the group was involved in the killing of Kashmiri Pandit businessman Makhan Lal Bindroo, who owned a chain of medical shops known for genuine medicines, school principal Supinder Kaur and teacher Deepak Chand, both of whom taught in the same school located at Eidgah. The officials added that security agencies gathered CCTV footage from all the locations and joined the dots to zero in on the squad that was responsible for the killing of civilians, especially the minorities. The officials further mentioned that Basit had been moving around in the city and was accompanied by Mehran and others. It is stated that Dar took over the TRF operations after the death of Abbas Sheikh, among the oldest face of terrorism in the valley. A resident of Kulgam's Rampur village, Sheikh had joined the banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group in the mid-90s and kept returning to the terror fold after being arrested and released twice. He was arrested for the first time in 2004 and released after a year. In 2007, he was arrested again and spent four years in jail. After his release, he was at home for three years, before going missing again in the spring of 2014. He was gunned down in a swift operation by the army early this year. Sheikh was behind the killing of jeweller Satpal Nischal, a non-Kashmiri, earlier this year leading the security forces to conclude that the same group could have been behind the killing of Virender Paswan, who earned her bread by selling 'golgappa' and 'chat papdi' in the valley. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorists-behind-killing-of-kashmiri-pandit-others-identified-officials-1039983.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Police wrote fanciful stories, put 'tadka' to charge sheet, Umar Khalid tells court||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, accused in the Delhi riots conspiracy case, on Tuesday told a court here that investigating officer wrote fanciful stories in the charge sheet and contended whether organising chakka jaam (road blockade) constitute an offence to invite invocation of anti-terror law the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).  Khalid, along with several others, has been booked under stringent UAPA and is accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 northeast Delhi riots, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Arguing his bail plea in the riots conspiracy case before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, his lawyer referred to the supplementary charge sheet filed in the case and said that the police wished to paint every accused with the same brush while adding 'tadka' (flavour) to it. The Delhi Police had earlier said that Umar Khalid's bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case. However, during the hearing on Tuesday, senior advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Umar Khali told the court, “I'll show your honour how UAPA is not made out or allegations are improbable. He referred to three allegations made against the accused in the charge sheet, emphasising that they were fertile imagination of the police and had no consistency. He submitted that the first allegation levelled by the police in the charge sheet was that JNU student Sharjeel Imam created a WhatsApp group of Muslim students on the directions of Umar Khalid on December 4, 2019. Denying it, he said, “Constituting a WhatsApp group of Muslim students, is it a terror? There is no witness to say that it was formed on the instance of Umar (Khalid). It is so easy to rope me in the charge sheet which is just a conjecture.” The lawyer further said that there was not even a single shred of communication between Imam and Umar Khalid and no message was shared by the latter in the WhatsApp group. “Just being in a group is not a crime,” the counsel emphasised in a one-hour-long hearing.  “Your [prosecution] wish to paint every accused with one brush as if it was one conspiracy crumbles when you look at the charges sheet. Where do you get it from? You got it from your mind. Half of it is a fertile imagination. None of this is supported by any statement,” Pais said. Furthermore, he denied the second allegation levelled by the police regarding a speech given by Umar Khalid at a protest organised by United Against Hate (UAH) at Jantar Mantar on December 7, 2019, where, as per the prosecution, he also introduced Swaraj India President Yogender Yadav to Imam.  “Police said that Imam was introduced to Yogender Yadav by Umar Khalid, his senior and mentor. Senior, mentor – this 'tadka' (flavour) has been put by them. It is such a dangerous thing,” the counsel said, referring to the charge sheet.  He also said that the speech purportedly given by Umar Khalid was produced by the police and there is no evidence that it incited anybody.  “The officer wants to tell the story but he forgets that he is not a storyteller, he is dealing with the law. Every assertion in the charge sheet must have a basis but this does not have any basis. They want to paint me with a single brush but do not have material for that,” the lawyer added. He further said that the third allegation against him was that he was allegedly part of a “secret meeting” held on December 8, 2019, where organising a chakka jaam (road blockade) was discussed.  “Is chakka jam an offence, does it invite UAPA? Is a meeting to say that our protest will involve chakka jam automatically a criminal conspiracy? Where does it say it's a crime? This meeting has found itself on every news item, branded about like some great conspiracy,” he said. The lawyer read out the statement of three prosecution witnesses and claimed that none of them described it as a secret meeting. The trio did not sign it, and that it was recorded after a delay, pais claimed.  He said, “None of the witnesses spoke about a conspiracy, meeting of minds, or an illegal act. It is not my personal opinion or that of the officer who is writing these fanciful stories using words like a mentor, teachers, or whatever.”  “If I am the mastermind, then why are these witnesses not saying what suits you? Mere presence in a meeting or being a part of a WhatsApp group is not a crime. Attending a meeting is not a crime by any stretch of the imagination,” Pais said.  The court will now hear the bail plea on November 2.  In a hearing on September 3, Umar Khalid's lawyer had told the court that the charge sheet made hyperbolic allegations "without any factual basis" and reads like a script from a web series and news channels. On August 23, Pais had said that Umar Khalid was framed by the media which allegedly played an edited video of his speech initially tweeted by BJP leader Amit Malviya.  Besides him, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law in the case. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-police-wrote-fanciful-stories-put-tadka-to-charge-sheet-umar-khalid-tells-court-1039997.html
12-10-2021||North and Central||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari injured during protest outside Kejriwal's house against Chhath Puja ban||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari was injured on Tuesday after he was hit by a water cannon discharge while trying to scale a police barricade during a protest near Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's house against the ban on Chhath celebrations at public places, party leaders said. BJP leaders said that Tiwari (50) was taken to the Safdarjung Hospital here and was discharged after all his reports came normal. "Along with other protesters, Tiwari scaled police barricade to continue the protest march when a water cannon discharge hit him on the chest and neck. He fell down with others on the road sustaining injuries," a Delhi BJP leader said. Tiwari was examined and treated by doctors at the Safdarjung Hospital and was discharged after all his medical reports were found to be normal, party leader Neelkant Bakshi said. A senior police officer said water cannon was used to disperse the protesters when they tried to cross the barricade. Tiwari fell down from the barricade but did not sustain any serious injuries and was discharged from the hospital, he said. Kejriwal had said the decision to prohibit Chhath Puja celebration at public places was taken in view of the coronavirus pandemic. However, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said during the protest that the party-ruled municipal corporations will make arrangements for Chhath celebrations. "The Kejriwal government may not make preparations for the Chhath puja, but the BJP-governed corporations will make adequate arrangements," he said. The Delhi BJP president described the Kejriwal government's decision as a "Tuglaqi farmaan" and said his party is opposing it as it is an attack on the religious feelings of Purvanchalis. A Delhi BJP statement said that besides Tiwari, many other leaders including Delhi BJP general secretary Dinesh Pratap Singh, Purvanchal Morcha president Kaushal Mishra, B N Mishra, Prabhash Chandra and Nivedita Tiwari also sustained injuries. Shailendra Singh has sustained a head injury, said the statement. Before he was injured, Tiwari slammed the Kejriwal government questioning its decision to ban the Chhath celebrations, even though swimming pools, malls, weekly bazaars, markets and public transport are allowed to open. Tiwari is also leading a 'Chhath Rath Yatra' in Purvanchali dominated areas of the city to take the feedback of people on the ban.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mp-manoj-tiwari-injured-during-protest-outside-kejriwals-house-against-chhath-puja-ban-1040004.html
12-10-2021||Opinion||India’s big privatisation win comes two decades late||By Andy Mukherjee Drop in at Air India Ltd.’s Mumbai office in early 2001, and you might have come across an elderly, white-jacketed man winding up the clock. With 17,400 employees and just 24 planes — three times the staffing level at major US airlines — silly tasks like timekeeping in the headquarters had become someone’s job description. Still, optimism was in the air back then. With India seeking to sell its national carrier, half a century of accumulated sloth was about to be shed. And yet, the privatisation plan collapsed, and took 20 further years and billions of dollars of wasted capital to be reassembled again. Finally, when the global travel industry has been ravaged by a pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has managed to let Air India go.  Two decades ago, the airline was valued at $4 billion by the pilots’ union. Compared with that, the winning bid of Rs 18,000 crore ($2.4 billion) by the Tata Group — from whom Air India was wrested by a socialist-minded government in 1953 — is a pittance. More so, as cash payment to New Delhi will account for only 15% of the consideration. The rest will be debt assumed by the new owner, a Mumbai-based conglomerate that also controls Jaguar Land Rover and runs India’s largest computer-software firm. Even after the deal, $6.2 billion in borrowings will get left behind and become explicit state liability. Yet the transaction makes sense. Selling Air India was never only about the proceeds. The carrier was a symbol of all that can go wrong when a state lacking the ability to deliver basic services like health and education starts competing in the commercial arena. Modi’s goodbye to the indolent Maharajah — the airline’s mascot — will buttress his government’s reform credentials at a time when the economic recovery from Covid-19 is still tentative and uneven. With the future of global travel mired in uncertainty, knowing that taxpayers won’t have to keep coming to the airline’s rescue is a boon for stretched government finances.  In 1953, a newly independent India made a huge blunder by nationalising Tata Airlines Ltd., which had managed to build a culture of customer service, something that vanished — along with ashtrays designed by Salvador Dali — in the drab, dreary socialism of the late 1960s. The carrier became a den of entitled employees dancing to the tunes of bureaucrats and politicians. Air India always had valuable parking slots at airports like Heathrow and bilateral flight rights. But it didn’t have planes to fly the routes. By the late 1990s, it was clear that the government couldn’t carry the burden perennially. But intense lobbying by Jet Airways India Ltd., the largest private-sector carrier back then in the Indian skies, defeated the 2001 privatisation plan to cynically doom the more efficient competitor that might have emerged. The then-aviation minister bragged about not letting even a nail of Air India go out of the state’s control. Then, reversing the decision to sell, a new government decided to beef up Air India with a $10.8 billion fleet expansion and an ill-advised merger with Indian Airlines, the domestic state-owned carrier. Profit disappeared forever. Debt piled up. Now that Jet Airways is bankrupt and the Tata Group have won back what was theirs, the question is: What will they do with three airlines in their stable? Tata has Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd. for full-service domestic and international flights. They also have a majority stake in a no-frills carrier with Malaysian entrepreneur Tony Fernandes’s Air Asia Group. Consolidation is the way forward, with Singapore Airlines probably to be relied upon for operational knowhow and Fernandes given an exit. Will the Maharajah be restored to its former glory? The answer matters to Ratan Tata, whose lifelong love affair with planes hasn’t translated into much business success with Vistara and AirAsia India. Now, for his 84th birthday in December, the group patriarch is getting 13,500 fulltime and contractual employees of Air India and the low-cost service it operates in the Middle East. With them will come the culture of a defeated public-sector organisation.  It won’t be an easy integration, but that’s the buyer’s headache. Indian taxpayers ought to be relieved to have cut their losses. International investors should be thrilled to get the deal they have always equated with a clear signal that India wants less government in commerce. That may be much more valuable that the seemingly low sticker price for the airline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-s-big-privatisation-win-comes-two-decades-late-1039847.html
12-10-2021||Opinion||China's imperial overstretch is risky for the world||At first glance, the belligerent diplomatic and military posture of the last decade gives the image of China winning the global disruption war.  Aggressive assertion of Chinese claims from the icy heights of the Himalayas on the Indian frontier to the vast Pacific Ocean where Chinese nuclear submarines dive deep spotted on long-range missions way beyond the Japanese islands of Okinawa underline this narrative. The world's second-largest economy is on the move. An annual defence budget of $209 billion — three times of India's spending — and a doctrine of offensive defence has seen the Chinese repeatedly fly fighter bombers over Taiwanese airspace, maintain submarines and warships in ports like Gwadar in Pakistan and at its sole overseas base in Djibouti in the horn of Africa straddling the Arab oil routes. Indeed, scarcely a day passes when one does not hear of a Chinese military presence far from its mainland. Add to the mix the world's largest-ever infrastructure project, the belt and road initiative. This $1.3 trillion project aims to transform global infrastructure with Chinese loans (not investments as was earlier the plan). So far, the project has already disbursed a staggering $282 billion to countries throughout Asia, Africa, Latin America and Europe at an average rate of interest of 11 per cent, which some of the receivers are finding very hard to pay back. Every which way you look — diplomatic, military or economic — China looks set to challenge the post-world war order led by the USA.  So what could go wrong? Plenty. The world's major powers were getting uncomfortable when they saw the systemic threat of an assertive China rising in the early 21st century. They could see that the grand tradeoff that began when China opened up in the mid-'80s that allowed the West and Japan to import cheaply and offshore labour and environmental constraints in their own countries was starting to backfire. Covid-19 accelerated that process with the approval rating of China plummeting in the eyes of the western voter. More than anything, the Covid carnage and the abiding disruption it wrought on global civilization accompanied by a brazen cover-up of its origin by China has swung the world away from any idea of a constructive engagement with the people's republic. The next decade could well be the story of how this disengagement plays out. Almost all countries that counted on greater economic integration to moderate Chinese behaviour only five years ago are now turning against it. From Malaysia and the Philippines, who contest Chinese aggression and forceful intervention on their claims in the South China Sea, to countries as far ashore as Britain and Australia, that chafe at humiliating and threatening Chinese wolf warrior diplomacy, all are now asserting economically and militarily in a push back aimed at a grand containment. Yet, this containment is not the containment of the Cold War aimed at the Soviet Union. Currently, it's diffused, at best symbolic, with Britain sending her biggest warship, the aircraft carrier HMS Elizabeth to the South China Sea for a long-range deployment to Australia, which is looking at a new sanction regime in reaction to China having already imposed multibillion-dollar tariffs on Australian exports. By taking on the USA through aggressive military diplomacy and brazen intellectual property theft (Huawei is a virtual copy of Cisco or Baidu would not exist if Google was allowed China market access even as China enjoys a $200 billion surplus with the US in 2020), China is making too many enemies too soon. Its current rise historically speaking is only 20 years old. A reverse string of pearls surrounds China with the USA, the European Union, Japan, India and South-East Asia harbouring grievances all at once.  This situation is not new to the world order, and the premier precedent is unsettling – Weimar Germany. Then, as now, the world order was in flux, and there were two significant miscalculations that Germany did. First, that it could take the path to imperialist expansion without too much resistance from Britain, the ruler of the seas, and a power it perceived – as China does about the US today - to be in decline. Second, the technological breakthroughs in the pre-First World War period allowed for armaments that promised a shortcut to deny enemies space in its own neighbourhood as reflect by German strategy before WW1 and China's aggressive "area denial "strategy with missiles like DF21 dubbed the aircraft carrier killer employed to keep America at bay in the Strait of Taiwan or Japan away from the South China sea. The world is a dangerous place because, increasingly, it is apparent that for Xi Jinping, the Straits offensive appears to be a variant of Germany's Schlieffen Plan that aims at a quick deceive attack on Taiwan where the USA, after its Afghanistan disaster, will not intervene in a significant manner.  That could be China's greatest historic miscalculation and is the world's greatest risk hiding in plain sight. Unlike Weimar Germany, an American led reaction and Chinese miscalculation could have devastating consequences for the world order – there were no nuclear weapons in 1914. Maritime democracies must speak in one voice, and given that the Chinese are famous for their pragmatism, hope that they listen and better sense prevails. In today's everyday normal, the world is staring down an abyss.  (The writer is a journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/chinas-imperial-overstretch-is-risky-for-the-world-1039875.html
12-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Becoming 'tea-totaller' amid Covid||The pandemic has taught the real virtue of a cup of tea. Each sip of tea offers a warm hug during such torrid times. Tea is also a salute to the untiring efforts by unknown people who pluck soft tea buds for the processing which makes the beverage a daily reality. Having co-existed with tea as its constant companion, I wonder if I can claim myself to be a 'tea-totaller'. Friends ask: What do you do when you are doing nothing? Drinking tea, what else! Literally, that has been the case. It helps me take a break, sip through the past moments and slip into the next. It is more of a norm than an exception to break for a cup of tea between two tasks, considered a fundamental right in offices and at workplaces. The prime reason seems that a cup of tea — warm and comforting — inspires a feeling of relaxation and trust that fosters shared confidence. Is it an addiction or a carefully considered compulsive habit? Inconclusive it may be, however, the way it works is even more amazing. If you are feeling sleepy, you need a cup of tea; and a warm cup of tea can put you to sleep as well. It works both ways. If you are feeling cold, tea will warm you; if you are restless, it will cool you; if you are depressed, it will cheer you; and, if you are excited it will calm you. No other beverage, that too a concoction, has so much to offer at an abysmally low price. During my college days, I was one among the few who would consume as many as 16-17 cups of tea daily. At that rate, by a conservative estimate, one would drink anywhere between 22k-28k litres of tea in an active life. Friends will often wonder if it is the tea that flows in my veins. Japanese count such expressions as compliments, and instead argue that 'if a man has no tea in him, he is incapable of understanding truth and beauty.' I would imagine that a cup of tea helps see some of the great things in life. I have experienced that, unlike other drinks, a cup of tea in itself makes for good company. From the first sip to the last, one gets transported to the hills among tea gardens with flowing streams, chirping birds, and hovering clouds. From shattering loneliness to invoking freshness, a cup of tea is refreshing at any point in time. Sometimes I feel it is an aggregate of many things rolled into a cup, the aroma and flavour are just physical manifestations. With many variants on offer now, chai is one beverage that has come of age to meet all tastes and needs. The pandemic has created conditions to explore as many of those variants. And, I can safely say that I'm not done yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/becoming-tea-totaller-amid-covid-1040038.html
12-10-2021||Second Edit||Some reassurance, but heed the warning||The upgradation of India’s outlook by ratings agency Moody’s from negative to stable provides some reassurance about the economy at least in the short term. The agency has appreciated India’s recovery after the disruption caused by the pandemic, and the rating enhancement is based on its view that the “risks from negative feedback between the real economy and the financial system are receding.” It has also said that “with higher capital cushions and greater liquidity, banks and non-bank financial institutions posed much lesser risk to the sovereign than previously anticipated.’’ The agency has revised its growth forecast to 9.3 per cent in the current fiscal year and 7.9 per cent for the next year. It also feels that the recovery is unlikely to slip badly but may stabilise at 6 per cent in the medium term. There is also a good accumulation of foreign exchange and that makes the external position strong. But it must be noted that the ratings are at the lowest investment grade.  A downgrade below the investment grade would have hurt the country badly. International investors go by the ratings of agencies and do not invest in countries that are below the grade. Among the three big rating agencies, both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s have raised the outlook to stable, but Fitch continues to maintain a negative view. But the favourable ratings should not lead to complacency in economic management. Though there was a quick recovery from the second wave of the pandemic, the economy still faces serious risks. At the end of 2021-22, the real output of the economy will be only slightly more than its pre-pandemic level of 2019-20. The present recovery rate is high because it is made from a very low base. Going forward, it is going to be tougher.  There are many challenges ahead. The economy was slowing down even before the pandemic struck. Some of the factors that had slowed it down still exist, and might even get accentuated. It will take much longer for the informal economy to recover from the effects of demonetisation and the pandemic. Private consumption and investment remain subdued. Individuals and households will not be able to spend much, and without consumer demand, private investment cannot grow. Government spending will also not rise substantially, especially when there is a high level of public debt. The debt-to-GDP ratio is a constraining factor in public expenditure. Exports are doing well and that augurs well. Moody’s has issued a warning too, by stating that the sovereign's fiscal strength could weaken further, leading to a negative rating action if the debt situation does not improve. That should be heeded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/some-reassurance-but-heed-the-warning-1040043.html
12-10-2021||South||Kerala on high alert as four killed in rain-related havocs||Four persons, including two children, were killed in Kerala in rain-related havocs since Monday night. A yellow alert was sounded in nine districts in central and north Kerala for Wednesday, and yellow and orange alerts were sounded in many districts till Saturday. Kerala Revenue Minister K Rajan said that rescue teams, including six teams of NDRF, were kept ready. While two siblings were killed after their house collapsed at Karippur in Malappuram district, in Pathanamthitta district the local reporter of a vernacular daily was killed after a tree uprooted and fell over him. In Kollam, an aged person drowned in a flooded area. Landslips were reported in various parts of the state. But there were no casualties. Road traffic was affected at many parts of Palakkad following landslips. Many low lying parts of Kozhikode, Malappuram, Thrissur, Palakkad and Ernakulam were flooded. With the water level of many dams and rivers increasing, people living along the banks were being shifted.  Cyclonic formation over the Arabian sea has been causing the rains in Kerala. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-on-high-alert-as-four-killed-in-rain-related-havocs-1039872.html
12-10-2021||South||Sabarimala, anti-CAA protest cases: Kerala CM assures speedy completion of procedures||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said instructions would be given to complete the government level procedures at the earliest to withdraw police cases registered during the Sabarimala and anti-CAA protests in the state. He said the government had already issued orders in February this year to take necessary action to withdraw cases that were "not of serious criminal nature" in connection with the incidents. Based on the order, the state DGP had directed the district collectors and district police chiefs to look into the nature and present status of each such case registered in their respective areas, he told the state Assembly. A panel, comprising Crime Branch IG and the superintends of the Special Cell and the State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB), has been set up to collect information related to such cases and examine its nature and status. The committee was also entrusted with the codifying of information related to the steps required to withdraw such cases, the CM said while replying to a submission by opposition leader V D Satheesan on the issue. Each case should be examined separately and it can be withdrawn only with the permission of the court under the Section 321 of the Criminal Procedure Code, he explained. "The government has limitations in this regard as it is a matter falling within the purview of the judiciary. Yet, instructions will be given to the concerned officials to complete the procedures at the government level at the earliest," Vijayan added. Opposition Congress had welcomed the CPI(M)-led LDF government's decision to withdraw the cases ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls. Around 2,000 cases related to Sabarimala agitation were registered across various districts in the state during 2018- 19. The Nair Service Society (NSS), a prominent caste-based organisation in the state, which was in the forefront of the 'namajapa yathra' as part of Sabarimala agitation had earlier demanded withdrawal of cases against the protesters.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-anti-caa-protest-cases-kerala-cm-assures-speedy-completion-of-procedures-1039901.html
12-10-2021||South||BPCL privatisation not to impact upcoming petrochemical park: Kerala government||The Kerala government on Tuesday indicated that the Centre's plan to privatise Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) would not adversely impact the interests of its ambitious Petrochemical park, being set up in Kochi. Industries Minister P Rajeev told the state Assembly that the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (KINFRA) and the public sector oil company had signed an MoU last month to ensure the availability of raw materials to the enterprises launching their business in the upcoming park. "The entrepreneurs, who launch their business in the proposed park, are going to depend on the BPCL for the required raw materials. The KINFRA and the BPCL entered into an MoU on September 24 this year. With this, the availability of raw materials can be ensured to the enterprises without any hurdle," he said. The Minister also said the Rs 300 crore Petrochemical Park is expected to boost the expansion of Kochi Oil Refinery under the BPCL and thus pave way for the formation of a cluster of petrochemical-related industries making use of raw materials from there. The KINFRA has prepared its detailed project report and the Centre has accorded it the necessary environmental clearance, he said during the question hour. "KINFRA has prepared a Rs 300 crore project report for the development of basic infrastructure. The tender proceedings related to the infrastructure development and for the selection of a project management consultant are at the final stages," he said. Laying the foundation stone of the park on February 9, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had said the Rs 300 crore venture would change the perception that the state was not industry-friendly. The park, coming up on 481.79 acres of land acquired by the state government from Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT), a central public sector undertaking, is being set up by the Industries Department in collaboration with Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), official sources said. Nearly 229 acres will be available in the petrochemical park for industrial ventures and at present, 171 acres have been allotted on lease for the development of BPCL, while 33 per cent of the land will be retained for establishment of a green belt, as per the Union Ministry of Environment guidelines. The KINFRA would provide the basic facilities at the park, including supply of 12 million litres of water per day, 11 and 33 kilowatts of electricity, pollution control plant, GAIL gas pipeline, and waste treatment system, they said. The park is expected to be completed within 30 months. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bpcl-privatisation-not-to-impact-upcoming-petrochemical-park-kerala-government-1039942.html
12-10-2021||South||UDF slams ruling LDF in Kerala for delay in preparing Coastal Zone Management plan||Opposition Congress-led UDF on Tuesday slammed the LDF government in Kerala alleging lapses and delay in its preparation of the Coastal Zone Management plan and staged a walkout in the state Assembly protesting over the latter's stand not to discuss the matter in the House. Moving a notice for an adjournment motion, the opposition said an expert panel to prepare the plan and submit it to the Centre was set up only in July and accused the government of viewing the matter lightly. They also said despite Covid-related issues, states like Maharashtra had submitted the plan to the Centre. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, said the preparation of the action plan was a time-consuming process and the government was unable to complete all its mandatory procedures due to the Covid situation in the state. The functioning of the government, as well as the life of the people, had not been smooth for the last two years in the wake of the pandemic, he said during the zero hour. "Public hearing is the most significant factor in the completion of the draft notification. Everyone knows that the situation was not conducive to that and it was difficult to go into such a procedure," Vijayan said. However, as soon as the situation was favourable, the state government went ahead with necessary proceedings without any delay, he said, adding that the Left government has a development policy that balances nature conservation, coastal management and people's life. "The state government proposes an eco-friendly development policy. Our stand is to implement environmental protection with the participation of people. Steps to protect the livelihood of people as well as to maintain the ecological balance will be taken," the Chief Minister said. Extensive awareness programmes would be implemented and mass participation of people would be ensured for that, he said. Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly V D Satheesan said it was for the government to prepare the action plan as per the 2011 notification and gain the Centre's approval. However, the plan, which was supposed to be given within six months, had not been submitted even after three years, he alleged, adding that it showed the "careless and indifferent" approach of the state government. Based on the Chief Minister's reply, Speaker M B Rajesh denied leave for the motion, prompting the opposition to stage a walkout.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/udf-slams-ruling-ldf-in-kerala-for-delay-in-preparing-coastal-zone-management-plan-1039958.html
12-10-2021||South||With free wedding dresses, Dress Bank makes 'Cinderella' dreams of brides from poor families come true||Expensive bridal dresses that remain unused after a wedding are now bringing cheer to the faces of brides coming from poor financial backgrounds in Kerala. In a new model for charity, Dress Bank offers expensive bridal dresses to women from poor families free of cost.  Nasar Thootha, a native of Perinthalmanna in Malappuram district of Kerala, initiated the Dress Bank project in March 2020. In less than two years, around 200 brides from financially-weak families were able to dress up for their wedding in costly bridal dresses under the project, which now has many givers and takers from many parts of Kerala and even from other states and abroad. The Dress Bank has now a collection of around 1,000 costly bridal dresses. "At present, there is a collection of around 1,000 traditional bridal outfits that suits Muslim, Christian and Hindu brides. The market prices range between Rs 5,000 and Rs 50,000. Contributions are coming from other states as well as from NRIs. Some financially weak families from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu had also approached the Dress Bank," Nasar told DH. The 44-year-old former NRI has been actively engaged in charity activities ever since he returned to Kerala from abroad eight years ago. Seeing the plight of many financially-weak families who were struggling to buy costly bridal dresses and bear other expenses of a wedding inspired Nasar to start the Dress Bank project. With the support of his family members and friends, Nasar initially pooled the once-used bridal dresses and started offering those to brides from poor families in the locality. His initiative garnered much appreciation and publicity through social media and word-of-mouth. Nasar then started receiving contributions from various parts of the state and outside. Nasar says that almost all dresses that he receives are used just for a few hours and are like new ones. But he dry-washes them before giving the dresses to others. Even though he does not ask the families to return the dresses after use, some families return them, he says.  Nasar initially operated the Dress Bank from his home, but later on, one of his friends offered a one-room shop for the venture at his locality, Thootha, about ten kilometres from Perinthalmanna town. Nasar, who is a taxi driver, generally opens the shop on Tuesdays and Sundays.  Nasar added that there are not many requests for bridegroom's outfits, hence, he does not have many attires for grooms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-free-wedding-dresses-dress-bank-makes-cinderella-dreams-of-brides-from-poor-families-come-true-1039960.html
12-10-2021||South||Kerala BJP's Ali Akbar quits all organisational responsibilities||Unrest in the Kerala BJP is coming out in the open with filmmaker Ali Akbar quitting his party state committee member post. Even as Akbar said that he was quite engaged with filmmaking and had no plans to quit the BJP, he pointed fingers at the rift in the party in a social media post. Akbar said in the post that the BJP leadership should understand the difficulties that a Muslim member faces for joining BJP. He is said to have resigned from all positions in the party over being denied a prominent rule during the recent reconstitution. The recent suspension of BJP state secretary A K Nazeer after he made critical remarks against the leadership was also said to have provocated Akbar to quit the post. Akbar is in the process of making a film about Malabar rebellion of Kerala, which became controversial with BJP leaders terming it as a movement against the Hindu landlords by the rebellion leader Variyamkunnath Kunjahammed Haji. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bjps-ali-akbar-quits-all-organisational-responsibilities-1039986.html
12-10-2021||South||One candidate, one vote: The curious case of a BJP member||As the results of the elections to rural local bodies in nine districts of Tamil Nadu began to trickle in, one result of a bye-election held in a village panchayat in Coimbatore district caught everyone’s attention.  The reason for the sudden attention was that one candidate, Karthik, scored just one vote in the bye-elections to the 9th ward in Kurudampalayam village panchayat in Coimbatore district. Since Karthik is the Vice-President of the Coimbatore (North) unit of BJP’s youth wing, Tamil Twitter was swamped with the hashtag #OneVoteBJP and #SingleVoteBJP for the whole of Tuesday.  Karthik was allotted a car symbol as candidates contesting for the posts of village panchayat president and panchayat ward members are not given party symbols.  The results of the bye-elections were shared widely on social media with people making fun of Karthik and the BJP wondering why even his family members did not repose trust in him. Twitter handles promoted bye the ruling DMK helped trend the hashtags against the BJP and Karthik which were at one point secured the no. 1 position in India.  As he became a ‘star’ instantly, Karthik released a video saying he contested the bye-election “just like that.” “I and my family members reside in ward no. 4 of the Kurudampalayam panchayat but since the bye-election was held in ward no. 9, I thought of contesting. I consider getting one vote itself as an achievement because I did not campaign here due to family issues,” he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-candidate-one-vote-the-curious-case-of-a-bjp-member-1039990.html
12-10-2021||South||Congress slams Kerala government for not withdrawing cases related to Sabarimala, CAA protests||The opposition Congress in Kerala criticised the LDF government in Kerala for not withdrawing the cases registered in connection with protests and demonstrations against the entry of women of all ages to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple, as well as the Citizenship Amendment Act. Replying to a submission of opposition leader V D Satheesan in this regard in the Assembly on Tuesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the earlier decision to withdraw cases that were not of serious nature was being implemented. The cases could be withdrawn only with the court's permission and the government would expedite the steps from its side. The opposition leader alleged that of the 836 cases registered in connection with the demonstrations against CAA, only 13 were withdrawn so far. As many as 2,636 cases registered in connection with Sabarimala protests were still pending. He also pointed out that even as the Sabarimala and CAA cases were not yet withdrawn, a total of 5,325 other cases were withdrawn in the state since the first Pinarayi Vijayan government came to power in 2016. The left-front government decided to withdraw cases related to Sabarimala women entry and CAA protests in February, just ahead of the Assembly elections, a move was considered as an election stunt. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-slams-kerala-government-for-not-withdrawing-cases-related-to-sabarimala-caa-protests-1039991.html
12-10-2021||South||Kerala Congress leadership struggles to please members in party reconstitution||The finalisation of Congress committees in Kerala is getting delayed as the new state leadership is finding it difficult to accommodate the interests of all the prominent party leaders at the state and national levels. The new leadership comprising Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran and opposition leader V D Satheesan had earlier decided to stop the hitherto practice of forming 'jumbo committees', as it is widely referred to, by accommodating nominees of all prominent leaders. However, having burnt its fingers for not taking the prominent leaders into confidence while finalising the district Congress committee presidents last month, the Sudhakaran-Satheesan combine seems to be now struggling to implement its foremost decision to do away with the jumbo state committee and not to concede to group interests of the leaders. Even as Sudhakaran and Satheesan almost finalised the draft list and went to Delhi for AICC's nod the other day, they had to return without accomplishing the mission. Concerns expressed by some top leaders from Kerala over not including their nominees and the difference of the state leadership with an AICC general secretary from Kerala over the compulsion to include the latter's nominees were said to be the reason. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal said on Tuesday that the reports that he was a reason for delaying the finalisation of Kerala PCC officer bearers were not true. Sudhakaran said that the list was almost finalised and would be announced soon. He also denied reports of Venugopal's intervention. It was learnt that the state leadership sent the draft list of Kerala PCC office bearers to the AICC general secretary in-charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar by Tuesday evening. While the Kerala PCC was earlier having a 'jumbo committee' of 12 vice presidents, 42 general secretaries and around 100 secretaries, the new leadership wanted to limit it to 51. After the district, Congress committee presidents were announced last month the state Congress witnessed severe unrest with top leaders like Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala openly flaying the state leadership for not consulting them before finalising the list. Five prominent leaders also left the party. Former Kerala PCC presidents Mullappally Ramachandran and V M Sudheeran openly expressed their displeasure against the state leadership. Hence the Sudhakaran-Satheesan combine was learnt to have consulted all senior leaders before finalising the draft PCC office bearers list. Certain relaxations in norms were learnt to be given to a couple of senior women leaders to ensure adequate women representation in the committee. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-leadership-struggles-to-please-members-in-party-reconstitution-1040012.html
12-10-2021||South||Sri Venkateshwara Bhakti channels launched in Kannada, Hindi||The Kannada and Hindi versions of the Sri Venkateshwara Bhakti Channels went on air from Tuesday. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has already been operating SVBC in Telugu and Tamil, transmitting the temple rituals, dharmic content and the temple town information for the sake of millions of devotees. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has launched the two channels in Tirumala in the presence of Sri Subudendra Thirtha Swamy of Mantralaya Sri Raghavendra Swamy Mutt. The SVBC channel, first in Telugu, was inaugurated in July 2008 by the then President of India Pratibha Patil. All the Tirumala temple events and festivals such as Nityotsavams, Vaarotsavams, Pakshotsavams, Masotsavams, Samvatsarotsavams including Srivari brahmotsavams, and Parayanams, documentaries on important pilgrim centres etc. are telecasted on SVBC. Spiritual discourses, devotional music, traditional dances, bhajans etc., are also promoted through SVBC, which has become popular with the devotees of Sri Venkateswara Swamy across the globe, officials said. Upon the request of Tamil devotees, TTD commenced SVBC Tamil on Tamil Ugadi day in April 2017. The TTD has now launched the Kannada and Hindi versions of SVBC to cater to the devotees from Karnataka and North India. Though TTD officials earlier said that the Kannada channel would be jointly inaugurated by Reddy and Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, the latter could not attend the event. Former Karnataka legislator Dr TA Saravana has donated Rs 12 lakh worth of cameras to be used for the Kannada SVBC. An anonymous devotee has donated Rs 10 lakh for the channel operations. Programmes like Sundarakanda, Virata Parvam, Bhagavad Gita that SVBC has presented during the pandemic period have won the hearts of millions of devotees and has widened SVBC viewership, TTD officials said. New boondi potu CM Reddy has also opened the newly constructed Boondi Potu Complex in Tirumala, where the boondi required for preparation of the popular Srivari prasadam, laddus, is prepared. While the present potu on the southern side of Srivari Temple has the capacity to produce boondi to make 3.75 lakh laddus per day, the new facility with modern equipment, proper ventilation facilities takes the output to six lakh laddus daily. The new potu in an area of 8541 ft with 40 flame-less stoves was constructed with a donation of Rs 12 crore from N Srinivasan of India Cements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sri-venkateshwara-bhakti-channels-launched-in-kannada-hindi-1040026.html
12-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt at liberty to decide on temple opening for Vijayadasami: Madras HC||The Madras High Court on Tuesday granted liberty to the Tamil Nadu government to decide on keeping the temples open on Friday on which Vijayadasami falls. Shrines in the state are closed on Friday, Saturday and Sunday in view of the covid pandemic situation. The vacation bench of Justices R Mahadevan and Abdul Quddhose said this when a PIL petition praying for a direction to the government to keep the temples in the state open on the auspicious Vijayadasami day, came up today. "We leave it open to the government to decide,” the judges said. Earlier, Advocate-General R Shanmugasundaram told the bench that Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin has convened a meeting with experts on October 13 to consider the possibility of lifting the restriction of keeping the temples closed during the weekends. He also added that the restriction was imposed following a communication from the Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in September, which advised the State government to strictly impose the restrictions in view of the rise in new cases of covid-19. The letter also pointed out that in the months ahead several festivals are coming up. This is a critical period, when the Covid-19 protocols are to be strictly adhered to, the letter had stated.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-at-liberty-to-decide-on-temple-opening-for-vijayadasami-madras-hc-1040028.html
12-10-2021||South||MAA elections: Prakash Raj's associates resign from actors' body||Two days after their election, 11 office bearers from actor Prakash Raj's panel have announced their decision to quit the Telugu Movie Artists Association (MAA) positions. The decision follows Raj's exit from MAA after he was trounced by actor Manchu Vishnu in the presidential elections. Raj has accused that the Telugu regionalism propagated by his opposition panel has resulted in his defeat. The biennial elections of MAA which has over 900 members including all actors in the Telugu film industry, were held on Sunday. The majority of the office bearers like vice-presidents, secretaries, treasurer, executive committee members were elected from the Vishnu panel. On Tuesday, Raj along with the elected members of his panel announced their decision not to occupy their posts. “As the newly elected MAA body consists of members from both the panels, there is a probability of differences arising between us. Since we cannot stop probing (any wrongdoing), we thought it is better that MAA is run entirely by Vishnu panel people. But we will continue to question, from outside, if MAA's welfare, development activities are held up,” Raj panel members stated in their resignation letter addressed to the president. Holding a press conference later, Raj and his associates alleged malpractices on the election day and during the counting and that senior actor Manchu Mohanbabu, father of Vishnu, had abused some of them. Refuting some news reports, Raj said that they do not have any plans to form a different association. President-elect Vishnu, who on Monday requested Raj to reconsider his decision to quit MAA, is yet to react to the en-masse resignations. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maa-elections-prakash-rajs-associates-resign-from-actors-body-1040030.html
12-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu rural local body elections: DMK heading for a huge win||Tamil Nadu’s ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) was on Tuesday heading for a sweep in the elections to rural local bodies in nine districts, five months after the party-led alliance stormed to power after a gap of 10 years.  Though the majority of the results are yet to be declared, the trends indicated that the DMK and its alliance partners were poised for a big win, while the principal opposition, AIADMK, was staring at a humiliating defeat. Tamil television channels reported that leads were available for 97 of the 140 district councillor posts of which DMK-led alliance was ahead in 90 seats leaving just 6 for the AIADMK and one for its now estranged alliance partner PMK. The channels also reported that leads were available for 429 of the 1,381 union councillor posts. Of this, the DMK alliance was leading in 339, leaving the AIADMK way behind with just 50 seats. PMK was leading in 10 seats, AMMK (2), and others (27). Sources in the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (TNSEC) told DH that the results are expected to be out only by Wednesday evening. The leads are a major setback for the opposition AIADMK which has been accusing the DMK government of not fulfilling the promises made during the 2021 assembly elections. AIADMK’s alliance partner BJP and PMK, which contested alone, did not make any headway in the elections. DMK was upbeat with the performance of the party and its alliance partners in the nine districts as leaders credited the “big win” to the achievements of the M K Stalin-led DMK government in the state. While established political parties bit the dust, fans of actor Vijay who contested as independent candidates bagged over 50 posts in the elections.  Elections to rural local bodies were held on October 6 and October 9 in Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, Ranipet, Vellore, Tiruppattur, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tirunelveli, and Tenkasi.   Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-rural-local-body-elections-dmk-heading-for-a-huge-win-1040039.html
12-10-2021||State||Active Covid-19 caseload below 10K-mark in Karnataka||The active caseload in Karnataka went below the 10,000-mark on Monday, even as the state added 373 fresh Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths, taking the caseload and toll to 29,81,400 and 37,895. Six districts reported zero infections while 27 districts reported zero fatalities. The number of active cases is now 9,906 in the state. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.45% and the case fatality rate was 2.68%. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 146 new cases and five deaths. Mysuru reported 43 fresh infections and two deaths. Among other districts, Dakshina Kannada and Hassan reported 38 cases each, Tumakuru 17, Kodagu and Udupi 15 each. Two deaths were reported in Uttara Kannada and and one each in Dharwad. Bagalkot, Chikkamagaluru, Gadag, Haveri, Vijayapura and Yadgir reported zero infections and zero Covid-related deaths. A total of 82,853 samples were tested on Monday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/active-covid-19-caseload-below-10k-mark-in-karnataka-1039766.html
12-10-2021||State||55.54% pass SSLC supplementary exams ||As many as 55.54 per cent of the candidates, who appeared for SSLC supplementary exams, managed to pass. While 53,155 students appeared for the exam, 29,522 of them have cleared it. This year, the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board promoted all the candidates who appeared for the main exams but not the supplementary. The results were announced based on students’ performance. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh released the results. The results are available on http://karresults.nic.in.  Studnets  can also download the provisional marks cards on the website. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/5554-pass-sslc-supplementary-exams-1039777.html
12-10-2021||State||Heavy rains trigger landslide in Devarayana Durga hills||Heavy rains across Tumakuru taluk has caused a landslide at the famous pilgrimage and tourist destination Devarayana Durga on the outskirts of Tumakuru City. Due to the continuous flow of water, a small portion has slid onto the road completely blocking the hillock-bound tourist traffic.  Sources in Tumakuru Rural district revealed to DH that the incident happened near the checkpoint atop the hillock. “Along with the mud, a huge boulder has also been brought down and fallen on the main road leading to Yoga Narasimha temple,” explained a villager from Urdigere at the foothills of Devarayana Durga on Tumakuru outskirts.  The district administration has banned the entry of tourists and devotees to the hillock and has permitted only the temple priests to travel to carry out the Pooja and rituals.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/heavy-rains-trigger-landslide-in-devarayana-durga-hills-1039951.html
12-10-2021||State||Higher education council signs MoU with Nasscom for skill-based courses||The Karnataka State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) entered into an MoU with the National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom), on Tuesday, to introduce three new courses. This will provide industry-based skill-oriented experiences to students pursuing higher education. In his speech on the occasion, Higher Education and IT/BT Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said, “All universities in the state are covered under the MoU. It will benefit more than 5 lakh students studying in govt and privateinstitutions.” He said the skill development courses were available on the ‘future skills prime’ platform of Nasscom to all students and faculty members of higher education institutions of Karnataka. “Skill development needs to focus on aligning courses with standards, faculty training and infrastructure resources. All three aspects are considered in this initiative. The courses available on ‘future skills prime’ are as per the national occupational standards of the National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF). All these courses will have online access for both faculty and students. Those who want to learn these courses can access it on computers as well as tablets/smartphones,” the minister said. Under the MoU, three courses on digital fluency, artificial intelligence and cyber security will become part of the curriculum. They will be made available free of cost to non-computer science students and faculty members. All these courses will have the theory and practical components guaranteeing skill development among learners, the minister said. As per study reports, though the Indian IT services industry has a potential to touch $300-350 billion in revenues by 2025, the lack of digital talent will be a major challenge to be resolved in reaching this milestone. The demand for digital skills in India is eight times what is available and will rise 20 times by 2024, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/higher-education-council-signs-mou-with-nasscom-for-skill-based-courses-1040034.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||MP Kuldeep Sharma, MLA Raminder Awala new AICC secretaries for Karnataka party affairs||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday appointed MP Kuldeep Rai Sharma and Punjab MLA Raminder Singh Awala as new AICC secretaries for the party affairs in Karnataka. The two AICC secretaries will be attached to the party general secretary in-charge for Karnataka Randeep Surjewala, the party said in an official statement. Sharma is the Congress MP from Andaman and Nicobar while Awala is the MLA from the Jalalabad assembly seat in Punjab. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mp-kuldeep-sharma-mla-raminder-awala-new-aicc-secretaries-for-karnataka-party-affairs-1039758.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Education secretary among IAS officers transferred||The government effected a slew of transfers on Monday, placing B H Anil Kumar - who was Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Department of Public Enterprises in concurrent charge of Infrastructure Development Department(IDD). Kapil Mohan, ACS, IDD, is posted as ACS, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs and Legal Metrology. S R Umashankar, Principal Secretary (PS), Primary and Secondary Education, is now PS, Co-operation Department, replacing S Selvakumar. Selvakumar will now be Secretary, Primary and Secondary Education Department with concurrent charge of Department of Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood.  Bengaluru Regional Commissioner Naveen Raj Singh will be in concurrent charge of Secretary, Health and Family Welfare (Medical Education), relieving J Ravishankar. Ravishankar is now Secretary, Housing, with concurrent charge as Commissioner of Excise. D Randeep, Special Commissioner (Health & IT), BBMP, will swap charges with K V Thrilok Chandra, Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare. K P Mohan Raj, is posted as MD, Karnataka State Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation and Priyanka Mary Francis is Director, Women and Child Development Department. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/education-secretary-among-ias-officers-transferred-1039763.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Medicine supplies corporation’s delay in clearing bills irks pharma firms||Despite providing life-saving medicine and testing kits during two waves of the pandemic, several medical suppliers are forced to run from pillar to post to clear bills in excess of Rs 100 crore from the Karnataka State Medical Supplies Corporation Ltd (KSMSCL). Some bills are due for the last two years, the suppliers have alleged. Suppliers allege that the delay in payment has hurt the finances of the company and stopped them from bidding for other government tenders. Several companies have now written to T K Anil Kumar, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Services to ensure that the payments are made at the earliest. However, KSMSCL managing director K S Latha Kumari said that the allegations were far from truth as 80-90% of the payments were complete. Some of the payments are due because reports on empanelled labs, on quality of medicine and other required documents were yet to be assessed. DH spoke to three pharmaceutical firms which supplied medicine and other equipment to KSMSCL, formerly Karnataka State Drug Logistics and Warehousing Society. According to an executive of one company, despite assurances during the pandemic that payments for medical supplies will be made within a month, firms were kept waiting for almost two years in some cases. “We request your immediate attention in helping us with the payments” as we are small traders and have borrowed money from banks and are paying high interests, one of the firms wrote. Another company highlighted that close to Rs 3 crore was due “for want of QC (quality compliance) report” from government labs. Though the lab has submitted a report more than a month ago, payment was delayed. Noting that he had given representation in the payment Adalat, he sought “release of payment immediately” since the company was in financial trouble because of the delay. Another firm threatened legal action as the payment delay had affected their payment cycle. The payments due were in excess of Rs 100 crore, they contended. Anil Kumar said that he had received written petitions on Monday. “I just got the letters today. I will find out what the quantum of pending payments are and address their concerns in two to three days,” hesaid. Latha Kumari maintained that there was no unnecessary delay in payments. “Those complaining are afraid of penalties due to delay in supply or for supplying medicine which have very low shelf life. There are hundreds of such issues. They are trying to arm twist us and ensure payment,” she said. These complaints are now being raised because the department has been able to reduce influence of middlemen. Moreover, 80-90% of all payments are completed on time, she said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/medicine-supplies-corporation-s-delay-in-clearing-bills-irks-pharma-firms-1039764.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Coal crisis will be resolved in two days: Karnataka Energy minister||Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar on Monday clarified that the current crisis of inadequate supply of coal will be resolved in two days with additional two rakes of coal reaching Karnataka. The minister clarified that no thermal unit in Karnataka is shut for want of coal, even as the power generation was brought down by a few megawatts. Speaking to media persons on the sidelines of inducting the newly recruited junior power men to Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL) in Bengaluru, Sunil Kumar said, “A rake of coal dispatched from Mahanadi Coal Fields in Odisha will be reaching Karnataka on Tuesday. One more rake of coal which is being loaded on Monday will arrive on Wednesday and this will resolve the crisis.” Explaining further the minister said, “We were supplied with about 10 rakes all these days. Now, we have requested the Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi to increase it to 14 rakes. Out of these, the two rakes of coal will be immediately delivered to our thermal plants and the other two will arrive in November.” Acknowledging that the shortage of coal has led to serious problems in the state, Sunil Kumar said, “We are anxious and trying our best to resolve the crisis. Led by CM Basavaraj Bommai, we have submitted a memorandum to the Union government and it has responded quickly to our request.” He further revealed that generation at thermal plants was brought down by a few megawatts but no thermal unit was shut due to the shortage of coal. In the meantime, the state government has appealed to the Union Environment and Forests Minister Bhupender Yadav to grant permission to carry out coal mining at Mandakini and Baranji in Maharashtra, where coal blocks were allocated to Karnataka. “As soon as we get permission to extract coal, we will proceed with that work as well ensuring an adequate supply of coal to Karnataka,” Sunil Kumar explained. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coal-crisis-will-be-resolved-in-two-days-karnataka-energy-minister-1039765.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Not offered any national role, says Siddaramaiah||Amid speculations that AICC President Sonia Gandhi is miffed with Congress leader Siddaramaiah for refusing a national role in the party, the senior leader on Monday sought to clarify that no such role was offered to him. He said the issue of national politics did not come up when he recently met Sonia Gandhi. No invitation was extended to him to join national politics, he stated. Speaking to media persons here, he said, “Even though I have clarified this, some publications are carrying reports that a national role was offered to me and that I refused it and that Sonia Gandhi is miffed with me. How do I clarify something that never happened in the first place? It seems that some publications have forgotten the ethics of journalism,” he charged. Also, he said he has felt for a long time that Rahul Gandhi should lead the party. “Even now, I wish that he takes charge as the party president,” he said. Coal supply Siddaramaiah also raised concerns about the deficit in coal supply. “We need to know whether coal supply shortage is artificial or real - whether Karnataka never has a power deficit. We have always had surplus power. Since we don’t have thermal power plants, we don’t need much coal. Is the government creating an artificial deficit to privatise the electricity supply? Such a move will impact farmers the worst as free power supply will be stopped,” heremarked.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-offered-any-national-role-says-siddaramaiah-1039767.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Does BJP want to uproot Kannada from K’taka, asks HDK||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy has hit out at the state government for ‘insulting’ Kannada at the 25th convocation of Nimhans held recently. Tweeting a photo of the banner where the Kannada translation of the event was mentioned in the end, the former chief minister alleged that the BJP leaders in the state had no pride for the Kannada language. “The event details were mentioned in Hindi first, English next and in Kannada the last. The chief minister himself was at the event, along with other ministers. Do we need more proof that they do not care about the regional language?” he sought to know. "Does the BJP want to uproot Kannada from Karnataka?" he noted. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/does-bjp-want-to-uproot-kannada-from-k-taka-asks-hdk-1039769.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kharland project: Karnataka govt plans to reclaim 21K acre agri land||The ambitious Kharland project of the state government aims to reclaim around 21,000 acre fertile land for agricultural activity. These lands in Uttara Kannada district of the state are worst hit by increased salinity due to intrusion of sea water. The project, which was announced in the budget, received clearance from the state Cabinet recently. While the government has ruled out any ecological concerns, there are calls for an environmental impact assessment report of the project. Kharlands are agricultural lands along the banks of the estuaries or near the sea that are converted to saline land. Under the project, 73 kms of kharland bunds will be created to prevent submersion of agricultural land by sea water. According to documents accessed by DH, the state government has set a time frame of 24 months for the project being implemented by the Minor Irrigation Department. Intrusion of saline water in coastal region has contaminated surface water of rivers and groundwater resources “resulting in considerable reduction in freshwater availability. This has affected agricultural activity which has serious implications. By constructing these Kharlands, about 21,000 acres of land can be reclaimed which helps in agricultural activities and taking up of prawn cultivation,” according to the department. The first phase of the Kharland work will come up in five taluks of Uttara Kannada - Karwar, Ankola, Kumta, Honnavar and Bhatkal. A total of 49 salt water exclusion dams will be constructed at a total cost of Rs 300 cr. These structures are expected to regulate tidal variations that occur between five and 20 kms from the coast. The Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation had also made a similar proposal in 2017. In a report, it had identified 143 works in estuaries along the Karnataka coast, with a potential to irrigate 39,100 acre land. Environmental activist Vishwanath Srikantaiah was of the view that mangroves, sea coast and marine life will be affected. “The government should conduct an environmental impact assessment (EIA) before going ahead with the project as the project should be handled with great sensitivity,” he said. Minor Irrigation minister J C Madhuswamy, however, ruled out the requirement for an EIA. “This is not related to mangrove forest at all. The project divides the river where it meets the sea. There won’t be any ecological impact at all, as the bunds are of just one or two meter height. Water flowing beyond the bund will reach the sea,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kharland-project-karnataka-govt-plans-to-reclaim-21k-acre-agri-land-1039773.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Barred from SSLC main, girl tops supplementary||Greeshma Nayak, the topper in the SSLC supplementary exams, had reportedly tried to end her life only a few months ago. That was when she was not allowed to take a crack at the (Secondary School Leaving Certificate) SSLC main exam merely because she was unable to clear her school’s dues. On Monday, she showed her mettle when the results of the SSLC 2021 supplementary examinations were announced. Greeshma, hailing from a village in Koratagere taluk of Tumakuru district and a student of Alvas English Medium School in Moodbidri, topped the state by securing 599 out of 625. Despite repeated requests, Greeshma was denied an admission ticket to write the main exams. Even the then education minister S Suresh Kumar’s visit to the girl’s house did not help as he could only assure her of an opportunity to appear for the supplementary examinations. A disappointed Greeshma had then reportedly tried to end her life. However, the girl was allowed to appear for the supplementary exams only after giving in writing that her dues will be cleared during the issue of the transfer certificate. Speaking to DH, Greeshma said, “I was expecting high marks but never thought I would be the topper.” Greeshma said she wants to take up science and pursue medicine. Meanwhile, MD Shanawaz from Grammar Multimedia School, Kalaburagi secured the second place with 592 out of 625 and the third place was secured by Gowri Manohari of Sudarshana High School, Mysuru with a score of 591 out of 625. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/barred-from-sslc-main-girl-tops-supplementary-1039780.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to resume physical classes for 1-5 after Dasara||Putting an end to confusion on reopening of schools for grades 1 to 5, the state government on Monday said that offline classes would resume from October 21, post-Dasara vacation, across Karnataka. The government will also start providing midday meals at schools after Dasara vacations.  Speaking to reporters after announcing the SSLC supplementary examination results, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said, “The physical classes for grade 1 to 5 and the mid-day meal will resume October 21. The department has made all necessary arrangements to restart both the programmes,” saidNagesh. The education minister also revealed that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has also consented to resume classes for primary grades. “We are also in talks with the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee and experts in this regard,” headded. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-resume-physical-classes-for-1-5-after-dasara-1039782.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jeffrey Archer to join Mysuru Literary Festival this year||The fifth edition of Mysuru Literature Festival, 2021, will be held in virtual and hybrid format from October 16 to 31. Best-selling author Jeffrey Howard Archer join the Festival from his home in London on October 27. Mysuru Literature Festival is a flagship literary event on the cultural calendar of Mysuru, from the past five years. Shubha Sanjay Urs, chairperson of Mysuru Literary Forum and Charitable Trust, - the organiser of the Festival said that in view of Covid pandemic it was decided to hold the festival in virtual format this year too. Last year also, the event went digital. However, the valedictory session scheduled to be held on October 31 will be both virtual and also offline - schedule to be held at Southern Star Hotel in Mysuru. “The festivals create a platform for writers – both established and aspiring — readers, students, and professionals and engage them in discussions on literature and other subjects,” Urs said. The guests and panelists include  Nawaaz Ahmed, Sita Bhaskar, Maithili Rao, Shabana Azmi, Anuja Chandra Mouli, Ashwin Sanghi, Adrian Levy, Ajai Shukla, Aroon Raman, Preethi Nagaraj, Alka Joshi, Avinou Kire, Jayashree Jagannatha, Krupakar and Senani, Vasudhendra, Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs, B S Dinesh, Gopakumar and Aravind Kupliakar. Interested can register on: https://www.mysuruliteraturefestival.com/registration/ The sessions will be streamed live on YouTube, Facebook and Instagram. Visit: http://www.mysuruliteraturefestival.com/ for more details. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jeffrey-archer-to-join-mysuru-literary-festival-this-year-1039785.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Super corona warrior' award to be presented to B S Yediyurappa||MLA and Chief Minister's political secretary M P Renukacharya stated that super corona warrior award would be presented to former chief minister B S Yediyurappa for tackling the first and second wave of Covid-19 effectively in Karnataka, in a programme slated to be held on October 19 in the premises of government girls pre-university college in Nyamathi town.  Speaking to media persons after inspecting the venue of the felicitation programme in the town on Monday, he said, employees of various departments, who served as corona warriors would be honoured in the event. Health Minister K Sudhakar, Urban Development Minister  B A Basavaraj, MP G M Siddeshwara will be present at the event. Over four thousand corona warriors would be presented at the event.  He said many employees of various departments served as corona warriors during the pandemic by risking their lives in Honnali and Nyamathi taluks. In order to honour them for their service, it has been organised in the premises of girls PU college. He said noted music compose Arjun Janya and team will present musical programme at the same venue on October 19th evening. He appealed to the people of both the taluks to make the event a huge success.  Tahasildar Tanuja T Savadatti, Deputy Tahasildar Nagarajappa, Town Panchayat Chief Officer B K Kotreshi and others were present on the occasion. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/super-corona-warrior-award-to-be-presented-to-b-s-yediyurappa-1039797.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Party workers want Rahul Gandhi to be Congress president: D K Shivakumar||Ahead of the working committee meeting, clamour seems to be growing for Rahul Gandhi to take over as Congress president, as its Karnataka unit chief D K Shivakumar on Tuesday said it is the unanimous voice of the party workers from across the country. "Whole country, Congress workers, want Rahul Gandhi to take up the responsibility. We have been putting pressure on him since he resigned. The unanimous voice of the Congress workers from across the country is Rahul Gandhi (should take up the mantle of the party)," Shivakumar said. Speaking to reporters here, he said "Rahul Gandhi is discharging 90 per cent of the responsibilities even now, we want him to take up the responsibility." "There is a Congress Working Committee meeting on October 16....let's see," he said. On reports about the party's leadership offering a national role for Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar said it is for the leadership to decide and no such discussion has happened with the state unit. "It is for the party and the legislature party leader (Siddaramaiah), I don't want to interfere in it, these are mere speculations now, it has not been discussed with us," he said. The KPCC president also claimed that several people are keen on joining the Congress, and were holding talks with other leaders and local leaders. Stating that he was gathering information on coal and power shortage in Karnataka, the former state power minister, in response to a question, said "during our (Congress) rule, we had excess power and we were selling it to others...." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/party-workers-want-rahul-gandhi-to-be-congress-president-d-k-shivakumar-1039915.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gives go-ahead to mega townships project||The Basavaraj Bommai administration on Tuesday accorded in-principle approval to set up integrated townships at the Bengaluru-Mumbai and Bengaluru-Chennai industrial corridors.  The Commerce & Industries Department has issued an order giving effect to the project that was announced by former chief minister BS Yediyurappa in the 2021-22 budget.  The Chief Minister Mega Integrated Industrial Townships will come up on 500 acres of land in each of the two corridors on public-private partnership (PPP).  According to the government, these townships will attract investments worth Rs 10,000 crore in the next three years and they are expected to generate employment opportunities for five lakh people.  Deputy commissioners of districts where these corridors will pass have been asked to take up a demand survey and report to the Karnataka State Small Industries Development Corporation (KSSIDC), the nodal agency for the project.  The KSSIDC has been asked to prepare a simple project report and submit it to the government. The Karnataka State Industrial & Infrastructure Development Corporation (KSIIDC) should come up with the PPP plan, whereas the KIADB has been asked to submit details on the availability of a land bank for the project. The MSME directorate has been tasked with analysing the types of industries that can come up in these corridors.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gives-go-ahead-to-mega-townships-project-1040023.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Post-revaluation, 50 students see increase in II PU marks||The revaluation results of the II PU exams were announced on Tuesday. Over 200 students are disappointed as there were no changes in their marks. Of the 320 students who have applied for revaluation, there were no changes in the marks awarded to 268 candidates and only 50 students have seen an increase in their marks. As per the data available from the department of pre-university education, the highest marks awarded in revaluation is 21. The physical examinations for II PU were held in August-September. Of the 18,413 candidates who appeared for the exams, 5,507 cleared it. After the announcement of the results, 828 candidates applied for photo copies of answer scripts. Of that, 320 applied for revaluation. The department has taken the evaluation errors seriously and has decided to issue notices to the evaluators.  The department will refund the revaluation fees to those who got more than six marks in the revaluation and 31 students will benefit from this.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/post-revaluation-50-students-see-increase-in-ii-pu-marks-1040033.html
12-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka relaunches public information portal with over 150 services||Be it the metro fare between two stations, the list of ATMs in a particular taluk, or government school teachers working in a particular school, the state government has now made all the information available on the Mahiti Kanaja portal.  Any person can log into the portal — mahitikanaja.karnataka.gov.in — and access information pertaining to 160 government services across 50 departments.  While the portal was initially launched in 2020 during the previous BS Yediyurappa administration with ten departments and 30 services, the e-Governance department has since expanded it to 160 services.  Relaunching the public information disclosure platform to mark sixteen years of implementation of the Right to Information (RTI) Act on Tuesday, Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla said the aim was to further expand it to 500 services by March 2022. There are several government departments that are not covered by Mahiti Kanaja at present.  Since the information offered on the portal is akin to what is offered under the RTI Act, the department wants to ensure the privacy of the user. Hence, it will not require any log-in information and the department will not record the IP address, according to Chawla. On the other hand, the portal offers specific information about various government schemes. As some of this information pertains to beneficiaries of government schemes, the government will block certain part of the beneficiary identity in the interest of their privacy, Chawla added.  The department is, at present, in the process of roping in more departments, especially key ones such as the BBMP and Public Works. In order to ensure that a wide array of information relevant to the public is accessible on the portal, the department has also roped in about 40 civil society groups and is holding monthly consultations with them.  Over the past year, there have been 2.06 lakh hits on the portal.  Further, over the next two months, the department will also come out with a mobile app for Mahiti Kanaja. However, the mobile app will have fewer services with direct public interface such as the pension, for instance, Chawla said.  Ultimately, the government's plan is to reduce the number of RTI applications that citizens will need to file to get information, the official said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-relaunches-public-information-portal-with-over-150-services-1040057.html
12-10-2021||West||Top NCB officer alleges cops monitoring his movement, lodges complaint||Narcotics Control Bureau Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede, who is supervising probe into the recent cruise drugs bust case, has filed a police complaint in Mumbai alleging two cops were monitoring his movements, an NCB official said on Monday. According to the NCB official, Wankhede had been regularly visiting the cemetery in suburban Oshiwara where his mother was buried after her death in 2015. Two officials, reportedly from the Oshiwara police station, allegedly went to the cemetery and took CCTV footage to monitor Wankhede's movement, he said. The senior IRS officer took note of the alleged surveillance and approached senior Maharashtra Police officials over the matter. Wankhede has filed a complaint alleging his movement was being monitored and attached CCTV footage of the Oshiwara cemetery in support of his claim, the official said. Wankhede has been dealing with high-profile drug-related cases since he took over as zonal director of the central agency, but has never noticed anything like this, he said. The top officer of the drug law enforcement agency has been part of multiple high-profile raids carried out by the NCB in the recent past. Apart from the recent drugs bust onboard a cruise liner off the Mumbai coast, that led to the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, Wankhede investigated the 2020 drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and several other matters related to narcotics involving high-profile people. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/top-ncb-officer-alleges-cops-monitoring-his-movement-lodges-complaint-1039819.html
12-10-2021||West||Maharashtra: Teenage girl gets pregnant after being raped; 20-year-old man held||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man on several occasions in Maharashtra's Palghar district following which she became pregnant, police said on Tuesday. The 20-year-old man was arrested on Monday night, an official from the Jawhar police station said. The accused and the girl, both residents of a hamlet in Jawhar taluka, were in a relationship for the last year. The girl became pregnant and delivered a premature child a couple of days back, the official said. Based on a complaint filed by the girl on Saturday, the police arrested the man and registered a case against him under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-teenage-girl-gets-pregnant-after-being-raped-20-year-old-man-held-1039921.html
12-10-2021||West||Marathi Bhasha Bhavan to be built in Mumbai||A proposal to build a grand Marathi Bhasha Bhavan in Mumbai was approved on Tuesday. The building would be housed in the sea-facing Jawahar Bal Bhavan near the Charni Road station and Girgaum Chowpatty. The 3.6-km-long Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Marg, popularly called Marine Drive aka Queen’s Necklace a 'C'-shaped six-lane concrete road along the Arabian Sea - and is a prominent landmark of Mumbai. The proposal was okayed at a meeting presided over by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, which was attended by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the finance and planning portfolios and industries and Marathi languages minister Subhash Desai.  The Marathi Bhasha Bhavan in Marine Drive - which would be spread over a 2,500 sq mt plot, would act as the main centre and headquarters.  The government plans to commence the construction from December 2021 and the project is expected to be complete in 18 months time. The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has been selected as the implementing agency.  Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, Principal Secretary Bhushan Gagrani, Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister Vikas Kharge and MIDC CEO Dr P. Anbalagan were present on the occasion. The Marathi Bhasha Bhavan would have a conference hall, exhibition centre, libraries and so on.  Many sports clubs are also situated along the stretch of Marine Drive, including members-only clubs like the Cricket Club of India, adjoining the Brabourne Stadium, and Garware Club House, adjacent to the famous Wankhede Stadium, as well as others like the Mumbai Police Gymkhana, PJ Hindu Gymkhana, Islam Gymkhana, Parsi Gymkhana and Catholic Gymkhana.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/marathi-bhasha-bhavan-to-be-built-in-mumbai-1039985.html
12-10-2021||West||Goa regional parties could be erased by national outfits like Cola wars of 1990s: Ex-Deputy CM Sardesai||Ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls, Goa's political scenario, especially the pitching of regional parties against national political outfits resembles the cola wars of the 1990s, when colas backed by a multi-national company took on local brands and won, former deputy chief minister Vijai Sardesai claimed on Tuesday. Sardesai said his Goa Forward party and one of the state's oldest regional political party the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) could find it difficult to take on the economic might of the larger political parties — the BJP, Congress, AAP — and therefore may be rendered inconsequential in the future. "This prevailing situation is such that even if regional forces come together, you can be subsumed by bigger players. It is like Top Cola versus Coca Cola," Sardesai told reporters while commenting on the political scenario in Goa ahead of the Assembly polls. Sardesai's comment comes at a time when Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Trinamool Congress have stepped up their game, with an eye on the polls. The presence of the two national parties is in addition to the two mainstream national parties, namely the ruling BJP and the main Opposition party Congress, who have already been a part of the state's political landscape for decades now. Sardesai said that the emergence of Coca Cola in the Goan and Indian market wiped out Top Cola, but added that regional political players in the state do not just want to vanish into oblivion. "It is panning out like that. Everyone wanted (Erasmo de) Sequeira's Top Cola. But Top Cola disappeared after Coca Cola arrived (in Goa). We do not want to disappear," he said. Manufactured by a company owned by former Member of Parliament late Erasmo de Sequeira, Top Cola was one of the state's most popular cola brands since it hit the market in the early 1980s. Top Cola, however, wound up operations in Goa in face of competition from Coca Cola after its arrival in India in the 1990s. Sardesai also said that his party was looking to patch together an alliance with any political party to keep the BJP from coming to power after the polls.  Interestingly, Sardesai had contested the 2017 state Assembly polls on an anti-BJP plank but joined the saffron party-led coalition government soon after election results were announced. He was sacked from the treasury benches after the death of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar in 2019. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-regional-parties-could-be-erased-by-national-outfits-like-cola-wars-of-1990s-ex-deputy-cm-sardesai-1040025.html
12-10-2021||West||'No repeat' again? BJP may field 100 new faces in 2022 Gujarat assembly polls||The ruling BJP in Gujarat might replicate the "no-repeat" experiment it tried recently while replacing the entire cabinet and the chief minister in the next year's state Assembly polls as well with state BJP chief CR Paatil hinting that the saffron party would field at least 100 new faces in the contest. In the 182-member Gujarat Assembly, BJP enjoys a majority with 112 seats. Paatil, while addressing BJP workers in Himmatnagar town in north Gujarat on Monday, indicated that at least 30 sitting MLAs would "retire" the next year and make way for new faces. "See, we have to find 70 new faces (for seats which are not with BJP at present). In addition, some sitting MLAs will also retire. Thus, in all, you will see at least 100 new faces for the upcoming Assembly polls in 2022," said Paatil, the BJP MP from Navsari seat. Paatil's statement came weeks after BJP brass replaced the entire Gujarat cabinet along with chief minister Vijay Rupani, in what is called a "no-repeat" experiment. In a surprise move, the BJP picked Bhupendra Patel, a first-time MLA, as the new CM of Gujarat. Paatil was in Himmatnagar town on Monday to attend a programme of distributing ID cards to BJP's Panna Pramukhs or page presidents. A 'panna pramukh' is appointed from among voters in the respective list. They are tasked with motivating and coordinating voters from their respective areas to exercise their franchise. Offering a glimpse of BJP's likely strategy for the polls, due in December next year, Paatil said neither will we remain the MP nor Rajendrasinh Chavda the Himmatnagar MLA. Chavda and several other leaders of BJP were present on the occasion. "I want workers of our party to take a pledge to ensure BJP's victory (in elections). The BJP gives opportunities to workers based on their performance. BJP workers never crib for not getting anything for years. Even if they don't get a ticket, our workers get back to work to ensure the victory of those who were chosen by the party," said Paatil. He appealed to ministers, senior BJP leaders and elected representatives to prioritise the work suggested by the party workers. "Do not ignore party workers. You should not put his file in the corner without even looking at it. Party workers are our real strength. I will not tolerate if a worker would complain that his work was not done," warned Paatil. In 2017 polls, the ruling BJP scraped through to retain power by winning 99 seats, a loss of 16 seats it had won in the previous election. On the other hand, Congress improved its tally by 16 seats to reach 77. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-repeat-again-bjp-may-field-100-new-faces-in-2022-gujarat-assembly-polls-1040031.html
12-10-2021||West||Meeting between ex-Maharashtra CM Fadnavis and MNS leader meet sparks speculations||A closed-door meeting between the leader of Opposition and a top leader of Raj Thackeray-led MNS fuelled speculations of a possible tie-up ahead of the mega civic polls in Maharashtra.  Senior MNS leader Bala Nandgaonkar, who is a former minister of state for home in the erstwhile Shiv Sena-BJP government, met Fadnavis on Tuesday. Fadnavis has not offered any comments on the issue. However, Nandgaonkar, said that he had a scheduled meeting with Fadnavis on some “personal work”. “Devendra ji is an old friend,” he said. When asked whether there were political discussions, he said: “I am repeating that I came here for personal work…but when two politicians need it is obvious that politics is discussed…isn’t that correct or not…but you may draw your own conclusions.”  For quite some time there has been speculation about BJP and MNS coming closer, however, there has not been any firm commitment to a tie-up. It may be recalled, in June this year, Thackeray met state BJP president Chandrakant Patil at Nashik government guest house - though it was a brief chat at a corner in the guest house. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/meeting-between-ex-maharashtra-cm-fadnavis-and-mns-leader-meet-sparks-speculations-1040040.html
12-10-2021||West||I still feel I am CM of Maharashtra, says Devendra Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that he still feels that he is the Maharashtra chief minister given the love and respect people shower on him.  Fadnavis (51) was the chief minister from 2014-19 twice - first for a full term when the BJP-Shiv Sena was in power and then for just three days during which he garnered support from NCP leader Ajit Pawar but later the government fell down.  However, Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray became the chief minister after cobbling an alliance with Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress keeping the BJP out of power.  Fadnavis’s comments came at a function in Belapur in the satellite township of Navi Mumbai in presence of senior leaders like Ganesh Naik and Manda Mhatre. "Since you all are there, never for a day have I felt that I am no longer the chief minister….I feel that I am still the chief minister,” he said. Fadnavis went on to add that his real intention is to serve the people in whatever capacity he has been bestowed with.  "For the last two years, I have never been in the house even for a single day, I was always on my toes… that’s why I never felt that I am not the chief minister… I am giving my best as leader of opposition… work is more important than post,” he said.  Reacting to the statement, state Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said: “Fadnavis saheb could not even apprehend and understand that the MVA was formed… even after two years, he still feels he is chief minister…. it was a mental trauma to him… he needs to see a doctor…he is a good leader of the opposition and he must take care.” “He’s unable to grasp the current reality that the MVA has been in power for two years now,” said NCP chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik. “Fadnavis is still under severe depression, that’s why he’s roaming around the state aimlessly after he got the BJP defeated,” added Shiv Sena leader Kishore Tiwari. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-still-feel-i-am-cm-of-maharashtra-says-devendra-fadnavis-1040050.html
