13-10-2021||Analysis||A Pandora’s box of issues||The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) is a non-profit organisation based in the US. It is fully funded by donations, and donor details are available on its website, as are its annual reports. Its 2020 annual report says that its annual expenses were $4.7 million (about Rs 35 crore). The ICIJ has a core group of 280 investigative reporters who operate through various offices worldwide. It is also supported by a network of members from more than 100 countries. On October 3, the ICIJ released the ‘Pandora Papers’, which it claims is the largest-ever journalistic collaboration, involving 600 journalists from 117 countries. The data is in 11.9 million files, consisting of documents, images, emails, spreadsheets, presentations, audio and video files, and even ink on paper. The work was done mostly in secrecy over nearly two years. While the records go back to the 1970s, most of the data pertain to the period from 1996 to 2020.  What the Pandora Papers reveal are the financial dealings of the super-rich, including politicians, businessmen, sports stars and celebrities. They provide data on secret private trusts ‘settled’ or placed in obscure offshore tax havens and the identities of the ultimate beneficiaries of the wealth in those trusts. There are shell companies within offshore shell companies, which safeguard wealth in the form of cash, shares, real estate ownership, aircraft, yachts and art. The multiple layers of ownership are meant to make it difficult to trace the true ownership and beneficiaries. According to the Indian Express, there are at least 380 persons of Indian nationality in the Pandora Papers. These include some against whom investigations are ongoing for financial fraud, and some whose revelation has raised eyebrows. For instance, the Pandora Papers reveal the financial holdings of Sachin Tendulkar, Anil Ambani, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, and others, all of which could be legitimate. They also reveal the dealings of the King of Jordan, Prime Ministers of Ukraine, Kenya, Ecuador, Czech Republic and a former PM of Britain. There is data on 130 billionaires from various countries. What is different about the Pandora Papers from the earlier Panama Papers leaks, revealed by the ICIJ five years ago? Unlike the Panama Papers, which were leaks from a single source, a law firm called Mossack Fonseca, the Pandora Papers are sourced from 14 different providers, whose identities have been concealed. It is a much more comprehensive picture of how the wealthy shift their wealth across tax jurisdictions, possibly to evade taxes or to have a system of “more efficient tax planning”; the distinction between ‘evasion’ and ‘planning’ being quite thin.  The Pandora Papers (following the Panama and Paradise Papers) put the spotlight on the role of tax havens and the service they provide to the global wealthy elite to escape taxation and scrutiny in their home countries. The G-20 has been, since the Lehman Brothers crisis, seized of this matter -- of how to prevent base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS). The role of tax havens has been troubling because they cause huge tax losses. The UK itself loses significant tax revenue due to its own Crown Territories and places like the British Virgin Islands. But despite decades of both Labour and Conservative governments, the UK has not been able to plug the loophole, making the British people wonder whether the political will is strong enough. The Pandora Papers reveal a new avenue, names individual states within the United States, which now offer trust structures to cloak ownership in secrecy. Earlier, Switzerland used to be accused of being tightlipped about all the ill-gotten wealth in Swiss banks. Now, it is even sub-sovereign entities like states in America. There is an elaborate ecosystem that enables this, with law firms and banks being complicit.  The Pandora Papers show that nearly 4,000 banks have helped their clients set up the shell companies or offshore trusts to move their wealth away from the glare of regulators. The BEPS agenda of the G-20 is now updated as BEPS 2.0. which consists of two pillars. The first is of fair allocation of profits and taxable income.  The second is a global minimum tax on corporations, so that no matter where you go, at least the minimum tax will be applicable. This initiative, led by the US, has already got the support of about 132 countries for a minimum tax rate of 15%. The first pillar will imply that even if the profits are booked in a tax haven, so long as they are not hidden, the home country can legitimately tax them. For decades big companies like Apple, Google, Amazon booked profits of their European and global income in the low-tax haven of Ireland. That will now end. Indeed, the European Union has imposed a fine on Ireland for such irresponsible taxation, which amounts to “stealing the taxes” of other jurisdictions.  In India, too, many of the wealthy say they have moved wealth to offshore trusts and it is all legal. Perhaps they are worried that the taxman will take away some wealth in the form of wealth tax. The sharply zooming stock market and the mega liquidity infusion have greatly increased wealth inequality in India and globally. Most developed countries have an inheritance tax or a stiff estate tax. India does not. Is there a fear of the return of estate duty?  Leaving aside the fugitives who have defrauded banks, or defaulted on large loans from public sector banks, another issue to think about is that even if the wealth has been salted away legally, does it reflect a flight of capital? Are high net-worth individuals moving significant assets abroad? What is their anxiety? Do they feel that their wealth is not secure in India? If India opened up its capital account completely, will we see a massive flight of capital?  The Pandora Papers raise a lot of issues that need serious introspection. One hopes that they are not forgotten in a fortnight, as happened to the Panama and Paradise Papers.  (The writer is an economist and\Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/analysis/a-pandora-s-box-of-issues-1040386.html
13-10-2021||First Edit||Motivated tax raids undermine rule of law||Raids which have been used by tax authorities for investigation of suspected evasion and irregularities have now become weapons in the hands of the government for use against political opponents, critics or anybody to whom it wants to send a message or a warning. The Income Tax (I-T) raids in the last few days on Umesh, a close aide of former chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his family, and on some contractors who are said to have been associated with him can only be seen as politically-driven actions. Yediyurappa’s family members have acknowledged that he had worked for them. The raids assume their meaning in Karnataka’ new political context. Yediyurappa was forced out of power and Basavaraj Bommai was installed as Chief Minister by the BJP’s central leadership in July. The raids on Umesh and others seem aimed at containing Yediyurappa, rather than unearthing tax evasion.  There have been reports that Yediyurappa and his associates have pressured Bommai on some key decisions of the new government and Bommai was not able to function independently due to the interference. The raids are seen as a message to Yediyurappa not to interfere in the administration. It is an intra-party problem of the BJP and had to be solved politically within the party, not with the help of the Income Tax Department, which is an arm of the government and is supported by the taxes paid by citizens. Yediyurappa is the leader who built the BJP in Karnataka from scratch and brought it to power. He was not only ousted, much the way that Amarinder Singh was ousted by the Congress in Punjab, but is now being treated as a political opponent, raided by proxy and told to stay off.  The Modi government has used the I-T Department, the Enforcement Directorate and other agencies to raid leaders of opposition parties like the DMK in Tamil Nadu, the Trinamool Congress in West Bengal, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Maharashtra, and the Congress in many states. The leaders’ associates have also not been spared. Newspapers and public personalities who are critical of the government and its policies have also been raided. The agencies themselves give publicity to their actions and even disclose the extent of the alleged wrongdoing, for impact. The finance ministry has done that in this case, too. This selective and vindictive use of government agencies for political purposes is wrong and most undemocratic. The government has not been deterred by criticism and is even expanding the scope of its actions to include the BJP’s own squabbles. That is a dangerous trend that undermines all norms of governance and rule of law.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/motivated-tax-raids-undermine-rule-of-law-1040392.html
13-10-2021||In Perspective||Covid, folk psychology and pedagogy viruses||The pandemic has exposed India’s ambivalence about scientific knowledge. While masking and distancing constitute scientific wisdom, we see mass disregard of these in festivals and polls. The pandemic has exposed another ambivalence — about beliefs on the purpose and processes of education. Education experts’ views have sharply contrasted with fears of bureaucrats and politicians. While experts insist on “opening schools first and closing them last”, and prioritising younger children’s schooling, governments have kept schools closed for too long, and then prioritised high schools. Experts argue that the harm from school closure is maximum for younger children, in terms of loss of foundational learning, malnutrition, difficulties in resuming socialisation processes, whereas the harm from opening the schools is negligible, as they are the least vulnerable to the virus. Yet, the governments have focused on transitioning children from school to higher education through board examinations, even through farcical mass passing of students. The gap between educators and political leadership, the latter mostly reflecting dominant perspectives, is a legacy crisis. For instance, educators are unequivocal that the medium of instruction must be children’s home language, yet governments eagerly open English medium primary schools, responding to parental desires that their children learn English to aspire for white-collar jobs. Low-cost, low-quality private ‘English medium’ schools flourish, though the children cannot learn in an unfamiliar language, especially given the lack of support at home for English. Educators emphasise that holistic and diverse curricular experiences are indispensable to quality education. Yet, as they become older, students see with dismay, their games and art classes being taken over by their Mathematics or Science teachers! Completing syllabus is usually the teachers’ most important achievement, since testing memorisation through examinations, is believed to evidence ‘learning’, irrespective of conceptual understanding. Jerome Bruner coined the term ‘folk pedagogies’ to signify popular beliefs about learning, derived from ‘folk psychologies’ which refers to peoples’ “common sense” understanding of the world. Folk psychologies and folk pedagogies impact educational processes and systems and are powerful obstacles to achieving educational aims. Middle classes’ 'common sense' beliefs about the aims of education — of primarily enabling the student to acquire a job with a good salary, explain the popularity of engineering and medicine professions. However, as a formal human project, education aims to build an equitable and just society. Philosophers of education suggest education must aim to develop individuals who can together build a world of peace and prosperity, in harmony with all creation. The vested interests promoting legacy folk pedagogies benefiting from them include India’s coaching industry, which pushes students to cram and crack competitive examinations, and private schools’ lobbies that corrupt governments to be lax on their regulation. Corporate-controlled media create an impression that government schools are universally dysfunctional. Though like private schools, the government school system is hugely stratified, ranging from highly sought-after Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya Vidyalayas run by the central government with adequate resource support, to state government schools, systemically starved of basic infrastructure and support. Educators seeking higher investment in public education, such as state government schools serving underprivileged children, are ignored. Earlier, ignoring educational expertise harmed education. During Covid times, it has proved lethal. As governments are opening schools, there are no clear directions to teachers on what to teach and how to teach. A student, now in grade 9, has mostly not attended grade 8 and has forgotten most of what was learnt in grade 7 or before. A teacher familiar with the class 9 textbook will teach that, but she will be unfamiliar with grade 6 or 7 lessons. This will be incomprehensible, and younger children will suffer the most. Development economist Jean Dreze observed during his study of Jharkhand school closures, that a ten-year-old who has forgotten basic Hindi alphabets will join grade 4 and get an English textbook that is completely beyond any comprehension. Unless the teacher begins with a foundational home language programme, the learner is likely to drop out of school, or simply be promoted across grades, gaining little comprehension. The National Coalition on the Education Emergency recommends clear instructions for teachers to not focus on grade-level teaching, and begin with socio-emotional learning. Special measures will be needed for children from marginalised groups who had nil educational opportunities last year. Their schools will need additional teachers, teaching assistants, counsellors etc. All this will go against the folk psychology that children from marginalised groups cannot and need not be educated, that they can and must, continue the subordinate socio-economic roles of their forefathers, in service of the upper strata of the society. Like others, this folk psychology too can be addressed only by education, following the critical pedagogy processes popularised by Paulo Friere, to ‘conscientize’ people from both groups. (The writer is Director, IT for Change and a member of the National Coalition on the Education Emergency)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-folk-psychology-and-pedagogy-viruses-1040390.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Frequent tremors trigger exodus from Chincholi villages||People have started leaving their homes in fear as a mild earthquake struck twice in some villages of Chincholi taluk in the district on Tuesday morning.  About 25 villages in Chincholi, Kalagi, Sedam and Kamalapur taluks experience tremors frequently, it is said.   After the tremors on Monday night, people slept on the roads out of fear. Some women, afraid of entering their homes, were seen cooking on the roads. Cattle have also been tied outside the houses. Mild tremors were reported from Gadikeshwar village at 8.07 am and 8.18 am on Tuesday. The Sharanasirasagi station of the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre recorded mild tremors of 3.5 and 2.8 magnitude on the Richter scale. Revanasiddappa Anakal of Gadikeshwar village said residents of several villages often heard a loud sound from beneath the ground and experienced mild tremors. But this is the first time that they were experiencing the tremors with such high frequency, he said. Another resident Mangalamurthy said people heard a loud sound when they were about to go to work in the morning. After a while, they experienced tremors. There are about 800 houses in Gadikeshwar village and frequent tremors have forced about 500 families to leave the village. While few people went to the houses of their relatives or friends in other villages, others have taken shelter in the huts erected in farmlands. The people, along with essentials, were seen leaving the village in buses, tractors, tempo and on motorbikes.  “I am afraid of entering my house. For the past four days, I am cooking some rice in the open field outside the house,”  said Kamalabai Pasar, a homemaker in Gadikeshwar.  Deputy Commissioner V V Jyothsna said a mild earthquake of 4.0 magnitude was recorded on the Richter scale in the area on Monday. The district administration has started a survey of the damaged and dilapidated houses in Gadikeshwar and othervillages.  “We are instilling confidence among the people, besides taking all precautions to face any eventuality. We can’t stop residents from leaving the villages. It seems to be a seasonal mild earthquake. Teams from the Disaster Management Authority will visit the district in the first week of November, she said. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/frequent-tremors-trigger-exodus-from-chincholi-villages-1040085.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Steps taken against oxygen shortage in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada district has achieved self-sufficiency in oxygen and steps have been taken to ensure that there is no shortage of oxygen even in taluk hospitals. To ensure that the district does not face shortage of medical oxygen, the oxygen generation plants have been set up at Wenlock district hospital, Lady Goschen Hospital and all taluk hospitals under the CSR fund. The district will have 16 oxygen generation plants with a total capacity of 5844 LPM ( litres per minute). Already 12 units have started functioning and the work on four units are in progress. Three oxygen generation units have been set up at District Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. The 1000 LPM capacity plant was set up under PM CARES Fund, 930 LPM from MRPL and 500 LPM from funds from the state government. The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) is setting up an oxygen plant of 500 LPM capacity at Lady Goschen Hospital. A 450 LPM capacity unit with the help of Campco at taluk hospital in Puttur, 250 LPM capacity unit with the help of KIOCL Ltd at Sullia, 500 LPM capacity unit at Ullal community hospital with the help of Sonu Sood Foundation, 250 LPM capacity unit at Moodbidri community health centre with the help of KIOCL has been set up. While 81 LPM capacity units at Kadaba community health centre, ESI hospital, Vittal community health centre and Uppinangady health centre have been set up by SBI, MCF and Carana Bank respectively. The work on 200 LPM capacity unit at Mulki community health centre and 50 LPM unit at Vamadapadavu community health centre is in progress. DHO Dr Kishore Kumar said that all steps had been taken to ensure that the district does not face shortage of oxygen. The pending works on the units will be completed shortly. With the decline in Covid-19 cases, the demand for medical oxygen has also declined. During the peak of Covid-19, the district required 28 to 30 KL oxygen per day. Now, it has come down to 12-13 KL. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/steps-taken-against-oxygen-shortage-in-dakshina-kannada-1040087.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Infighting could have led to leopard's death at Shettihalli: Vet||A five-year-old male leopard reportedly succumbed to injuries after fighting with another male leopard at Shettihalli wildlife sanctuary limits near Shivamogga. The leopard sustained severe injuries on its face and body. The Forest guard discovered the dead body of the big cat while he was on patrol in the forest area. Veterinary officer Vinay S conducted a postmortem on it and the carcass of the leopard was burnt in the forest area as per the norms.  Deputy Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Shivamogga Division I M Nagaraj said generally, leopards don't fight with one another like tigers. But the veterinary officer has stated that fighting between two leopards was the reason for the death of one of the big cats. However, the exact cause of death would be known after the post-mortem report.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/infighting-could-have-led-to-leopards-death-at-shettihalli-vet-1040148.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Will begin process to allot sites in Konaje next month, says Mangaluru urban body chief||Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) President Ravishankar Mijar said that the process for the allotment of sites in the residential layout in Konaje is likely to commence next month. The MUDA has developed 125 sites at Konaje. Though the land was purchased a few years ago, a terrain issue delayed the project completion. The sites have been developed on an area of 13 acres, Konaje told mediapersons. Another layout will be developed on 17 acres of land at Kunjathbail, with as many as 145 plots. The work on levelling the land will commence in one month. The MUDA’s third project of developing layouts will be taken up at Chelyaru. The technical sanction has been received from the government. A detailed project report for the development of a layout on 45.85 acres of land at Chelyaru has been submitted. In the first phase, MUDA will take up the work on sites on 48 acres of land. About 700 plots will be developed, he explained. Urwa Market To a query on Urwa Market, the multi-storeyed market-cum-commercial complex which is yet to be occupied, the MUDA President said that the commercial floor has been given out on rent. About eight clients have entered an agreement to use the space, he said. For the market area, however, the Mangaluru City Corporation has asked MUDA to make few changes before handing over the stalls. “The MUDA has already invested around Rs 13.5 crore. Now, it is difficult to invest for further development. We need at least Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh to make changes in the market area. Once the MUDA starts getting rent from commercial complex, the money can be used for developing the market area,” he said. The then Urban Development Minister U T Khader had inaugurated the complex in January 2019.  The foundation stone for the building was laid in  2016. The building has a built-up area of 84,891 45 sq ft. The six-storeyed building has provision for around 122 stalls. There is a parking area in the basement and lower ground floor of the market. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-begin-process-to-allot-sites-in-konaje-next-month-says-mangaluru-urban-body-chief-1040250.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Zilla Panchayat school in Dakshina Kannada's Bolar transformed into smart school||Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Lower Primary School at Bolar has been converted into a smart school under the Mangaluru Smart City Mission. The modernised school was inaugurated by MLA D Vedavyas Kamath. The school was renovated at an estimated cost of Rs 1.25 crore. The MLA said that roofing, indoor tiles, outdoor tiles, fans and tube lights had been changed. Apart from taking up plastering and painting, new windows and doors have been installed. Toilets have been totally renovated while waterproofing of the rooftop of RCC building too has been completed, Kamath added. A stage has been created for annual day programmes in the school. Electric equipment, water pipes etc, have been changed completely. A lawn has also been laid and saplings have been planted, the MLA said Further, stormwater drains have been constructed and an outdoor volleyball court has been created. Electricity poles too have been installed. The MLA said that to impart quality education, the school has been completely renovated. Mayor Premananda Shetty, Deputy Mayor Sumangala Rao, Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation President Nithin Kumar, MUDA President Ravishankar Mijar and others were present on the occasion. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/zilla-panchayat-school-in-dakshina-kannadas-bolar-transformed-into-smart-school-1040297.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||In Dakshina Kannada, a 'nest' of books aims to cultivate a habit of reading among people||To inculcate the habit of reading among people and also to encourage them to exchange books for reading purpose, a novel initiative of ‘Pusthaka Goodu’ (nest of books) has been launched in 17 Gram Panchayat limits in seven taluks of Dakshina Kannada district. The pilot project was conceptualised by Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Dr Kumar. He said that the ‘nest of books’ will have newspapers, periodicals, novels and also short stories. At the nest, people can flip through the pages of the books and if they find it interesting, can take it home and return it to the nest on the following day. The initiative is a part of Pusthaka Grama. The Pusthaka Goodu has been set up in bus stands, market area and in those locations where people gather. Out of curiosity, many go through some of the books at the nest, the CEO said. The books are purchased by the Gram Panchayats from their own funds. A few organisations too have donated the books. Each Pusthaka Goodu have a minimum of 30 books. There is a positive response to this initative of cultivating the reading habit among people, Kumar added. These Goodus are built to enable villagers to spend some time in a day with the books. People can either sit at the nest and read or take the book along with them and bring it back after reading it. These nests have been constructed by panchayat using development funds and donations, he said. “Setting up of digital librarys has been initiated in all the Gram Panchayats. Computer and internet facility have been arranged. The Pusthaka Goodu is an extension of the digital library,” Kumar said. Safety measures have been taken to protect the books from rain. Even public can also hand over books to the Pusthaka Goodu. The reading habit will help in exchange of thoughts and also knowledge among the people, he said. “There are novels, children’s storybooks, books related to cooking and periodicals. Over 250 books have been collected. The youth organisations have shown interest in the maintenance of the nest. We have noticed people reading books while waiting for bus at bus stand,” said Ulaibettu Gram Panchayat President Harish Shetty and Panchayat Development Officer Anitha. The Gram Panchayats selected for the initiative are Ulaibettu, Konaje, Belma in Mangaluru taluk; Aladangadi in Belthangady; Kolnadu, Chennaithodi, Arala in Bantwal; Uppinangady, Kabaka, Aryapu in Puttur; Subrahmanya, Alankaru, Ramakunja in Kadaba; Bellare in Sullia; Shirthadi, Thenkamijaru and Puthige in Moodbidri taluk. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/in-dakshina-kannada-a-nest-of-books-aims-to-cultivate-a-habit-of-reading-among-people-1040307.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chemical-laden tanker topples in Yellapur ghat, sparks massive fire||Paddy crops and several coconut, areca, mango and jackfruit trees were gutted after the chemical slick on a stream caught fire and spread to the farmlands following a tanker mishap at Aarathibail ghat on National Highway 63 near here in the early hours of Wednesday. The tanker was transporting benzene, a highly inflammable material from Mangaluru-based MRPL to Ahmedabad in Gujarat. The driver and co-driver of the tanker escaped with minor injuries in the mishap. The chemical spilled into a nearby stream when the when the vehicle toppled at one of the ghat turns. Chemical slick on the stream caught fire and soon the blaze engulfed the tanker. The crash happened at 5.30 am with a deafening sound and was heard as far as 2 km away from the spot, according to the locals. Paddy crop on six guntas of land, owned by S S Bhat, a Home Guard, near Baleshwar Temple was completely gutted in the blaze. Also, a pumpset and several full-grown trees including areca, coconut and jackfruit trees and adjoining forest were reduced to ashes. Similarly, the horticultural crops cultivated by Manjunath Gowda, Narayan Bhat and Vishwanath Bhat were damaged in the accidental fire. Vehicular movement on the busy NH 63 was stopped for over three hours. Fire engines from Yellapur, Mundgod and Sirsi were roped in to douse the fire. Compensation Meanwhile, minister Shivaram Hebbar visited the spot and instructed Tahsildar Srikrishna Kamkar to provide suitable compensation to the farmers who have lost crop and trees in the fire. “I have instructed the KSPCB officials to study the impact of chemical spill into the stream. Also, I am in touch with MRPL company on the crash and the chemical spill,” the minister said. Water samples A team of officials from the Factories and Boilers department from Hubballi, MRPL, Mangaluru, KSPCB and Grasim Industries at Binaga visited the spot and collected water samples from the stream that caught fire for analysis. A chemical has been sprayed into the stream to mitigate the impact of benzene. The tanker has been moved to a safer place. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chemical-laden-tanker-topples-in-yellapur-ghat-sparks-massive-fire-1040414.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru ready for its annual showpiece event Jamboo Savari||The ‘City of Palaces’ is all set for the final leg of Dasara, Jamboo Savari, on Friday. Dasara elephant Abhimanyu will carry the golden howdah, with an idol of Chamundeshwari placed inside it. Mysuru Dasara, which was inaugurated atop the Chamundi Hill by former chief minister S M Krishna on October 7, will conclude with the Jamboo Savari. This time, the Jamboo Savari procession is limited to the Mysuru palace premises due to the Covid-19 crisis. The authorities have made arrangements to stream the event live on social media. Dasara was held in a similar simple way last year also due to the Covid crisis. The district administration has decided to allow only 400 people for witnessing the grand spectacle. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will perform puja to ‘Nandi Dhwaja’ near Balarama Gate of the palace during Meena lagna between 4.36 pm and 4.46 pm. He will perform pushparchane, offering of flower petals, to the idol of Chamundeshwari Devi placed inside the golden howdah during Meena lagna, between 5 pm and 5.30 pm. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, scion of the erstwhile royal family, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar, MLA S A Ramadass and Mayor Sunanda Palanetra will be the chief guests. Police Commissioner Chandragupta said, “We are ready to conduct the Jamboo Savari procession by taking all necessary measures to ensure safety. All security arrangements are in place”. The commissioner said only authorised persons are allowed to enter the palace for the Jamboo Savari. “Scanners will be placed at the entry points and no vehicle movement will be  allowed on the streets around the palace from 10 am, he said. Dasara elephant Gopalaswamy will also be participating in the finale of the festival. Gopalaswamy had panicked due to the sound of crackers during the Srirangapatna Dasara. However, it performed well during the final rehearsal for Jamboo Savari on Wednesday. The elephants will start preparing for the final leg of Dasara from the midnight of Thursday. The artistes will start painting traditional images on the elephants at 1 am. The elephants will be decked up in colorful images and adorned with ornaments, deputy conservator of forests V Karikalan said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-ready-for-its-annual-showpiece-event-jamboo-savari-1040418.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||I will take political retirement if Kumaraswamy proves I met Yediyurappa: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Wednesday threw down the gauntlet, saying that he will take political retirement (rajakiya sanyasa) if former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy proved that he met former chief minister B S Yediyurappa. Speaking to mediapersons here, Siddaramaiah said he met Yediyurappa on the day when he turned 76 years and they met face-to-face in the assembly session. This apart, he has not met him, the ex-CM clarified. Kumaraswamy had alleged that a meeting of the former chief minister with Siddaramaiah triggered the I-T raids on houses of the former's confidants. "Who is running the government? Did Modi, Yediyurappa and his confidants belong to the Congress?", the ex-CM asked. "When he was in the opposition party, he did not visit the houses and offices of those who are in the treasury bench. It is the habit of Kumaraswamy who will often visit the houses of the leaders of the ruling party," he quipped. Kumaraswamy also alleged Siddaramaiah toppled the coalition government to become the leader of opposition. "Three JD(S) MLAs joined the BJP. What will the JD(S) leader say? Did I send them to the saffron party?" Siddaramaiah questioned. On the charges of dislodging the government for the 'petty' post of Leader of Opposition, Siddaramaiah opined that looking down the constitutional post by the former chief minister is unfair. "His father H D Devegowda was also the Leader of Opposition when Devaraj Urs was chief minister. Is it a petty post?," he lambasted.  On GST Accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being directly responsible for not releasing the state's share of GST amount every year, Siddaramaiah alleged that he has no interest in releasing the state's share as per the agreement entered between the state and the Centre. "After accepting the GST policy, the Centre should offset the loss incurred by the state by 2022. But, the state's share has been reduced considerably in the 15th Finance Commission. Modi, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, B S Yediyurappa and chief minister Basavaraj Bommai are the direct responsible for this injustice," Siddaramaiah reiterated. Instead of pressurising the Centre to release GST tax amount, Bommai has come forward to get loan. The Centre has informed that the loan will be recovered by imposing cess. Hence, the CM should pressurise the Centre to release our share of GST tax amount, he urged. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-will-take-political-retirement-if-kumaraswamy-proves-i-met-yediyurappa-siddaramaiah-1040238.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Whispers on D K Shivakumar go viral, Congress does damage control||The Congress on Wednesday expelled its media coordinator M A Saleem and slapped a notice on former MP V S Ugrappa after a video showing them discussing corruption allegations against their president D K Shivakumar went viral. The issue caused much embarrassment to the Congress, a party that is already fighting the bad optics of groupism. The conversation between Ugrappa and Saleem that was caught on news cameras and mics took place minutes before a news conference on Tuesday. The video went viral Wednesday. Saleem is heard whispering to Ugrappa about a scam, going on to speculate on Shivakumar’s assets. “It used to be 6-8% and it went up to 12% (commission). Even DK has adjustments...There’s Uppar, G Shankar, Hanumanthappa...it’s a big scandal. When dug deeper, even [Shivakumar’s] will come out,” Saleem is heard saying. “[Vijay] Mulugund has Rs 50-100 crore. If he has that much, imagine how much DK will have. He’s just a collection agent.” Ugrappa then tells Saleem that much effort went into making Shivakumar the KPCC president. “But the weighing scale is not rising because of these reasons,” he says. The duo go on to comment on Shivakumar’s “slurred speech” with Saleem wondering if he suffers from “low blood pressure, because he sounds like he’s drunk.” The party’s disciplinary committee headed by former Rajya Sabha deputy chairman K Rahman Khan expelled Saleem for six years while giving Ugrappa three days to explain himself. The conversation is seen as a fallout of the one-upmanship between Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. The BJP, which took potshots at the Congress on this issue, claimed this was Siddaramaiah’s attempt to have Shivakumar removed. Shivakumar conceded that the issue had damaged the party. “The conversation has nothing to do with me or the Congress,” he said. “In politics, there are people who will clap for you and also pelt stones at you. There's no conspiracy against me. And I'm not bothered anyway,” he said, rejecting claims that there were factions in the party. The BJP wrote a series of tweets taking potshots at the Congress. “Your very own Congress leaders have called you a THIEF during a press conference. Are you a THIEF? Did you take 12 % BRIBE? Did you share this LOOT with your party owners? Will you please clarify?” the BJP wrote. Ugrappa defended Shivakumar. “I’ve known Shivakumar for 3-4 decades. He’s an extremely proactive, pro-people leader. All his assets are from his business interests and not from politics. He has never indulged in percentage (commission) politics,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/whispers-on-d-k-shivakumar-go-viral-congress-does-damage-control-1040276.html
13-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) will have no poll truck with any party: Gowda||JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda on Wednesday ruled out any poll adjustment with the Congress, BJP or any other party for that matter and that the regional outfit would fight the upcoming elections, including the bypolls to Hangal and Sindagi, on its own. Speaking to reporters here, Gowda rubbished the charges that the JD(S) has made adjustments with the BJP and is fielding the Muslim candidates in the bye-elections to defeat the Congress. “Earlier, I had said that the party (JD-S) would not field the candidates to the bypolls, citing financial constraints. But our workers are enthusiastic. They want the party to contest the bypolls. Hence, we have fielded our candidates in both the bypoll-bound constituencies,” Gowda said. He added, the outcome of the bypolls won’t lead to any political change “I will tour all the districts to bring the JD(S) to power in the 2023 Assembly polls,” the octogenarian said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-will-have-no-poll-truck-with-any-party-gowda-1040410.html
13-10-2021||National||FM Sitharaman highlights significant reforms in meeting with institutional investors in US||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday highlighted "significant reforms" undertaken by the government including National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) and National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) as she met institutional investors here. Sitharaman arrived in the US on Monday for a week-long trip to attend the annual meet of the World Bank and IMF in Washingon as well as G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (FMCBG) meeting. During the official visit to the US, Sitharaman is expected to meet US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen. After arriving in New York, Sitharaman travelled to Boston where she met investors during a roundtable hosted by FICCI and US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF). The roundtable on Tuesday was attended by institutional investors from across a wide spectrum of sectors including software, consulting, financial advisory, insurance, telecom hardware and investment management. "The FM highlighted significant reforms including the setting up of #IFSC at #GiftCity, #NIP and #NMP. The US companies welcomed the reforms and initiatives undertaken by the Government of India and committed to work with it to increase foreign investments in India,” the Finance Ministry said in a tweet. Following the roundtable, Sitharaman held one-on-one discussions with top executives. Advent International Corporation Chairman and Managing Partner David Mussafer, after his meeting with Sitharaman, said that the reforms that have happened in India “are a great step forward." "For international investors like ourselves, we are always looking for opportunities to take friction out of the system. The opportunity to invest more in India really rests upon some of the reforms that have been made," Mussafer said. He added that some of the insolvency provisions that create opportunity for companies to invest in and breathe life into new opportunities that have struggled “are critical to the type of things that we look for and so we're incredibly excited about some of the reforms that have happened.”  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-sitharaman-highlights-significant-reforms-in-meeting-with-institutional-investors-in-us-1040095.html
13-10-2021||National||Malabar exercise could expand in future; decision depends on current participants: US Admiral||The expansion of the Malabar naval exercise in the future is a possibility though any decision on it will have to be taken by the four Quad member countries, Chief of US Naval Operations Admiral Michael Gilday said on Tuesday. Admiral Gilday, on a five-day visit to India from October 11 to 15, described the strategic ties between India and the US as "central" to a free and open Indo-Pacific, noting that there is much to "celebrate" in the relationship. His comments on the possible expansion of the scope of the Malabar drills in the future came on a day the second phase of the mega naval wargame among all four Quad countries -- India, the US, Australia and Japan -- kicked off in the Bay of Bengal. "In the future sure, that exercise could expand. I think it is up to the partners inside the Quad to discuss that. But remember there are multiple exercises that go on in the Indo Pacific and globally every year where the like-minded allies and partners work together," Admiral Gilday told a small group of reporters at an online briefing. He was replying to a question on whether there is a possibility of countries like the UK joining the mega naval wargame in the future. On Tuesday, the Chief of US Naval Operations held extensive talks with Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla with a focus on boosting overall bilateral maritime security cooperation. "We are committed to operationalizing our #USIndiaDefense partnership, including through enhanced information-sharing, regional security, and exercising at sea together," Admiral Gilday tweeted after talks with Admiral Singh. Admiral Gilday's visit to India came amid increasing concerns over the growing Chinese muscle-flexing in key waterways including the Indo-Pacific. "I am confident that together we can build a partnership that is fit for today and tomorrow's challenges," he said. Asked whether the trilateral AUKUS security alliance will dilute the strategic significance of the Quad, the top American naval commander did not give a direct reply but said there has been a "natural partnership" between the US and India and that both countries are bound by shared values of promoting a free and open maritime domain, regional stability, ensuring rule of law and respect for international institutions. In this context, he also mentioned the threat of global authoritarianism and how India and the US have a long, healthy and positive relationship. "India is one of our close strategic partners and our relationship is central to a free and open Indo-Pacific," he said. The AUKUS (Australia, the UK and the US) partnership was unveiled by US President Joe Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and British PM Boris Johnson last month. Admiral Gilday said his talks in India primarily focused on the Indian Ocean which he said is a strategically important waterway that is not only important for Asia but for the entire world. To a specific question on bilateral naval cooperation, he said both India and the US use each other's ports, air fields and refuelling capabilities for ships and cooperation is getting stronger. On China's expansion of its naval prowess, he said the trajectory of the Chinese investment has been strong adding the US is also strengthening its capabilities. He said the US's naval presence in the Indo-Pacific is a testimony to its capabilities and that it has the "asymmetric" advantage along with its partners and allies globally.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/malabar-exercise-could-expand-in-future-decision-depends-on-current-participants-us-admiral-1040109.html
13-10-2021||National||Muslims who migrated to Pak don't enjoy much respect, prestige there: Bhagwat||Hindus and Muslims share the same ancestors and if this thought process had persisted at the time of the freedom movement, India's partition could have been stopped, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said Tuesday. He said the Muslims who migrated to Pakistan don't enjoy much respect and prestige there while those who stayed here belong to India irrespective of their methodology of worship. Bhagwat also called for a harmonious society. India's age old culture of Hindutva and Sanatan Dharma is liberal, Bhagwat said, adding, "We inherited this culture and nobody can be differentiated due to their way of worshipping. Our (Hindus’ and Muslims’) ancestors are one. If this thought process had persisted at the time of the freedom movement, there would have been a way to stop Partition." Bhagwat made these remarks at the launch of a book on Hindutva icon VD Savarkar. He said Savarkar was a nationalist and visionary. Bhagwat said Savarkar's Hindutva was all about a united India where no one is differentiated on the basis of their religion, caste and status and it was based on the idea of country first. "Several people talked about Hindutva and unity in the Indian society, it was just that Savarkar spoke about it loudly and now, after so many years, it is being felt that had everyone spoken loudly, no division (of the country) would have happened," he added. "…Muslims who migrated to Pakistan after the partition have no prestige in that country, because they belong to India and it cannot be changed. We have the same ancestors, only our methodology of worship is different and we are all proud of our liberal culture of Sanatan Dharma. That heritage takes us forward, that is why all of us are living here together," Bhagwat said. He also said whether it is Savarkar's Hindutva or Vivekananda's Hindutva, all are the same as they all talk about the same cultural nationalism where people are not differentiated on the basis of their ideology. "Why should we differentiate? We are born in the same country, we fought for it. It is just our methodology to worship god that is different. And different ways to worship god has been our tradition," Bhagwat said. The RSS chief said it would not be inappropriate to call the current era as "Savarkar's era as its an era of nationalists".  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslims-who-migrated-to-pak-dont-enjoy-much-respect-prestige-there-bhagwat-1040134.html
13-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Roll out a 'Minister Padhao' scheme||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Monday said his statement on modern women unwilling to marry and bear children at an event in NIMHANS was taken out of context and that he had no intention of singling out women and it was based on a survey, which cited statistics on what the younger generation felt about it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-roll-out-a-minister-padhao-scheme-1040141.html
13-10-2021||National||Yellen to host India US Economic and Financial Partnership meeting with Nirmala Sitharaman on October 14||US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen will host the next round of India Economic and Financial Partnership (EFP) meet with her Indian counterpart Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman here on Thursday. Yellen will host the meeting on the sidelines of the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, an official announcement said Tuesday. Sitharaman is currently on nearly a week-long trip to the US. “This meeting builds on the recent momentum in the US-India relationship and will address a range of critical issues, including economic recovery from the global pandemic, climate finance, multilateral priorities, financial regulation, and AML/CFT,” the Department of Treasury said. Yellen, the treasury said, on October 14 will host the eighth meeting of the US-India Economic and Financial Partnership with Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Jerome Powell, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman of India and Governor Shantikanta Das of the Reserve Bank of India. On Wednesday, the finance minister is scheduled to attend meetings of G-20 and interact with investors at a round table hosted by US India Business Council and CII.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yellen-to-host-india-us-economic-and-financial-partnership-meeting-with-nirmala-sitharaman-on-october-14-1040163.html
13-10-2021||National||India sees 15,823 new Covid-19 cases, 226 deaths||India added 15,823 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,40,01,743 on Wednesday, while the national Covid recovery rate increased to 98.06 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll reached 4,51,189 with 226 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 19 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 108 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 2,07,653, the lowest in 214 days, comprising 0.61 per cent of the total infections while the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.06 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 7,247 cases has been recorded in the active Covid caseload in a span of  24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.19 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 44 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.46 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 110 days, according to the ministry. A total of 13,25,399 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the number of cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid -19 in the country to 58,63,63,442. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 33342901, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. Over 96.43 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid -19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 226 new fatalities include 106 from Kerala and 43 from Maharashtra.   A total of 4,51,189 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,621 from Maharashtra, 37,906 from Karnataka, 35,814 from Tamil Nadu, 26,448 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,896 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,924 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-15823-new-covid-19-cases-226-deaths-1040167.html
13-10-2021||National||Documentary depicts how over 7,000 sex workers in Mumbai went penniless during lockdown||Mumbai's commercial sex workers were left helpless during the lockdown. A recent documentary  -- “Mumbai 400008: A story of betrayal, pain and desperation” -- by journalist and documentary filmmaker Santoshee Mishra, depicts how over 7,000 sex workers from Kamathipura, Falkland Road, Faras Road went penniless during the Covid-19-induced lockdown and struggled to exist. Sold by a father, brother, husband or boyfriend they have to get accustomed to a life of flesh trade in Kamathipura -- one of the oldest and biggest red-light areas in Asia -- to earn their daily bread.  “The trade of prostitution totally depends on physical intimacy," Mishra said adding that under the strict rules, any kind of contact or touch was prohibited in the city. Sex workers, most often, do not have a choice. The percentage of women falling into prostitution is more because of human trafficking than self-reasons. The documentary brings out never-ending betrayal, pain and desperation, sex workers go through till the end of their lives. It also showcases lacunae in the system as thousands of sex workers could not get any food-packets also. Burdened with room rents, medical expenses, electricity bills, cooking gas or kerosene along with children’s school fees and no income, thousands of sex workers did not receive any food-packets also, Mishra claimed. "The nights of Mumbai city have never ever faced shut down. The first of ever lockdown in Kamathipura forced commercial sex workers to even beg for food... When the food packets were distributed, the patrolling police had beaten up sex workers,” Mishra said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/documentary-depicts-how-over-7000-sex-workers-in-mumbai-went-penniless-during-lockdown-1040178.html
13-10-2021||National||Lakhimpur Kheri violence 'absolutely condemnable', says Nirmala Sitharaman||In the first reaction from the top brass of the Narendra Modi government on Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said that the killing of four farmers as "absolutely condemnable" but sought to find fault with people raising such incidents happening in the country only "when it suits them". She was responding to a question on the Lakhimpur incident and subsequent arrest of a Minister's son during a conversation at Harvard Kennedy School in the United States where she is on an official visit. Asked why the Prime Minister and senior ministers have not commented on the incident and why there is a "defensive reaction" when questioned about such things, she said, "no, absolutely not... It's nice of you to have picked up that one incident which is absolutely condemnable, every one of us say that. Equally there are instances happening elsewhere, is my concern." Her comments came as Prime Minister Narendra Modi also referred to "selective outrage" over issues of human rights, saying some people define human rights from their own perspective and see violation of human rights in some incidents but do not find violation of human rights in similar cases elsewhere. Sitharaman said she was not being defensive about her party or the Prime Minister but it was being defensive about India. "I will talk for India, I will talk for justice for the poor. I will not be mocked at. And if it is mocking, I will be defensive to stand up and say 'sorry, let's talk on facts'. That's my answer for you," she said during the event held on Tuesday. Asked about farmers' protests, she said the laws were passed by the Parliament after being discussed by various parliamentary committees over a decade. These laws were discussed at state and central levels after the BJP came into power in 2014 and it has been in the making for a decade now and every stakeholder has been consulted. "When the farm laws were brought in the Lok Sabha, there was an elaborate discussion and the agriculture minister gave his reply as well. It was only when it came to the Rajya Sabha, there was a lot of noise and disturbance," she said. On the continuing protests against the laws, she said the protesters belong to "Punjab, Haryana and some parts of western Uttar Pradesh" and the Centre has been saying that it is willing to discuss the issues with them. "We are willing to talk about it, tell us about one particular aspect in any one of the three laws. Till date, we have not had even one particular aspect which is being questioned. And therefore, the protesters are not sure on what score they are protesting, what is it that they are objecting to," she said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-absolutely-condemnable-says-nirmala-sitharaman-1040198.html
13-10-2021||National||UN, World Bank, IMF in need of urgent reforms: FM Sitharaman||Institutions such as United Nations, World Bank, and International Monetary Fund need to be urgently reformed as they no longer speak for countries whose issues have remained unattended to for decades, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. All these organisations will have to look at reforming themselves, she said here at Harvard Kennedy School on Tuesday. During the conversation with Professor at Harvard University Lawrence Summers at the talk organised by the Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government, Sitharaman said “while reforms in countries are happening in different stages, these global institutions have remained the way they have been for the last several decades”. Many of them now no longer speak for countries whose issues have remained unattended to for decades together, whether it is on trade, security, monetary framework, and on funding development, she stated. “There is a desperate need for all these institutions to be more transparent, represent and speak for countries which don't get adequate representation; and therefore I would think that is something which has to happen immediately.” When these institutions become more representative, she said there would be more equitable distribution of resources, more concern for equitable development for growth. “This whole dialogue which used to happen - north-south - looked as if it's moving towards irrelevance. “But the issues of north-south still remain. Development has not reached many parts of Africa, many parts of the small Pacific islands. Many parts of those countries, even within countries, where there is differentiated development. So I think that's what would have happened if only this reform agenda had been taken up by these institutions,” she said. Sitharaman arrived in the US Monday for a week-long trip to attend the annual meet of the World Bank and IMF in Washingon as well as G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (FMCBG) meeting. During the official visit to the US, Sitharaman is expected to meet US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen. She said that participating in the G-20 now for India has got its own importance. India has joined the trio, which refers to the Chair of the G-20, and the one before and the Chair after the current President. India will hold the G20 presidency from December 1, 2022, and Sitharaman said that whole year, “India will work to take the G-20s agenda forward.” She said the G20 meeting for her will be also a process of learning how the current presidency is taking the agenda forward. “More importantly, the OECD has been working in the much discussed global tax or tax on these huge big multinationals so that this practice which is now prevalent that they end up paying tax nowhere. “They're neither paying the country where they're doing business and earning the profit, nor are they paying tax in the country where they are located,” she said, adding that the current ‘each country for itself’ taxation regime has given them an opportunity to end up paying nowhere, which is good for the company, but absolutely of no use for countries where the business is getting generated. “Today, more than 134 countries have come together to have a global tax on all those companies which are operating across nations, making the profit across nations… profits in so many geographical jurisdictions, but end up paying no tax in both jurisdictions.” Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-world-bank-imf-in-need-of-urgent-reforms-fm-sitharaman-1040201.html
13-10-2021||National||India looks at close to double-digit growth this year: Nirmala Sitharaman||India is looking at near close to double-digit growth this year and the country will be one of the fastest-growing economies, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said. The minister also emphasised that she expects the economic growth next year to be in the range of 7.5-8.5 per cent, which will be sustained for the next decade. “As regards the growth of India, we are looking at near close to double-digit growth this year and this would be the highest in the world. And for the next year, on the basis of this year, (the) growth would definitely be somewhere in the range of eight (per cent),” Sitharaman said here on Tuesday during a conversation at Harvard Kennedy School. She noted that while the Ministry of Finance has not done any assessment as yet about the growth number, but the World Bank, IMF, and rating agencies have all come nearer to this kind of growth number for India. “So, the next year would also be somewhere in the range of eight to nine (per cent), 7.5 to 8.5 (per cent) would be the growth. And I expect that to be sustained for the next decade because of the rate at which expansion in core industries is happening, the rate at which services are growing, I don't see a reason for India to be any way lesser than” in the next coming decades, she said. During the conversation with Professor at Harvard University Lawrence Summers during the talk organised by the Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government, Sitharaman, when asked about the state of the global economy, said, “I don't think you can have one picture for the entire globe. The emerging market economies are likely to recover speedily and are likely to have a growth trajectory, which will probably be even the title of engine for growth. They are the ones who are going to be pulling forward the global economy”. “And in that, at least from the data which has been released yesterday and the week before, I can say that India's growth this year will be the highest in the world, of course, based on a lower base of last year, but that will continue into the next year. And even there, we will be one of the fastest-growing economies,” she noted. She added that some other countries in the emerging market areas will also record high growth rates. “The developed world will also catch up… because their base is very high. So, the growth that they can show off will not be closer to double-digit but certainly will be also adding to the global growth,” she said, adding that she sees "different picture in different regions”. When asked about the sustained growth of 8 per cent, a historical rarity, her medium and long term vision of where that growth is going to come from, Sitharaman underlined that she does not think the growth of any country post-pandemic can be compared with what had happened earlier, prior to the pandemic. “The reset which the globe has seen itself tells you a narrative that the way in which countries are going to plan their growth is going to be very different from what it was earlier,” she said. She noted that the Covid-19 pandemic itself is one of the reasons for the reset, which is “happening from certain geographical territories where people are coming out of it, looking for other places where they can run their businesses from because no longer you have the transparency and rule of law in certain geographical territories”. “Therefore, the industry is the first one to get out. Investments are the first ones to get out and they are looking for destinations where certain assumptions can be taken up - rule of law, democracy, transparent policies, and assurance that you're with a broad global frame of things and that you are not an outlier, that you will not have anything to do with the global scheme of things, and it's no good for us.” The minister said all these are extraneous factors that helped India to attract industries to set businesses there. She also pointed out that India itself is a huge market. “Today, our demographic dividend is not a dividend without reason. It's a dividend, which has great purchasing power ability. The middle class in India has the money to buy things,” she said, adding that the people who are moving from other destinations to invest in India and to produce in India will have a captive market. “The same demographic dividend also gives us another advantage - the youth population of India today is a skilled set of youngsters skilled in various different areas, most of them in STEM,” the minister noted. Sitharaman said India will attract investments and have the purchasing power to demand the best of things from whoever produces it. India is even today best in agriculture. “The food security of many countries depend on imported food. Many in the Middle East depend on India for their basic food materials. We will be one of the largest exporters of food and food processed materials,” she added. Similarly, labour-intensive units, partly-skilled labour-intensive sectors such as textile, footwear, leather, and certain parts and components for the industry are all manufactured in India. “So, I see every reason to believe that this 7.5 to 8.5 (per cent) growth is absolutely sustainable for the next decade. These are features that don't exist in any one country all put together. You may have one in one country, and the other in a different country. But India has it all,” the minister said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-looks-at-close-to-double-digit-growth-this-year-nirmala-sitharaman-1040204.html
13-10-2021||National||Absolutely baseless: Nirmala Sitharaman on coal shortage reports||The reports of coal shortage in India are completely baseless, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Wednesday in the United States quoting the power minister, days after a few states resorted to unscheduled load shedding due to crisis at power plants and several others cautioned about power shortage in the coming days. “Absolute baseless! There is no shortage of anything. In fact, if I recall the (power) minister's statement, every power producing installation has the next four days’ stock absolutely available within their own premises and the supply chain has not broken at all," Sitharaman said at Harvard Kennedy School on Tuesday. India is a power surplus country, she said, when asked by Harvard Professor Lawrence Summers about energy shortage and reports of reduced coal inventories in India during a conversation organised by the Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government. “There are not going to be any deficiencies which may lead to any shortfall of supply. So that takes care of India's power situation. “We are also taking fairly good amount of risks to see what the basket of energy is available for India, how much is based on fossil fuel and how much comes from renewable and we are always looking at ways in which it can be shifted in favour of renewable energy. So the picture is not of short supply, but it's also picture of newer components into the basket," she said. On the country’s economic growth, she said though the finance ministry had yet not come up with any estimates, projections by IMF, World Bank and other rating agencies said, it could be near double digit in the fiscal year 2021-22. The minister said she expects the economic growth next year to be in the range of 7.5-8.5%, which will be sustained for the next decade. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/absolutely-baseless-nirmala-sitharaman-on-coal-shortage-reports-1040213.html
13-10-2021||National||Modi unveils Rs 100 lakh-crore master plan to give 'gati' to infrastructure development||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched a Rs 100 lakh crore national master plan for multi-modal connectivity that seeks to provide “plug-and-play” infrastructure for investors to set up business in the country. The Pradhan Mantri Gati Shakti master plan, launched in the presence of top industrialists here, seeks to bring 16 central government departments on a single platform for planning and executing all infrastructure connectivity projects. “PM-Gati Shakti will ensure that 21st century India does not suffer monetary losses or time on infrastructure projects due to lack of coordination,” Modi said at a function organised at the revamped Pragati Maidan. The Gati Shakti initiative, announced by Modi in his Independence Day address, is a geospatial digital platform with 200 layers of GIS mapping of the entire country that would give the implementation agency enabling it to visualise, review and monitor progress of cross-sectoral projects. The comprehensive map provides a bird’s eye view of infrastructure development with each layer giving information on completion timelines of various economic zones, infrastructure and utilities across the country. The Prime Minister has set targets on reducing logistics costs, increasing cargo handling by railways and ports, reducing the turnaround time for cargo ships, increasing number of airports to 200, developing a 25,000-acre area for industries, including 11 industrial corridors, achieving a Rs 1.7 lakh crore turnover in defence production and having 38 electronics manufacturing clusters and 109 pharma clusters by 2024-25. “Today, the government has adopted an approach to develop plug-and-play infrastructure so that investors from across the globe can come to India with their systems and start working,” Modi said. He said an integrated industrial township was being developed at Dadri in Greater Noida which will be linked to ports on eastern and western parts of the country through dedicated corridors. A logistics hub, a multi-modal transport hub with state of the art railways, bus terminals and mass rapid transit system would support the township. “Developing similar facilities in different parts of the country could help India achieve its dream of emerging as the business capital of the world,” Modi said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-unveils-rs-100-lakh-crore-master-plan-to-give-gati-to-infrastructure-development-1040219.html
13-10-2021||National||AGS on expansion mode, looks to increase international footprint||Backed by a strong client list and the government’s mega-plans to boost India’s digital economy, the Mumbai-headquartered AGS Transact Technologies Ltd is on a major expansion mode including increasing international footprint.  AGS is one of the largest integrated omni-channel payment solutions providers in India in terms of providing digital and cash-based solutions to banks and corporate clients.  AGS is looking to raise Rs 800 crore through its initial public offering (IPO) -- complete offer-for-sale (OFS) by existing shareholders wherein Rs 792 crore will be sold by promoter Ravi B Goyal and rest Rs 8 crore by several other shareholders -- VC Gupte, Shailesh Shetty, Rakesh Kumar, Nikhil Patiyat and Rajesh Harshedrai Shah. “We are looking at a big growth strategy,” AGS executive director Stanley Johnson told reporters at its facility in Mahape in the satellite township of Navi Mumbai. AGS works in three key segments -- payments solutions, banking automation solutions and other automation solutions like in case or retail. The payment solutions include ATM and CRM outsourcing and managed services, cash management services, iCDs, digital payment services which include toll and transit solutions, Fastlane, transaction switching services, services through POS machines and agency banking. Its banking automation solutions include sale of ATMs and CRMs, currency technology products and self-service terminals and related services and upgrades. It also provides machines and related services to customers in the retail, petroleum sectors. According to Johnson, the AGS have so far installed 4,20,000 machines or customer touchpoints. “We are the second-largest company in India in terms of revenue from ATM managed services under the outsourcing model, and revenue from cash management and number of ATMs replenished,” he said.  Asked about the growth areas, he said that the company is looking at all areas, however, added that the POS at petroleum outlets and automation is a huge opportunity.  “We will focus on digital payment solutions, payments-as-a-service to payments-as-a-convenience through Ongo card and ecosystem, focus on ATM and CRM outsourcing and managed services, cash management services,” he said. Johnson also said that the company also plans to expand internationally.   “We are providing end-to-end cash and digital payment solutions and technology for banking, retail and e-commerce in foreign countries like Sri Lanka, Singapore, Cambodia, Philippines and Indonesia,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ags-on-expansion-mode-looks-to-increase-international-footprint-1040231.html
13-10-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Panel recommends Covaxin for 2-18 age group||“Bharat Biotech has submitted data from clinical trials in the 2-18 years age group for Covaxin (BBV152) to the CDSCO. The data has been thoroughly reviewed by the CDSCO and Subject Experts Committee (SEC), which provided its positive recommendations. This represents one of the first approvals worldwide for Covid-19 vaccines for the 2-18 age group,” the Hyderabad-based company said in a brief statement. "We don't have a change to our growth forecast for this year for India. I mean, India came out of a very, very tough second wave and that led to a big downgrade in July but we have no change (in its growth rate projections) as of now,” Gita Gopinath, Chief Economist of the IMF, told reporters during a virtual conference call on Tuesday. "The Indians are doing well in terms of vaccination rates and that's certainly helpful," Gopinath said in response to a question. On September 18, the Ministry of Civil Aviation had allowed airlines to operate a maximum of 85 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights instead of the 72.5 per cent till then. "Wear a face mask so that you do not have to wear an Oxygen mask." With slogans like this, the Health Department launched a 10-day-long "All Mask" campaign to ensure that people wear masks all time as the state's Covid-19 positivity rate hovered between 15 and 30 per cent for more than a month. Under the campaign, citizens have been asked to wear masks indoors at all times except while eating meals. "Citizens are requested not to dine together on a table and have buffet meals instead. All citizens are requested and advised to be more mindful in hand washing and use of sanitisers," said a statement. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-panel-recommends-covaxin-for-2-18-age-group-1040248.html
13-10-2021||National||States owe Coal India nearly Rs 20,000 crore: Report||Government sources informed NDTV that despite the dues, the Centre continued to supply coal to states. States have reportedly not picked up stocks from Coal India since January despite the Coal Ministry writing to them to do so.  They also said some states like Delhi and Punjab had pulled the shutters on their main coal plants. Jharkhand, Rajasthan and West Bengal have barely seen any mining activity, the report added.  Coal India cannot stockpile coal in order to avoid fires, sources said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-owe-coal-india-nearly-rs-20000-crore-report-1040253.html
13-10-2021||National||Coal supply for meeting power demand unaffected, says Prahlad Joshi||Amid the country's power plants grappling with coal shortages, Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday assured that there will no crisis to meet the supply of coal for power generation. He was talking to reporters after arriving at the Bilaspur airport before heading to neighbouring Korba district where he is scheduled to take stock of Gevra, Dipka and Kusmunda mines of the South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL), a Coal India subsidiary, and chair a review meeting with officials. Asked if the Congress was creating a hype claiming shortage of coal, the coal and mines minister said, “I don't want to do politics over this. We have already been meeting the total requirement." "Today, the requirement is 1.1 million tonnes of coal for power generation and we have already supplied two million tonnes. The stock is also rising because of it. I assure that there will be no problem in meeting the supply for power generation in the country," he said. Joshi said he was going to visit the mines of SECL to take stock and hold discussions to expedite the production there. “As far as the requirement is concerned, the power ministry had put forth the demand for supply of 1.9 million tonnes (for power generation units) and after 20th (October), two million tonnes. Today only, we have supplied two million tonnes and rest of the things I will discuss after the review (of mines),” he added. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) reviewed the coal supply and power generation scenario, as the government looks at ways to defuse the energy crisis being faced by several states. The coal ministry has been asked to ramp up the supply of coal while the Railways has been asked to make available rakes to transport the fuel to power plants, sources earlier said. The shortage of coal -- which makes up around 70 per cent of India's electricity mix -- has forced rotational power cuts in states from Rajasthan to Kerala. About two-thirds of the coal-fired power plants had stockpiles of a week or less, but the coal ministry earlier said, "any fear of disruption in the power supply is entirely misplaced". States have been forced to buy power from exchanges at high rates to meet the demand.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-supply-for-meeting-power-demand-unaffected-says-prahlad-joshi-1040258.html
13-10-2021||National||Air India's art collection in process to be transferred to culture ministry: NGMA||Air India's invaluable art collection, which consists of over 2,000 artefacts, is in the process of being transferred to the Ministry of Culture and it is likely to be displayed at National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) after the airline's sale to the Tata group recently. NGMA Director General Adwaita Gadanayak told PTI on Wednesday: "We have been trying to procure the Air India artefacts for some time. So, it's an ongoing process. Recently we had a meeting with officials of Air India." "Now, the file (of the transfer) is with the Ministry of Culture and hopefully we will be able to get them and display at NGMA," he added. The prized collection of Air India include works of legendary artists like M F Husain, Anjolie Ela Menon, Jatin Das, S H Raza, V S Gaitonde and K A Ara. Air India has been holding consultations with the Ministry of Culture since 2018 on the preservation, upkeep and display of these over 2,000 artefacts, some of which date back to the ninth century. The art collection includes stone sculptures dating back to the ninth century, woodwork, decorative friezes and a collection of exquisite clocks, they said. The clock collection includes a mantle clock in an ebonised break-arch wood case which is said to have been made in London in 1845. On October 8, the government had announced that Talace Private Limited -- a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons -- has beaten a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh by offering Rs 18,000 crore to win the bid to acquire debt-laden Air India. According to Air India, several of the aforementioned paintings came under its possession when the artists were not even household names. Artists had also readily availed of an Air India's unique option to barter flight tickets for their artworks. Much of the credit for the huge art collection goes to the airline founder J R D Tata, who also served as its chairman. Thanks to his efforts, the art work graced the office walls of Air India in cities like Paris, London, Rome, Geneva and Cairo, giving a peek into the rich Indian culture to the visiting people. Officials had told PTI in 2018 that the upkeep and the preservation of the art works had suffered because of the then uncertainty over the future of the airline. In 2017, controversy stuck the carrier after an FIR was registered over the stealing of Jatin Das' painting the 'flying apsara' -- allegedly by one of the former executive directors of Air India. The painting, however, is in possession of the airline now. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-indias-art-collection-in-process-to-be-transferred-to-culture-ministry-ngma-1040264.html
13-10-2021||National||No more additional checks for flyers from UK as Centre withdraws new travel advisory||The government has withdrawn a travel advisory that added Covid-19 related additional checks and restrictions on those arriving from the UK after the British government ordered discontinuation of mandatory testing and quarantine norms for those vaccinated with Covishield travelling from India. In an official memorandum issued on October 11, the health ministry said that based on the evolving scenario, it has been decided that the revised guidelines stand withdrawn and the earlier guidelines on international arrival issued on February 17 shall be applicable to all travellers arriving in India from the UK. Earlier this month, India had said that all British nationals arriving in India from the UK will have to undergo a mandatory 10-day quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. India had made this announcement after the UK recognised Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India but retained the 10-day quarantine period for fully vaccinated travellers from India.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-more-additional-checks-for-flyers-from-uk-as-centre-withdraws-new-travel-advisory-1040266.html
13-10-2021||National||Worrying that scholars can now be 'influenced' by their own likes and dislikes and not facts: Sitharaman||It is worrying that scholars can be now be "influenced" and become “imprisoned” by their own likes and dislikes rather than comment on the basis of facts, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, as she took a swipe at Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen for his views about the BJP government. During a conversation organised by the Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government on Tuesday, Sitharaman was asked by Harvard Professor Lawrence Summers that the "number of people in our community", notably economist Sen has expressed “rather strong reservations” about the BJP government. He said there's a feeling that the legacy of tolerance “has been very much called into question” and that the attitude taken by "your government to the Muslim population is something that comes between the United States, given our values of universalism and inclusion, and India.” During the conversation at Harvard Kennedy School, Sitharaman said that even the issue of violence in states not governed by the BJP “will be at the doorstep of the prime minister because that suits my narrative." Sitharaman said she respects “Dr Amartya Sen, who you mentioned,” and “I would think for every one of us”, “he goes to India, moves freely around, and finds out what's happening. That itself would help us to know, particularly a scholar, who is talking based on facts.” “No. It's worrying that scholars can be now influenced more by their personal likes and dislikes rather than comment on the basis of facts. It's really worrying that scholars can become imprisoned by their own likes and dislikes, rather than be equanimous, look at the facts and data before them, and then speak,” she said. “It's one thing to have a view and totally another to base it on facts. If opinions become my prejudice, there's no way in which I can counter it,” Sitharaman said. She said that “sometimes it is an effort similar to waking up somebody who's pretending to sleep. If you're genuinely sleeping, I can tap on your shoulder and say, ‘Please wake up’. But if you're pretending to sleep, will you wake up. You can't, you won’t. And I’ll be fooling myself thinking I'm waking you up.” She told the audience that in India, “law and order is a subject which is each province for its own.” If in the United States, one particular state has any problem, it may not be a problem which the President of the United States will have to deal with but the governor of that state. “That is the case even in India. There are provinces that are ruled by not the party to which the Prime Minister belongs. Even last night, not even the day before yesterday night, even last night in a state which is ruled by… not the party to which the prime minister belongs, crimes have taken place, the poorest of the poor have been hit, some dead. “But even that will be at the doorstep of the Prime Minister because that suits my narrative. It is not right because in that state, in that province, law and order is governed by the elected Chief Minister of that region who is not even a party man for Prime Minister Modi,” she said. Sitharaman said, “tell me the number of people who have criticised Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi in such derogatory words, calling him names, abusing him. Has any one of them been touched, have they been questioned? Whereas in non-BJP ruled states, when the chief ministers have been questioned, first thing is to arrest them and put them in jail. I'll name the states where this has happened. “In fact, some of them are still languishing in jail for having spoken ill of a particular elected Chief Minister who belongs to an opposition party. Would the same set of scholars who are talking about Prime Minister Modi also comment on those states and say what's happening - India's tolerant culture," she said. She recalled that in 2014 when Modi came into power, there were a series of attacks on churches. "And there again there were voices. People returned their awards, the Padma Awards that we give in the country, the highest civilian awards, saying ‘this government is against minorities, look at the way Christians are being treated, churches are being attacked,” she said. She said that every state in which this happened had its own investigation, committees, and police belonging to the respective states. “The prime minister had nothing to do with it. You would be surprised to know that every one of these attacks after proper investigation proved out to be nothing to do with the prime minister, nothing to do with the BJP, nothing to do with any communal angle. “But the blame was put at the prime minister's door. Awards were returned saying, ‘uff it’s difficult for me to live in this country, oh my minorities are being offended’. It turned out that none of them had anything to do with the communal angle, and none of them to do with the BJP or the prime minister,” she said. She added that similarly, after 2019 when Prime Minister Modi came back with an even better, stronger mandate, “this campaign which is going on to say that there is communal violence, communal whatever. “Again a question of law and order is a state subject. Each state has its own. In states where parties care nothing for the BJP, there has been atrocious violence. Is that also something to be answered by the prime minister.” Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/worrying-that-scholars-can-now-be-influenced-by-their-own-likes-and-dislikes-and-not-facts-sitharaman-1040270.html
13-10-2021||National||UP law minister meets kin of BJP worker, driver killed in Lakhimpur violence||Uttar Pradesh Law Minister Brijesh Pathak on Wednesday met the families of a BJP worker and car driver killed in the October 3 violence. The minister arrived in the district without any official protocol and visited the family of party worker Shubham Mishra in Shivpuri locality and driver Hariom Mishra in Parsehra Khurd village in Phardhan (Kheri) police limits, BJP sources said. Eight people were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3. Of the eight killed, four were farmers, who were allegedly knocked down by a car carrying BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. Two BJP workers and a driver were allegedly killed by the farmers. Accompanied by district BJP chief Sunil Singh, district vice presidents Vijay Shukla Rinku and Anurag Mishra, and Awadh prant head Kamlesh Mishra, Pathak participated in the rituals being performed at Shubham Mishra's house. Vijay Mishra and Anurag Mishra told PTI that the minister extended deep condolences and assured the two families of all aid and assistance. The minister avoided interacting with media persons during his visit here. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-law-minister-meets-kin-of-bjp-worker-driver-killed-in-lakhimpur-violence-1040271.html
13-10-2021||National||Jaishankar talks Chabahar Port, connectivity with Armenian counterpart||Stressing on the need for enhanced connectivity, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday proposed that the strategic Chabahar Port in Iran be included in the North-South Transport Corridor that has the potential to bridge connectivity barriers, as he reviewed the whole gamut of bilateral relations with his Armenian counterpart Ararat Mirzoyan. Jaishankar was speaking at a joint press meet with Armenian Foreign Minister Mirzoyan following their meeting here. Jaishankar on Tuesday arrived in Armenia on the last leg of his three-nation tour to Central Asia with an aim to further expand bilateral ties and discuss key regional issues including the developments in Afghanistan. "Both India and Armenia are members of the International North-South Transport Corridor (INSTC), which has the potential to bridge the connectivity barrier. So Minister Mirzoyan and I discussed the interest which Armenia has shown to develop the Chabahar Port in Iran and being developed by India," Jaishankar said in his remarks. "We proposed the Chabahar Port be builded in the International North-South Transport Corridor; we welcome the use of the Chabahar Port and any other initiative that will encourage regional connectivity," he said. The Chabahar port in the Sistan-Balochistan province in the energy-rich nation’s southern coast is easily accessible from India’s western coast and is increasingly seen as a counter to Pakistan’s Gwadar Port located at a distance of around 80 km from Chabahar. The first phase of the Chabahar port was inaugurated in December 2017 by Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, opening a new strategic route connecting Iran, India and Afghanistan bypassing Pakistan. The Chabahar port is being considered as a gateway to golden opportunities for trade by India, Iran and Afghanistan with central Asian countries, besides ramping up trade among the three countries in the wake of Pakistan denying transit access to New Delhi. Jaishankar said that the two ministers also did a comprehensive review of the bilateral relations. "We discussed regional and multilateral issues and most importantly agreed on a road map for future course of cooperation and exchanges," he said. Noting that the bilateral relations have expanded in political and cultural fields, Jaishankar said that there is clearly scope for further strengthening of economic and commercial cooperation and tourism, hospitality, infrastructure and investment. He said that one important bridge between India and Armenia is the presence of a large number of Indian students. "There are almost, I think, 3,000 of them who are pursuing medical education in Armenia. We very greatly appreciate the efforts of the government of Armenia and people for the welfare of the Indian community, in particular the students during the pandemic," he said. He said that India and Armenia's progression in the UN and multilateral forums has been exclusive. "We share Armenia's support for our candidature of non-permanent membership of the UNSC for 2021-22 and also for the permanent membership at the UNSC. Our progression at multilateral forums reflects the strength of our relationship. We are very grateful to Armenia for supporting our candidature to other multilateral forums," he said. "I am very hopeful that my visit today has enabled us to further our cooperation in various stages. We stand ready to support Armenia for the spirit of our close and friendly traditions," he said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-talks-chabahar-port-connectivity-with-armenian-counterpart-1040273.html
13-10-2021||National||Air India sale virtually a free gift to Tatas: Trade Unions||Ten central trade unions on Wednesday criticised the government on the Air India sale saying it is a "virtually a free gift" to the Tatas on the 75th year of Independence. In a statement, they said they "deplore" the sale in "too less an amount" than what has gone into making Air India a giant carrier. "This is a gift back to Tata on 75th years of independence after its takeover by the government in 1948 followed by its nationalisation in 1953. Several lakhs crores was infused from the national exchequer to expand its asset base, huge fleet of aircrafts and properties, both in the country and abroad," they said. "Now the sale-deal with Tata envisages that government will absorb Rs 46,262 crore of the Rs 67,000 crore debt burden of Air India but the assets created by such debt will be handed over to Tata in lieu of only Rs 18,000 crore," the unions -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF, UTUC -- said. This is "virtually a free gift" to the Tatas, which demonstrated the "worst-ever perverted economic deal", it said. The statement said the trade unions had opposed the merger of Indian Airlines with Air India earlier with the government making "hollow claims" that it would help in mitigating losses and lead to recovery of the airlines. "The contention of unions was that it would not help in recovery as claimed, rather would be allowed to incur more losses and add debts to it, to pave the way for its sale. The government is silent about how its own policies of handing over profitable routes to their cronies, buying a huge fleet of aircraft when not needed, brought the air carrier to this pass. The truth is before us. India will be perhaps among the few countries, where the government will not own its air carrier," it said. The unions also said the workers would be "adversely affected" as they are given protection for one year only. Large number of employees are in the age group of 40-55 years which renders them ineligible for jobs in other companies, they said. "The fallout is not only the assets created over decades with public money being sold out cheaply but it would be harming the public interest as well," it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-sale-virtually-a-free-gift-to-tatas-trade-unions-1040281.html
13-10-2021||National||Probe reveals Aryan Khan's role in conspiracy, illegal procurement and consumption of drugs: NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Wednesday opposed the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in connection with the seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, saying the probe so far has revealed his role in the conspiracy and illicit procurement and consumption of drugs. The NCB in its affidavit also said that Aryan Khan was in touch with some persons, who appear to be a part of an international drug network for procurement of drugs. Further probe is on with regard to financial transactions done abroad, the agency said. “During initial investigation, some international linkages pertinent to this applicant (Aryan Khan) have been unearthed which prima facie indicate towards illicit drug procurement. The investigation requires sufficient time so as to approach the  foreign agency concerned,” the affidavit said. The NCB also submitted in the affidavit that the case of each of the accused cannot be considered individually or separately, as prima facie investigation reveals that there is a close link/nexus among all the accused, including Aryan Khan, for conspiracy to commit offences. “It is not feasible to dissect or separate each from the other. All ingredients of crime, that are preparation, intention, attempt and commission, are present for this applicant (Aryan Khan),” the affidavit said. The NCB submitted its affidavit in response to the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan before special judge V V Patil, designated to hear matters related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The judge is currently hearing the bail plea. Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 following a raid on the Goa-bound cruise ship and is presently in judicial custody. He is lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai. He approached the special court seeking bail after a magistrate's court rejected the same last week. “It is prima facie revealed that accused No 1 (Aryan Khan) used to procure contraband from accused No 2 (Arbaaz Merchant) and the sources connected to accused No 2, from whose conscious possession six grams of Charas was recovered,” the NCB said in its affidavit. It further said the material collated during investigation primarily revealed that Aryan Khan has a role in illicit procurement and distribution of the contraband. As per investigations carried out so far, accused Aachit Kumar and Shivraj Harijan had supplied Charas to Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant, the anti-drugs agency said. “The role and involvement of this applicant (Aryan Khan) in the commission of grave and serious offences under the NDPS Act, including illicit drug trafficking, is apparent considering the nexus and connection of this applicant with the other accused in the case,” the NCB said. All the accused are inextricably connected and hence, it is not possible to dissect the role of each accused from the other, it added. Prima facie investigation reveals a close nexus between all the accused persons and their involvement in conspiracy to commit illegal acts cannot be ruled out, the agency further said. “The case of each applicant cannot be considered in isolation. All these persons are an integral part of a common thread which cannot be separated or dissected from one another. In such a situation, the quantum of recovery (of drugs) from one accused becomes inconsequential,” the NCB said in the affidavit. “Even though from some of the accused there is no recovery or less recovery of contraband, the participation by acts of such persons, who have acted in concert, conspiracy forms the basis of the investigation,” it said. From the investigation, it is revealed that all the accused persons form a part of a "larger chain/nexus" and their involvement in the conspiracy to commit illegal acts and violations under Section 29 of the NDPS Act cannot be ruled out, the affidavit said. Section 29 of the NDPS Act pertains to abetment to commit an offence or criminal conspiracy. The NCB further said there have been several seizures of intermediary quantities of drugs from Aryan Khan's co-accused and there has also been seizure of commercial quantities of Mephedrone from one accused – Abdul Sheikh. It said the allegations that the accused have been falsely implicated are untrue and misleading, as there is sufficient material in the form of WhatsApp chats and photographs which show the ingredients of conspiracy. “Considering the influence that Aryan Khan holds in the society, it is very much possible that he may tamper with evidence and influence other witnesses whom he personally knows,” the affidavit said, adding there is also a possibility of the accused fleeing justice. The court is also hearing the bail pleas filed by Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Satija, Aachit Kumar, Mohak Jaiswal, Shreyas Iyer and Avin Sahu. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/probe-reveals-aryan-khans-role-in-conspiracy-illegal-procurement-and-consumption-of-drugs-ncb-1040283.html
13-10-2021||National||Government scraps basic customs duty, cuts agri cess on crude palm, soyabean and sunflower oil||The government on Wednesday scrapped basic customs duty as well as slashed agri cess on crude varieties of palm, soyabean and sunflower oil till March 2022, a move which will help cool prices and increase domestic availability in the festive season. The duty cuts will be effective from October 14 and will remain in force till March 31, 2022, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said in a notification. Crude palm oil will now attract agri infrastructure development cess (AIDC) of 7.5 per cent, while the rate will be 5 per cent for crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil. Post reduction, the effective customs duty on crude varieties of palm, soyabean and sunflower oil will be 8.25 per cent, 5.5 per cent and 5.5 per cent respectively. Besides, the basic customs duty on refined varieties of sunflower, soyabean, palmolein and palm oil has been slashed to 17.5 per cent each from 32.5 per cent at present. "The government has slashed import duties on edible oils because of high retail prices in the domestic market and the festive season," Solvent Extractors' Association of India Executive Director B V Mehta said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-scraps-basic-customs-duty-cuts-agri-cess-on-crude-palm-soyabean-and-sunflower-oil-1040288.html
13-10-2021||National||Man not absolved of responsibility to provide sustenance when children become majors: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has said a man cannot get automatically absolved of his responsibility to provide sustenance to his children just because his wife has been earning sufficiently or the children have attained the age of majority. Dealing with a matter related to maintenance under Section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code, a bench of Justice Subramonium Prasad said a father is bound to compensate the wife who, after spending on children, may hardly be left with anything to maintain herself. "The husband must also carry the financial burden of making certain that his children are capable of attaining a position in society wherein they can sufficiently maintain themselves," the bench said. "The mother cannot be burdened with the entire expenditure on the education of her son just because he has completed 18 years of age, and the father cannot be absolved of all responsibilities to meet the education expenses of his son because he may have attained the age of majority, but may not be financially independent and could be incapable of sustaining himself," the bench added. The man here filed a revision petition against the court's order to pay Rs 15,000 interim maintenance to his son till he completes his graduation or starts earning. He claimed his wife is employed with the central government and earns more than Rs 70,000 as monthly salary, besides she also claims education expenses for the children. Dismissing his plea, the court said, a father has an equal duty to provide for his children and there cannot be a situation wherein it is only the mother who has to bear the burden of expenses for raising and educating the children. "It is true that in majority of households, women are unable to work due to socio-cultural as well as structural impediments, and, thus, cannot financially support themselves. However, in households wherein the women are working and are earning sufficiently to maintain themselves, it does not automatically mean that the husband is absolved of his responsibility to provide sustenance for his children," the bench said. The court said it cannot countenance a situation which places the entire burden on the mother to bear the expenses of educating the children without any contribution from the father as simply attaining majority does not mean son would start earning sufficiently. The court said Section 125 CrPC is a tool for social justice enacted to ensure that women and children are protected from a life of potential vagrancy and destitution. The Supreme Court has consistently held that the conceptualisation of Section 125 was meant to ameliorate the financial suffering of a woman who had left her matrimonial home; it is a means to secure the woman’s sustenance, along with that of the children, if any, it pointed out. "The statutory provision entails that if the husband has sufficient means, he is obligated to maintain his wife and children, and not shirk away from his moral and familial responsibilities," the court said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-not-absolved-of-responsibility-to-provide-sustenance-when-children-become-majors-delhi-hc-1040299.html
13-10-2021||National||Amid stalemate in LAC talks, China says India created Arunachal Pradesh 'illegally'||China on Wednesday accused India of "illegally and unilaterally" establishing the state of Arunachal Pradesh, even as the talks between the senior military commanders of the two nations to resolve the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh hit an impasse last Sunday. New Delhi dismissed Beijing’s protest over Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu’s recent visit to Arunachal Pradesh and asked the country “to work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh”. Just days after the 13th round of negotiations between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to resolve the 18-month-long stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh ended in a stalemate, Beijing reasserted its claim on Arunachal Pradesh, claiming that the state was “illegally and unilaterally established” by India. “China's position on the China-India boundary issue is consistent and clear. The Chinese government has never recognised the so-called Arunachal Pradesh unilaterally and illegally established by India, and firmly opposes Indian leaders' visits to these regions,” Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing. He was replying to a question by a journalist on the visit of the Vice President of India to Arunachal Pradesh last week. “China urges India to truly respect China’s major concerns, stop taking any actions that complicate and expand border issues, refrain from doing things that undermine mutual trust and bilateral relations between the two sides,” Zhao said. New Delhi rejected the Chinese government’s protest to the Vice President’s visit to Arunachal Pradesh. “We reject such comments. Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalienable part of India. Indian leaders routinely travel to the state of Arunachal Pradesh as they do to any other state of India,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi, adding: “Objecting to the visit of Indian leaders to a state of India does not stand to reason and understanding of Indian people.” He reiterated that the stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh was the result of the Chinese PLA’s unilateral attempt to change the status quo in violation of the bilateral agreements. “We expect the Chinese side to work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols rather than trying to link unrelated issues,” said the MEA spokesperson. China claims nearly 90,000 sq km of territory of India in Arunachal Pradesh to be its its own. Even as the stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh is yet to be completely resolved, nearly 200 soldiers of the Chinese PLA of late made an attempt to transgress into the territory of India in Arunachal Pradesh – just weeks after making a similar bid at Barahoti in Uttarakhand. The incursion attempts by the PLA soldiers in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh in the recent weeks triggered concerns in New Delhi about the possibility of the tension along the LAC in the western sector of the disputed boundary spreading to the middle and eastern sectors too. The chief of Indian Army, Gen M M Naravane of late repeatedly articulated New Delhi’s concerns over the Chinese PLA’s continued build-up along the entire stretch of the de facto boundary between the two nations. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-stalemate-in-lac-talks-china-says-india-created-arunachal-pradesh-illegally-1040300.html
13-10-2021||National||Coal dispatches to power plants being enhanced, says Pralhad Joshi||Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday said cumulative coal supplies to thermal power plants crossed 2 million tonne on Tuesday and dispatch of the dry fuel is being enhanced to the plants. Various power plants are grappling with fuel shortages and efforts are being made to increase fuel supplies. "Happy to share that cumulative coal supplies to thermal power plants from all sources including @CoalIndiaHQ recorded more than 2 million tonnes yesterday. We are increasing coal dispatch to power plants further to ensure sufficient coal stocks at power plants," Joshi said in a tweet. According to a Coal India official, supplies to power stations have already touched 1.62 million tonne a day in the past two days, with total offtake rising to 1.88 million tonne per day, compared with the month's average of 1.75 million tonne. The company also ramped up its output to 1.6 million tonne a day in the past two days and CIL expects to raise production after Dusshera, when workers are back from holidays and the attendance picks up, the official said. Joshi had on Tuesday said the government is making full efforts to meet the coal demand of power producers and stressed that steps are being taken to soon ramp up the dry-fuel supply to two million tonne per day, from the current overall dispatch of 1.95 million tonne per day. "From October 20-21 or before that, we will try to reach two million tonnes (supply), which will again be a record," he said. The minister had assured all stakeholders of the coal supply required for power generation. "I assure all the stakeholders and even people of the country that whatever coal is needed for power generation, that coal will be provided from the coal ministry," he said. The minister further said the coal supply will go up as the monsoon recedes. "As of now...at Coal India, we have around 22 days' stock and as you all know the monsoon is receding now and our supply will further go up," he said. Coal Secretary A K Jain had also said this is an appropriate time for the launch of the third round of auction for commercial coal mining, as there are talks currently in the country about the supply of fossil fuel and there is also demand for coal. He said that given the three-four times hike in the imported coal prices, if India is importing a large amount of fuel at this rate, the electricity bills would have shot by two-three times. CIL had earlier said it is marshalling all its efforts to bridge the demand-supply gap to the extent possible. Coal India accounts for over 80 per cent of domestic coal output. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-dispatches-to-power-plants-being-enhanced-says-pralhad-joshi-1040312.html
13-10-2021||National||Govt notifies new rules for allowing abortion till 24 weeks of pregnancy for certain categories of women||The government has notified new rules under which the upper limit for termination of a pregnancy has been increased from 20 to 24 weeks for certain categories of women. According to the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Rules, 2021, these categories include survivors of sexual assault or rape or incest, minors and women whose marital status changes during an ongoing pregnancy (widowhood and divorce) and women with physical disabilities. The new rules also cover mentally ill women, cases of foetal malformation that has a substantial risk of being incompatible with life or if the child is born it may suffer from such physical or mental abnormalities to be seriously handicapped and women with pregnancy in humanitarian settings or disaster or emergency situations as may be declared by the government. The new rules are under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Act, 2021 passed by Parliament in March. Earlier, abortion required the opinion of one doctor if it is done within 12 weeks of conception and two doctors if it is done between 12 and 20 weeks. According to the new rules, a state-level medical board will be set up to decide if a pregnancy may be terminated after 24 weeks in cases of foetal malformation and if the foetal malformation has a substantial risk of it being incompatible with life or if the child is born it may suffer from such physical or mental abnormalities to be seriously handicapped.   The function of the Medical Board shall be to examine the woman and her reports if she approaches for medical termination of pregnancy and provide the opinion with regard to the termination of pregnancy or rejection of a request for termination within three days of receiving the request. The Board has also been tasked to ensure that the termination procedure, when advised by it, is carried out with all safety precautions along with appropriate counselling within five days of the receipt of the request for medical termination of pregnancy. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-notifies-new-rules-for-allowing-abortion-till-24-weeks-of-pregnancy-for-certain-categories-of-women-1040315.html
13-10-2021||National||Revamped Pragati Maidan to host G20 summit in 2023: Piyush Goyal||India will host the G20 meeting in 2023 at the revamped Pragati Maidan Complex, a part of which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. Modi inaugurated the New Exhibition Complex at the Pragati Maidan which is currently under redevelopment at a cost of Rs 2,698 crore. “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the G20 summit will be held at Pragati Maidan,” Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal said here at the launch of Pradhan Mantri GatiShakti-National Master Plan. The Intergrated Exhibition-cum-Convention Centre will have eight exhibition halls spread over 72,000 square metres, he said adding that the international convention centre was under construction. The convention centre will have a capacity to seat 7,000 people – which is five times the capacity of Vigyan Bhawan. The centrepiece of the complex will be the convention centre -- a 36.4 meters tall structure built on a raised platform with an elliptical facade and artworks inspired from Parliament House and Rashtrapati Bhawan. It will have a huge front plaza that includes a 7,000 sqm waterbody with a laser musical fountain. The convention centre will have entry and exit points from Mathura Road, Purana Quila Road and Bhagwan Das Road. A unique feature of the project is the simultaneous construction of a tunnel connecting India Gate to Ring Road across Pragati Maidan and 6 underpasses to decongest traffic in and around the area. The India International Trade Fair (IITF), the flagship event of the India Trade Promotion Organisation, will be held in the new exhibition halls from November 14 to 27. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/revamped-pragati-maidan-to-host-g20-summit-in-2023-piyush-goyal-1040316.html
13-10-2021||National||India strongly rejects China's objection to Vice President Naidu's Arunachal visit||India on Wednesday strongly rejected China's objection to a recent visit to Arunachal Pradesh by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, asserting that the state is an "integral and inalienable" part of India. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said objecting to the visit of Indian leaders to a state of India "does not stand to reason and understanding" of Indian people. "We have noted the comments made today by the Chinese official spokesperson. We reject such comments. Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalienable part of India," Bagchi said. He was responding to a question on comments by a spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry objecting to Naidu's visit to Arunachal Pradesh over the weekend. "Indian leaders routinely travel to the state of Arunachal Pradesh as they do to any other state of India. Objecting to the visit of Indian leaders to a state of India does not stand to reason and understanding of Indian people," Bagchi said. At a media briefing in Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian, in response to a question about Naidu's visit to Arunachal Pradesh, said China has never recognised the state. "China's position on the China-India boundary issue is consistent and clear-cut. The Chinese government has never recognised the so-called 'Arunachal Pradesh' established unilaterally and illegally by the Indian side and firmly opposes the Indian leader's visit to this above-mentioned area," he said. "China urges the Indian side to earnestly respect China's major concerns, stop taking any action that would complicate and expand the boundary issue, and refrain from undermining mutual trust and bilateral relations. It should instead take real actions to maintain peace and stability in the China-India border area, and help to bring China-India relations back onto the track of sound and steady development," Zhao said. China has been objecting to visits of Indian leaders to Arunachal Pradesh, saying it is a part of South Tibet. The fresh war of words between the two sides came three days after the 13th round of military talks on the 17-month eastern Ladakh standoff ended in a stalemate. "Further, as we have mentioned earlier, the current situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Western Sector of the India-China border areas has been caused by unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter the status quo in violation of the bilateral agreements," Bagchi said. The government often refers to eastern Ladakh as Western Sector. "Therefore, we expect the Chinese side to work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols rather than trying to link unrelated issues," Bagchi said. A day after the 13th round of military talks, Indian Army said the "constructive suggestions" made by it were neither agreeable to the Chinese side nor it could provide any "forward-looking" proposals. On its part, the Chinese PLA's Western Theatre Command said India insisted on "unreasonable and unrealistic demands, adding difficulties to the negotiations." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-strongly-rejects-chinas-objection-to-vice-president-naidus-arunachal-visit-1040331.html
13-10-2021||National||Former PM Manmohan Singh admitted to AIIMS||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was on Wednesday admitted to AIIMS in New Delhi after he complained of fever and weakness. The 89-year-old Congress leader, who is presently a Rajya Sabha MP, was detected with Covid-19 earlier this year. His condition is stated to be stable. Congress Secretary Pranav Jha tweeteed, "There are some unsubstantiated rumours with regards to former PM, Manmohan Singh-ji’s health. His condition is stable. He is undergoing routine treatment. We will share any updates as needed. We thank our friends in the media for their concern."  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-pm-manmohan-singh-admitted-to-aiims-1040334.html
13-10-2021||National||Isolated populations in India are vulnerable to Covid-19: Researchers||Researchers have found that the indigenous Andaman tribes of Onge Jarawa, who live in isolation and follow strict endogamy, are highly susceptible to the Covid-19 infection. While the SARS-CoV-2 virus infection has affected several ethnic groups all over the world, recent studies have suggested that the indigenous groups in Brazil have been severely impacted by the coronavirus. The death rate was twice among the indigenous communities in the South American nation, as compared to the general population there. It was also indicated that some of these indigenous communities have reached the verge of extinction due to the pandemic. India is also home to several indigenous and small communities like the Andaman Islanders, who are living in isolation in remote islands for tens of thousands of years. Dr Kumarasamy Thangaraj from CSIR-CCMB, Hyderabad and Gyaneshwer Chaubey, Professor of Molecular Anthropology at BHU, Varanasi, have jointly led a genomic analysis of various Indian populations to assess their vulnerability. The duo found that populations that carry similar long DNA segments (homozygous) in their genome are most likely to be more susceptible to Covid-19. “We have investigated high-density genomic data of over 1,600 individuals from 227 ethnic populations. We found a high frequency of contiguous lengths of homozygous genes among Onge, Jarawa (Andaman Tribes) and a few more populations who live in isolation and follow strict endogamy, making them highly susceptible for Covid-19 infection,” said Dr Thangaraj, who had earlier traced the origin of Andaman Islanders. Endogamy is the custom of marrying within a community. Dr Thangaraj’s 2005 study established that the Andaman Islanders are the first modern humans to have migrated out of Africa taking the southern coastal route about 65,000 years back. The researchers have also assessed the ACE2 gene variants that make individuals susceptible to Covid-19. They found that the Jarawa and Onge populations have a high frequency of these mutations. “Though there have been no cases of Covid-19 infection among these tribes, given their vulnerability we have to ensure they are insulated from outside contact,” Dr Thangaraj, who is also the Director of the Hyderabad based Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics, told DH. The research was recently published online in the journal Genes and Immunity. “Results from the present study suggest the need to have a high priority protection and utmost care for such isolated populations so that we do not lose these living treasures of modern human evolution,” said Dr Vinay Kumar Nandicoori, director, CCMB. Prajjval Pratap Singh, Prof VN Mishra, Prof Royana Singh and Dr Abhishek Pathak from BHU, Varanasi; Dr Prashanth Suravajhala from Amrita University, Kerala; Pratheusa Machha from CSIR-CCMB; Dr Rakesh Tamang from Calcutta University, Dr Ashutosh K Rai from Saudi Arabia, Dr Pankaj Shrivastava from FSL MP, and Prof Keshav K Singh from University of Alabama USA are other participants of the study. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isolated-populations-in-india-are-vulnerable-to-covid-19-researchers-1040337.html
13-10-2021||National||Centre issues fresh orders on appointment of HC judges||The Centre on Wednesday issued fresh notifications for appointments 10 judges and four additional judges to the High Courts of Telangana, and Orissa and Kerala. Of the total 14 names, five are women judicial officers and one member of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. In a notification, the Department of Justice said in exercise of the power conferred under the Constitution, the President, in consultation with the Chief Justice of India, has approved the appointments. As many as six judicial officers namely P Sree Sudha, C Sumalatha, G Radha Rani, M Laxman, N Tukaramji, A Venkateshwara Reddy and one member of ITAT P Madhavi Devi were appointed as judges of the Telangana High Court. Advocate Mruganka Sekhar Sahoo and judicial officers Radha Krishna Pattanaik and Sashikant Mishra were appointed as judges in Orissa High Court. The Kerala High Court, on other hand, got four additional judges with the appointment of judicial officers Chandrasekharan Kartha Jayachandran, Sophy Thomas, Puthen Veedu Gopala Pillai Ajithkumar and Chandrasekharan Sudha. On Tuesday, the Union government notified appointment of 15 advocates and two judicial officers as judges of the Allahabad, Madras and the Gauhati High Courts. Besides, it also passed orders for making three additional judges of Gauhati High Court as permanent. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-issues-fresh-orders-on-appointment-of-hc-judges-1040341.html
13-10-2021||National||EveyTrans launches inter-city electric bus service in Pune-Mumbai||Leading electric bus operator EveyTrans Private Limited, a MEIL Group company, has launched the inter-city bus service under the brand name, ‘PuriBus’, between Mumbai and Pune - adding to the connectivity between India's financial capital to Maharashtra's cultural capital, IT and industrial hub.  Operations will begin on October 15, to mark the auspicious Vijayadashami coinciding with Dussehra festivities. With the launch of the inter-city service by EveryTrans, long-distance, zero-emission, noiseless and comfortable travel has become a reality. Sandeep Raizada, General Manager, EveyTrans said, “We are proud and humbled to have been the first to launch the inter-city E-bus services in India. PuriBus can cover up to 350 kms on a single charge, with zero-emission, making it an option for inter--city travel operators, leading to savings in the long run.” The Centre and state governments are encouraging the adoption of electric buses in the public transport system under FAME I and FAME 2 policy initiatives. The zero-emission, electric inter-city coach bus has a seating capacity of 45 plus driver and co-driver. The bus is aesthetically designed and offers utmost comfort to passengers. The AC E-bus designed for long-distance travel has comfortable and luxurious push back seats. The bus has the latest TV and infotainment system along with Wi-Fi, ensuring a journey full of entertainment. Each seat has an in-built USB charger. The five cubic meter luggage space guarantees ample space for luggage. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eveytrans-launches-inter-city-electric-bus-service-in-pune-mumbai-1040350.html
13-10-2021||National||India has no plans for Covid-19 booster dose: NITI Aayog||India currently has no plans to give booster doses as some nations have begun doing, the government's chief Covid-19 advisor said Wednesday as the country nears the milestone of one billion vaccine injections. Doctor Vinod K. Paul said meanwhile with the country's vaccine makers ramping up production and domestic needs diminishing, India should be able to resume being a major exporter of jabs from next year. More than 15 countries worldwide have begun issuing third doses of coronavirus vaccines to older citizens, including in Israel and in European Union nations such as France, Italy and Germany. But Paul, part of the Indian government's advisory body NITI Aayog, said there is no clear guidance on whether a third dose is necessary, including from the World Health Organization. "As of now we do not have a recommendation for a booster bump-up dose," Paul told reporters, adding however that the government would "continue to watch this space very carefully". His comments came with the number of vaccine doses administered in India set to hit 100 crore in the coming days, with some 75 per cent of those eligible receiving one shot and around 30 per cent double vaccinated. India is the world's largest vaccine producer but the country halted exports of Covid jabs earlier this year to focus on its domestic needs after a devastating infections surge overwhelmed hospitals. But with vaccination rates now high and coronavirus cases down sharply, exports have resumed in recent days, with a total of around four million doses reportedly being sent to Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Iran. Production of Covishield — the Indian-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine — and the homegrown Covaxin is currently around 25 crore shots per month and is on course to reach 27 crore soon, according to officials. Combined with the production of other vaccines made in India — including Johnson & Johnson with local partner Biological E — coming on line, the country could begin exporting again on a large scale next year. "Huge, huge availability can be visualised potentially," Paul said, allowing India — a vital supplier to other low-income countries — to be "potentially very generous" again in 2022. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-no-plans-for-covid-19-booster-dose-niti-aayog-1040365.html
13-10-2021||National||Over 28 cr Covid vaccines to be produced in October, says Mansukh Mandaviya||Noting that India's Covid-19 vaccination will cross the landmark of 100 crore vaccine doses in a few days, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday that the country will produce over 28 crore doses in October as it continues to ramp up its supply. Speaking to reporters, Mandaviya said that nearly 73 percent of the eligible population has received a single dose of vaccine and around 29 percent both doses. States have now over eight crore doses with them, he said. Of the 28 crore doses to be available this month, up from more than 22 crore in September, nearly 22 crore will be Covishield and six crore will be Covaxin. Also, nearly 60 lakh DNA jabs will be produced, he said. With around 97 crore vaccine doses administered so far, the numbers are expected to reach the 100 crore milestone next week, likely on October 19 or 20, he said. Official sources said that as of now the health ministry has no plans to push booster doses as expert opinion on the matter is yet to crystallise. They also expressed satisfaction at the overall vaccination programme, saying hardly any state is now complaining about lack of vaccines. Asked about the political blame game between the Delhi BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party government in the national capital over restraint on the Chhath puja due to the pandemic, they noted that all states have SOPs in place about the observation of festivities and no politics should be done over this. The Delhi government has written a letter to Mandaviya in this regard after the local BJP unit targeted the Arvind Kejriwal-led dispensation over it. Asked whether the Union government is considering resumption of vaccine exports, official sources said it will be looked at only after the domestic requirement is met.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-28-cr-covid-vaccines-to-be-produced-in-october-says-mansukh-mandaviya-1040366.html
13-10-2021||National||Court summons Netflix directors, producer in defamation case filed by Sahara||A court of special Chief Judicial Magistrate (custom) on Wednesday issued summons to Netflix directors and producer for prima- facie defaming Sahara India and its chief Subrata Roy in the documentary series 'Bad Boys Billionaires India'. The summon was issued to Netflix director Abhisekh Nag, documentary director Nick Read and producer Reva Sharma for the documentary series released on Netflix last year. Judge Sunil Kumar has directed the three to appear before the court on November 15 to stand trial in the case for committing offences under IPC Sections 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter to be defamatory) and 502 (sale of printed or engraved substance containing defamatory matter). The court passed the order on a complaint case moved by Sahara India and its employees. “From perusal of complaint and statements of witnesses – Ghulam Zeeshan and Bhuvnesh Mani Tripathi, prima facie offences of defamation are made out against the three accused,” the court said in its order. Filing the case, the complainant alleged that the accused prepared and released the said documentary series on Netflix on October 5, 2020 in most defamatory manner to tarnish image of Sahara and its chief. The complaint stated, “A bare look of the documentary indicates that in the lust of making the documentary spicier and rhetoric, all the accused willfully connived and attempted to portray the chairman of Sahara Group in bad taste, without there being any material evidence against him.” The witnesses stated that the documentary was prepared only to gain commercial benefit and hence the Netflix spiced up the documentary portraying bad image of Subrato Roy and Sahara India , which is not only objectionable but defamatory also. After considering the entire material on record, the court found that the accused persons seem to have committed offences of defamation and hence they have to be summoned for facing trial. Sahara had opposed the documentary from the very beginning and tried hard to convey Netflix not to release it on its web portal but the same was released. Aggrieved, the group and its employees moved the court. “Sahara also filed a suit for Rs 500 crore damages against Netflix in Kolkata and the concerned court in has issued notices to Netflix for its response. The group also intends to increase the amount of damages,” said a Sahara press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-summons-netflix-directors-producer-in-defamation-case-filed-by-sahara-1040368.html
13-10-2021||National||Government targeting Rs 2 lakh crore ethanol economy: Gadkari||Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari said the Centre was seriously working towards increasing the use of ethanol in the transport sector. The government is targeting to take the ethanol economy, currently valued at Rs 20,000 crores, to Rs 2 lakh crores. The government is planning to introduce flex-fuel engine vehicles with an increased supply of ethanol. With the rollout of flex-fuel vehicles that run on 100 per cent bio-ethanol, the demand for ethanol will immediately jump by 4 to 5 times, he said addressing an event online. Though India started its programme for blending ethanol with petrol in 2003, it only made a minimum blending of 5 per cent mandatory in 2007. The government brought the fixed ethanol procurement pricing policy in December 2014, he said. From 2018 onwards, the government has been fixing multiple prices for ethanol, based on the feedstock used to produce ethanol. This encouraged diversion of B-heavy molasses and sugarcane juice into the production of ethanol, he added. He also suggested that excess sugar stocks can be diverted towards producing ethanol by adding 15-20 per cent sugar into B-Heavy Molasses. "This will have multiple benefits - firstly, it will utilise an excess stock of around 45 to 60 lakh metric tonnes of sugar and will improve the ethanol recovery by 30 per cent due to better quality of raw material," he said. Now, the government has allowed the use of grains like corn, surplus rice, damaged food grains, sweet sorghum, bajra and jawar for the production of ethanol, Gadkari said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-targeting-rs-2-lakh-crore-ethanol-economy-gadkari-1040371.html
13-10-2021||National||Government empowers BSF to execute search, arrest in larger areas in Punjab, West Bengal, Assam||The Union government has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 kms stretch, instead of the existing 15 kms, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. In Gujarat, which shares a border with Pakistan, the same limit has been reduced from 80 kms to 50 kms while in Rajasthan the limit has been kept unchanged at 50 kms. Rajasthan and Punjab also share fronts with Pakistan while Assam has an international border with Bangladesh. The Union home ministry issued a notification in this context on October 11 amending a July, 2014 enabling provision for the BSF personnel and officers while they operate in the border areas. The about 2.65-lakh personnel paramilitary force guards over 6,300 of Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh. BSF officials said the amendment will help them in effectively curbing trans-border crimes and the new amendment brings in "uniformity" for its operations in the borders states of Punjab, West Bengal, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Assam where it can now operate within 50 kms area from the border. "The amendment effected on October 11 establishes uniformity in defining the area within which Border Security Force can operate as per its charter of duties and execution of its role and task of border guarding in its areas of deployment. "This will also enable improved operational effectiveness in curbing trans-border crime and to an extent of 50 kms from the international boundary within the states of states of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, West Bengal and Assam, running along the borders of India," the BSF said in a statement. Earlier, the statement said, these limits were fixed to 80 kms in case of Gujarat and 50 kms in the case of Rajasthan and 15 kms in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. The notification will allow the border guarding force to execute the powers of search, seizure and arrest for the purpose of prevention of any offence punishable under the Passport Act, the Registration of Foreigners Act, the Central Excises and Salt Act, the Foreigners Act, the Foreign Exchange Management Act, the Customs Act or of any cognisable offence punishable under any other Central Act, a senior officer said. The new amendment in the BSF Act will also allow the force to apprehend any person who has committed offences under these laws. The BSF personnel will continue to invoke these powers in the "whole of the area" comprised in the states of Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya and Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-empowers-bsf-to-execute-search-arrest-in-larger-areas-in-punjab-west-bengal-assam-1040376.html
13-10-2021||National Politics||Modi govt must take strong steps against Pakistan, China or else they will pose threat to India's existence: Shiv Sena||Amid tensions at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Shiv Sena on Wednesday said if strong steps are not taken by the central government, China and Pakistan will come together and pose a threat to the very existence of India. Referring to the BJP, without taking its name, as the “political East India Company'', the party in its mouthpiece 'Saamana' said while China keeps resorting to incursions, India is busy in talks. The party also dubbed China a “foremost imperialist nation”. In the backdrop of the recent attacks on Hindus and Sikhs in Jammu and Kashmir, the editorial said with Narendra Modi in power at the Centre, Hindus have fled from the Valley. This does not behove a party like the BJP which champions the cause of Hindutva, it said. “The prime minister, home minister and defence minister must understand the pain of such people,” the Marathi publication said. It said after the Taliban came to power in Afghanistan, there has been a rise in violent incidents in Kashmir. Referring to the stand-off between the armies of India and China, it said there have been 13 round of talks to diffuse the situation, but that has yielded little success. “The People's Liberation Army officers stretch the talks, but do whatever they want to in the end. China is not ready to accept any constructive changes,” the editorial observed. It claimed that whatever Pakistan has been doing in Kashmir has the support of China. The “undemocratic” forces that are in power in Afghanistan also have the backing of Beijing, it added. “If harsh steps are not taken by the government, then China and Pakistan will come together and pose a threat to the very existence of India. The political East India Company in the country should understand this,” the Sena said. India and China have failed to make any headway in resolving the 17-month standoff in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, with the Indian Army on Monday saying the "constructive suggestions" made by it at the latest round of military talks were neither agreeable to the Chinese side nor Beijing could provide any "forward-looking" proposals. In a strong statement after the 13th round of talks on Sunday that ended in a stalemate, the Army also said the situation along the LAC had been caused by "unilateral attempts" of the Chinese side to alter the status quo and it is necessary that China takes appropriate steps to restore peace in the region.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-must-take-strong-steps-against-pakistan-china-or-else-they-will-pose-threat-to-indias-existence-shiv-sena-1040193.html
13-10-2021||National Politics||Lakhimpur violence: Congress delegation meets President, demands sacking of MoS Ajay Mishra||A Congress delegation led by former party president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind demanding immediate dismissal of  Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra and a judicial probe by two sitting judges of the Supreme Court of India or the High Court in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident that has "scarred the soul of India". Contending that the killing of farmers on October 3 was a "deliberate act of murder in broad daylight", the delegation told the President that the "audacious reactions" of the Centre and Uttar Pradesh government following the incident has "completely eroded the people's faith" in those tasked with bringing the perpetrators to justice. Arguing for his sacking, the leaders said the Minister's role in the murder is yet to be probed and no fair probe will happen when he is in office. Also, they said police would not dare to fairly investigate the son when the father is occupying a position of "such high influence and who enjoys continued endorsements" from both the central and state governments. Rahul was accompanied by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress Working Committee members AK Antony and Ghulam Nabi Azad and Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi. They also submitted a memorandum to the President. "We have told the President that there cannot be an impartial inquiry and justice cannot be given till the time the Minister is dismissed. This is the voice of not just the families of those killed but of all the farmers in the country and this voice is being suppressed," Rahul told reporters after the meeting. Priyanka said the President has assured them that he would talk to the government in this regard "today itself". In their memorandum, the leaders said the Narendra Modi government has "refused to relent or have a meaningful conversation" with the farmers who are protesting against three contentious farm laws and the government's policy appeared to be "tire and retire the Annadatas, a strategy doomed to failure". Providing the sequence of events, the memorandum said that Mishra had threatened the farmers during a public function on September 27 and had "even boasted about his dubious antecedents". Rahul said the Minister threatened and action on that threat was taken on October 3 when his son Ashish allegedly mowed down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. "How can justice be done when the original provocation came from the Minister of State for Home himself?... It was one of the most gruesome and premeditated acts of bone-chilling murder ever seen and caught on camera. Multiple eyewitnesses have confirmed that the Minister’s son, Ashish Misra was in the vehicle," memorandum said. The leaders claimed that the UP government "flatly refused" to register an FIR "as has become the norm". Ashish was taken into custody after Rahul and Priyanka visited the families. The memorandum also referred to a murder case against the minister in which the appeal has been pending in Allahabad High Court since 2004. "What is even more shocking and unbelievable is that the High Court had reserved judgement in the Criminal Appeal on March 12th, 2018 but hasn’t delivered the verdict till date. Three years and seven months have passed since. Justice has been delayed to the point where it has effectively been denied," it said. "Despite this context of criminality and abuse of power, Ajay Mishra Teni continues in office... Given that BJP leaders, including UP Chief Minister Shri Adityanath, continue to make conciliatory statements towards him suggests this situation is unlikely to change without intervention. Mishra’s role is also yet to be investigated and the same is unlikely while he continues in office," it said. "Furthermore, which police official would dare to fairly investigate the son of Union MoS Home Affairs with the father occupying a position of such high influence and who enjoys continued endorsements from both the central and the state governments," it added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lakhimpur-violence-congress-delegation-meets-president-demands-sacking-of-mos-ajay-mishra-1040206.html
13-10-2021||National Politics||Aggressive Priyanka Gandhi Vadra rattles Opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh||Striving hard to ensure that her party regains its lost glory in the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh, where Assembly polls are barely five months away, an aggressive Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra appears to have brought the grand old party back into news and rattled the other Opposition players by outmaneuvering them in seizing the initiatives on major issues. Whether it was the massacre of ten tribals in Sonebhadra district in 2019 or the alleged gangrape of a Dalit girl in Hathras district a year later, Priyanka was the first to rush there even when the BJP government in the state tried to prevent her from going to those places. She had even sat on a dharna on the road when she was not allowed to proceed to Sonebhadra by the cops. Priyanka, who made Lucknow her temporary home after being appointed in-charge of the state party unit, again took the Opposition rivals by surprise when she tried to reach Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 after the violence there in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. She managed to evade the police barricades and was barely a few kilometres away from Lakhimpur Kheri town, when she was apprehended by the cops. In contrast, BSP general secretary S C Mishra cancelled his visit after being served a notice by the police informing about promulgation of section 144. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, who had also announced plans to go to Lakhimpur Kheri, was not allowed to come out of his residence by the police. The administration was later forced to allow the Opposition leaders to visit the families of the slain farmers and Priyanka was the first to reach there with her brother and former party president Rahul Gandhi. She also embarked on a 'maun vrat' in Lucknow demanding resignation of Union minister Ajai Mishra, whose son Ashish was accused of running over four farmers, and also attended the final prayers of the farmers. Apparently rattled by Priyanka's aggression, SP leaders accused the Congress of 'colluding' with the BJP in the forthcoming polls. "Congress and BJP are different sides of the same coin....they have tacit understanding...the people of the state know this," SP state unit president Naresh Uttam said.  The Opposition leaders said that the BJP was 'deliberately propping up'' the Congress in the state so that the latter could 'divide' the 'anti-BJP' votes helping the saffron party in the forthcoming Assembly polls. UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Lallu rejects the charge. ''The Opposition is rattled as Priyanka Gandhi has brought the Congress on the front foot by taking up issues concerning the common people,'' he said. It remains to be seen if the Congress general secretary is able to bring her party back into contention in the next Assembly polls. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aggressive-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-rattles-opposition-parties-in-uttar-pradesh-1040229.html
13-10-2021||National Politics||ED, CBI, NCB being misused; targeting family members of MVA government, alleges Sharad Pawar||Accusing the BJP-led NDA dispensation of misusing central agencies to target political opponents, NCP founder-president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said that the agencies are now targeting the relatives of politicians. “Central agencies like CBI, IT, ED and NCB are being misused for political gains,” Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra chief minister and former union minister, told a news conference in Mumbai. “A new strategy and pattern seems to be emerging…relatives of political opponents are being targeted,'' he said referring to the IT raids on his three nieces – the sisters of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. “One of them is into publishing, another is a doctor, while the other sister is a housewife,” said Pawar, the chief architect of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “For two years they have been targeting our leaders… now they have resorted to targeting family members… however, this is not going to break our will,” he said. Referring to the series of events vis-a-vis former home minister Anil Deshmukh, he said: “His house was raided for the fifth time yesterday. I am surprised. What is the need of raiding the same house 5 times? The public also needs to understand this.” Pawar also spoke about IRS officer Sameer Wankhede, who was brought in as the Mumbai zonal director of NCB.  “I have tried to take information about Wankhede from officials as he was posted earlier in the Mumbai airport. I have come to hear some stories, but I don't have the complete picture so I won't speak about it (as of now),” he said. Pawar, a former leader of opposition in Lok Sabha also pointed out that if they compare the work of the Anti-Narcotics Cell of Mumbai Police and NCB, we will see that the volume of seizure of the state agency is much higher than the central agency. Pawar vs Fadnavis Meanwhile, Pawar took a dig at Maharashtra leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis of BJP, who had said that he still feels like he is the chief minister of the state because of the love people shower on him. “It’s good that the BJP leader still considers himself as the chief minister. I congratulate him. After being the chief minister for five years, Fadnavis still feels he is holding the post,” Pawar said, adding that he lacked this trait even though he had served as Maharashtra chief minister four times. Fadnavis then took a dig at Pawar, saying: “I have been the chief minister for five years…but Pawar saheb was chief minister for four terms but never five years.” Check out latest videos from DH:  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ed-cbi-ncb-being-misused-targeting-family-members-of-mva-government-alleges-sharad-pawar-1040265.html
13-10-2021||National Politics||Kashmir will remain part of India even if I am killed: Farooq Abdullah||Kashmir will never become Pakistan as we are a part of India and will remain so even if I am killed, National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah said here on Wednesday. Speaking at a condolence meeting for Supinder Kaur – the fallen principal of a government school in Eidgah who was shot dead by militants on October 7 – at a gurdwara here, Abdullah said the people of Kashmir have to be courageous and fight the killers together. “We have to fight these beasts. This (Kashmir) will never become Pakistan, remember it. We are a part of India and we will remain a part of India come what may. They cannot change it even if they shoot me,” Abdullah, the Member of Lok Sabha from Srinagar, said. Expressing grief over Kaur's killing, he said the Sikh community did not leave the Kashmir valley in the 1990s when others left due to fear and appealed to them to not get scared now. We have to keep our morale high and be courageous, he said. “We all have to fight them together with courage and not be afraid. You (Sikhs) were the only community which remained here when everyone left. I am proud of the fact that you did not leave from here. Killing a teacher who was teaching young students does not serve Islam. They were serving the devil,” he said. Talking to reporters outside the gurdwara, the NC president said: “They (militants) will never succeed and will fail in their plans. But, we all – Muslims, Sikhs, Hindus, Christians -- have to stand together to fight them”. Abdullah said there is a “storm of hate” across India and communities – Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs – “are being divided”. “This divisive politics has to be stopped, otherwise India will cease to exist. If we have to save India, then we all have to live together and only then will it move forward,” he said. Asked about leader Devender Rana quitting the NC and joining the BJP, Abdullah said: “People come and go. It is not a big deal”. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kashmir-will-remain-part-of-india-even-if-i-am-killed-farooq-abdullah-1040314.html
13-10-2021||National Politics||Jairam Ramesh, Owaisi attack Rajnath for 'Gandhi-Savarkar comment', say minister trying to rewrite history||A day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's remark that it was on Mahatma Gandhi's request that Veer Savarkar wrote mercy petitions, some opposition leaders attacked the minister on Wednesday, alleging that he was "trying to rewrite history". Congress leader Jairam Ramesh and AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi shared on Twitter a letter by Gandhi on Jan 25,1920 to Savarkar's brother regarding a case, and accused the Union minister of giving a "twist" to what Gandhi wrote. The AIMIM leader also said the first petition Savarkar wrote was in 1911, just six months after getting to prison and Gandhi was then in South Africa. Savarkar wrote again in 1913/14 and Gandhi's advice is from 1920, he added. "Rajnath Singhji is amongst the few sober and dignified voices in Modi Sarkar. But he doesn't seem to be free of the RSS habit of rewriting history. He has given a twist to what Gandhi actually wrote on Jan 25 1920. Here is that letter to Savarkar's brother," Ramesh said on Twitter while sharing the letter. "Rajnath Singh has clearly blown Gandhi's letter of Jan 25 1920 out of context. Not surprising. This is par for the course for the BJP/RSS," he said in another tweet. Defending Savarkar, BJP MP Rakesh Sinha tweeted "Congress opposes Savarkar ji who never integrated with British administration and exhibited the highest sacrifice for the Motherland. However, some people had regular dining at Mountbatten's home." BJP IT cell in-charge Amit Malviya in a tweet quoted Gandhi on Savarkar "he is clever. He is brave, he is a patriot. The evil, in its hidden form of the present system of Government, he saw much earlier than I did. He is in the Andamans for having loved India too well. Under a just government he would be occupying a high post' - Gandhi on Savarkar." Jairam Ramesh's comments were in response to a historian and Savarkar's biographer Vikram Sampath, who tweeted, "Some needless brouhaha about the statement by Rajnath Singh." "In my Vol 1 and in countless interviews I had stated already that in 1920 Gandhiji advised Savarkar brothers to file a petition and even made a case for his release through an essay in Young India 26 May 1920. So what's noise about," Sampath said. Tweeting on the issue, another historian S Irfan Habib said, "Yes, monochromatic history writing is really changing, led by the minister who claims Gandhi asked Savarkar to write mercy petitions. At least it is accepted now that he did write. No documentary evidence needed when the minister makes a claim. New history for New India." Owaisi attacked Singh and said,"Sir @rajnathsingh you said that Savarkar's grovelling mercy petitions were on Gandhi's advice. Here's the letter to Savarkar from Gandhi. No mention of petition to the British begging for leniency, mercy and promising to be a faithful servant of the crown." BJP ally JD(U) too waded into the row over Rajnath Singh's claim, with party spokesperson K C Tyagi demanding that letters exchanged between Gandhi and Savarkar should be made public to shed light on the matter. "While it is true that Savarkar spent many years in jail, it is also true that he tendered an apology and was freed with the consent of the British administration after he reached a pact with them", Tyagi said, adding that he also decided to withdraw from politics following his release. The copy of Gandhi's letter to S D Savarkar, shared by Ramesh and Owaisi, said, "I have your letter. It is difficult to advise you. I suggest, however, your framing a brief petition setting forth the facts of the case bringing out in clear relief the fact that the offence committed by your brother was purely political. I suggest this in order that it would be possible to concentrate public attention on the case. Meanwhile as I have said to you in an earlier letter I am moving in the matter in my own way." Rajnath Singh at an event to release a book on Veer Savarkar on Tuesday had alleged that there was a deliberate conspiracy to defame Savarkar and that it was on Gandhi's advice that he wrote his mercy petitions. "He was an icon of Indian history and will remain so. There can be a difference of opinion about him, but to look down on him as inferior is not appropriate and justifiable. He was a freedom fighter and a staunch nationalist, but people who follow the Marxist and Leninist ideology are the ones who accuse Savarkar of being a fascist...," Singh said, adding that the hatred towards Savarkar is "illogical and unplaced". Talking about Savarkar as a freedom fighter, he said his commitment for freedom was so strong that the British sentenced him to life imprisonment twice. "Lies are spread about Savarkar repeatedly. It was spread that he filed many mercy petitions seeking his release from jails.... It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file the mercy petitions...," the defence minister said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jairam-ramesh-owaisi-attack-rajnath-for-gandhi-savarkar-comment-say-minister-trying-to-rewrite-history-1040335.html
13-10-2021||National Politics||Rajnath Singh's remark on Savarkar's mercy petition to British triggers political row||Did Veer Savarkar write mercy petitions to the British government at the advice of Mahatma Gandhi? Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's remarks that Savarkar did so set off a war of words between the BJP and the Opposition parties. “Lies are spread about Savarkar repeatedly. His detractors fail to realise that Savarkar had filed the mercy petitions at the advice of Mahatma Gandhi. He did so as his right as a prisoner and not as a stooge of the British government as is made out to be,” Singh had said at a book release function on Tuesday evening. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh took exception to Singh's assertions and dug out a letter written by Gandhi to Savarkar's brother Narayanrao on January 25, 1920. “Rajnath Singhji is amongst the few sober and dignified voices in Modi Sarkar. But he doesn't seem to be free of the RSS habit of rewriting history. He has given a twist to what Gandhi actually wrote on Jan 25 1920. Here is that letter to Savarkar's brother,” Ramesh said on Twitter while sharing the letter. AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi said Savarkar had written the first petition in 1911, just six months after getting to prison, when Gandhi was in South Africa. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said Savarkar's mercy petitions cannot be called an “apology”, but should be seen as a strategy by the freedom fighter to get out of jail after languishing there for 10 years. “Savarkar never apologised to the British,” Raut said. Historian Vikram Sampath, the author of a two-volume biography of Savarkar, dubbed the row over the mercy petitions as a “needless brouhaha”. “In my Vol 1 and in countless interviews I had stated already that in 1920 Gandhiji advised Savarkar brothers to file a petition and even made a case for his release through an essay in Young India 26 May 1920. So what's noise about,” Sampath said. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel claimed that Savarkar worked on the British agenda of “divide and rule” by suggesting the two-nation theory. “In my view, Savarkar can't be understood unless you see him & his dramatic life in all its complexity. If you take one part of the puzzle & think of it as the whole, there's a problem. You have to put the parts together & it's only then you can make sense of the man & his life,” said Vaibhav Purandare, author of a biography of Savarkar. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajnath-singhs-remark-on-savarkars-mercy-petition-to-british-triggers-political-row-1040367.html
13-10-2021||National Politics||Madhya Pradesh BJP leaders send air tickets to Rahul, Priyanka to visit Rajasthan||BJP leaders in Madhya Pradesh's Indore on Wednesday sent air tickets to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and MP Rahul Gandhi asking them to visit their party ruled Rajasthan, where atrocities have been allegedly committed on Dalits. The saffron party said the Gandhi siblings are engaged in "political tourism" in Uttar Pradesh, where they met the families of farmers killed in violence at Lakhimpur Kheri, but have no time to see what is happening to Dalits in Rajasthan. “We have collected funds and sent Delhi-Jaipur air tickets to Rahul Gandhi (Wayanad MP) and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra so that they can meet members of the Dalit community, who are oppressed under the Congress rule in Rajasthan,” Indore district BJP chief Rajesh Sonkar said. He was talking to reporters after sending the tickets through speed post along with a group of local BJP leaders. Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi have been aggressively raising the issue of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district, where eight persons, including four farmers, were killed on October 3. A delegation of Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind and demanded the immediate dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/madhya-pradesh-bjp-leaders-send-air-tickets-to-rahul-priyanka-to-visit-rajasthan-1040369.html
13-10-2021||National Politics||I will quit politics if BJP wins single seat in Rajasthan Assembly bypolls: Ashok Chandna||Rajasthan Sports Minister Ashok Chandna on Wednesday claimed that the Congress will both the seats in bypolls in the state, and said he will quit politics if the BJP wins even a single seat. "In the state's history till date, the ruling party has not got as much success in the bypolls as the Congress. So far, by-elections have been held in six Assembly seats, out of which the Congress won five and the BJP won one," Chandna told reporters. "Bypolls are being held in two Assembly seats. If the BJP wins even one of these seats, I will quit politics," he said. Hitting back, BJP's state chief spokesperson Ramlal Sharma said the "minister's ego will definitely be broken when the results will be declared". Voting will be held on October 30 for the bypolls to the Vallabhnagar and Dhariyawad Assembly seats of Rajasthan. Nine candidates are in the fray from Vallabhnagar and seven from Dhariyawad for these elections. Sharma said the public will definitely "teach a lesson to the minister's arrogance and the anti-people government". He also claimed that the BJP will form government in Assembly election due in 2023 with a thumping majority with the blessings of the people and the hard work of the party workers. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-will-quit-politics-if-bjp-wins-single-seat-in-rajasthan-assembly-bypolls-ashok-chandna-1040382.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||SAD chief slams Arvind Kejriwal on power crisis||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday accused Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal of adopting double standards on the issue of power crisis. His statement came on a day when the Aam Aadmi Party national convener came to Punjab on a two-day visit. The Shiromani Akali Dal chief said Kejriwal had announced that Delhi had become the only state which was not using coal for generating power. “However, Kejriwal has recently written a letter to the prime minister, asking the latter to divert coal from other thermal plants and supply the same to two thermal plants supplying power to Delhi,” he said. Badal ridiculed the "so called guarantees” being given by Kejriwal, saying he could not be trusted to honour any guarantee. Former minister and senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia slammed Kejriwal on the power issue. “Lies & deceit thy name is Kejriwal. CM @ArvindKejriwal 1st claimed Delhi had banned use of coal in its thermal plants& was 1st State without any coal based plants. Now he has asked PM to divert coal from other plants to plants supplying power to Delhi. Hypocrisy of highest order,” tweeted Majithia. Former Union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal also took a swipe at Kejriwal. “@ArvindKejriwal comes to Punjab again after officially seeking closure of Punjab Power Plants & diversion of their coal to Delhi. The bloke seriously believes that Punjabis esp farmers must live without power to save Delhi from darkness caused by his govt's incompetence,” tweeted Harsimrat. “Today's entertainments: Enjoy Kejri Comedy, with the juggler laughing at his own jokes, grinning all day long & expecting Punjabis to be foolish to believe his lies, e.g. 300 units free power which he hasn't given to Delhites. Sad part is Punjab is in no mood for jokes,” she further tweeted.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-chief-slams-arvind-kejriwal-on-power-crisis-1040105.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||AISA alleges Delhi police personnel sexually assaulted 2 women students during protest||The left-affiliated All India Students’ Association (AISA) Tuesday alleged two women students were sexually assaulted by Delhi police personnel while they were part of a protest on Sunday near Home Minister Amit Shah's residence, allegations rejected as "totally baseless" by the force. The AISA has called for a protest on Wednesday outside the Delhi Police Headquarters at Ashoka Road here against the alleged assault. Members of the AISA were detained Sunday as they staged a protest near Shah’s residence here demanding the expulsion of MoS Ajay Mishra over the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which Mishra's son is accused of mowing down farmers with his vehicle. The AISA alleged in a statement that the protesters were immediately detained and forcibly removed by the Delhi Police. The women protesters were targeted separately for sexual assault, it alleged. A senior police officer said, "Twelve protestors were detained in connection with the protest outside the Home Minister's residence and were released later." No such complaint of sexual assault has been received so far, he said. The AISA in the statement said, "We demand that ACP Chanakyapuri Pragya Anand, who clearly instructed the personnel on site to assault the women protestors, be sacked and all the personnel who carried out the sexual assault either as perpetrators or voyeurs be suspended and reprimanded." When asked about the allegations against ACP Chanakyapuri, the officer said the claims are "totally baseless". Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aisa-alleges-delhi-police-personnel-sexually-assaulted-2-women-students-during-protest-1040137.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||Jignesh Mevani seeks immediate action over Dalit man's murder case, calls its ‘barbarism’||Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani on Tuesday tweeted a video of a Dalit man, whose murder has set off a political storm in Congress-ruled Rajasthan.  In the video, a group of men with sticks are seen surrounding a man lying on the ground, one man pinning him down and another holding his legs.  "Extremely disturbing incident being reported from Rajasthan where a poor Dalit man was brutally murdered. A quick action must be taken and culprits be brought to book immediately. I request the Rajasthan govt to take this on priority. This barbarism isn't allowed anywhere," Jignesh Mevani posted along with the video. The incident took place on October 7 in Prempura area of Hanumangarh where the accused thrashed the victim named Jagdish with sticks until he died. The culprits also shot a video of the entire incident in which they are seen giving water to the victim to drink and then thrashing him repeatedly with sticks, according to a PTI report. The accused later dumped Jagdish’s body outside his residence, police said.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jignesh-mevani-seeks-immediate-action-over-dalit-mans-murder-case-calls-its-barbarism-1040182.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||CBI seeks polygraph test of those accused in Mahant Narendra Giri death case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has moved an application before the chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Prayagraj, seeking a polygraph test of Anand Giri, Adya Tiwari, and his son Sandeep Tiwari -- the three accused in the mysterious death of Mahant Narendra Giri. The application was moved on Tuesday and will be taken up by the CJM court on October 18. The accused will be connected through video-conferencing to place their version before the court. In its application, the CBI has sought permission for a polygraph test of the accused to know the truth with regard to investigations that are going on in connection with the said case. Meanwhile, the counsel for the accused has also moved an application opposing the polygraph test. Anand Giri, Adya Tiwari, and Sandeep Tiwari are accused of abetting the suicide of Narendra Giri, the former president of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), whose body was found hanging from the ceiling of a room in the Baghambari Math on September 20. In his alleged suicide note, the Mahant had charged the three accused of mental harassment. An FIR was lodged against the three accused under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Georgetown police station in Prayagraj. Subsequently, Anand Giri, Adya Tiwari, and Sandeep Tiwari were arrested. They were produced before the CJM court on September 22 and remanded to judicial custody for 14 days and sent to jail. Later, on the recommendation of the state government, the investigation of the case was transferred from the Uttar Pradesh Police to the CBI. At present, they all are lodged in the Naini central jail. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-seeks-polygraph-test-of-those-accused-in-mahant-narendra-giri-death-case-1040195.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||32 Tihar Jail officials found complicit with Unitech ex-promoters: Delhi Police||As many as 32 Tihar Jail officials were found complicit with former Unitech promoters and money laundering accused Ajay Chandra and Sanjay Chandra, while they were lodged in the prison, Delhi Police said on Tuesday. The Enforcement Directorate had, in a report to the Supreme Court, highlighted certain disturbing facts relating to the manner in which the premises of Tihar was misused by the Chandra brothers to carry on business, in connivance with some jail officials. The financial probe agency had also alleged it had unearthed a "secret underground office" in Delhi being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons Sanjay and Ajay while on parole or bail. The apex court, taking note of the ED report, transferred both the brothers from Tihar, to the Arthur Road Jail, Mumbai and Taloja Central Jail, Mumbai. It had also directed Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana to make an immediate inquiry in the matter, and he had submitted a report on September 28. On October 6, the SC granted permission to conduct a full-fledged criminal investigation in the matter based on the inquiry conducted by the Delhi Police chief. "Accordingly, an FIR was registered on Tuesday in the Crime Branch under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code, and investigation has been taken up," an official said. Sanjay and Ajay Chandra, who are in jail since August 2017, are accused of siphoning off home buyers' money. In October 2017, the apex court had asked the two brothers to deposit Rs 750 crore with the apex court registry by December 31, 2017. The case pertains to a criminal case filed initially after one complaint was lodged in 2015 which was followed by multiple complaints by 173 other home buyers of Unitech projects -- 'Wild Flower Country' and 'Anthea Project' -- located in Gurugram. Delhi Police said that 67 FIRs have been filed in the matter. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/32-tihar-jail-officials-found-complicit-with-unitech-ex-promoters-delhi-police-1040200.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||Tomato turns costly on tight supply; prices soar to Rs 72 per kg in metros||Tomato prices in retail markets of metro cities have shot up to Rs 72 per kilogram on tight supply due to unseasonal rains in key producing states like Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Among the metros, the maximum increase in the retail price of tomato was seen in Kolkata where the key kitchen vegetable was ruling as high as Rs 72 per kg on October 12 when compared to Rs 38 per kg during the month-ago period. In Delhi and Chennai, retail prices of tomatoes increased to Rs 57 per kg from Rs 30 per kg and Rs 20 per kg, respectively, compared to the month-ago period, according to data compiled by the Consumer Affairs Ministry. In Mumbai, tomato prices in retail markets rose to Rs 53 per kg from Rs 15 per kg in the said period, the data showed. The retail prices of tomatoes vary depending on the quality and locality where the commodity was sold. "Unseasonal rains in producing states like Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have damaged the crop due to which the supply to consuming markets like Delhi has been affected. This has led to a rise in prices, both in wholesale and retail markets," Azadpur Tomato Association President Ashok Kaushik told PTI on Wednesday. Azadpur Mandi in the national capital is Asia's largest wholesale market for fruits and vegetables. Even the crop in hilly regions like Shimla has been affected due to the unseasonal rains, he said, adding that 60 per cent of the tomato crop has been damaged in producing states that received the unseasonal rains. As a result, tomato prices in a month have almost doubled to Rs 40-60 per kg at Azadpur Mandi as the daily arrival of the commodity has halved to 250-300 tonnes, he added. At present, harvesting is underway in key growing states of Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka. Tomato crops will be ready for harvest in around 2-3 months after planting and harvesting is done as per the requirement of the market.     India, the world's second-largest tomato producer after China, produces around 19.75 million tonnes from an area of 7.89 lakh hectares with an average yield of 25.05 tonnes per hectare, according to National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tomato-turns-costly-on-tight-supply-prices-soar-to-rs-72-per-kg-in-metros-1040215.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||No outage due to power shortage in Delhi: Power Ministry||Amid a war of words between the Delhi Government and Centre over possible disruption in power supply, the Power Ministry on Wednesday clarified that there was no outage on account of power shortage in Delhi. “As per the information received from Delhi discoms, there was no outage on account of power shortage, as the required amount of power was supplied to them,” a ministry statement said. The statement follows an earlier one on Tuesday wherein the union power ministry had negated any power outage due to electricity shortage in the national capital. The ministry stated that the maximum demand of Delhi was 4683 MW (peak) and 101.9 MU (Energy) on 11 October 2021. A factsheet on power supply in Delhi showed that there was no energy deficit in the city from September 26 to October 11. On October 11, in Delhi, 101.9 million units (MU) of electricity was available against a requirement of 101.1 million units. Separately, Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi said, “The coal target which was given to us by Power Ministry was 1.9 million tonnes/day & after 20th it was 2 million tonnes/day. On Tuesday we’ve supplied 2 million tonnes of coal. I can assure you that there’ll be no shortage of coal for electricity production.” Coal India Limited, (CIL),  also ramped up its output to 1.6 million tonnes a day in the past two days.  CIL expects to raise production after Dusshera when workers are back from holidays and the attendance picks up, the official in the Coal Ministry said. The official also said that States have to pay nearly Rs 20,000 crores as dues to Coal India for supplying coal. However, the Centre made it clear that supply of coal was ever stopped to any state despite huge dues. Several states, which have coal plants not bothering to mine it or not ramping up production. Even some of the states have shut their mines, said the official. The Coal Ministry has been pursuing with the states on mine those coal fields to meet the demand, said the official. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-outage-due-to-power-shortage-in-delhi-power-ministry-1040227.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||NIA arrests 4 terror associates in multiple raids in J&K||NIA has arrested four terror associates during searches at 16 locations in Jammu and Kashmir following registration of a case to unearth a conspiracy hatched by various terror groups to carry out attacks in the Union Territory and other major cities, including New Delhi, an official said on Wednesday. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had registered the case on October 10 and initiated an investigation. Four accused people – Waseem Ahmad Sofi, Tariq Ahmad Dar, Bilal Ahmad Mir alias “Bilal Fafu” and Tariq Ahmad Bafanda, all residents of Srinagar – were arrested during the searches carried out in Srinagar, Pulwama and Shopian districts on Tuesday, a spokesperson of the NIA said. The NIA said preliminary investigation has revealed that the arrested accused people are terror associates or Over Ground Workers (OGWs) of various proscribed terrorist organisations and have been providing logistical and material support to terrorists and facilitating them in their nefarious designs. “During the searches conducted yesterday (Tuesday), several electronic devices, incriminating Jehadi (holy war) documents and records of suspicious financial transactions were seized,” the spokesperson said. The NIA said the case pertains to information received regarding hatching of conspiracy both physically and in cyberspace for undertaking violent terrorist acts in Jammu and Kashmir and other major cities, including New Delhi, by cadres of proscribed terrorist organisations Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Al Badr and similar other outfits and their affiliates such as The Resistance Front (TRF) and People Against Fascist Forces (PAFF). “The terror associates/Over Ground Workers of these organisations are conspiring with their handlers and commanders based in a neighbouring country and also indulging in radicalisation of local youth for the purpose of recruiting and training them in handling of arms, ammunition and explosives,” the spokesperson said. The spokesperson said these terrorists and cadres have affected several terrorist acts, including killing of numerous innocent civilians and security personnel, and unleashing a reign of terror in the Kashmir valley, thereby challenging the writ of the state. The NIA said further investigation in the case continues.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-arrests-4-terror-associates-in-multiple-raids-in-jk-1040237.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir migrant workers to face action for absence from duty, asked not to leave valley||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Tuesday directed Kashmiri migrant employees not to leave the valley as security has been tightened for them, saying absence from duty will be dealt with as per service rules. The authorities also impressed upon officers to preferably post these migrant employees in safe and secure zones for the time being. Fear psychosis was triggered among over 3,000 Kashmiri Hindu employees living in seven different transit camps in the Valley due to selective and systematic killings of three Hindus and one Sikh teacher by terrorists in Srinagar last week. "The chair (divisional commissioner of Kashmir) directed that no migrant employee needs to leave the district/valley and whosoever will be absent (from duty) shall be dealt with as per service rules," an order issued by Assistant Commissioner (Central) Aziz Ahmad Rather said. These directions were issued after a security review meeting of deputy commissioners and senior superintendents of police of the Kashmir valley chaired by Divisional Commissioner Pandurang K Pole in Srinagar. The divisional commissioner impressed upon the officers to preferably post these migrant employees in safe and secure zones instead of far-flung and vulnerable areas, for the time being, the order said. The authorities said strict vigil has been ensured and security measures for the migrant employees, Sikhs, Kashmiri Pandits, and labourers have been tightened, it added. Deputy commissioners and SSPs are continuously paying visits to migrant colonies and accommodations at Sheikhpora Budgam, Nutnusa Kupwara, Tulmulla Ganderbal, Hall Pulwama, Mattan, and Vessu Anantnag, the order said. Besides, security forces and the police are keeping a constant vigil, the officer said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-migrant-workers-to-face-action-for-absence-from-duty-asked-not-to-leave-valley-1040239.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||Student, teacher thrashed over 'Bharat Mata' chant in Madhya Pradesh||A student and a teacher were reportedly beaten up following a dispute over chanting “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” at a school in Madhya Pradesh's Agar Malwa district, police said on Wednesday. After the incident, which took place on Tuesday in Barod town, located about 175 km from the state capital Bhopal, a case was registered against around 20 people, they said. Students from various communities, including Hindus and Muslims, study in the private school, Agar Malwa's Superintendent of Police Rakesh Sagar told PTI over phone on Wednesday. There was some dispute among students over raising the slogan (Bharat Mata Ki Jai) in the school, but the matter subsided. Later, some students allegedly beat up boys of the other community outside the school, he said. According to another police official, after the prayer at the school, students sing the national anthem and chant "Bharat Mata Ki Jai". Some Muslim children were reportedly not chanting "Bharat Mata Ki Jai", and Class 12 student Bharat Singh Rajput (19) objected to it, resulting in a dispute, he said. Rajput later complained to police that while returning home after school on Tuesday, he and a teacher were intercepted and allegedly beaten up, the official said. According to the FIR, Rajput claimed that some Muslim boys and their friends intercepted him, other boys and a school teacher, belonging to the Scheduled Caste, in Barod's Kasai Mohalla area. The complainant stated that the accused abused him and others, saying who were they to make them raise the slogan and beaten them up with sticks. When the teacher started shooting a video of the incident on his mobile phone, the accused hit him with sticks and broke his phone, the complainant alleged. However, SP Rakesh Sagar said, “It is more an issue of proper counselling and guidance than a legal offence as all those involved are students. The school teachers and principal should impart moral lessons to students." “A case under Indian Penal Code sections for assault and rioting, and provisions of the SC-ST Act has been registered following a complaint over the dispute," the SP said. Following Rajput's complaint, the case was registered against nine named people and 8-10 other unidentified persons, another official said. Some people were detained for questioning and further legal steps will be taken following an investigation into the case, he said.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/student-teacher-thrashed-over-bharat-mata-chant-in-madhya-pradesh-1040242.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||UP government to set up 'Arogya Vatikas' in schools||Uttar Pradesh government has directed all state secondary schools to set up ‘Arogya Vatikas’ to grow medicinal plants on their campuses. The decision was taken on the directive of Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, who is also in-charge of secondary education department, with a view to ensure well-being of students and their parents. "We have decided to set up Arogya Vatika in all secondary schools of the state. It will not only help conserve environment, but also can help boost immunity and well-being of students and their families," Sharma said. The idea was popularised by local journalist Sudhir Mishra, who with the help of his newspaper has been running a campaign to create such gardens in parks, police stations, schools, and other places, Sharma said. Running it for two years, Mishra said he invited the district administration, police department, and ministers to join the campaign. During one such campaign last month, Deputy CM Sharma liked the idea and ordered its implementation in all secondary schools of the state, Mishra said. An order to this end has been issued by Director Education, Vinay Kumar Pandey, instructing all District Inspectors of schools to identify places to set up these medicinal plants. "A place should be identified in all secondary schools in the premises and a teacher should be named to look after the garden after planting medicinal plants," Pandey said in the order. "Plants like Tulsi, Giloy, Ashwagandha, stevia, lemon grass, Indian gooseberry, khas, Guava, Haldi, Sandal, Sahjan and many more should be planted as they help boost the immunity," the order said. Students should be made aware about medicinal values of the plants through these gardens, and should be encouraged to plant them at their homes also, it added. The order said parents need also be told about the medicinal plants and their properties during school meetings.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-government-to-set-up-arogya-vatikas-in-schools-1040267.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: Ashish Mishra’s friend Ankit Das appears before SIT||Ankit Das, said to be a close friend of Ashish Mishra, turned up before the special investigation team (SIT) at the crime branch office in Lakhimpur on Wednesday, police said. The investigators had summoned Das for questioning in connection with the October 3 violence which had left eight people, including four farmers, dead. At around 11 am, Das along with a team of lawyers arrived at the reserved police lines in Lakhimpur and reached the crime branch office located there, police said. On Tuesday, Das and one other identified as Latif had moved an application for surrender at the court of the chief judicial magistrate. Das is the nephew of former minister late Akhilesh Das. The SUV which was behind the car that knocked down the four farmers is said to be owned by him. Police have so far arrested four people in connection with the case. While one person, Shekhar Bharti was arrested on Tuesday, minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, Luvkush and Ashish Pandey were arrested earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-ashish-mishra-s-friend-ankit-das-appears-before-sit-1040272.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||Top JeM terrorist commander killed in J&K's Pulwama||A top commander of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit was killed in a gunfight with security forces in Tral area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday. Reports said the gun battle erupted after a joint team of army's 42-Rashtriya Rifles, paramilitary CRPF and J&K police launched a cordon and search operation in Tilwani Mohalla, Wagad in Tral. As the joint team of forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon the forces, triggering off a gunfight, reports added. J&K police in a tweet said that a commander of the JeM had been killed in the encounter so far. "Top JeM Commander Sham Sofi killed in Tral #Encounter: IGP Kashmir,” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. Sources said 45-year-old Sofi was active since 2019 and was instrumental in reviving the JeM in the area. Violence has witnessed a spurt in Jammu and Kashmir in recent days. On Tuesday five militants affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Toiba were killed in two separate encounters in the neighboring Shopian district. Earlier, on Monday two militants were killed in separate encounters in Bandipora and Anantnag districts of Kashmir. As many as five army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), were killed during a counter-terrorist operation in border Poonch district of Jammu region on Monday. Last week seven civilians, including four from minority community, were killed by militants in separate incidents in Kashmir. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/top-jem-terrorist-commander-killed-in-jks-pulwama-1040275.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||SC raps UP Bar Council for not taking action against lawyers for submitting fake insurance claims||The Supreme Court has rapped the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh for not taking action against advocates who allegedly submitted fake claims under Motor Accident Claims Tribunal and Workmen Compensation Act causing loss in crores of rupees to the insurance companies. It is very unfortunate that in such a serious matter, where the allegations are of filing of fake claim petitions involving advocates, the Bar Council of UP is not giving instructions to them for making submissions, the apex court said. A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said it shows the callousness and insensitiveness on the part of the UP Bar Council and asked Chairman of Bar Council and senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra to look into the same. "As such it is the duty of the Bar Council of the State to take action against the advocates who are found to have been indulged in such unethical manner by filing the fake claims under the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal and Workmen Compensation Act. "As observed herein above, it appears that Bar Council of State is not interested in taking action and, therefore, now the Bar Council of India has to step in and take appropriate action against the erring advocates, who are found to have indulged into filing of such fake claims," the bench said. The top court also directed a Special Investigation Team (SIT), constituted in compliance of the order dated October 7, 2015 passed by the Allahabad High Court, to submit report with regard to the probe in a sealed cover before it on or before November 15. The apex court took note of a supplementary affidavit filed on behalf of UP government stating that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was constituted in compliance of the order dated October 7, 2015 passed by the Allahabad High Court. The bench noted that the ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited forwarded cases of suspicious claims related to various insurance companies forwarded by the District Judge Raebareli, cases referred to the SIT by various courts and the High Court, cases of suspicious claims of Motor Accident Claims Tribunal and Workmen Compensation Act referred to by various Insurance Companies. "The SIT has received total 1,376 complaints/cases of suspicious claims. It is stated that out of total 1,376 cases of suspicious claims received by SIT, enquiry of 246 cases of suspicious claims has been completed till date and after having found prima facie offence of cognizable offence in nature against total 166 accused persons which includes petitioners/applicants, advocates, police personnel, doctors, insurance employees, vehicle owners, drivers etc. and total 83 criminal complaints have been registered in various districts," the bench noted. The affidavit further stated that the enquiry of remaining cases of suspicious claims is underway. The apex court, in its October 5 order, also took note of the submission that out of total criminal complaints registered so far, investigation of 33 criminal cases has been completed and legal process of submitting charge sheet against the accused persons is underway. The top court said that SIT was constituted pursuant to the order passed by the Allahabad HC for conducting enquiry and investigation of the cases related to causing loss in crores of rupees to the insurance companies as back from 2015 and despite the same, the investigation/enquiry has not been completed till date. The bench said that it is very unfortunate that even the SIT has not taken the prompt action and has not completed investigation/enquiry. "The manner and the speed in which the enquiry is going on and is underway is deprecated. The State of UP/ SIT is hereby directed to file a better affidavit in a sealed cover with respect to complaints filed/enquiry completed, the names of the accused, where the criminal complaints are filed and in which criminal cases the charge sheets have been filed. "On a separate sheet, the names of the advocates against whom the prima face cases of cognizable offences have been found to be disclosed in a sealed cover so that the list can be sent to the Bar Council of India for further action," the bench said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-raps-up-bar-council-for-not-taking-action-against-lawyers-for-submitting-fake-insurance-claims-1040280.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||Bhupesh Baghel likens RSS to Naxals; says local Sangh workers being controlled from Nagpur||Equating the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh with Naxals, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday said the way the outlaws active in his state were being dictated by their senior cadres sitting in other states, the local RSS workers were being controlled from Nagpur. The RSS headquarters is located in Nagpur city of neighbouring Maharashtra. Hitting back at Baghel, the BJP described his statement as "language of extremists", and said the Congress has deviated from the ideology of Mahatma Gandhi. Talking to reporters at the helipad, Baghel also slammed the Centre over its claim that there was no shortage of coal in the country, and added that it has failed to handle the issue. "There will be an impartial investigation (into last week's Kawardha violence)...In Chhattisgarh, no work of RSS people got done during 15 years (of the BJP rule from 2003 to 2018) and they continued to work as bonded labourers," Baghel said. "Even now, they (RSS workers in the state) are not heard as everything is being controlled from Nagpur. Like the Naxal leaders are in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and other states and their cadres (in Chhattisgarh) do the job of firing bullets and getting hit. The same is the situation in the RSS. The local RSS workers have no value...Everything is centred in Nagpur," he added. He was replying to a query on Governor Anusuiya Uikey's letter to the state government for an impartial enquiry into the violence occurred on October 5 in Kawardha, the headquarter of Kabirdham district, during a rally taken out by right wing outfits. Stepping up his attack on the opposition BJP and the RSS, the CM said, "They are left with no issues to raise. They have nothing to say over farmers, tribals, Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes and businesses and hence they have resorted to only two issues - conversion and communalism, in which they have mastery." "They make people fight. The business establishments which were shut due to the coronavirus crisis for a long time are now gradually opening up and they are trying to ruin it by instigating riots. It will not be allowed. We have to keep an eye on their attempts to give communal colour to fights over petty issues," he added. The ruling Congress has blamed the BJP for the violence in Kawardha. BJP MP Santosh Pandey and former parliamentarian Abhishek Singh were among some party leaders who were named in an FIR lodged in connection with the violence. Slamming the Centre over its claims of no shortage of coal in the country, he said, "The government of India had said there is no crisis of coal and power generation in the country, but dozens of power plants are shut in the country. If there is no lack of coal in the country, why has the coal minister reached Chhattisgarh?" The Centre should admit that there is a shortage of coal, he said. "Don't know what this Indian government is doing. There was a lack of oxygen (referring to the situation during the second wave of Covid-19), shortage of fertilizers and now lack of coal. The Centre has failed to handle these things. These small arrangements needed to be regularized only and kept in continuity. The Centre is not able to do just this. What will be more unfortunate than this," he added. Union Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi arrived in the state on Wednesday to visit mines of South Eastern Coalfields Limited in Korba district. Reacting to the chief minister's statement about the RSS, senior BJP MLA and Leader of Opposition Dharamlal Kaushik said, "The way CM has compared Sangh and Naxalism, in reality these are not Bhupesh Baghel's words, but are of his Leftist ideology. The Congress has lost its core ideology and deviated from the Gandhian ideology." Citing the ongoing turmoil within the ruling Congress in the state, he said, "The party has been battling infighting in the entire country. It is shrinking. Punjab and Rajasthan are in front of you. The root cause of its infighting in Chhattisgarh is because it has left its core ideology and is getting influenced by the Left. I advise Baghel that if he wants to speak about the Sangh, then he should read about it. One should see the work of the Sangh by going to the Sangh's place..." The way such language of extremists is being spoken, the decline of Congress is definite, Kaushik alleged.  Check out Dh's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhupesh-baghel-likens-rss-to-naxals-says-local-sangh-workers-being-controlled-from-nagpur-1040317.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||Alliance with Samajwadi Party first priority, says Shivpal Yadav||Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party president Shivpal Yadav on Wednesday said that his first priority is to form alliance with Samajwadi Party in the upcoming UP assembly polls but he did not rule out the possibility of a tie-up with other “secular” parties. The PSP national president also claimed that the Samajik Pariwartan Rath Yatra that began on Tuesday in Vrindavan, Mathura, would conclude at the birthplace of the lord Rama in Ayodhya after going through 75 districts in the state. "For the forthcoming UP State Assembly Elections in 2022, we would give first priority to Samajwadi Party. We can also form an alliance with any party with a secular ideology with an aim to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party government in UP," Yadav told reporters Wednesday. Shivpal Yadav broke away from the SP in 2018 and formed his own political group – Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party – following a fallout with his nephew and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. Targeting the BJP government in UP and the Centre, the PSP president said that the saffron party has not fulfilled any promises. "Promises such as controlling inflation, ending corruption and bringing back black money…besides, other unfulfilled promises such as doubling income of the farmers and taking back land from China etc," he said. "We are carrying out Samajik Pariwartan Rath Yatra to connect with the people to know their main issues that were not fulfilled by the BJP government. And we will know those issues and when our government is formed in 2022, we will fulfil these promises," he added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/alliance-with-samajwadi-party-first-priority-says-shivpal-yadav-1040325.html
13-10-2021||North and Central||Elephant enters Durga Puja pandal, about 24 injured in stampede-like situation||A tusker strayed away from its herd and entered a Durga Puja marquee at Daroo in Jharkhand creating panic among devotees, about 24 of whom were injured in the stampede-like situation that took place subsequently, a forest official said on Wednesday. The incident took place during sandhya aarti (evening prayer) at around 8.30 pm in the marquee at Daroo chowk in Hazaribag district on the second day of the festival on Tuesday, the official said. The tusker, which had trampled to death four persons in Hazaribagh district during the past 30 hours, had strayed from a herd of 22 elephants and reached the puja pandal, divisional forest officer of Hazaribag West division, R N Mishra told PTI. The elephant's presence created panic among about 2,000 residents and villagers creating a stampede-like situation as they ran helter skelter for safety, he said. A member of the Daroo puja committee, Ranjit Sinha said that on reaching the pandal, the wild elephant appeared anxious and ran towards Bharajo village before snatching a man and his son from the ground and throwing them down. The two were rushed to a hospital at Hazaribagh where they are undergoing treatment. The tusker while retreating also destroyed about six houses of the villagers and also damaged the boundary walls of nearby buildings, Mishra said. Daroo forest ranger Vijay Singh said that the forest officials had information that a single elephant, which had caused panic at Katkamdag forest range and Demotand on NH 33, has entered Daroo from Dighwar forest and was present on NH 100. The department had tried to divert its movement. Daroo is located about 25 km from the district headquarters of Hazaribag on NH 100 on Hazaribag-Bagodar Road. Mishra said, “We have alerted all the foresters about this particular elephant which had created havoc within a range of 30 km of Hazaribag town and killed four persons, including two women and a member of Birhor tribe". He said the forest department has formed several teams of experts and directed them to study the behavior of the rogue elephant. Hazaribag deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand said he has directed the district forest department officials concerned to find out some ways and means to contain this menace. He also directed them to divert elephants to their natural corridor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elephant-enters-durga-puja-pandal-about-24-injured-in-stampede-like-situation-1040374.html
13-10-2021||Oasis||Nine nights of celebrating the Mother||Sharad Navratri occurs over nine nights during the lunar month of Ashvin and ends on the tenth day, Dussehra. Though celebrated differently in various parts of our country, it is broadly a time devoted to reverence of the Supreme Female Trinity; the first three nights to the powerful Durga, the next three nights to the benevolent Goddess of wealth Lakshmi and the last three to the dispeller of the gloom of ignorance — Saraswati, the Goddess of knowledge and the arts. It is a time of religious reflection and fasting. The Goddess is appeased by Garba and Dandiya in the west. In the east, pandals are erected all over for huge idols and community gatherings, along with cultural performances throughout the nine nights. In the south, many households have Golu, their vast collection of dolls collected over the years, decoratively displayed for visitors to admire. In the north chowkis and jagratas are organised, to stay awake all night and sing praises of the Mother. On Ashtami, Kanya puja is a common ritual when eight girls are revered, their feet washed and food and gifts offered to them, in the belief that divinity resides in little girls. Dussehra or Vijayadashami commemorates the victory of Rama over Ravan, after the former’s penance and prayers to Durga. So, the day before is celebrated as Ayodhya puja where our vehicles and machinery are cleaned, decorated and rested in memory of the weapons that were treated similarly before the battle. On the first evening of Navratri, Durga’s idol is installed with great pomp and show to invite her to her maternal home, the earth. On the last day of this festive occasion, she is bid farewell and immersed in a water body to send her back to her matrimonial home; but not before worshipping all her forms and thanking her for all the times she rose to the occasion when approached by her helpless male counterparts, to destroy the evil forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/nine-nights-of-celebrating-the-mother-1040389.html
13-10-2021||Opinion||UP polls: BJP prepares national security pitch to bury Covid failures||A few weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the demonetisation of large denomination currency notes in November 2016, a Left party politician went to an industrial cluster in Uttar Pradesh where he had considerable support. He expected seething rage from people whose cash reserves had been compromised by the government's bizarre decision. To his utter bewilderment, he found admiration for the surgical strikes that the government had undertaken against Pakistan based terrorists in September 2016. Then the penny dropped on him. Contrary to his Marxist beliefs, the communist leader realised that the people of Uttar Pradesh give far greater precedence to nationalism than the economic distress caused by demonetisation and job losses. The question gnawing political strategists is what will work in the 2022 UP Assembly elections. Would the tumult of the last few years aggravated by Covid-19 mismanagement and deaths take a back seat against the looming national security issues like the violence in Kashmir or the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban, or would that be the other way round? This understanding is critical to answering questions raging furiously on TV debates ever since Congress general secretary for UP Priyanka Gandhi went to the state to express solidarity with the grieving farming community after five protestors were brutally run over by the speeding motorcade of a central minister's son. It's a simple question that has been given excessive spin by the PR boys of the Congress party: "How will Priyanka Gandhi's arrest on the Lakhimpur Kheri issue and her aggressive campaign help the Congress in the Assembly elections a few months away?" Voters seldom make up their minds based on one campaign or even a successful roadshow that politicians are known to organise in crowded bazaars. Priyanka Gandhi's handlers did precisely this to create a chimera of hope for a party that is finding it difficult to retain middle-level leaders - tired as they are of sitting out as forgotten members of a diminished organisation. Politicians are quite hard-nosed on these matters. They are unlikely to be swayed by roadshows till the party shows big bucks or resolve to return to power, or contrarily has an alliance with one of the two parties that really matter in the populous state- Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party (SP) or Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).  In the 2017 Assembly elections, the Congress tied up with the SP but failed to make an impact as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) managed to get about 40 per cent votes - far more than the combined votes of the alliance partners. The Congress got an embarrassing 6+ per cent votes and were responsible for sinking the ambitions of its alliance partner, the SP. The BSP's performance was decent without being spectacular, but it wasn't enough to challenge the juggernaut of the BJP. Psephologists believe that the Congress will need an exponential leap in its vote share if it wants to out-jump SP and BSP to effectively challenge the ruling BJP. Despite being in power since 2017, the BJP does not look very confident about being voted in based on its performance. There are more cutouts, TV ads and hoardings all over the state and in the national capital, Delhi, announcing what they have done for the people than actual work on the ground. Despite their loud proclamations, the UP government failed to provide medical care when the pandemic swept the state. Horrific images of people quarantined being served food like stray animals or dead bodies piling up at mortuaries went viral on social media. Besides, there was a bizarre undercounting of the dead and infected. According to a UP opposition leader, each of the 95,000 villages saw deaths ranging from five to 25. That's the reason the floating bodies in the Ganges and hastily buried bodies on the banks of the river captured the imagination of the masses. UP's opposition parties, like the SP and BSP, have made perfunctory noises about the poor quality of governance provided to the people of the state during the pandemic. Fearing retaliation, they have not attacked the government on its various acts of omissions and commissions. Despite that, the SP did remarkably well in the panchayat polls held in August 2021, nosing ahead of the BJP. Subsequently, BJP used strong-arm tricks to increase its numbers by weaning away independents. Still, the results were a firm indication that it could be a tough battle for the ruling party if people ended up voting on the Yogi Adityanath government's performance. Even the timetable of the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya failed to enthuse the party's supporters. Expectedly, the BJP will try to avoid the local concerns of the masses and play up national security issues. For that, it has many balls in the air. They might invoke the same imagery of Balkanisation as the late prime minister, Indira Gandhi, used. Hence, when the Taliban took over Kabul, how the issue was hyped up in UP and other parts of the country suggested as if the Afghan religious extremists had attacked India. The natural corollary to the fear of the Taliban was how it might deepen extremism in Kashmir with all the anti-Indian forces joining hands. This warped mindset was also visible at the Lakhimpur Kheri fracas, where the farmers killed by the murderous vehicles were dubbed Sikh separatists or Khalistanis.  Estranged BJP leader Varun Gandhi derided attempts to create a Hindu-Sikh conflict in Kheri. This was a continuation of the insidious campaign the ruling dispensation has run against Punjab, Haryana and UP farmers that have agitated for almost a year against the farm laws. Voices from the ruling party have been calling the protestors Khalistani anti-national. Many faithful believe the farmers are agitating at the behest of some foreign powers and that the government is correct in standing up to the pressure. Routinely the tweets of Rihanna and Greta Thunberg are given as evidence of this foreign hand. Uttar Pradesh elections are still a few months away, but going by the bloody standoff in Lakhimpur Kheri and how the ruling party and the opposition have stepped out to campaign suggests that the polls will be an affair to remember. (The writer is Editor of the Delhi-based magazine, Hardnews) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-polls-bjp-prepares-national-security-pitch-to-bury-covid-failures-1040214.html
13-10-2021||Opinion||Kashmir killings: Jolt to rehabilitation policy||Last Tuesday, militants killed Makhan Lal Bindroo, a popular chemist of the Valley. A little later, social media burst forth with the news of the killing of a non-resident Hindu street vendor and a Muslim man from north Kashmir's Bandipora. Forty hours later, a Sikh woman and her Hindu colleague were shot inside a school in Srinagar's Eidgah area on Thursday afternoon. In the evening, security forces killed a man in Anantnag district after he allegedly did not stop his car at a security checkpoint.  Kashmir's tryst with killings is not new. During the Valley's long-drawn conflict, thousands lost their lives. However, there was almost a complete pause on the targeted killings of the Hindu minority community after most community members fled the Valley in 1990 when thousands of men took up arms against the Indian State. Many in the Valley, including the separatist leaders, blamed Jagmohan, the then governor of Jammu and Kashmir, for the displacement of the minority community, arguing that no one harmed those who had stayed put.  Bindroo was one among such non-migrant Kashmiri Hindus who chose to stay back and continued to run his pharmacy in the heart of the city. He lived through the much-troubled decade of the '90s. His killing followed by three other such attacks has laid bare the government's claims about normalcy. It raises questions on New Delhi's radical decision taken on August 5, 2019, which scrapped the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The absence of a popular government has pushed the people to the wall, and the government's strong-arm methods have failed to contain militancy or militant sentiment. The August 5 move alienated the people further, provoked militants, and gave rise to a new militant organization, The Resistance Front( TRF), which has owned the responsibility for the recent attacks. The group emerged after the abrogation of article 370 and is only second after JKLF (which shunned militant activities long ago) to choose a non-Islamic name for itself. The outfit also issues its statements in the English language, probably to appeal to a broader audience beyond the Urdu knowing people. The statements issued by the group said that the recent attacks on the minorities were not carried out because of their religious identity but for furthering the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) agenda in the region—a hint at the August 5 move.  According to official data, during the first six months of 2021, 76 local boys signed up for different militant organizations. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh said at a press conference in June that many foreign militants were present in the Valley. The recent targeted killings suggest that the action is now shifting from south to central and northern Kashmir. New Delhi's failure to make any serious political outreach in the aftermath of the August 5 move has contributed to the general sense of despair. The high-profile meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the political leaders from the region, which raised hopes among people, did not yield any result. The people are also fed up with the bureaucracy-run governance as they do not have easy access to the babus, mostly non-locals. There are also apprehensions that the recent attacks on minorities could undo the gains of the rehabilitation policy during the tenure of prime minister Manhoman Singh. The policy was rolled out in 2008 for displaced minorities with the sole idea of bringing them back by offering government jobs to their youth. More than 3000 people have been recruited under the policy, and they moved back to the Valley. However, the recent killings have forced many of them to leave the Valley, though temporarily. The government's efforts to move the community living in the Valley to "secured accommodations" will make a little difference and may put it on the line. The idea of setting up separate enclaves for the community has been rejected by the separatists and mainline political parties in the Valley. The segregation of minorities from the majority community will only contribute to the chasm between the two.  While it is the responsibility of the majority community to help in containing the fresh wave of migration, the government must revisit its Kashmir policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/kashmir-killings-jolt-to-rehabilitation-policy-1040311.html
13-10-2021||Panorama||Sappho, the liberated, from 2,500 years ago||Sappho lived on the island of Lesbos, Greece in the 6th century BC. The word ‘lesbian’ is derived from ‘Lesbos’, the island which became famous because of Sappho’s poetry. ‘Lesbian’ means the most famous woman from ‘Lesbos’, that is Sappho. Some of her poems reveal a profound expression of love of a woman for another woman. Also, through her woman-centred narratives, we can recognise intense emotions a woman can express simultaneously, for both men as well as women. Thus, her poetry demonstrates that, if social norms don’t bind a woman, her thinking and imagination can construct a different world, where a woman is an epitome of love. Also, she can express her heartfelt desires quite freely, like a man normally does in our world. Explorations by different researchers have revealed that, though Sappho must have written around 10,000 poetic lines, only 650 lines are available now, that too in bits and pieces. A poem titled ‘Ode to Aphrodite’ is in complete form and the rest, 70 jumbled lines and a few single words. In this context, if we revisit Greek literary tradition, we get ample evidence for Sappho’s popularity in her times. In Greek society, though there were hardly any women voices in the public domain, Sappho made her presence felt through her poems. Though society expected a man and a woman to have a conjugal relationship, there were no restrictions on same-sex alliances. So, Sappho’s poetry which unravels a woman’s true feelings for another woman was accepted as a natural phenomenon. Especially, women readers could identify themselves in her poems, so they celebrated them by writing on porcelain, shared, danced and sang with other women. As a testament to her popularity, statues were erected in her honour, also her name and images were imprinted on coins. Although, Plato claimed that, ‘an ideal state has no place for poetry’, he appreciated Sappho’s works and described her as the “Tenth Muse.” Aristotle too commended that, ‘Sappho deserves respect, though she is a woman’. The Greeks in general compared her works to legendary Homer and called her, a ‘female Homer’. Yet, it is surprising that Sappho got almost erased in the pages of the great Greek tradition, unlike her male counterparts. So, it would be interesting to explore, why did this happen? Some accounts say that after Christianity became popular, in 2nd century AD, Pope Gregory ordered the burning of the copies of Sappho’s poems, as they express same-sex love, which was perceived to be against religion. Another reason could also be that Sappho wrote her poems in the ‘Aeolic’ Greek dialect, which is difficult to translate, and the following generations lost interest in them. However, after a long period of obliviousness, Sappho found her place in mainstream literature in the 20th century, when homosexuals began to fight for their rights across the globe. For them, Sappho appeared highly relevant, so, her poems were translated, popularised and widely read. Also, the LGBTQ community started flocking Lesbos, where once Sappho lived, to celebrate their identity. Though there are no authentic sources to reveal Sappho’s life journey, some evidence suggests that she ran a girls’ school in Lesbos. Also, wealthy parents of the island sent their girls to her school to get trained in rhetoric. During those times, songs were composed to perform with musical instruments, in public ceremonies. Similarly, Sappho too learnt to play ‘Lyre’ and sang her songs to the community. Sappho wrote elaborately on the theme of romantic interests of a woman. In her poems, we meet a woman who is intensely attracted to another woman. As a result, Sappho was labelled as lesbian, in the later periods, although there was no evidence to say so. However, in her poetry, there is definitely an image of the woman’s worldview, which is beyond the imagination of a man. Critics appreciate her narrative techniques and creative style. She invented a new meter, better known by her name, ‘Sapphic Meter’ for her poetry. Some of her lines demonstrate how intensely Sappho expressed her feeling as a woman, for both men and women: “You came and I was longing for you. You cooled a heart that burned with desire.”, “Once again love drives me on, that loosener of limbs, bittersweet creature against which nothing can be done.”, “In the crooks of your body, I find my religion.”, “Stand and face me, my love, and scatter the grace in your eyes.” It is quite astonishing and refreshing as well, to know that almost 2,500 years ago, a woman poet expressed her sensations of love so vividly and freely without any social constraints. (The writer is an assistant professor of English, Tumkur University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/sappho-the-liberated-from-2500-years-ago-1040385.html
13-10-2021||Panorama||In Rajasthan, Congress, BJP have the same problem: Unending factionalism||With Assembly elections two years away in Rajasthan, the ruling Congress as well as the opposition BJP are scrambling to put their disunited houses in order. The high commands of both parties have given the state units clear instructions to display a united front and end factionalism. Yet, even as the parties face by-polls to two Assembly seats in late October, it is easier said than done. At its first by-poll rally last week, the Congress did attempt to display a united front -- with a photograph featuring Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Congress leader Sachin Pilot, state party chief Govind Singh Dotasara and party leader Ajay Maken campaigning together. But the Gehlot-Pilot rivalry and its undercurrent of tensions remain. After the party affected the leadership change in Punjab, there was anticipation that the high command would act decisively to end the factionalism in Rajasthan, too. The expectations heightened after Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met Pilot twice within a week. There was talk of the much-anticipated cabinet expansion or even a change of guard. A second rumour that did the rounds was of Pilot being put in charge of the party in Gujarat, which goes to Assembly polls in late 2022. Neither came to pass. Instead, Gehlot and his former deputy chief minister Pilot made statements betraying the continuing game of one-upmanship between them. Gehlot recently asserted that not only would his government complete its term but that the party would also return to power in the next election, adding for good measure that he was himself “ready to serve people for another 15-20 years.” Not to be outdone, Pilot responded by saying that he wasn’t going anywhere from Rajasthan “for another 50 years.” Senior Congress leaders, however, tried to see the situation differently. “Amidst their rivalry, the two are focusing on the party’s victory in the upcoming by-elections, indicating that the internal differences have lessened. The situation in Rajasthan is different from that in Punjab. Gehlot still enjoys the support of the majority of MLAs,” one senior leader told DH. Two recent developments indicate that the high command is doing a high-wire act to keep both factions happy. In the first move, Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma has been given the task of gathering the party’s forces in Gujarat for the 2022 polls in that state. In 2018, Gehlot was in charge of Gujarat when the party gave the BJP a tough fight. Putting Sharma, the party’s Brahmin face and known to be close to Gehlot, in charge now is being seen as making Gehlot the backseat driver in Gujarat. In another move, however, Rahul Gandhi was seen to be trying to keep Pilot happy by making him part of his four-member team to visit Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh to meet the victims of the recent violence there. Meanwhile, in the BJP, the infighting between the Vasundhara Raje faction and the state party chief Satish Poonia is an open secret. The in-fighting in the BJP unit dates back to the 2018 Assembly elections. After losing the elections, Raje was sidelined by the central leadership. The BJP has since been working to tamp down the constant infighting between Raje and Poonia’s factions. Over the past few months, many in the state unit have accused Raje of running a ‘parallel system’, including Covid welfare initiatives, that was designed to prop her up, not the party. The factionalism has worried the BJP enough for its national general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh to issue a stern warning during the recent two-day Chintan Shivir in Kumbhalgarh, directing the leaders to focus on strengthening the party. Raje’s supporters have been demanding that the party project her as the chief ministerial candidate for the 2023 election. Poonia has refused to let this happen. In January, Raje’s supporters created the ‘Vasundhara Raje Samarthak Manch Rajasthan’, and demanded that she be named the party’s chief ministerial face for the 2023 elections. In August, the Manch launched an office in Jaipur’s Sanganer area, causing a murmur within the party. Such public statements and moves by the party leaders have not only exposed the factionalism in the party, they have also put the BJP in a tight spot. In June, BJP Rajasthan in-charge Arun Singh had warned the state party leaders that strict action would be taken against those running factions in the party. But the party is in no position to take such action. Speaking about the Chintan Shivir, Poonia told DH, “We are focused on strengthening the party to ensure that we come to power in 2023. The decision on the CM candidate will be taken by the party”. The litmus test for the ‘united house’ efforts by both parties will be the results of the two by-polls to be held this month-end. The by-elections to the Vallabhnagar seat in Udaipur district and the Dhariawad seat in Pratapgarh district will be held on October 30, and the results will be known on November 2. The by-polls became necessary following the deaths of the Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, and BJP MLA from Dhariawad, Gautam Lal Meena. The Congress has fielded Gajendra Singh’s wife Preeti Shaktawat from Vallabhnagar, and Nagraj Meena for the Dhariawad seat. The BJP has given the respective tickets to Rajput leader Himmat Singh Jhala and Khet Singh Meena, district president of its Scheduled Tribe Morcha in Dhariawad. In the Assembly of 200 seats, the ruling Congress has 106 MLAs, the BJP 71, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) three, the CPI(M) and Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) two each, and the Rashtriya Lok Dal one. The Assembly has 13 independent legislators. DHNS Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-rajasthan-congress-bjp-have-the-same-problem-unending-factionalism-1040388.html
13-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Memories of Navaratri||'Vara veena mrudu paani...' I remember bleating this out under duress, or so it seemed. The year was 1982, and the occasion, 'Golu' at a Tamil family's house in the steel city of Bhilai. I was not yet ten. My attempt to render this geethe was encouraged by the aunties gathered around. I can recollect to this day the snigger of the motley gathering of 'more' accomplished youngsters. Have to add though that this was about the only odd note to the otherwise wonderful festival of dolls aka Gombe Habba.  I remember visiting a Bengali auntie's house along with a few other girls of my age. She would do 'Puja' to us and give us small gifts — chocolates, hair bands, colour pencils, scented erasers and the like. I remember the shundal that used to be given as prasada in some houses. And the fancy moving robots and cars arranged in other houses. In Vizag, added to this mix of experiences was the Pujo. We kids-who-grew-into-teenagers would, among other things, gather there for the bhog, and dance to Rabindra Sangeet. Also not to be forgotten were the 'Ayudha Pooja' sweets — we were after all a steel plant. Through the years, one thing remained constant — the theme-based dolls' arrangement by amma — never the traditional padi (steps) bombe. I vaguely remember her arranging Krishnavatara when I was a toddler. And then it was nursery rhymes like Twinkle Twinkle, Jack and Jill, Hickory Dickory Dock, etc. Scenes from fairy tales like Cinderella and Snow White were next. One year it was Gulliver's Travels and another year it was The Pied Piper of Hamlin with mice made from countless seeds of dates — grey paint, nose, ears and tail, all. As also Maya Bazaar.  As time went by and we moved to Bangalore, the themes changed and evolved. From Ramayana to Bhagavata, and from Dashavatara to Lakshmi Nrusimha Karavalamba Stotram, with other themes like Lalitha Sahasranama, Venkatesha Suprabhata, Shodasha Samskara, 'Glimpses from Kannada Literature' and 'Contributions of Indians to the World'. The zeal remained the same though. As also the Pattada Gombe of 'Raja Rani' who would grace each festival. Another thing that continued was having friends and family members visit our home during the festival, and the encouraging / cajoling of children and adults to sing devara naamas or kritis. Phone calls would start from the evening of Mahalaya and visitors would pour in over the next 10-odd days — sometimes a trickle or a stream, and other times, a waterfall. And amma would be there, smilingly welcoming them, asking after their family, and accompanying them around the room(s) as they saw the arrangements. We made many new friends in the process.  Seven Navaratris have gone by since she passed on. For me, though, this festival will always be a reminder of the zest for life that my mother, Smt. Usha Madhuranathan, was.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/memories-of-navaratri-1040387.html
13-10-2021||Second Edit||Cut fuel taxes to keep inflation in check||It was widely expected that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) would maintain status quo on both the policy rate and stance, and it did so, for the eighth consecutive time, at its meeting last week. There are good reasons for that. The economy was badly hit by the pandemic, and the RBI saw the need to create an environment for growth as its responsibility, too. Many of its decisions were tailored to the purpose, and RBI in fact did much heavy-lifting for that. But it may perhaps be time to pause and review the position now. The MPC decided to keep the benchmark interest rates unchanged, but one of the six members entered a dissenting note by voting against continuing with an accommodative stance, as he did last time.   The RBI was doing a tightrope walk in recent quarters and it has some risks that are evident now. The dissenting member has noted that an extended policy of monetary accommodation could lead to heightened inflationary pressures. The MPC’s projection of average inflation for the current fiscal is 5.3 per cent. The latest projections show that the rate could go up to 5.8 per cent in the last quarter, only marginally lower than the upper end of the tolerance band. Global commodity prices are rising and that can also feed domestic inflation. The RBI’s primary mandate is to keep inflation around the 4 per cent target. A failure to do that would impact the economy and the lives of people in various ways. Savings have fallen even otherwise during the pandemic and an inflation-induced decline in savings can adversely affect the revival of the economy.   The RBI alone will not be able to contain inflationary pressures and it will need the support of government policies and actions for that. The MPC has said that efforts to contain cost-push pressures through a calibrated reversal of fuel taxes could contribute to a more sustained lowering of inflation and anchoring of inflation expectations. This is a call to both central and state governments to reduce taxes on petrol, diesel and other fuels that are contributing to price inflation. Governor Shaktikanta Das has also said that it may now be time to wind down the liquidity support that the RBI provided in the past many months. It has announced some measures to reduce the excess liquidity in the system. With the economy getting back into gear, though haltingly and with uncertainties dogging it, the RBI may soon have to go in for normalisation of its monetary policy.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/cut-fuel-taxes-to-keep-inflation-in-check-1040391.html
13-10-2021||South||BJP delegation meets Tamil Nadu Governor, flags 'worsening' law and order in state||Claiming that the law and order situation in Tamil Nadu was 'worsening', the BJP state unit on Tuesday requested the state Governor RN Ravi to "instruct" the ruling DMK to focus on controlling the situation. A delegation of BJP leaders, led by its state unit president K Annamalai, met Ravi and handed over a petition, highlighting some recent "disturbing events", including the killing of a woman college student here and the beheading of a woman in Dindigul district. Referring to the "broad daylight" killing of the student, by her acquaintance, the saffron party alleged that the ruling DMK, while in opposition, had "politicised" a similar incident when the AIADMK was in power in 2016. The party also flagged the issue of DMK MP TRVS Ramesh, who surrendered before a court in connection with the death of an employee of his in Cuddalore district. Further, police have booked Tirunelveli DMK MP S Gnanathiraviam and others for 'manhandling' a BJP functionary recently but he is yet to be arrested, it said. "The past few months are a mirror image of what happened between 2006 and 2011 (when the DMK was in power). Power cuts, illegal mining and crimes against every section of the society have returned the way they were before," the party alleged in its petition to Ravi. "We request you to kindly instruct the government to immediately focus on controlling the worsening law and order...." The party also wanted Ravi's office to "personally monitor" the legal proceedings against the two DMK MPs. "We also kindly request you to instruct the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu (MK Stalin) for taking immediate action against DMK MP Gnanathiraviam," the party urged the Governor.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-delegation-meets-tamil-nadu-governor-flags-worsening-law-and-order-in-state-1040112.html
13-10-2021||South||Kerala court awards life sentence to man for killing wife using cobra||A sessions court in Kerala on Wednesday awarded life sentence in the Uthra murder case to the victim's husband for killing his wife using a cobra. On October 11, the court had held the husband -- Sooraj S Kumar -- guilty of murder, poisoning, destruction of evidence and also attempt to murder for his first try at killing his then 25-year old wife -- Uthra -- by using a viper. Additional Sessions Judge-VI Manoj M, who pronounced the sentence, said the case was a rarest of the rare, but looking at the age of the convict -- 28 years now -- it decided to award him life sentence instead of death, Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) G Mohanraj told reporters outside the court. Besides life for murder, Kumar was also awarded life sentence for the offence of attempt to murder, 10 years for poisoning and seven years for destruction of evidence, the SPP said. He also said that the court has specifically directed that the convict will first serve the sentences awarded for poisoning and destruction of evidence -- total 17 years -- and thereafter, his life imprisonment will commence. Additional Public Prosecutor A K Manoj also confirmed the order and told PTI that the court has said the two life terms awarded to Kumar would run concurrently. He also said that the court has imposed a total fine of Rs 5.85 lakh on the convict. Another reason cited by the court for not awarding death was the lack of criminal antecedents of the convict, he said. After the sentence was pronounced, the victim's mother told a news channel that she was not satisfied with the decision as she had expected death would be awarded to the convict. Sooraj had killed his wife Uthra by letting a cobra bite her in her sleep in May last year. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-court-awards-life-sentence-to-man-for-killing-wife-using-cobra-1040233.html
13-10-2021||South||Court bins discharge petition of Kerala education minister Sivankutty, others in bedlam case||A court in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday rejected the discharge petitions of Kerala education minister V Sivankutty and five other left front leaders in connection with bedlam in the state Assembly in 2015. The opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front demanded the minister's resignation in view of the fresh development. Apart from Sivankutty, former ministers E P Jayarajan and K T Jaleel, former MLAs K Kunjahmed Master, C K Sadasivan and K Ajith are the others to face trial in the case under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. While Ajith is a CPI leader, all others belong to the CPM. The case pertained to a violent protest in the state Assembly on March 13, 2015. The LDF, which was the then opposition party, staged the protest to prevent then Finance Minister K M Mani in the Oommen Chandy government from presenting the state budget as he faced allegations of taking a bribe from bar owners for diluting the state's excise police. The Supreme Court in July dismissed a petition filed by the left-front government in Kerala seeking a nod to withdraw the case. Recently the accused also maintained that the video footage of the bedlam in the house was manipulated. The accused climbed the speaker's dais and damaged the chair and electronic systems causing damage to properties worth Rs 2.2 lakh. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/court-bins-discharge-petition-of-kerala-education-minister-sivankutty-others-in-bedlam-case-1040305.html
13-10-2021||South||Kerala Assembly ruckus: Court dismisses discharge petitions filed by accused||In a setback for Kerala's ruling LDF, a court on Wednesday dismissed the discharge petitions filed by General Education Minister V Sivankutty and five others in the 2015 Assembly ruckus case. Dismissing the petitions, the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Thiruvananthapuram also directed the minister and five other accused to appear before it on November 22 to frame charges. Besides Sivankutty, the other accused in the case are E P Jayarajan, K T Jaleel, K Ajith, C K Sadasivan, and K Kunhammed, all opposition MLAs then. Both Sivankutty and Jaleel are currently members of the State Legislative Assembly. Reacting to the court order, Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan said Sivankutty has lost moral right to continue as minister. Urging the minister to quit, the Congress leader said the court rejected their petitions considering the visuals of Sivankutty and others destroying public property by climbing on the desk in the Assembly. The trial court in September last year had rejected the LDF government's plea for withdrawing a case related to the ruckus in the state assembly, saying allowing it would send a wrong message to society. The petition was filed by the government seeking withdrawal of the case registered under sections 447 (criminal trespass), 427 (mischief causing damage), read with section 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sec 3(1) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property (PDPP) Act by the previous Oommen Chandy-led UDF government. Subsequently, on July 28, the Supreme Court dismissed the Kerala government's plea for withdrawal of the case against the six LDF leaders, saying privileges and immunities "are not gateways" to claim exemptions from criminal law which governs the action of every citizen. The apex court had also said that committing acts of destruction of public property cannot be equated with either freedom of speech in the legislature or with forms of protest legitimately available to the members of the Opposition. The assembly had witnessed unprecedented scenes on March 13, 2015, as the LDF members, then in opposition, tried to prevent Finance Minister K M Mani, who was facing charges in the bar bribery scam, from presenting the state budget. Besides flinging the speaker's chair from the podium, electronic equipment like computers, keyboards, and mikes on the desk of the presiding officer was also allegedly damaged by the then LDF members, causing a loss of Rs 2.20 lakh. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-ruckus-court-dismisses-discharge-petitions-filed-by-accused-1040306.html
13-10-2021||South||M K Stalin relaunches scheme to monetise gold ornaments offered in Tamil Nadu temples||Small gold ornaments offered by devotees to various temples in Tamil Nadu will be monetised by melting and converting them into gold bars. The gold bars will then be deposited in nationalised banks, thereby generating revenue for the temple in the form of interest. The scheme, which is being opposed by many groups that claim to fight for freeing temples from government control, was relaunched by Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday. Stalin inaugurated the scheme to monetise small gold ornaments in three temples in Thiruverkadu in Chennai, Samayapuram in Tiruchirappalli, and Irukankudi in Virudhunagar district via video conferencing. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) department said the gold ornaments which are donated to temples by devotees in the last ten years have been lying idle. The government will monetise them by converting the gold ornaments into gold bars and depositing them in banks that would generate revenue for the temple which can be used for various development purposes. “The government has divided the state into three zones – Chennai, Madurai, and Tiruchirappalli – and has appointed retired judges for overseeing the process of monetisation. The entire proceedings of monetisation will be video graphed,” the HR & CE department said in a statement. The statement added that while small ornaments are used for the gold monetisation scheme, the big ornaments will continue to be in the possession of the respective temples for use during festivals and other occasions. The move by the government, though not new, invited opposition from several groups, some of which went to the Madras High Court challenging the HR & CE department’s notification on the gold monetisation scheme. In the court, the Tamil Nadu government strongly defended the scheme saying it has been in practice since 1977 where small gold ornaments were offered as gifts by devotees to the Lord Murugan Temple in Palani, Meenakshi Amman Temple in Madurai, Subramaniya Swamy Temple in Tiruchendur, and Mariamman Temple in Samayapuram were converted into gold bars. The gold bars weighing more than 500 kg are under deposit in various nationalised banks, the government told the court on Tuesday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-k-stalin-relaunches-scheme-to-monetise-gold-ornaments-offered-in-tamil-nadu-temples-1040330.html
13-10-2021||South||Actor Vijay’s fans make a mark in Tamil Nadu local body polls||Over 100 fans of popular Tamil actor Vijay, who contested as independent candidates, have emerged victorious in the elections held to rural local bodies in nine districts of Tamil Nadu, raising expectations over the actor’s much talked about political plunge. Of the 169 members of Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam (TVMI) who contested the elections for various posts, as many as 115 have been elected in the elections held on October 6 and 9. Of the 115, 13 persons were elected unopposed. The performance by Vijay’s fans is significant as even parties like Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) of actor Kamal Haasan and Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) could not make any headway this election. NTK has been contesting elections since 2016, while MNM made its debut in 2019. Fans of Vijay have mainly won elections in village wards, while one member of the Vijay Makkal Iyakkam has been elected as president of a village panchayat in Villupuram district. Though the fans contested as independent candidates, actor Vijay allowed them to use his picture and the TVMI flag during the campaign. “The victory is for our leader (Vijay). We went to people with his photos, and we firmly believe they voted for our leader. We could see the kind of admiration that people have for him (Vijay),” Bussy Anand, general secretary of Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam told Deccan Herald. Anand, who visited all the nine districts where elections were held for the campaign, said the results are just a “trailer.” Asked whether the performance of his fans would encourage Vijay to take a formal plunge in politics, Anand said any decision on this will have to be taken only by the actor. “Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam has been working for the people for the past few years and we are happy with the recognition we have received from the people,” Anand said, adding that members will contest the elections to urban local bodies as well if Vijay “allows them” to do so. The decision by the actor’s fans to jump into electoral politics surprised many with Vijay resisting temptations from his supporters to float a party. His fans had demanded that Vijay enter politics and contest the 2021 elections, but the actor never paid heed to their request. The move by the actor’s fans came amid Vijay’s father S A Chandrasekar informing a local court that he was dissolving Vijay Makkal Iyakkam (VMI) after admitting in public that he and his son do not enjoy the best of the relations. Chandrasekar, a film director and producer, launched VMI in the run-up to the 2021 elections to the Tamil Nadu Assembly and even tried to register the organisation with the Election Commission of India (ECI). However, it is said, Vijay asked his father not to go ahead with the move as he was not interested in politics for now. The incidents had then brought to the fore the differences between Vijay and Chandrasekar on the former’s political entry. Vijay is one of the top-ranking actors in Tamil cinema and has a huge fan following in Tamil Nadu and elsewhere. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actor-vijay-s-fans-make-a-mark-in-tamil-nadu-local-body-polls-1040336.html
13-10-2021||South||IIT-M to develop data-driven strategies to enhance road safety in TN||Researchers at the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) are in the process of developing data-driven strategies to enhance road safety in Tamil Nadu through clear long-term policies and strategies for making the state ‘accident-free’. As the first step, a workshop with various stakeholders including the Police, Health, Transport, Road owning agencies, Education, Rural Development, and local self-government was conducted on October 12.  The outcomes of this workshop will be used to help a focused action plan and be used as a policy advisory to help reduce road accidents and fatalities in Tamil Nadu, the IIT-M said. The researchers are expected to come up with clear long term policies and strategies for moving towards an ‘accident-free Tamil Nadu’, short term strategies to improve road safety and minimise road traffic accidents from November 2021 to January 2022, and modalities for sharing and utilising the data available with stakeholder departments for collective action in ensuring road safety. “This workshop is the first of many such design-thinking based strategizing workshops for road safety. This coordinated knowledge sharing session among all the road safety stakeholders in Tamil Nadu will be a pathway to continuously evolve successful road safety policies in the State,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said.  Prof. Venkatesh Balasubramanian, Faculty In-Charge, Centre of Excellence for Human Factors and Safety Science @ RBG Labs, IIT-M said avoiding accidents and fatalities in accidents is an essential requirement to be a developed nation.  “While TN has been performing well on reducing the fatalities from road accidents, in 2021, after the lockdown there has been a steady increase in fatalities. Therefore, it is quintessential to develop a good strategy based on data to address this on a priority basis,” Prof. Venkatesh Balasubramanian said.   Prof. Ravindra Gettu, Dean (Industrial Consultancy and Sponsored Research), IIT-M said the Action plan that has been drawn up is expected to make a significant impact on fatalities and road safety in general, especially due to the involvement of all stakeholders concerned through a design thinking approach. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-to-develop-data-driven-strategies-to-enhance-road-safety-in-tn-1040338.html
13-10-2021||South||Landslide win for DMK alliance in TN rural local body polls||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the ruling party in Tamil Nadu, and its alliance partners have scored a landslide win in the elections held to rural local bodies in nine districts decimating the AIADMK-BJP alliance.  The ruling party was on the course to bagging all nine district panchayats and over 90 per cent of the union panchayats that went to elections on October 6 and 9. Results were not declared by the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (TNSEC) till the time of writing. Of the 140 district wards, the DMK alliance won 138, leaving just two seats to the principal Opposition party, AIADMK, which put up a spirited performance in the April 6 assembly elections by winning 66 seats despite facing 10 years of anti-incumbency. The party won one each district ward in Chengalpattu and Villupuram, while it drew a blank in Kanchipuram, Ranipet, Tiruppattur, Tirunelveli, Kallakurichi, Vellore, and Tenkasi.  AIADMK’s performance in union panchayat elections was also dismal with the party emerging victorious or was leading in just 218 of the total 1,381 seats. The DMK alliance won or was leading in over 1,000 wards and the PMK, which walked out of the AIADMK alliance, winning 44 seats. BJP won 8 union wards.  While Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) of actor Kamal Haasan and Seeman’s Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) could not win any district or union wards, AMMK of T T V Dhinakaran registered a win in 5 seats and DMDK of actor Vijayakant in just one ward. Independents won 88 seats.  AIADMK’s disastrous performance is blamed on the party’s “lack of interest” in the elections and the infighting owing to the dual leadership. Though party joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami visited all the districts that went to the polls to meet cadres, the AIADMK could not make its presence felt in many districts.  The party might now come under pressure to revert to singular leadership, and the results are likely to influence the elections to urban local bodies expected to be held by the end of the year.  An upbeat Chief Minister M K Stalin said the resounding victory that the DMK and its alliance partners have scored in the elections to rural local bodies in nine districts is a “recognition for the five-month-old government.”  “Not just for continuing the good work, the recognition is also for the achievements in the last five months,” he said.  Recalling that the second wave of Covid-19 infection was sweeping the state when DMK assumed office, Stalin said the new government not just brought the Covid-19 cases under the control but also ensured that the livelihood of people is not affected.  “I have been saying that the popularity of DMK has increased after the assembly elections and the results of the election have proved me right,” he said.  However, AIADMK, cried foul and blamed the DMK’s “high-handedness” for the party’s defeat in the local body elections. In a joint statement, party coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami said the DMK cadre indulged in violence and termed the victory as one through the “backdoor.” “The DMK reduced the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission into its puppet,” Panneerselvam and Palaniswami said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/landslide-win-for-dmk-alliance-in-tn-rural-local-body-polls-1040351.html
13-10-2021||South||Kerala boy gets stuck in vehicle's window, dies||A four year old boy died reportedly after he got stuck on the front door glass of a mini-goods vehicle while playing with it. The incident took place at Punnapra in Alappuzha district of Kerala on Wednesday afternoon. The deceased was identified as Mohammed Hannan, son of Ummar. According to the police, the boy was reportedly playing with the mini-goods vehicle parked by his father on the premises of their house. The boy seemed to have made a bid to enter the vehicle through the half opened window glass on the driver side by climbing on the tyre. His parents told the police that as they rushed on seeing the child screaming, they saw his neck stuck in the glass and the child hanging. Though the boy was rushed to hospital, he could not be saved. Detailed investigation into the incident was progressing. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-boy-gets-stuck-in-vehicles-window-dies-1040362.html
13-10-2021||South||Kerala announces additional financial aid for families of Covid-19 victims belonging to BPL category||The Kerala government has announced an additional monthly financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to families belonging to below poverty line (BPL) categories who lost an earning member to Covid-19. The assistance will be given for three years as direct benefit transfer. The state Cabinet took a decision in this regard on Wednesday. 26,571 Covid deaths have been reported in Kerala so far. Meanwhile, the process for identifying the Covid deaths as per the fresh guidelines of the Centre for giving the assistance of Rs 50,000 for the dependents was progressing. An online system to raise complaints was also introduced. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-announces-additional-financial-aid-for-families-of-covid-19-victims-belonging-to-bpl-category-1040400.html
13-10-2021||State||UPCL shut down since August||The coal-based Udupi Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) thermal power project at Yermal in Padubidri has shut down since August 12. Financial crunch and coal shortage are said to be the reasons behind shut down, highly placed sources said. The power distribution companies, including Hescom, Mescom, Gescom, Cesc and Bescom are yet to pay Rs 2,800 crore to the company for the electricity purchased. The Late Payment Surcharge (LPS) is being assessed. Hescom has to pay Rs 1,800 crore.  According to sources, the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission had even directed these power distribution companies to pay the remaining amount and the monthly interest rate was set at Rs 35 crore. The company generally imports coal from Singapore and Indonesia. Owing to the financial crisis, the power plant was forced to shut down, the sources added. Mescom receives only 5% of the total power generated and Bescom gets 50% of total power generated here. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/upcl-shut-down-since-august-1040086.html
13-10-2021||State||Bommai, Kateel hold meeting on bypolls||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel held a meeting at the BJP office on Tuesday to discuss strategies for the upcoming Hangal and Sindagi bypolls. Kateel told reporters that he was confident that the party would secure wins in both the constituencies. “After October 16, all ministers of the Cabinet will campaign in both the Assembly segments with party MLAs and MPs. Former CM B S Yediyurappa, too, will campaign in Hangal and Sindagi,” he said. To a question, he said that the state tour announced by Yediyurappa will be undertaken after the October 30 bypolls. The Cabinet expansion and appointments to boards and corporations too will be done after the bypolls, he added. Kateel refused to read much into the Income Tax raids on close aides of Yediyurappa. “I-T department works independently. There is no politics involved,” he said, responding to a query. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bommai-kateel-hold-meeting-on-bypolls-1040106.html
13-10-2021||State||No demand to make Vijayendra as minister in Bommai cabinet: Raghavendra||MP B Y Raghavendra has stated that there was no demand before Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to accommodate state BJP Vice-President and his brother B Y Vijayendra in the cabinet.  Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday. he said, Vijayendra is involved in party organisation activities as per the directions of the central leaders. "I will continue in national politics. Voters of Shimoga Lok Sabha constituency have elected me as their representative in Lok Sabha thrice. So, I will not enter into state politics. Instead of confining to a single assembly constituency, I will serve people of Lok Sabha constituency."  On Monday, he had stated that he would enter into state politics if the party leaders approve it. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-demand-to-make-vijayendra-as-minister-in-bommai-cabinet-raghavendra-1040145.html
13-10-2021||State||20 parked motorcycles gutted in fire in Mumbai's Kurla||Around 20 motorcycles parked at a residential society in Nehru Nagar in Mumbai's Kurla were gutted in fire after a massive fire broke out earlier this morning. The fire has reportedly been doused by the fire department's personnel. Check out latest videos from DH:  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/20-parked-motorcycles-gutted-in-fire-in-mumbais-kurla-1040157.html
13-10-2021||State||Five scientists, engineers get IISc's Distinguished Alumnus Award||The Indian Institute of Science’s (IISc) distinguished alumni awards for 2021 have gone to five scientists working in the United States and in India. This year’s awardees are Dr Anuradha M Annaswamy, a senior research scientist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Professor Sajal K Das of Missouri University of Science and Technology, Professor T Pradeep of IIT Madras, Professor C S Raghavendra of the University of Southern California and Dr Ritu Shrivastava, a former vice president of Technology Development at SanDisk Corporation. “The annual awards recognise exceptional contributions made by IISc alumni/ae to their profession, society and the Institute. The nominations received are evaluated by a committee chaired by the Director, IISc,” the institute said in a statement. Dr Annaswamy is a pioneer in control theory and technology, and has made many seminal contributions to adaptive control theory, control of neural networks, control architectures of adaptive control and machine learning; applications to aerospace and automotive systems; control of combustion systems, smart grids and urban mobility. She completed her BE from IISc’s Department of Electrical Engineering in 1979. Professor Das has made award-winning contributions to mobile and pervasive computing, wireless and sensor networks, smart environments, and cyber-physical and IoT systems security. He completed his ME from IISc’s Department of Computer Science and Automation in 1985. Meanwhile, Professor Pradeep has been recognised for his innovative contributions to metal nanoparticle-based drinking water purification methods and path-breaking work on the development of molecular and nanoscale materials. He also conceptualised and built the International Centre for Clean Water at IIT Madras. He completed his PhD from IISc’s Solid State and Structural Chemistry Unit in 1991. Professor C S Raghavendra is known for his significant contributions to the design and analysis of interconnection networks, reliability and fault-tolerant computing, parallel algorithms for enhanced meshes and hypercubes, power-aware protocols for wireless ad hoc networks, and applying machine learning algorithms to oil field problems. He completed his BE and ME from the IISc’s Department of Electrical Communication Engineering in 1976 and 1978 respectively. Another alumnus from IISc’s Department of Electrical Communication Engineering is Dr Shrivastava who went on to make seminal contributions to semiconductor device physics, and memory chip design and fabrication, which have stretched the limits of transistor density on chips, memory cell access speed, and led to lower power consumption. He completed his BE and ME from the Department in 1971 and 1973 respectively. “Each one has made exceptional contributions to their respective fields and to society, and this award is a fitting recognition of their achievements,” said Professor Govindan Rangarajan, Director of IISc. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/five-scientists-engineers-get-iiscs-distinguished-alumnus-award-1040230.html
13-10-2021||State||Merging 4 RTCs can help save Rs 150 crore per year: KSRTC staff Prez||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) Staff & Workers Federation President H V Ananthsubburao demanded the merger of the four road transport corporation in the State for minimising the losses and better management.  Speaking to media persons on Wednesday, Ananthsubburao said the formation of four corporations -- NWKRTC, NEKRTC, BMTC and KSRTC -- have neither benefited the passengers nor the corporation workers. “All the four corporations have an accumulative loss of Rs 4,000 crore,” he said and added that the only thing we have achieved by bifurcation is an increase in the number of officials, while a reduction in the number of working staff.  He claimed by merging of RTCs the State can on average save Rs 150 crore per year and also speed up the decision-making process.  He also demanded the State government to immediately release the Rs 3,000 crore dues related to free student bus pass to the four corporations.  ‘Reinstate staff’  Federation General Secretary Vijay Bhaskar demanded the State to keep its words of reinstating the 4,000 odd staff who were dismissed from the service because of their participation in the strike. “Transport Minister B Sriramulu on the floor of assembly had assured to reinstating these staff in a phased manner. However, during a recent meeting, the BMTC board has taken a decision not to hire them back. Who is right here? Does the board has the power to supersede the minister and cabinet,” he asked.  Bhaskar added that though the government has assured of providing half-salary of the employees, the majority of them are receiving only 35% of it due to various deductions and mismanagement of the Corporations. “The corporations have not paid September month salary to its staff till today,” he said.  Ananthsubburao said they have placed six demands in front of the government and if it fails to resolve them within stipulated time they will be forced to intensify their demands. He charged that the present government does not even have the courtesy to reply to Federations on their demands.  “An entire family of BMTC bus driver died by suicide due to non-release of Covid compensation to them, while two other staff members ended their lives due to harassment by senior officials. Yet, the State government has not responded to these families on humanitarian grounds,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/merging-4-rtcs-can-help-save-rs-150-crore-per-year-ksrtc-staff-prez-1040262.html
13-10-2021||State||IT park on over 700 acres planned in Belagavi||In a bid to create job opportunities for the locals, the government is planning to set up an IT park in over 700 acres in the city, Higher Education, IT-BT and Skill Development Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Wednesday. Addressing the office-bearers of BJP Rural unit here, the minister said, “Efforts are underway to create employment opportunities to tap and retain local talent. The proposed IT park will stem the migration of the local talent for jobs to Bengaluru, Pune and Mumbai,” hesaid. “Degree and diploma colleges are being established across the state, where there’s a requirement. Work on a new building for Rani Channamma University will begin soon,” the minister said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/it-park-on-over-700-acres-planned-in-belagavi-1040413.html
13-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister rules out syllabus cut; dept mulls weekend classes||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education is mulling weekend classes to make up for lost academic days, as the minister ruled out any reduction in syllabus. The department recently said that physical classes for primary grades will resume from October 21. Considering the delay in commencement of classes due to Covid-19, and also to cover the syllabus, the department is thinking of conducting special classes on Saturdays and Sundays, especially for grades 10 and 12. “There is no question of reducing syllabus this year. If necessary, we will conduct special classes on Saturdays and Sundays,” Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said. There had been demands from stakeholders, including private school managements and government schoolteachers, to trim the syllabus. The minister also said the Department of Pre-University Education will organise bridge courses for PUC-2 students this year so as to make up for the syllabus trimmed during the previous year. “We are confident of completing the prescribed syllabus on time this year, and even bridge courses will be conducted for PUC-2 students to cover the syllabus cut during PUC-1 courses last year,” hesaid.  Department officials said a decision on weekend classes will be taken soon. The Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka urged the minister to take a decision in the interest of students. “We have already submitted our request to the minister. Hope the department understands that students and teachers are human beings and they too need rest at least one day in a week,” D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the association,said. Several high school teachers have requested the minister to verify the extent of social science and mathematics syllabus before taking any decision. “We need time for revision, to fill the learning gap caused by the pandemic and also to maintain quality,” said a teacher working with a government high school in Bengaluru. Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-rules-out-syllabus-cut-dept-mulls-weekend-classes-1040078.html
13-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Land rate disparity shows skewed development in Karnataka||Farmers and property owners whose lands were acquired for industrial use were paid up to Rs 2 crore an acre in and around Bengaluru as compensation.  But the figure nosedived to as low as Rs 7 lakh an acre in other parts of the state, according to government data. Experts say this is the result of “skewed” economic development.   In the last three years, the state government has acquired 9,984.27 acres for industrial use - 5,252.32 acres for industrial areas and 4,641.35 acres for single-unit complexes - through the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB).  No land was acquired in Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Vijayapura, Uttara Kannada, Gadag and Bidar districts in the last three years. Six acres of land acquired for an IT park last year in BK Palya and Singahalli villages in Bengaluru Urban fetched their owners Rs 2.1-2.2 crore per acre in compensation. Farmers who parted with 142 acres of land in Mylanahalli and Hunsekatte villages of Hassan got Rs 14 lakh per acre. In the Yarabanahalli village of Ballari, farmers got paid just Rs 6.5 lakh per acre for 16.75 acres. These acquisitions happened between July and December last year.  In several parts of the state, authorities are yet to fix the per-acre rate of compensation.  “This is not a natural phenomenon. It shows lopsided development with growth centres around Bengaluru,” Krishna Raj, professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Policy in the Institute for Social and Economic Change, said.  Raj argues against the popular notion that the value of land depended on the location. “In the case of the Bengaluru-Mysuru Infrastructure Corridor (BMIC), compensation was fixed only per acre without factoring in resources. Compensation should also depend on crops being grown, soil quality and the usage potential of the land. Also, how many family members are dependent on the land being acquired?” he said.  By 2025, the state government has estimated a requirement of 41,600 acres of land for industrial use. It is proposed that the KIADB will acquire 20,000 acres in a phased manner. Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani has already announced that the government will create taluk and district level land banks to be showcased at the Invest Karnataka summit scheduled in November 2022.  “Compensation for land is driven by the prevailing guidance values,” former industries minister RV Deshpande said. “We need to create land banks and the government shouldn’t hesitate in identifying government lands that aren’t required for any other use.” Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/land-rate-disparity-shows-skewed-development-in-karnataka-1040080.html
13-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No power cuts, but Karnataka needs more coal: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday allayed fears of a power cut, but conceded that the state desperately needs additional coal supplies to stay clear of drastic measures. "There won't be any power cuts. We will make sure of that," Bommai told reporters after chairing a meeting with senior officials to take stock of the power situation in the state. Power plants across India are reportedly grappling with a coal shortage, triggering fears of blackouts in the festival season. Besides Karnataka, states such as Delhi and Tamil Nadu have flagged the issue. "We're getting ten rakes (of coal) now. We have 98,863 MT in stock. If we get three more rakes, we will be comfortable," Bommai said. The state has been assured of two more rakes from the Singareni coal mine in Telangana. "There's some payment that's due. In a day or two, we will make the payment and then I will talk to the Telangana Chief Minister and the Union Coal Minister for two additional rakes. This is good quality coal that can be easily transported since it's closer," Bommai said. One rake amounts to around 4,000 tonnes. "In the last two days, coal production and rake movement have increased," Bommai said, rejecting allegations made by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah that the coal shortage was artificial. "His allegations are baseless," he said. Bommai also reviewed the financial situation of Escoms. "There's a proposal to convert loans given to the Escoms into equity. We will act quickly on this," he said. "Also, the revenue collected by Escoms should be used to pay for coal, while capital investment should be done separately," he said. Rain damage Bommai said 21 people were killed due to heavy rains in October alone. "It's been raining consistently. We've seen 30-50% excess rainfall in all districts, except 2-3 of them," he said, after chairing a meeting on disaster management. "From June till now, crop loss has been reported on 4.71 lakh hectares. As many as 1.17 lakh farmers have been paid Rs 105 crore in compensation so far. Deputy commissioners have Rs 738 crore with them for this purpose," he said. Households affected by heavy rainfall will receive an ex-gratia of Rs 10,000, he said. "Some 2,000 homes have suffered partial damage. We will conduct an assessment and they will be compensated," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-power-cuts-but-karnataka-needs-more-coal-cm-bommai-1040081.html
13-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No dress code proposal in temples, says Jolle||There is no proposal before the government to enforce a dress code in state-run temples, Muzrai and Wakf Minister Shashikala Jolle said on Tuesday. Speaking at a news conference, she said, “I will take a look at it and then take a call”. She ruled out reports that a request was made during the previous Rajya Dharmika Parishat meeting. She said that an Integrated Temple Management System (ITMS) will be launched to provide all the required information about the notified temples. Property details, services offered, etc will be uploaded to the system, and will be operational by November, she said. Details of 205 Category ‘A’ and 139 Category ‘B’ temples will be available in the ITMS. Jolle also announced an insurance scheme for priests and their family members and the implementation of wages as per the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission for priests employed in Category ‘A’ and Category ‘B’ temples. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-dress-code-proposal-in-temples-says-jolle-1040093.html
13-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sharavathi hydel plant ups output to insulate Karnataka from power crisis||The Sharavathi generating station (SGS) in Sagar taluk of Shivamogga district, which accounts for 23% of the power generated in the state, has increased its quantum of generation to ensure that Karnataka doesn’t face a power crisis.  Sources in SGS said of the 10 units, the operation of two has been suspended for annual maintenance. However, eight units have increased the power generation from the earlier 10 million to 11 million units per day to 13 million to 14 million units. SGS has a capacity to generate 16 million units per day. But so far, the state load dispatch centre (SLDC) has not directed SGS to increase power generation further. It depends on the requirement of the state.  SGS superintending engineer Girish C told DH that there is no power crisis as of now.  Some weeks back, around 10 million to 11 million units of power were being generated on the basis of instructions from higher officials. Now, it has been increased. “We are ready for maximum power generation at any time,” Girish said.  He said various parts of the state are receiving good spell of rains over the last few days. So, farmers are not using pump sets to irrigate their crops. Hence, the demand for hydro power has come down. It varies day to day depending on the circumstances. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sharavathi-hydel-plant-ups-output-to-insulate-karnataka-from-power-crisis-1040097.html
13-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid norm relaxations after Dasara: CM Bommai||The norms for Covid-19 regulations imposed in border districts will be relaxed after an assessment following the Dasara celebrations, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. Bommai, who arrived at the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA), said soon after Dasara, the government will conduct an assessment meeting and then take a call. The decision on reopening of primary schools also will be taken, he added. On the rising moral policing cases in Dakshina Kannada district, he said everyone should behave in a responsible manner in society. "We should maintain social harmony and there has to be morality in the society," he added.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-norm-relaxations-after-dasara-cm-bommai-1040240.html
13-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai addresses increasing moral policing in Karnataka||When there is no morality, there will be actions and reactions, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. "Can we live without morality in society?," the CM asked while responding to a question by media persons regarding increasing incidents of moral policing. "It is important that the sentiments of people are not violated. Thus the onus on protecting social harmony is on everybody", he added. On the Covid-19 front, he said a meeting of experts will be convened after Dasara to assess the situation in order to ease travel restrictions imposed on those arriving from Kerala and Maharastra. A decision on the reopening of primary schools will also be taken at the same meeting, he said. The clinical trials on administering the Covid 19 vaccine to children aged between 2 and 14 years is at the final stage, he said. "After the vaccination drive gets approval, we will vaccinate, children, youth and elderly as according to the centre's norms. Karnataka and  Dakshina Kannada district are already ahead in vaccination drive" he said.  Responding to a question about the state's coal situation, the CM said that Karnataka presently has 9863 metric tonnes of coal. "If we get three more rakes, we will be in a comfortable position", he said. "In order to procure sufficient quantities of coal, we have held talks with the Singaneri collieries on providing two rakes. I also held talks with Union Minister of Coal and Mines Prahlad Joshi and Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar, and will get more rakes within two days", he further said. The CM was at the Mangalore International Airport, leaving for Udupi. He visited the Kudroli Gokarnanatheshwara temple before returning to Bengaluru. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-addresses-increasing-moral-policing-in-karnataka-1040292.html
13-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai under fire for remarks on moral policing||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's remarks that moral policing incidents are "actions and reactions" to "hurt sentiments" came under fire on social media where netizens started the #BommaiStopMoralPolicing campaign against his apparent justification of people taking law into their own hands. Congress and JD(S) members opined that such statements embolden anti-social elements involved in such incidents and warned that tacit support to such activities could turn Karnataka into another cow-belt state. "There should be morality. We cant live without morality," he said. Congress spokesperson Lavanya Ballal attacked Bommai for issuing a statement in support of moral policing. "When the CM of the state supports moral policing what more can be expected from the minions? Citizens of Karnataka please stay safe, don’t expect the government to keep you safe," she said in a tweet. JD(S) IT wing head Prathap Kanagal said that Bommai's remarks reflected a "sad state of affairs". "With this justification by our Karnataka CM Bommai, they are normalising mob attacks in the name of Moral policing in Karnataka," he said. Twitter user Glen D'Souza accused Bommai of turning Karnataka into another Uttar Pradesh. "Karnataka the land of Basava (is) known as 'Shantiya Thota'. Today under Bommai, Karnataka is rapidly is turning to be another Uttar Pradesh," he claimed. Activist Vinay Sreenivasa echoed a similar sentiment. "Moral Policing always destroys fundamental rights of an individual. It is an act by primitive minds and fascist forces to further divide society and destroy harmony. Give back our old Karnataka," wrote another user. Youth Congress leader Mohammed Haris Nalapad said that such careless statements raised questions on the safety of people, who look up to the government to safeguard their interests. "This rudderless Govt is only busy fanning the fire of hate incidents in Karnataka," he alleged. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-under-fire-for-remarks-on-moral-policing-1040302.html
13-10-2021||West||Maharashtra govt hasn't asked cops to keep eye on NCB official Wankhede: Minister||Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil on Tuesday said the state government had not ordered police or any other agency to monitor the movements of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Wankhede, currently in news after leading a raid on a cruise ship during which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested in a drug case, had filed a complaint on Monday that two police officials were following him. "The government has not given any orders to the police or state intelligence department to follow Sameer Wankhede. I have heard that he has complained to the DGP. We will look into it," Walse-Patil told reporters. "I don't think police are keeping a watch on him," the minister added. Another Narcotics Control Bureau official had claimed on Monday that two officials, reportedly from the Oshiwara police station, allegedly visited a cemetery in the area where Wankhede's mother was buried after her death in 2015, and collected CCTV footage. Wankhede regularly visits this cemetery, he said. The NCB zonal director then filed a complaint alleging his movement was being monitored and provided CCTV footage of the Oshiwara cemetery in support of his claim, the official had said. Wankhede had also investigated the 2020 drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.  Check out DH's latest videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-hasnt-asked-cops-to-keep-eye-on-ncb-official-wankhede-minister-1040114.html
13-10-2021||West||Mumbai Monorail to get 10 more rakes ||The Mumbai Monorail -- the first Monorail service in India -- is set to get 10 additional rakes. The first rake is coming by January 2023 and the second one in January 2024.  Telangana-based Medha Servo Drives Pvt. Ltd has been awarded the tender by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for the work and the cost of the project is Rs 590 crore. MMRDA had implemented Monorail between Sant Gadge Maharaj Chowk to Chembur via Wadala.  The length of the corridor is about 20 kms and is planned as a feeder service to the Metro rail system.  The Monorail system can carry 7,500 passengers per hour per direction and has the capacity to carry 1.5-2 lakh commuters daily.  The DPR prepared by RITES in 2008 estimated a ridership of 1.5 lakh in 2031 and 3 lakh in 2041. However, due to the absence of connectivity to the major public transportation system, it is not fulfilling the desired role of the feeder system and the present ridership is an indication of the above fact.  Hence, MMRDA is exploring the possibility of the impact of connecting the Monorail system on both ends to the suburban/metro systems so that the ridership can be improved. Metropolitan Commissioner SVR Srinivas said: “Monorail plays a significant role in terms of interconnectivity within the city. These new rakes will help solve traffic issues at major points in the routes. MMRDA has always been at the forefront in providing maximum facilities to the people of Mumbai. These new rakes of Monorail are another step taken towards achieving this.” The new trains are with various features as these are lighter and faster as compared to the previous ones, thereby decreasing the load on the guideway and the piers and they are stronger as well. It will increase the capacity of the train which is currently 560 passengers per train.  The trains are made under the Make in India programme, thereby the maintenance cost will lower, and it will give better lifecycle and maintainability. These bogies are made of stainless steel like metro trains so they will have longer durability. Most importantly they will increase the frequency of the trains. With the introduction of 10 more RSTs, a headway of five mins can be achieved instead of the current 18 minutes. With this headway, there will be a substantial increase in ridership and revenue; and benefits to Mumbaikars in terms of comfort, convenience, and reliability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-monorail-to-get-10-more-rakes-1040169.html
13-10-2021||West||Pune girl's brutal murder: Main accused held; Maharashtra Dy CM terms incident as 'disgrace to humanity'||A day after a teenage girl was brutally stabbed to death on a street in Maharashtra's Pune city, police arrested the 22-year-old main accused and detained three other minors here in connection with the case, officials said on Wednesday.  According to the police, the murder was a fall-out of a "one-side love affair" by a distant relative of the 14-year-old girl, who was a class 8 student.  Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is also the Pune district guardian minister, on Wednesday termed the incident as "extremely reprehensible" and a "disgrace to humanity".  According to police, the girl was on her way to kabaddi practice at Yash Lawns in the Bibewadi area around 5.45 pm when the four accused came on a motorcycle. While two remained on the motorbike, the other two, including the 22-year-old, allegedly attacked her with sharp weapons multiple times on her throat and other body parts, they said.  The attack was so brutal that the girl died on the spot, Bibewadi police station's senior inspector Sunil Zaware had said.  "We have arrested the 22-year-old main accused and three other juveniles who were involved in the case and further investigation is going on," Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta told PTI on Wednesday.  Zaware said the 22-year-old accused, identified as Shubham Bhagwat, is a distant relative of the girl and used to stay at her house. "As he had developed one-sided love for the girl, her parents asked him to leave the house," the official said. State Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had on Tuesday condemned the brutal act and asked the police to take prompt action.   On Wednesday, Pawar in a statement said the incident was "highly reprehensible" and a "disgrace to humanity". He said in a civilised city like Pune, the brutal murder of the minor girl while playing on the ground is a "serious sign of social degradation".   "  It is time to think seriously about ending this anti-social mentality," he said. The murder has made everyone's head hang in shame, said Pawar, who is the MLA from Baramati in Pune.  "Henceforth, not letting such an incident happen to any girl again will be the true tribute to the late girl," he said, adding that police have been directed to take stern action in the case. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-girls-brutal-murder-main-accused-held-maharashtra-dy-cm-terms-incident-as-disgrace-to-humanity-1040252.html
13-10-2021||West||'Mukta' scheme soon in Maharashtra to release women prisoners unable to pay bail amounts||The Maharashtra government will soon launch a scheme to release women prisoners who have been in jail for years and have not been able to pay their bail amounts and fulfill other legal requirements. The 'Mukta' scheme would bring relief to the women prisoners who have been languishing in jails for minor crimes, and would also reduce the burden on prisons, state Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur in a statement. She said cases pertaining to minor issues had been registered against a number of women and they were in custody for many years for want of bail. To release such women on bail, the state government is planning to launch the 'Mukta' scheme which will be beneficial for women who are in custody despite bail orders, as they are not able to pay the release amount, she said. Citing an example, the minister said a woman working in a private firm was detained by police for nearly two years over a minor issue and subsequently her family and children went through trauma. There are other several examples of women who are in custody for minor reasons, she said. The 'Mukta' scheme will be implemented in various jails of the state to find out women who have been unnecessarily harassed and those who can be released by fulfilling the legal requirements, she said. The minister said she will visit the jails and collect information herself. The help of the Maharashtra legal aid services authority will be taken, she said. Steps will also be taken to reduce the bail amounts and the help of NGOs and other organisations will be sought to pay it for the release of women prisoners, the minister said. If these women have no shelter, arrangements will be made to accommodate them under a government scheme for destitute women, she added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mukta-scheme-soon-in-maharashtra-to-release-women-prisoners-unable-to-pay-bail-amounts-1040289.html
13-10-2021||West||Woman Army officer found hanging at military training institute in Pune||A 43-year-old woman officer of the Indian Army was found hanging at her official accommodation in the premises of the Military Intelligence Training School and Depot (MINTSD) here in Maharashtra on Wednesday, police said. The Army and the police suspect it to be a case of suicide. The incident came to light in the morning when the staff had gone to serve tea to the Lieutenant Colonel-rank officer. She was found hanging with a dupatta around her neck, an official said. According to the police, the Lieutenant Colonel had come to the MINTSD for training. She had some domestic issues and had filed for a divorce, said Namrata Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone V). "We have launched a probe into the death," the DCP said. In a statement, the Army authorities have said that an incident of likely suicide by an officer has occurred in the premises of Military Intelligence Training School and Depot, Pune. The officer was undergoing a course at the institute, it said. A case with the civil police has been registered and the Army is providing all assistance in the investigation, the release said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-army-officer-found-hanging-at-military-training-institute-in-pune-1040303.html
13-10-2021||West||Goa independent MLA extends support to TMC ahead of 2022 Assembly polls||Sitting independent MLA from Goa, Prasad Gaonkar, on Wednesday extended formal support to the Trinamool Congress party, even as his brother and some supporters officially joined the Mamata Banerjee-led outfit. Trinamool Congress sources said that Gaonkar would be formally joining the party soon after the culmination of the last session of the state legislative assembly which is scheduled to take place later this month. "The Congress should have capitalised on the anger against the BJP, but they have been unable to do so. So, I am supporting TMC," Gaonkar said. "Only Mamata didi can change the regime of Modi. The manner in which she handled the Bengal election and kept BJP at bay was phenomenal. She is the woman who carried out the miracle. She showed her worth," Gaonkar also said. Incidentally, Prasad's brother Sandesh had joined the Congress party in July this year, before the latter on Wednesday hopped over to join the TMC. Prasad Gaonkar was also tipped to join the Congress and contest the state assembly polls from the Sanguem assembly constituency in South Goa district on a Congress ticket. Gaonkar is the second legislator associated with the TMC, with the first being former Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro, who joined the party last month immediately after resigning as MLA. A re-energised TMC is keen on making a splash in the upcoming state assembly polls after facing humiliating defeats in the 2012 assembly polls and the 2014 general elections in the coastal state. According to party sources, the TMC is expected to rope in yet another former Chief Minister into its ranks, even as a regional party is in talks with the West Bengal-based party leaders to discuss the possibility of a merger of the regional outfit into the TMC before the state goes to polls in early 2022. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-independent-mla-extends-support-to-tmc-ahead-of-2022-assembly-polls-1040324.html
13-10-2021||West||Savarkar had sought general amnesty for all political prisoners, says his grandson||Amid a heated political exchange over Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's remarks on mercy petitions of Veer Savarkar, the latter's grandson Ranjit Savarkar on Wednesday said the freedom fighter had sought a general amnesty for all the political prisoners. He also said that had the freedom fighter apologised to the British he would have been given some post. Ranjit Savarkar also said that only one person like Mahatma Gandhi cannot be called the Father of the Nation as thousands of people had contributed towards the creation of the country which has a history of over 5,000 years. "Thousands of people have contributed towards the creation of this nation which has a history of more than 5,000 years. I don't think Mahatma Gandhi is the Father of the Nation," he told reporters in Mumbai. Responding to a query, Ranjit Savarkar said no one is demanding that Veer Savarkar be called the Father of the Nation because this concept itself was not acceptable to him. "My grandfather had sought a general amnesty for all the political prisoners. If he had really apologised to the British, he would have been given some post," he said. Speaking at a function in Delhi on Tuesday, Rajnath Singh said that it was on Mahatma Gandhi's request that Veer Savarkar wrote mercy petitions to the British and people from the Marxist and Leninist ideology wrongly accuse him as a fascist. On Wednesday, some opposition leaders attacked Rajnath Singh, alleging that he was "trying to rewrite history". Congress leader Jairam Ramesh and AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi shared on Twitter a letter by Gandhi on Jan 25, 1920 to Savarkar's brother regarding a case, and accused the Union minister of giving a "twist" to what Gandhi wrote. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/savarkar-had-sought-general-amnesty-for-all-political-prisoners-says-his-grandson-1040372.html
13-10-2021||West||HC gives bail to accused in Gujarat's first 'anti-love jihad law' case||The Gujarat high court on Wednesday ordered the release of all accused persons languishing in jail in the state's first case under Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amended) Act, 2021, the controversial anti-conversion law also described as "anti-love jihad" law. The court's relief came while hearing the pleas of the interfaith couple who have together moved the court seeking closure of the case. Justice Ilesh J Vora passed an order giving interim relief to four accused, including the husband, priest and two witnesses, who are behind bars, and gave protection to another accused yet to be arrested, while three other accused are already out on bail. The court also said that the couple can stay together and their petition for quashing of the FIR will be decided in the next hearing. In June, barely days after the state government implemented the contentious anti-conversion law, the 25-year-old woman had filed an FIR in Vadodara against eight persons including her husband, parents-in-law, sister-in-law, husband's uncle, cousin, who were witnesses, and the maulavi or priest who performed the nikah, alleging forceful religious conversion, rape, among other charges. Nearly a month after registration of the FIR, the couple, and seven other accused jointly moved court for quashing it. The complainant told court that allegations against her husband and others were "twisted" by the local police which turned her complaint of domestic violence under section 498A of Indian Penal Code to a case under the Freedom of Religion (Amended) Act, rape, unnatural sex and sections of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe (prevention of atrocities) Act, 1989. She said she had no idea about the new anti-conversion law back then and neither did she level any of these allegations against her husband and the in-laws. Her petition stated, "certain religio-political groups intervened in the matter and communalised the said issue by bringing the angle of "love-jihad". It added, "Also, on account of overzealousness of the police officers involved, facts and offences which were never mentioned or alleged by the informant (the woman) came to be inserted in the FIR." The woman said that she had met her husband through social media in 2019 and in February 2021, she got married under the special marriage act with the consent of their respective parents since they both belong to different religions. Recently, the high court stayed several sections of the controversial law on the ground that these sections treat any interfaith marriage "a criminal" act. The state government has moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court's order. Since its implementation from June 15 this year, at least five FIRs have been registered in different parts of the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-gives-bail-to-accused-in-gujarats-first-anti-love-jihad-law-case-1040381.html
13-10-2021||West||Congrats: Pawar's dig at Fadnavis over his 'I still feel like CM' remark||Taking a dig at senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, who had said that he still feels as chief minister of Maharashtra, NCP president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said he lacked this trait even though he had served as CM for four times. Fadnavis hit back saying some leaders are unhappy over his achievements as a former chief minister who completed his full five-year term, unlike Pawar. "It's good that the BJP leader still considers himself as the chief minister. I congratulate him. After being the chief minister for five years, Fadnavis still feels he is holding the post. I lacked this trait. I had served as chief minister (of Maharashtra) four times. But I don't even remember," Pawar told reporters in Mumbai. He also referred to Fadnavis' famous "Me Punha Yein" (I will return) slogan which had become popular before the 2019 Maharashtra assembly elections. The slogan had become a subject of ridicule and inspired many mock-filled messages and WhatsApp memes taking a dig at the BJP leader. Fadnavis, while speaking at an event in Navi Mumbai, had said that the people of Maharashtra never made me feel that I am not the chief minister. "I still feel that I am chief minister as I have been roaming in the state over the last two years. The love and affection of people have not receded,” he had said. On Wednesday, he hit back at Pawar saying some leaders are unhappy over his achievements as a former chief minister. "Pawar never completed a full five-year term even though he had served as CM for four times," Fadnavis said in Panaji. “People have not listened to my exact speech given in Navi Mumbai but are jumping on to react over the issue. The fact is that I am the only chief minister in the last 40 years who has completed his full five year term. Sharad Pawar also became chief minister of Maharashtra four times but he never completed a full five-year term. “These party leaders are unhappy because of my achievements. I am also happy in my current posting as Leader of Opposition,” he told reporters. Fadnavis became the chief minister of Maharashtra after the 2014 elections and went on to complete a full term, something which no chief minister of the state had managed in the previous three decades. After the Shiv Sena walked out of the alliance with the BJP after the 2019 polls, he forged a tie-up with a breakaway group of NCP MLAs led by Ajit Pawar and was sworn in as chief minister with Pawar as his deputy. But this government lasted only for three days for want of the numbers and was replaced by an alliance of the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, headed by Uddhav Thackeray. On a bandh observed in Maharashtra on Monday by the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Fadnavis said it was good that Pawar himself admitted how Shiv Sena succeeded in organising the shutdown by threatening the people. “An incident happened in Uttar Pradesh but here Maharashtra government used its own state machinery to make the bandh successful. Shiv Sena workers were openly threatening shop owners. It was a state-sponsored suppression due to which people got scared and remained in their homes,” he alleged. Fadnavis said he was happy that Pawar had admitted what happens when Shiv Sena gives a call for bandh and how it uses its force against the people to close down the business activities. Commenting on raids by CBI on the premises linked to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh who belongs to the NCP, he said, “CBI officials could visit Deshmukh's home only because of the order issued by the Bombay High Court. The Maharashtra government has withdrawn its support to cooperate with the CBI when there are at least 80 different cases of corruption, bank frauds among others”. Fadnavis said the way Central agencies are treated in Maharashtra is highly objectionable. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congrats-pawars-dig-at-fadnavis-over-his-i-still-feel-like-cm-remark-1040384.html
13-10-2021||West||Cheating case: Pune cops issue lookout circular against NCB's witness in cruise drugs case||Pune police have issued a lookout circular against K P Gosavi, one of the independent witnesses of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the cruise ship drugs seizure case, in connection with a 2018 cheating case registered here, a top official said on Wednesday. A lookout circular is a notice that prevents a person from leaving the country. "We have issued a lookout circular notice against K P Gosavi, who has been absconding in a 2018 cheating case registered against him with the Faraskhana police station," Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta said. Gosavi is one of the nine independent witnesses in the cruise ship raid and alleged recovery of drugs, in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested earlier this month. According to police, Gosavi was booked for allegedly duping a Pune-based man on the pretext of offering a job in Malaysia. Chinmay Deshmukh, who was allegedly cheated to the tune of Rs 3.09 lakh by Gosavi, had registered the complaint against him. The complaint said that Deshmukh had contacted Gosavi, who had put up an advertisement on social media about some vacancy in hotel industry in Malaysia. "While promising a job in Malaysia, Gosavi collectively took Rs 3.09 lakh from him in installments. However, he neither offered any job to him nor paid his money back," an official from Faraskhana police station said. The complaint against Gosavi was registered in 2018 under various IPC sections, including 420 (cheating), and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cheating-case-pune-cops-issue-lookout-circular-against-ncbs-witness-in-cruise-drugs-case-1040393.html
