14-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man sets himself ablaze on road near Konandur||A 40-year old man has reportedly set himself ablaze by pouring kerosene on his body on the road near Konandur in the taluk on Wednesday. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Raghavendra (40) resident of Aklapura village, Thirthahalli taluk. He had told his family members that he was going to Dattarajapura on the bike. But he stopped the vehicle at halfway and set himself ablaze by pouring kerosene on his body. Bystanders noticed the burning body of the man and bike and tried to rescue him. But their efforts went in vain. The reason for taking the extreme step is yet to be ascertained. Thirthahalli police registered a case.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-sets-himself-ablaze-on-road-near-konandur-1040464.html
14-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Muslims will face consequences, warns Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Wednesday warned Muslims that they would have to face terrible consequences if they poke their noses into Hindutva. Speaking to media persons, he said, some Muslims are projecting themselves as reformers of the society. They have attacked Hindu youth for uploading right-wing activist Chaitra Kundapura's speech video on Whatsapp in Shiralakoppa. It shows their arrogance and anti-social attitude. The government does not support such an attitude and they will face the consequences if it goes beyond the limits, he warned. Reacting to the video involving Congress leaders Saleem and Ugrappa discussing about corruption in the party, the BJP leader said Congress has already become a divided house and it would split further before the next assembly polls. Slamming Congress, he said, the party which fought for India's freedom is not present now. He also taunted that he is very much aware of the words used by former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and former Union Minister Ibrahim about former PM Indira Gandhi.  On Congress leader Siddaramaiah's open invitation for discussion on reservation for Kuruba community, he said, he is not aware of it. But he participated in agitation for ST status for Kuruba community on invitation from Kaginele Kanaka Gurupeetha Seer Niranjananandapuri Swami. He also made it clear that he is ready for open debate on the fight for reservation benefits for the community. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/muslims-will-face-consequences-warns-eshwarappa-1040467.html
14-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||'Can file defamation case', Siddaramaiah warns Bommai, advises him to 'correct' himself||Hitting back at Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai for accusing him of having got Hindu activists killed during his regime, senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday said he can file a defamation case against the CM, but was just advising him to correct himself. Dubbing the BJP as a "communal party", the former Chief Minister also accused Bommai of having joined the BJP just for power and supporting anti-constitutional activities. "Mr Basavaraj Bommai, like an ignorant, you have alleged that I got Hindus killed. Being the Chief Minister of Karnataka, you should have thought through before making such loose comments. I can file a defamation case for this but I will just advise you to correct yourself," Siddaramaiah tweeted. In another tweet, he said "Mr Bommai, you have said that you need not learn administration or policing from me. Thank you. Had you learnt anything from your father Shri S R Bommai (former CM and Janata Parivar veteran) or me, you would not have joined a communal party just for power and support anti-constitutional activities." Siddaramaiah was responding to Bommai's tweets yesterday, criticising him and his tenure as the Chief Minister.  Targeting Siddaramaiah, Bommai had said, "While you were the CM, you became the icon of anti-Hindus by getting killed Hindu activists as Tippu Sultan did in his regime. I need not learn administration or policing from you, we have an able police force to tackle the law and order which was sitting Ducks under ur government." The Twitter war between the two leaders had erupted late on Wednesday after Siddaramaiah had hit out at Bommai for his statement in Mangaluru that moral policing is "action and reaction" caused by "hurt sentiments". "Mr Bommai, you have accepted your incapability to maintain law and order by justifying moral policing by few anti-social elements. Please resign and save Karnataka!!" Siddaramaiah tweeted. In today's series of tweets, Siddaramaiah told Bommai he may be emotionally bankrupt like anti-social elements and may continue to light communal fires for political gains, "but true Hindus are intelligent enough to see through your act of treason..." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/can-file-defamation-case-siddaramaiah-warns-bommai-advises-him-to-correct-himself-1040687.html
14-10-2021||National||IYC takes out ‘Mashal Aakrosh Julus’ demanding justice for victims of Lakhimpur Kheri case||The Indian Youth Congress on Wednesday took out a ‘Mashal Aakrosh Julus’ demanding justice for the farmers who lost their lives during the recent Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh, a party statement said. The march, led by IYC national president Srinivas B V, also demanded dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, whose convoy allegedly ran over the farmers on October 3. “It appears that the policy of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre is to ‘tire and harass’ the farmers, a strategy which has failed. “The country's ‘annadata’ are now getting the BJP's policy and tactics. The unforgivable and ruthless killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh has shaken the soul of India,” Srinivas said. Saying that the attitude of the administration in the case has been “suspicious and unjust”, the Congress leader demanded a fair judicial inquiry as well as the immediate dismissal of Mishra. “The farmer, who grows food with his hard work, blood and sweat, is today helpless and troubled by the policies and functioning of the BJP government. It is our duty to provide 'justice' to them,” he said. “Our demand is that the Minister of State for Home should be dismissed immediately. He has no right to continue in his post even for a moment,” Srinivas added. The torch procession was taken out from the office of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) till Jantar Mantar here. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iyc-takes-out-mashal-aakrosh-julus-demanding-justice-for-victims-of-lakhimpur-kheri-case-1040439.html
14-10-2021||National||Struggle for Independence 200-250 years old: Dharmendra Pradhan||Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday said the struggle for freedom has been 200-250 years old and the movement for Independence cannot be attributed to only 2-3 families. He was speaking at "Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav and Philately day celebrations" organised by the Department of Posts where special covers on six unsung heroes of Odisha, who made great contributions in the country's freedom struggle, were released. "Had Honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji not handled the reign of the country, maybe, we would have kept singing the old song that the country's freedom has been brought by people of 2-3 families while the fight has been 200-250 years old," Pradhan said. The minister along with his cabinet colleague and minister for communications and IT Ashwini Vaishnaw released special covers on Buxi Jagabandhu, Baji Rout, Jai Rajguru, Chakhi Khuntia, Chakra Bisoi and Parbati Giri. Pradhan said that the struggle of Jai Rajguru is 215 years old which took place in 1806. The minister said the first war of Indian independence was fought under the leadership of Buxi Jagabandhu in 1817 on the land of Odisha. He said Chakra Bisoi did not let Britishers enter the tribal area of Odisha. The minister said that freedom fighters from Odisha were part of the Indian mutiny of 1857. The two ministers also interacted with the family members of the 6 unsung heroes, via Video link from Odisha. The family members of the 6 freedom fighters also attended the program virtually and were presented albums of the special covers by the Department of Posts officials at local Post offices in their respective home towns in Odisha. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/struggle-for-independence-200-250-years-old-dharmendra-pradhan-1040440.html
14-10-2021||National||Cong, BJP lock horns over Harish Rawat’s comments on ‘rebels’||Congress leader Harish Rawat’s comments that the rebels who had caused the collapse of the government headed by him in Uttarakhand in 2016 “apologise for their sins” before returning to the party, led to a war of words between the Congress and the BJP. Rawat has blocked the attempts of several BJP MLAs to return to the Congress after the transport minister in the Pushkar Singh Dhami government and influential Dalit leader Yashpal Arya’s ‘ghar wapsi’ in the Congress, “The rebels who toppled the Congress government in 2016… the legislators will have to first apologise for their sin,” he said. Reacting to the remarks, state Forest Minister Harak Singh Rawat, who was among the 10 Congress MLAs who revolted against the Harish Rawat government in 2016, said the Congress leader should also apologise to the people of ‘Devbhoomi’ over the poisonous liquor named ‘Dennis’. Another cabinet minister Arvind Pandey also hit out at Rawat over a 2016 sting operation wherein the Congress leader’s name was linked with a liquor scam. “Can such a man talk about sin and virtue?” he said. In 2016, 10 Congress MLAs led by former chief minister Vijay Bahuguna had rebelled against the then Harish Rawat government due to which the government was reduced to a minority. However, Yashpal Arya was not among those MLAs. He left the Congress in January 2017 before the assembly elections and joined the BJP. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-bjp-lock-horns-over-harish-rawat-s-comments-on-rebels-1040449.html
14-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Modi's master plan for infrastructure||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched a Rs 100 lakh crore national master plan for multi-modal connectivity that seeks to provide “plug-and-play” infrastructure for investors to set up business in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-modis-master-plan-for-infrastructure-1040474.html
14-10-2021||National||India offers spectrum of opportunities, FM Sitharaman tells American CEOs||India offers a “spectrum of opportunities” to investors and business firms, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told executives of top American companies, as she met and apprise them of various flagship programs of the Modi Government under Atma Nirbhar Bharat. Sitharaman, 62, is currently in the American capital to attend the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. On the sidelines of the meeting of these two institutions, she has been meeting a host of top American CEOs with footprints in India and who have shown interest in seizing the investment opportunities there. In her meeting with Amway CEO, Milind Pant, the focus of discussion ranged in the areas of research and development, manufacturing automation, innovation and nutrition segment, the ministry said. Initiatives like National Monetization Pipeline recently launched the National Infrastructure Master Plan and a spectrum of opportunities at GIFT City in Gujarat was mentioned by the finance minister during her meeting. The minister underlined the presence and performance of the company in India since 1998 and its keenness to invest in the coming years. During her meeting with B Marc Allen, Chief Strategy Officer of Boeing, the discussion was broadly in the areas of skilling, research and development, manufacturing automation, innovation and the aerospace sector. She underlined Boeing’s collaboration in Make In India and Atma Nirbhar Bharat initiatives and the interest of the company to invest in the coming years. During her meeting with Stanley Erck, CEO of Novavax, Sitharaman discussed important Indian initiatives towards healthcare reforms like research and development in medical science, health and well-being and the growing opportunities at GIFT City in Gujarat. She underlined the company’s interest to invest in India in the coming years.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-offers-spectrum-of-opportunities-fm-sitharaman-tells-american-ceos-1040477.html
14-10-2021||National||Aryan Khan wasn't present during rave party raid on cruise ship, had no cash to buy drugs: Lawyers||Son of Bollywood megastar Shah Rukh Khan, Aryan Khan's lawyers, senior advocates Amit Desai and Satish Maneshinde argued that he was not present during the rave party raid on the cruise ship, had no cash to buy drugs, nor had any narcotics on him. In a sensational claim, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday alleged that Khan along with others, was prima facie involved in "illicit drug trafficking, procuring and distribution of contraband" banned under the NDPS Act. The agency also accused Aryan Khan of being in touch with some persons abroad who could be part of an international illegal drug syndicate and it is continuing further investigations to unearth his links to contact the foreign agency through proper channels. The NCB's statement came during a hearing of the bail applications of Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Mohak Jaswal, Nupur Satija, Aachit Kumar, Shreyas Nair and Avin Sahu before Special NDPS Judge V.V. Patil. Since the arguments remained incomplete, the matter will continue on Thursday afternoon, and Aryan Khan and the 7 others arrested remain in custody since October 2. The NCB's allegations came in its reply opposing the bail applications of Aryan Khan, Merchant, and Dhamecha. It said there is prima facie sufficient material evidence in the form of WhatsApp chats, photos, etc showing that Aryan Khan was an active link of the illegal drugs chain along with the other accused. The agency said Aryan Khan used to procure the drugs from Merchant, from whom 5 grams charas was recovered, and they are both closely associated which is sufficient to make out the offences, while Aachit Kumar, nabbed after Khan's statement, was nabbed with 2.6 grams of ganja. The reply states that the arrests of the other suppliers and accused form part of a larger chain, nexus and involvement in a conspiracy. Since there was a seizure of commercial quantities of drugs, the non-recovery of drugs from one person (Aryan Khan) cannot be treated in isolation as all are intertwined with each other and are "inextricably connected". Strongly opposing Aryan Khan's bail plea, the NCB said that since he is an influential person, he could tamper with evidence or influence witnesses and may flee from justice. Desai, however, termed the NCB allegations of drug trafficking as inherently absurd and false since he was not even on the ship during the raids, but the NCB said Aryan Khan used to get his drugs from Merchant. Aryan Khan, along with Merchant, Dhamecha, Satija, Jaswal, Ishmeet Singh Chadha, Vikrant Chhoker, and Gomit Chopra were nabbed in the first round on October 3, and on October 7, remanded to 14 days judicial custody by a Mumbai magistrate. Later, the NCB made a series of arrests, totalling around 20 to date and all the accused are in different types of custody. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aryan-khan-wasnt-present-during-rave-party-raid-on-cruise-ship-had-no-cash-to-buy-drugs-lawyers-1040478.html
14-10-2021||National||Ensuring equitable vaccines for all must for global economic recovery: Sitharaman tells G-20||Ensuring equitable vaccines for all is a key to the global economic recovery but it faces a significant challenge, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told her G-20 counterparts on Wednesday In her remarks at the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting, held on the sidelines of the Annual Meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Sitharaman said for the global economic recovery, it is essential to keep up the support, build resilience and enhance productivity and structural reforms. These “should be our policy goals,” Sitharaman said at the in-person meeting of the Fourth G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (FMCBG) under the Italian presidency. G-20 countries agreed to avoid any premature withdrawal of support measures while preserving financial stability and long-term fiscal sustainability besides safeguarding against downside risks and negative spillovers. The meeting, the last one under the Italian Presidency, also saw discussions and agreements on various issues of global economic recovery, pandemic support to vulnerable countries, global health, climate action, international taxation and financial sector issues. Appreciating the G-20's role in rallying the pandemic response and supporting vulnerable countries through debt relief measures and the new SDR allocation, Sitharaman suggested focusing efforts on making the benefits reach the intended countries. Participating in the discussion on climate change, the finance minister emphasised that considering the varied policy spaces and different starting points of countries, the centrality of climate justice based on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and principles of the Paris Agreement would be critical for taking forward discussions towards successful outcomes. She rued that the failure in fulfilling the existing international commitments on climate finance and technology weakens the collective efforts of the global community in the fight against climate change. Sitharaman asked for climate justice to guide further discussions. In her remarks, the finance minister appreciated the recent OECD decision of OECD on global tax. This agreement, she noted, helps to address tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the economy and in dealing with Base Erosion and Profit Shifting issues. For addressing tax challenges arising from the digitalisation of the economy, the G20 FMCBGs endorsed the final agreement as set out in the statement on a two-pillar solution and the Detailed Implementation Plan released by the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) on October 8, 2021. The G-20 meeting of finance ministers and governors of central banks discussed a range of other topics, including the current macroeconomic conditions, further progress on reforms to international taxation, coordination on vaccine distribution and long-term pandemic preparedness. They also discussed efforts within the G20 Finance Track on climate change mitigation and financial regulatory issues. US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and her counterparts also continued productive discussions about international tax, an official release said. Yellen noted the landmark agreement of virtually the entire global economy to end the race to the bottom on corporate taxation and how 136 nations, representing 94 per cent of the world’s GDP, including all 20 nations in the G20, agreed to a new and specific set of provisions to uniformly tax the income of multinational companies, including a global minimum tax. World Bank President David Malpass said developing countries need five billion more doses to vaccinate 70 per cent of their population by the middle of next year. And there’s a need to boost manufacturing capacity too. The International Finance Corporation – IFC – is investing to expand production in Africa, he said. Some urgent steps are needed: swapping near-term vaccine delivery schedules with COVAX and AVAT; closing the gap between pledges and deliveries and eliminating trade and regulatory barriers. “Finance and health ministers in developing countries should also seek contracts that include early delivery schedules,” he said. Malpass called for ending the fossil fuel subsidy regimes and design appropriate carbon taxes and other incentives for carbon reduction. “This will be critical for bending the emissions curve,” he said. The G20 finance ministers and governors of the central banks agreed to coordinate their efforts to tackle climate change and protect the environment, as well as to promote transitions towards greener, more prosperous and inclusive economies and societies, a communique said after the meeting. Following up on the July 2021 engagement on climate action, ministers and governors urged different G20 work streams to act in synergy to deepen the analysis of the economic and distributional impact of mitigation policies and develop the most appropriate policy mix to move towards low greenhouse gas emission economies. “Such mix should include investment in sustainable infrastructure and innovative technologies, as well as fiscal, market and regulatory tools, including carbon pricing mechanisms, to support clean energy transitions,” the communique said. According to the G-20 Communiqué, ministers and governors recognised that global recovery is continuing at a solid pace, mostly due to the rollout of vaccines and the continued policy support. “Nonetheless, the recovery remains highly divergent across and within countries and exposed to risks, thus the members have reaffirmed their willingness to continue sustaining the recovery, avoiding any premature withdrawal of support measures,” it said.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensuring-equitable-vaccines-for-all-must-for-global-economic-recovery-sitharaman-tells-g-20-1040479.html
14-10-2021||National||India builds up Covid vaccine stocks to lift shipments globally||By Sudhi Ranjan Sen, India is building up a stockpile of Covid vaccine doses with 250 million shots prepared and three more vaccines under development, a government official said on Wednesday, which will go some way to help the country meet its export commitments.  Most of these doses will be given to neighbouring countries and will also meet India’s commitments to the World Health Organisation’s Covax initiative for poorer nations, said V K Paul, a member of NITI Aayog. Covishield makes up the bulk of 250 million doses, while the rest are Covaxin, Paul said. Several more vaccines are under development and are likely to get statutory clearances by the end of the year, he said. “India will play a significant role in providing vaccines to the world by 2022,” he told reporters.  The news comes as India is set to achieve its own milestone of one billion first vaccination doses next week, a government official told reporters earlier. About a fifth of the 1.49 billion population is fully inoculated, according to the Bloomberg Vaccine Tracker.  India last month said it would restart vaccine shipments in October, some six months after the government halted exports due to the second wave of infections. Local media reported that exports have already begun to Myanmar, Nepal, and Bangladesh, which received one million doses each.  Iran had also obtained one million doses of Covaxin, the Indian Embassy in Tehran tweeted last week, signalling that Modi’s vaccine diplomacy is in full swing.  India to restart vaccine exports as neighbours put pressure India agreed in September to restart exports just before Modi embarked on a visit to the US, which included a face-to-face meeting with the Quad group that is also made up of Australia, the US, and Japan. Modi told his counterparts that eight million doses of Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine would available by the end of October under the partnership. The Quad countries will pay for the vaccine and India would bear a certain part of the cost, Modi said during that meeting in Washington. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-builds-up-covid-vaccine-stocks-to-lift-shipments-globally-1040480.html
14-10-2021||National||With TMC's entry, 'Durga' becomes political metaphor in poll-bound Goa||Durga Puja, West Bengal's most popular festival, has become a political metaphor in the poll-bound state and the deity Durga, a source of electoral salvation for leaders, who are with their backs to the wall ahead of the 2022 state Assembly elections, especially with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress seeking to make waves in Goa. Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai, whose patience has been put to the test by the Congress party over possible alliance formation, has taken recourse to pay homage to Durga, invoking a 'new dawn'. "I have said that we have to awaken the Durga in us. Navaratri is about Durga Puja. We worship Durga mata and pray to her for something good to happen. The coming of a new dawn is a good thing," Sardesai said. Sardesai's reference to a 'new dawn' contains a coded, oblique reference to the Trinamool Congress, which has coined a new political slogan especially for Goa called 'Goenchi Navi Sakal' (Goa's New Dawn). Posters and banners by the hundreds have gone up in Goa over the last two weeks tomtoming the political slogan -- styled on the lines of 'khela hobe' slogan during the West Bengal polls -- with a photograph of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Sardesai's political position is a peculiar one. His Goa Forward won three seats (including Sardesai himself) in the state Assembly polls in 2017 on an anti-BJP plank, but joined the BJP soon after the election results were announced. Sardesai was, however, sacked from the cabinet soon after then Chief Minister late Manohar Parrikar's death in office in 2019 by Pramod Sawant, who replaced Parrikar in the top seat. Facing the 2022 polls, Goa Forward appears to have been reduced to the status of a political pariah, with Congress not seeming eager to ally with it. Sardesai argues that the Congress has a dichotomous approach while dealing with his party and vis a vis alliances. "On the one hand they say that we want to form an alliance, while in the papers we hear (statements like) we will contest all 40 seats. They are telling us one thing privately, on the other hand they say something else publicly. One leader speaks one language, state-level leaders say something else," Sardesai said. "This sort of inconsistency and lack of direction of the opposition party makes us hostage to a situation whereby default this government can come back again. So we have to be very conscious and I am willing to make any sacrifice to ensure that the BJP does not come back to power in Goa," he added. Sardesai also claims that he is in talks with other parties as well as Indian-Political Action Committee's Prashant Kishor, who is the chief political strategist for Banerjee's Trinamool Congress. "I had met Prashant Kishor earlier, I have told you that. Everybody is in touch with everyone. This is election season. We have to look for options 100 per cent. We cannot rest idle and allow this government to rule for another five years," said Sardesai, who was a part of the BJP-led alliance government from 2017-2019. Sardesai is not the only politician who is keen on an association with the Trinamool. Sitting Nationalist Congress Party MLA Churchill Alemao, who contested on a Trinamool ticket in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, is also dropping political references identical to the one's coined by Trinamool's biggest Goa catch, former Congress Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro. "Me and Mamata Banerjee were MPs together. We know each other. We will see how politics plays out," Alemao, also a former Chief Minister said. "If all four Congresses, Nationalist Congress Party, Trinamool Congress, YSR Congress and the Congress join together, it will bode well," Alemao said. Last month, soon after joining the Trinamool, Faleiro had said that the Congress, with its breakaway units was a "divided house", but added that his objective was to bring the breakaway groups together to take on the BJP. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-tmcs-entry-durga-becomes-political-metaphor-in-poll-bound-goa-1040484.html
14-10-2021||National||Minor girl accuses father, SP, BSP leaders of rape||(Warning: Story contains some graphic details, reader discretion advised) In a shocking incident, a 17-year-old girl has accused 28 persons, including her father and leaders of Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party of raping her over the past few years. Based on her complaint, the Lalitpur police on Tuesday filed an FIR in this regard. The accused include her father, Samajwadi Party (SP) district president Tilak Yadav, SP city president Rajesh Jain Jojhiya, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) district president Deepak Ahirwar and others. They have been booked under sections 354 (outraging modesty), 376-D (rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), and other sections of the IPC and Section 5/6 of POCSO Act. In her complaint, the girl has alleged that when she was in Class 6, her father tried to lure her into the crime by showing her obscene films but she did not oblige. Later, her father bought her new clothes and took her for a ride on a motorbike on the pretext of teaching her how to drive. He took her to a desolated farm and raped her while warning her to keep quiet or he would kill her mother. A few days later, he took her to a hotel on the way back from her school and gave her snacks laced with sedatives. He handed her over to a woman, who made her sit alone inside a room and after sometime, a man entered the room while she fell unconscious. When she regained consciousness, her clothes and shoes were not in the proper place and she was having a severe stomach ache. Later, this continued and each time, a new man raped her in hotel rooms. All along she was threatened with dire consequences. She further said in her complaint that Tilak Yadav also raped her and said that it was her father who had brought her to him. He told her that her mother would also come to him. The girl has further said that when she had visited her maternal uncle's house, she was raped by four of her uncles along with cousins. She claimed that her grandmother tried to hush up the incident. SP Lalitpur, Nikhil Pathak, said, "It is a very sensitive case and we are taking it seriously. The medical examination of the victim has been done and her statement has also been recorded under section 161. She will record her statement in front of a magistrate under section 164 soon after which further action will be taken. We are interrogating the father of the victim. He is a truck operator." Meanwhile SP district president Tilak Yadav has issued a statement on social media, claiming that he and his brothers were being falsely implicated in the case. Watch DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minor-girl-accuses-father-sp-bsp-leaders-of-rape-1040486.html
14-10-2021||National||India reports 18,987 new Covid-19 cases, 246 deaths||India recorded 18,987 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 3,40,20,730 on Thursday, while the national Covid recovery rate increased to 98.07 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll reached 4,51,435 with 246 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 20 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 109 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 2,06,586 comprising 0.61 per cent of the total infections while the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.07 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 1067 cases has been recorded in the active Covid caseload in a span of  24 hours. A total of 13,01,083 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the number of cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 58,76,64,525. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 33362709, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.46 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.44 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. Over 96.82 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid -19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-18987-new-covid-19-cases-246-deaths-1040496.html
14-10-2021||National||Centre's mega outreach plan to mark 100-crore Covid vaccination mark: Report||Under the mega outreach plan, BJP leaders have been asked to visit vaccination centres that clocked 100 per cent vaccination and share videos and photographs of the events with the main focus on poll-bound states, including Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. The saffron party is also planning to use the opportunity to spread awareness about the centre's other welfare schemes.  Earlier, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had noted that India's Covid-19 vaccination will cross the landmark of 100 crore vaccine doses in a few days. "With around 97 crore vaccine doses administered so far, the numbers are expected to reach the 100 crore milestone next week, likely on October 19 or 20," he had said. The vaccination programme has reportedly slowed down slightly due to the festivals of Durga Puja and Navratri. However, the government is planning to step up the drive after Dussehra. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 96 crore with more than 32 lakh jabs being administered on Wednesday. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-mega-outreach-plan-to-mark-100-crore-covid-vaccination-mark-report-1040499.html
14-10-2021||National||No respite as petrol, diesel prices hiked again||After two days of lull, petrol and diesel price on Thursday was again hiked by 35 paise per litre, sending retail pump prices to their highest ever level across the country. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 104.79 a litre and Rs 110.75 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 101.40 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 93.52. This is the 13th time that petrol price has been hiked in two weeks while diesel rates have gone up 16 times in three weeks. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in a dozen states including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Leh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude has jumped to near $84 per barrel for the first time in seven years. On September 13, Brent was trading at $73.51. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 4.9 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 3.9. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. Check out latest videos from DH:  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-as-petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-again-1040504.html
14-10-2021||National||Mansukh Mandaviya meets Manmohan Singh at AIIMS, enquires about his health||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday met former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who has been admitted to the AIIMS here after complaining of weakness following a fever, and enquired about his health. "Singh's condition is stable," a doctor at the hospital said.   In a tweet in Hindi, Mandaviya said that he met former prime minister Manmohan Singh at AIIMS, New Delhi and enquired about his health. आज पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री डॉ. मनमोहन सिंह जी से AIIMS, नई दिल्ली में मुलाक़ात की व उनके स्वास्थ्य के विषय में जानकारी ली। मैं उनके शीघ्र स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूं। The health minister wished Singh a speedy recovery. The 89-year-old former prime minister was admitted to a private ward of the cardioneuro centre of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Wednesday and is under the care of a team of cardiologists led by Dr Nitish Naik, the doctor said. Singh had a fever on Monday and had recovered, but turned weak and was on fluids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mansukh-mandaviya-meets-manmohan-singh-at-aiims-enquires-about-his-health-1040534.html
14-10-2021||National||Festival crowds return as coronavirus horrors fade||India's main religious festival season is back in full swing with huge noisy crowds thronging markets and fairs for the first time in two years, barely six months after a devastating Covid-19 surge. The coronavirus is still claiming over 200 lives daily in the nation of 1.3 billion people but that is down sharply from the 4,000 fatalities in April and May. Most activities are back to normal and India has administered almost a billion vaccine doses, with around 75 per cent of people receiving at least one shot. India's peak holiday season includes Durga Puja, Dussehra and Diwali -- major Hindu festivals celebrated with noise, colour and exuberance across the country. It is also the time when people splurge on dresses, sweets, cars and other consumer goods -- vital for fuelling the battered economy, the world's sixth-biggest. In Kolkata on Thursday, crowds flocked colourful "pandals", temporary structures where idols of the Hindu goddess Durga are installed during the festivities. The spectators jostled for a glimpse of a 145-feet (44-metre) high pandal designed as a replica of Dubai's Burj Khalifa skyscraper, complete with a dazzling laser show. Traffic police in the West Bengal state's capital used loudspeakers to remind people about physical distancing, but in vain, although many people wore masks. "It's festival time so people will come and people will enjoy. Now there are no restrictions, the government has allowed us (to celebrate) so we are enjoying out here," Aradhana Gupta told AFP. Another reveller Riya Tai rued how she could not celebrate the festival last year when strict virus restrictions were in place. "I am feeling happy (this time) although the crowd is excessive. I am sweating like hell but still I am enjoying it," she said, amid the beating of drums and Bollywood music blaring from speakers. The neighbouring states of Bihar and Assam have also witnessed huge festival crowds as have the western states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government kicked off a campaign dubbed "Mission 100 Days", with fears that the long festive season could see a resurgence of Covid-19. "We are asking states to be extra vigilant during the next 100 days, and ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is observed," a government official was quoted as saying by The Hindustan Times newspaper. "Only then we will be able to save the country from an expected surge in cases." Community health expert Rajib Dasgupta said the high coverage by the first vaccine doses was likely to protect the country from a new surge, unless a highly transmissible variant emerges. "India's vulnerability potentially lies in a very high proportion of partially immunised persons," he told AFP. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/festival-crowds-return-as-coronavirus-horrors-fade-1040539.html
14-10-2021||National||16-year-old girl raped by Facebook friend on pretext of marriage||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped on the pretext of marriage by a man whom she befriended on Facebook, police said on Thursday. The girl, a resident of Dokati Police Station area, became friends with the 31-year-old accused belonging to Hardoi district through Facebook. On August 25, she went to Hardoi to meet the man who allegedly raped her, according to police. Dokati Police Station in-charge Manoj Singh said on the complaint of the girl's mother, a case was registered after her daughter went missing. On Thursday, police detained the girl along with the accused from Bairia bus stand, he said. Based on the statement of the teenager, the charge of rape and relevant section of the POCSO Act were added in the case, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-year-old-girl-raped-by-facebook-friend-on-pretext-of-marriage-1040541.html
14-10-2021||National||Centre launches 'One Health' consortium for surveillance of bacterial, viral infections||The Department of Biotechnology has launched a 'One Health' consortium that envisages carrying out surveillance of important bacterial, viral and parasitic infections of zoonotic as well as transboundary pathogens in the country. The project also looks into the use of existing diagnostic tests and the development of additional methodologies for the surveillance and understanding the spread of emerging diseases, the DBT said in a statement. Dr Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, launched the First 'One Health' project of the DBT through video conferencing on Thursday. The consortium envisages carrying out surveillance of important bacterial, viral and parasitic infections of zoonotic as well as transboundary pathogens. Noting that the Covid-19 pandemic showed the relevance of 'One Health' principles in the governance of infectious diseases, specially efforts to prevent and contain zoonotic diseases throughout the world, Swarup emphasised on a holistic approach to understand the health of human, animals and wildlife to minimise the damage caused by future pandemics. Swarup said the 'One Health Consortium consisting of 27 organisations led by DBT-National Institute of Animal Biotechnology, Hyderabad, is one of the biggest health programmes launched by the government in post-Covid times. The consortium consists of AIIMS, Delhi, AIIMS Jodhpur, IVRI, Bareilly, GADVASU, Ludhiana, TANUVAS, Chennai, MAFSU, Nagpur, Assam agricultural and veterinary university and many more ICAR, ICMR centres and wildlife agencies. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-launches-one-health-consortium-for-surveillance-of-bacterial-viral-infections-1040542.html
14-10-2021||National||In a first, govt fixes subsidy for potash derived from molasses||The Centre on Thursday said it has fixed subsidy on potash derived from molasses (PDM) for the first time under the Nutrient Based Subsidy, a move expected to reduce the country's dependence on mineral-based potash. The government will offer a subsidy of Rs 73 per 50 kg bag of PDM sold at Rs 600-800 by fertiliser companies to farmers, it said. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has given a nod to this proposal in its recent meeting. According to the Fertilizer Ministry, "It is expected that the Union Government will spend Rs 156 crores (approx.) annually as a subsidy on PDM and save a foreign exchange of Rs 562 crores". This will give a push to sugar mills to manufacture the byproduct 'molasses' from which potash can be derived. This will boost the revenue of mills and income of sugarcane growers, the ministry said in a statement. Besides, it is expected to reduce India's dependence on 100 per cent import of more than 42 lakh tonnes of mineral-based Muriate of Potash (MOP), which cost around Rs 7,160 crore annually, the statement said. Till last year, the government was fixing the subsidy under the Nutrient Based Subsidy (NBS) scheme for 22 varieties of fertilisers having soil nutrients namely Nitrogen (N), Phosphate (P), Potash (K) and Sulphur (S). However in May this year, two complex fertilisers were included under the NBS. The inclusion of PDM takes total variants of fertiliser to 25. The government has also extended the increase in the subsidy of phosphatic (P) and potassic (K) fertiliser from October 1 till March 31 of this financial year, while enhanced subsidy on Diammonium phosphate (DAP) by Rs 438 per bag as a special one-time package. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-govt-fixes-subsidy-for-potash-derived-from-molasses-1040546.html
14-10-2021||National||HC asks Delhi govt to decide complaint alleging 77 missing trees in Sarvodaya Enclave||The Delhi High Court has directed the Delhi government to decide within six weeks a complaint alleging that 77 trees have gone missing in Sarvodaya Enclave area over a span of seven years. Justice Rekha Palli directed that a reasoned and speaking order be passed by DCF (South) & Tree Officer, South Division, Department of Forests & Wildlife on the complaint made by Bhavreen Kandhari in December 2020. The court was hearing a petition by Khandhari — an environmental activist — seeking a direction that necessary action be taken on her complaint within four weeks. Delhi government counsel said that there was no objection with respect to deciding the petitioner's complaint expeditiously. “In the light of the aforesaid stand taken by the respondent, the writ petition, along with the pending application, is disposed of by directing the respondent to decide the petitioner's complaint dated 08.12.2020 by passing a reasoned and speaking order within a period of six weeks from today,” the court ordered on October 11. The judge clarified that it was not expressing any opinion on the claims but said that if the petitioner was aggrieved by the order passed by the authorities, it would be open for her to take legal recourse as per law. In her petition, filed through lawyers Aditya N Prasad and Dhriti Chhabra, the petitioner stated that she made a complaint to the concerned official after two Tree Censuses, that were conducted in Sarvodaya Enclave, New Delhi in 2011-2012 and 2018-2019, showed found that 77 trees had gone missing in the colony. “The 2012 Census was concluded with the recommendation of the immediate planting of 1000 trees in Sarvodaya Enclave, New Delhi to ensure that the green cover in the colony was maintained. Nevertheless, another Tree Census that was conducted in the aforesaid colony in the years 2018 and 2019 revealed that the street tree count in the colony had dropped from 784 to 731 trees over a span of 7 years despite the addition of 21 new trees,” the petition said. "The Complaint was predominantly based on the inconsistencies between two Tree Censuses that were conducted in Sarvodaya Enclave, New Delhi in the years, 2011 & 2012 and 2018 & 2019 as per which it was found that 77 trees had gone missing in the colony over a span of 7 years," it added. The petitioner informed that the concerned authority neither acknowledged nor acted upon the requests made in the complaint for initiation of necessary legal action against the “illegal felling” under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. The plea added that the petitioner was acting in consonance with Article 51(A)(g) of the Constitution of India by discharging her fundamental duty to make efforts to protect and improve the natural environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-decide-complaint-alleging-77-missing-trees-in-sarvodaya-enclave-1040551.html
14-10-2021||National||Interest of dealers not independent of vehicle manufacturer: SC||The Supreme Court has set aside an order of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC), which directed a car dealer to pay Rs 7.43 lakh compensation for deficiency of service over a misleading advertisement, saying the interest of the dealers is not independent of the vehicle manufacturer. The complainant, who purchased a Ford Fiesta (Diesel) car from A B Motors Pvt Ltd, Dehradun, claimed that Ford India Pvt Ltd had published a misleading advertisement in newspapers claiming an average mileage of 31.4 km litre whereas the actual mileage was 15-16 km/litre. He filed a complaint before the District Forum which was allowed and the manufacturer along with the dealer were directed to make a payment of Rs 7,43,200 to him upon the return of the vehicle. A sum of Rs 10,000 was also awarded towards costs. Ford India filed an appeal before the State Commission which was dismissed. Later, the NCDRC allowed the revision petition. Consequently, the dealers continued to be saddled with the liability of the direction issued by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum to pay the price of the car. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by the dealer against the NCDRC order which allowed the revision filed by the manufacturer of the vehicle in question. A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian said the NCDRC has recorded a finding that the alleged misleading advertisement was issued on June 20, 2007, whereas the vehicle was purchased on March 9, 2007. "Therefore, it was held that the consumer cannot be said to be misled by the advertisement. "Since the interest of the Dealers is not independent of the Manufacturer of the vehicle, we find that the order passed by the Consumer Fora under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 cannot be sustained against the Dealers, whose interest is common with the manufacturer of the vehicle, in fact derives from the manufacturer of the vehicles," the bench said. The apex court, in its October 8 order, allowed the appeal file by the dealer and set aside the order passed by the Consumer Fora. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/interest-of-dealers-not-independent-of-vehicle-manufacturer-sc-1040555.html
14-10-2021||National||Centre approves 31 proposals for telecom PLI scheme entailing Rs 3,345 crore investment||The Department of Telecom on Thursday approved 31 proposals entailing an investment of Rs 3,345 crore over the next four and a half years. "The investment of Rs 3,345 crore in the next 4.5 years is just a beginning. Government is helping you (industry players) as a catalyst," Minister of State for Communications Devusinh Chauhan said. The companies selected for the PLI scheme include Nokia India, HFCL, Dixon Technologies, Flextronics, Foxconn, Coral Telecom, VVDN Technologies, Akashastha Technologies, and GS India. The DoT notified the PLI scheme for telecom and networking products on February 24, 2021, with a financial outlay of Rs 12,195 crore, over the five years. The scheme for telecom gear manufacturing in India is expected to encourage the production of equipment worth Rs 2.44 lakh crore and create direct and indirect employment for about 40,000 people. The investors can earn an incentive for incremental sales up to 20 times the committed investment, enabling them to reach global scales and utilise their unused capacity and ramp up production. "This is the first scheme among all PLI schemes, which includes MSMEs. Without this, we would have been handicapped," Coral Telecom managing director Rajesh Tuli said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-31-proposals-for-telecom-pli-scheme-entailing-rs-3345-crore-investment-1040559.html
14-10-2021||National||Rajnath Singh hails Indira Gandhi for role in 1971 war with Pakistan||Former prime minister Indira Gandhi not only led the country for a number of years, but she also did so during the times of war, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday, in an apparent reference to her role in the 1971 war with Pakistan. In an address at a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) seminar on the role of women in the armed forces, the defence minister also talked about Rani Laxmi Bai and former president Pratibha Patil, and said India has a positive experience in harnessing women's power in national development. Singh said though it is justifiable to discuss the role of women in the armed forces, their wider contribution in all spheres of security and nation-building must also be recognised and reinforced. "There are a number of examples of women taking up arms to protect their country and the rights of the people through history. Rani Laxmi Bai is amongst the most revered and respected amongst them," he said. "India's former prime minister Indira Gandhi not only led the country for a number of years, she also did so during the times of war. And more recently, Pratibha Patil was the president of India and the supreme commander of the Indian armed forces," the defence minister added. Under Indira Gandhi's prime ministership, India won the 1971 war against Pakistan that resulted in the birth of Bangladesh. Singh said the tradition of women as both caregivers and protectors has continued over the centuries and remains deeply embedded in the customs and traditions of the region. "If Saraswati is our goddess of knowledge, wisdom and learning, mother Durga remains associated with protection, strength, destruction and war," he said. Singh said India is amongst a very few countries that took an early initiative in terms of women's participation in the armed forces and that women are now being accepted for permanent commissioning and shall be commanding Army units and battalions in the near future. "Women have been serving with pride in the Indian Military Nursing Service for over 100 years now. The Indian Army had commenced commissioning women officers in 1992. It has now moved to inducting women officers in most of the branches of the Army," he said. "Women are now being accepted for permanent commission and shall be commanding Army units and battalions in the near future," he added. Singh said women will be able to join the premier tri-service pre-commissioning training institute, the National Defence Academy, from next year. Describing the induction of women in the military police in the Army as a major milestone, he said India's approach to their induction in the police, central police, paramilitary and armed forces has been progressive. "We have taken the evolutionary path of moving from support to combat support and thereafter, to combat arms within the armed forces," he said. "We have found that the process of induction, given its broad-based and progressive path, has also simultaneously prepared the society and the armed forces for this change. This is an important aspect to ensure a smooth and successful transition," the defence minister added. Referring to women's role in the Navy, he said from humble beginnings in the Air Traffic Control in 1993, the women officers graduated to being pilots of maritime reconnaissance aircraft in 2016 and are now being appointed onboard warships since last year. "The Indian Coast Guard has been employing women officers in combat roles, which include pilots, observers and aviation support services. In the Indian Air Force, women are inducted in all roles, including combat and support roles," Singh said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-hails-indira-gandhis-role-in-1971-war-with-pakistan-1040576.html
14-10-2021||National||Closure of some mines, inundation due to monsoon led to coal crisis: Joshi||Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday said closure of some mines, and inundation of a few others due to monsoon led to the crisis but there is no need to panic as the situation is improving. Visiting the Ashoka mine of the Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL) at Piparwar in Chatra district of Jharkhand, Joshi said the power plants in the country will continue to receive the required amount of coal. "We are witnessing an improvement now," he said, asked about the current situation. The minister held discussions with officials of CCL and Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) on the prevailing situation. "We can produce two million tonnes of coal per day," he said, asserting the need for producing more coal. Closure of some coal mines and inundation of a few others due to monsoon led to the hindrance in coal supply to power plants, Joshi told reporters. The minister also discussed the issue related to the availability of land for mining at the meeting. A solution will be found with the cooperation of all, including the district administration, he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/closure-of-some-mines-inundation-due-to-monsoon-led-to-coal-crisis-joshi-1040598.html
14-10-2021||National||Coal India temporarily halts supply to non-power customers||The supply of coal by CIL to the non-power sector has been kept suspended temporarily amid electricity generating plants in the country grappling with coal shortages. "Supplies to non-power sector plants have been kept suspended till further information," a recent letter of Coal India's arm South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL) seen by PTI said. On being asked about the development, a CIL official said, "This is only a temporary prioritisation, in the interest of the nation, to tide over the low coal stock situation at the stressed power plants and scale up supplies to them." The company, the official said, is increasing its production and offtake steadily. For the past four days, supplies to the power sector are consistently at 1.61 million tonnes (MT) per day. Once the situation stabilises, expectedly within a short time, and stock at coal fired plants attains comfort level, other sectors will be brought back to their regular supply norm. In fact, supplies to non-power sector during H1 of the current fiscal at a little over 62 million tonnes posted 10 per cent growth over last year same period and 11 per cent compared to a Covid-free April-September 2019. Even since the demand for coal reached a higher pitch from power sector from August supplies to non-regulated sector (NRS) consumers was close to 18 MT during August-September clocking a growth of 37 per cent compared to pandemic free August-September 2019. Owing to the skyrocketing coal prices at international markets all the consumers have been vying for domestic coal, hiking up the demand. Instead of restricting coal intake, had the power utilities stocked up coal from October of last year till February this year, as was repeatedly requested by coal companies of CIL stock position at the plants would have been better, the official said. Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi had on Wednesday said cumulative coal supplies to thermal power plants crossed 2 million tonne on Tuesday and dispatch of the dry fuel is being enhanced to the plants. "Happy to share that cumulative coal supplies to thermal power plants from all sources including @CoalIndiaHQ recorded more than 2 million tonnes yesterday. We are increasing coal dispatch to power plants further to ensure sufficient coal stocks at power plants," Joshi had said in a tweet. According to a Coal India official, supplies to power stations have already touched 1.62 million tonnes a day in the past two days, with total offtake rising to 1.88 million tonnes per day, compared with the month's average of 1.75 million tonnes. The company also ramped up its output to 1.6 million tonnes a day in the past two days and CIL expects to raise production after Dussehra, when workers are back from holidays and the attendance picks up, the official said. Joshi had on Tuesday said the government is making full efforts to meet the coal demand of power producers and stressed that steps are being taken to soon ramp up the dry-fuel supply to 2 million tonnes per day, from the current overall dispatch of 1.95 million tonnes per day. The minister had assured all stakeholders of the coal supply required for power generation. CIL had earlier said it is marshalling all its efforts to bridge the demand-supply gap to the extent possible. Coal India accounts for over 80 per cent of domestic coal output. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-india-temporarily-halts-supply-to-non-power-customers-1040603.html
14-10-2021||National||Govt aims to make forensic teams' site visit mandatory in crimes that attract over 6-year jail term: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said the government aims to make it mandatory for forensic teams to visit the scene of crimes that attract imprisonment of more than six years. He also said that there is paucity of trained manpower in the field of forensic science, which affects the conviction rates and leads to piling up of cases. Shah was addressing a gathering at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) at Dharbandora village in South Goa. "We need to create fear in the mind of hardened criminals that they will be behind bars. To do this, you need trained manpower in forensic science, which is in shortage," he said. The aim is to ensure that the visit of forensic team would be mandatory in those crimes that attract more than six years of imprisonment, he added. "To do this, we should have teams in all 600 districts of the country. In all the districts, there should be smaller forensic science labouratories and at each DySP-level (Deputy Superintendent of Police), there should be a mobile forensic van," the minister said. In order to set up this kind of infrastructure, there is a requirement of 30,000 to 40,000 people, he said. "How can we create such an infrastructure?...That is why we require institutions providing forensic education," Shah said. He said the world's first forensic science university was conceived in Gujarat when Narendra Modi was the chief minister. "I am honoured that I was home minister (of Gujarat) at that time in his cabinet and even now when the National Forensic Science University is launched, I am home minister," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-aims-to-make-forensic-teams-site-visit-mandatory-in-crimes-that-attract-over-6-year-jail-term-shah-1040604.html
14-10-2021||National||Terrorism weapon of choice of non-state actors, irresponsible states: Rajnath Singh||Terrorism has been employed as a weapon of choice by non-state actors and irresponsible states to advance their political objectives in the region, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday in a thinly-veiled attack on Pakistan. In an address at a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) seminar on the role of women in the armed forces, Singh said the concept of security is undergoing a "paradigm shift" and the member states of the grouping will have to deal with challenges like terrorism collectively. "The concept of security is undergoing a paradigm shift. The changing character of war is bringing threats from our borders to within our society and amongst the people. Terrorism is just the most obvious and diabolical manifestation of this reality," he said. "It has been employed as a weapon of choice by non-state actors and irresponsible states alike for the furtherance of their political objectives," Singh said at the virtual event. The defence minister said the SCO has rejected terrorism in all its manifestations, noting that women have been and will remain equal contributors in the fight against the menace. "The SCO as an organisation has unequivocally rejected terrorism in all its manifestations and forms. The reality further reinforces the role of all citizens of the SCO in this fight against the common threat that is challenging us," he said. "This fight cannot be won by half the population of our region or a country. Women have been and will remain equal contributors in this fight, both within the armed forces and beyond," he said. In his speech, the defence minister also provided a brief overview of the role being played by women in the Indian armed forces. "Our future is in our hands. It is for the SCO nations to ensure regional stability, promote peace, ensure gender equality and work towards the betterment of the entire region. We look forward to much greater participation and a bigger role of women in various tasks of the armed forces," he said. In his address, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said the character of a war has evolved from a predominantly conventional one to a hybrid and grey-zone warfare, adding that cyberspace and outer space are the new revolutionary domains of war fighting. "In consequence, the distinction between the roles of men and women in modern day war fighting is getting blurred by the day. The notion of gender gap is passe," he said. The Chief of Defence Staff said women have proved their mettle in demanding combat roles such as fighter pilots, paratroopers, submariners and the like, and their abilities in the cognitive and information domains are unmatched. "Indeed, across the globe, countries are gaining valuable experience in the contribution of women warriors and the views shared today will help chart the course for the growing role of women in the emerging combat environment," he said. Secretary (West) in the Ministry of External Affairs Reenat Sandhu said the past decades have opened up new vistas for women in the Indian armed forces and the women military officers have created a niche for themselves at the global level in UN peacekeeping missions. She said India created history in 2007 by deploying the first ever all-female Formed Police Unit (FPU) for UN Peacekeeping in Liberia. "Due to their dedication, professionalism and motivation, the all-female Formed Police Unit proved to be a strong, visible role-model, gaining worldwide attention and illustrating the significant contribution that women can make towards global peace and security," Sandhu said. Representatives from almost all the SCO countries participated at the online conference organised by India. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrorism-weapon-of-choice-of-non-state-actors-irresponsible-states-rajnath-singh-1040612.html
14-10-2021||National||Anti-drone technology developed, transferred to industries: DRDO chief||DRDO has developed counter-drone technology and transferred it to industries, which have taken orders from the armed forces and security forces of the country, a senior official of the organisation said on Thursday. "DRDO has developed anti-drone technology. It has all the necessary elements required to counter drones, whether it is detection, tracking or surveillance and even a process called software and hardware," Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) chief G Satheesh Reddy said. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the DRDO-sponsored Kalam Centre for Science and Technology (KCST) at the Central University of Jammu in Samba. Reddy said the technology has been transferred to multiple industries, which have taken orders from the armed forces and security forces of the country. "They are providing it to them. They will be delivering it to them (security and armed forces) to tackle the drones that are coming in (from across the border)," he added. Reddy said the capability of the anti-drone system has been demonstrated multiple times, adding, "It was deployed on the Independence Day and the Republic Day also." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-drone-technology-developed-transferred-to-industries-drdo-chief-1040626.html
14-10-2021||National||India resumes export of Covid-19 vaccines||Coronavirus vaccines have been sent to Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Iran according to the government's decision to resume their supplies, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government has decided to send the supplies to the neighbourhood initially. India, the world's largest producer of vaccines overall, suspended exports of Covid-19 vaccines in April to focus on inoculating its own population following a sudden spike in infections. Last month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced that India will resume the supplies abroad. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi said recently at the UN General Assembly that India will resume supply of coronavirus vaccines. We have decided to start with the neighbourhood," Bagchi said. "As far as I know, vaccines have already gone to Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Iran. We are constantly monitoring and reviewing the situation," he said. Bagchi said the decision on further supplies will be based on India's production and demand. "We will decide on further supplies based on our production and demand," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-resumes-export-of-covid-19-vaccines-1040628.html
14-10-2021||National||Term-1 board exams for Classes 10, 12 to be conducted offline; date-sheet on October 18: CBSE||The first-term board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 will be conducted offline in November-December and the date-sheet for the same will be announced on October 18, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Thursday. The board said that the exams would be objective type and the duration of the tests will be 90 minutes. The exams will start at 11.30 am instead of 10.30 am in view of the winter season. Bifurcating the academic session, holding two term-end exams and rationalising the syllabus was part of the special assessment scheme for Classes 10 and 12 board exams in 2021-22 announced by the CBSE in July in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. "After the conduct of the term-1 exams, the results in the form of the marks scored will be declared. No student will be placed in the pass, compartment and essential repeat categories after the first term. The final results will be announced after the first and the second-term examinations," CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. "Practical exams or internal assessment will be completed in schools before the first-term exams are over. The marks allotted will be 50 per cent of the total marks and mentioned in the syllabus. The schools will be informed separately about the full scheme so that they can make the necessary preparations," he added. The CBSE is offering 114 subjects in Class 12 and 75 subjects in Class 10. "The CBSE has to conduct the examinations for a total of 189 subjects. If the tests are conducted for all the subjects, the entire duration of the examinations would be about 40-45 days. Therefore, to avoid learning loss of students, the CBSE has decided that the subjects offered by it will be divided into two parts -- major subjects and minor subjects," Bhardwaj said. "As the major subjects are offered by almost all the affiliated schools, the exams for these subjects will be conducted by fixing a date-sheet, as done earlier. Regarding the minor subjects, the CBSE will make groups of schools offering these subjects and thus, more than one paper would be conducted by the board in the schools on a day," he added. Bhardwaj further said the second-term examination would be conducted in March-April, 2022 and whether it will be objective or subjective-type will depend on the Covid situation in the country. The plans by the board to split the session into two terms had come against the backdrop of the pandemic, which forced the cancellation of board exams for some subjects last year and complete cancellation of the exams this year Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/term-1-board-exams-for-classes-10-12-to-be-conducted-offline-date-sheet-on-october-18-cbse-1040646.html
14-10-2021||National||Govt to spend around Rs 50,000 cr to create 500 multi-modal cargo terminals in 4-5 yrs||The Centre will spend around Rs 50,000 crore to create 500 multi-modal cargo terminals during the next four to five years under the newly launched Gati Shakti scheme, Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Thursday. A multi-modal cargo terminal would be where different modes of transportation -- roads, waterways, airways or any other means -- will be seamlessly integrated with the railway terminal, he explained. "Its (multi-modal cargo terminals) focus would be on bulk cargo such as coal, steel, bauxite, aluminium, limestone and cement. Along with it, other facilities will be established for parcel services," Vaishnaw told a press conference here. For example, whenever New Delhi Railway Station's modernisation work begins an integrated facility for parcel services will be established, the minister said. "This is because parcels come and go in huge quantity in a big city. So, if parcels can reach a central place, it can then be distributed to other forward places at a small cost," Vaishnaw said. With this thinking, at least 500 muti-modal cargo terminals will be established under the Gati Shakti programme, he noted. "The total investment in them would be of approximately Rs 50,000 crore during the next four to five years," Vaishnaw said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched a Rs 100 lakh crore national master plan called "Gati Shakti" for multi-modal connectivity that aims to develop infrastructure to reduce logistic costs and boost the economy. In the next three years, the government plans to create around 200 multi-modal cargo terminals, Vaishnaw said. "Some may cost even less than Rs 100 crore, some may be more. But we are assuming Rs 100 crore per terminal as the budget," Vaishnaw said. "The Railways will have the most significant contribution in it (Gati Shakti)...The most important thing is how can we convert Railway cargo terminals to multi-modal cargo terminals," he said. The railways is laying optical fibre along with its 68,000 km of the railway lines, he said. "Gati Shakti will also include the project wherein we will develop how one can one the this fibre for other modes or logistic services," the minister noted. He said multi-modal passenger terminals will also be established and for that, it will be analysed how metro service can be integrated with train service, or airports. The Railways will push both these initiatives -- multi-modal cargo terminals and multi-modal passenger terminals -- in the coming days under Gatishakti scheme, Vaishnaw added. The prime minister had said on Wednesday that Gati Shakti targets to cut logistic costs, increase cargo handling capacity and reduce the turnaround time. Modi had said that taxpayers' money in the past was 'insulted' through a lethargic approach to development work, with departments working in silos and there was no coordination on projects. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-spend-around-rs-50000-cr-to-create-500-multi-modal-cargo-terminals-in-4-5-yrs-1040652.html
14-10-2021||National||Centre issues orders for appointment of judges at Patna, Allahabad, Bombay HCs||The Centre on Thursday made fresh appointments of judges and additional judges at High Courts of Patna, and Allahabad and Bombay respectively. In a notification, the Department of Justice said, in exercise of the power conferred under the Constitution, the President, in consultation with the Chief Justice of India, has approved the appointments. Four advocates Sandeep Kumar, Purnendu Singh, Satyavrat Verma and Rajesh Kumar Verma were appointed as judges in Patna High Court. Judicial officer Om Prakash Tripathi was appointed to the Allahabad High Court as additional judge. Two judicial officers Anil Laxman Pansare and Sandipkumar Chandrabhan More were appointed as additional judges of the Bombay High Court. On Wednesday, the government issued notifications for appointments 10 judges and four additional judges, to the High Courts of Telanaga, and Orissa and Kerala respectively. Of the total 14 names, five judicial officers and one member of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal were women. On Tuesday, the Union government had notified appointment of 15 advocates and two judicial officers as judges of the Allahabad, Madras and the Gauhati High Courts. Besides, it also passed orders for making three additional judges of Gauhati High Court as permanent. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-issues-orders-for-appointment-of-judges-at-patna-allahabad-bombay-hcs-1040653.html
14-10-2021||National||'Alarming': India slips to 101st rank in Global Hunger Index 2021; behind Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal||India has slipped to the 101st position in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 of 116 countries, from its 2020 position of 94th and is behind its neighbours Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. Eighteen countries, including China, Brazil and Kuwait, shared the top rank with a GHI score of less than five, the website of the Global Hunger Index that tracks hunger and malnutrition said on Thursday. The report, prepared jointly by Irish aid agency Concern Worldwide and German organisation Welt Hunger Hilfe, termed the level of hunger in India "alarming". In 2020, India was ranked 94th out of 107 countries. Now with 116 countries in the fray, it has dropped to 101st rank. India's GHI score has also decelerated -- from 38.8 in 2000 to the range of 28.8 - 27.5 between 2012 and 2021. The GHI score is calculated on four indicators --undernourishment; child wasting (the share of children under the age of five who are wasted i.e who have low weight for their height, reflecting acute undernutrition); child stunting (children under the age of five who have low height for their age, reflecting chronic undernutrition)  and child mortality (the mortality rate of children under the age of five). The share of wasting among children in India rose from 17.1 per cent between 1998-2002 to 17.3 per cent between 2016-2020, according to the report. "People have been severely hit by Covid-19 and by pandemic related restrictions in India, the country with the highest child wasting rate worldwide," the report said. Neighbouring countries like Nepal (76), Bangladesh (76), Myanmar (71) and Pakistan (92) are also in the 'alarming' hunger category but have fared better at feeding their citizens than India, according to the report. However, India has shown improvement in other indicators such as the under-5 mortality rate, prevalence of stunting among children and prevalence of undernourishment owing to inadequate food, the report said. According to the report, the fight against hunger is dangerously off track. Based on the current GHI projections, the world as a whole -- and 47 countries in particular -- will fail to achieve a low level of hunger by 2030. Food security is under assault on multiple fronts, it said, adding that worsening conflict, weather extremes associated with global climate change, and the economic and health challenges associated with the Covid-19 pandemic are all driving hunger. "Inequality -- between regions, countries, districts, and communities -- is pervasive and, (if) left unchecked, will keep the world from achieving the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) mandate to “leave no one behind," the report said. Further, the report noted that it is difficult to be optimistic in 2021 because the forces now driving hunger are overpowering good intentions and lofty goals. Among the most powerful and toxic of these forces are conflict, climate change, and Covid-19—three Cs that threaten to wipe out any progress that has been made against hunger in recent years, it added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alarming-india-slips-to-101st-rank-in-global-hunger-index-2021-behind-pakistan-bangladesh-and-nepal-1040659.html
14-10-2021||National||Attacks during Durga Puja in Bangladesh: MEA says mission in close contact with local authorities||Following media reports that Hindu temples and Durga puja venues were vandalised by unidentified Muslims in Bangladesh, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) noted on Thursday that the government in the neighbouring country reacted promptly to ensure that the situation was under control and said that the Indian mission is in close contact with the Bangladeshi authorities over the matter. Some Hindu temples in the neighbouring country were vandalised by unidentified Muslims during Durga puja celebrations, prompting the government to deploy paramilitary force personnel in 22 districts after four people were killed and many others were injured in riots, according to Bangladeshi media reports. Asked about the reported attacks on Durga puja pandals and temples in Bangladesh, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said, "We have seen some disturbing reports of untoward incidents involving attacks on religious gatherings in Bangladesh. We note that the government of Bangladesh has reacted promptly to ensure control of the situation, including the deployment of law enforcement machinery." "We also understand that the ongoing festive celebrations of Durga puja continue in Bangladesh with the support of government agencies and of course, a large majority of the public," he said at a media briefing here. The Indian High Commission in Dhaka as well as consulates in Bangladesh are in close contact with the authorities in Dhaka and at local levels over the matter, Bagchi said. A Bangladeshi home ministry spokesperson said Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) troops have been deployed in 22 districts across the country to stop the spread of violence. According to the media reports, three people were killed during clashes between Muslims and police at Hajiganj sub-district in Chandpur, bordering Cumilla, on Wednesday, while the fourth victim succumbed to his wounds later. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attacks-during-durga-puja-in-bangladesh-mea-says-mission-in-close-contact-with-local-authorities-1040664.html
14-10-2021||National||Two more countries want to start FTA talks with India: Goyal||Two more countries and a group have shown interest in negotiating Free Trade Agreements (FTA) with India, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday. However, the minister did not disclose the names of these countries. "We are negotiating FTAs with the UK, the EU, the UAE and Australia and in the last three days, two more countries and a group have shown interest that they want to start talks for FTA," he told reporters here. Under a free trade agreement, two trading partners reduce or eliminate customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them. Besides, they liberalise norms to enhance trade in services and boost investments. Talking about PM Gati Shakti national master plan for multi-modal connectivity, Goyal said it aims to develop infrastructure in an integrated manner to reduce logistic costs and boost the economy. It will help in attracting investments and creation of jobs, he said, adding it would also help in the development of infrastructure at a fast pace and save thousands of crores and cost overruns. "There are several advantages of Gati Shakti...Intelligent planning will help in completing infrastructure projects on time," he added. He said that the BJP-ruled states have shown keen interest in joining this initiative. When asked when it will be opened for the private sector and public, Goyal said that "we will hold discussions with departments". He also said that there is a project monitoring group in the department for the promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) which will regularly monitor the projects and report to an empowered group of secretaries, headed by the cabinet secretary. Further, he said that the government is taking steps to promote ease of doing business. The World Bank may not come with its business report, but the ministry will continue with its state's ranking report. The World Bank Group has decided to discontinue publication of its Doing Business report on country investment climates following allegations of irregularities. When asked about the impact of border issues with China on trade relations between the two countries, Goyal said he has not seen any statement from either side on any impact on trade Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-more-countries-want-to-start-fta-talks-with-india-goyal-1040666.html
14-10-2021||National||India re-elected to UN Human Rights Council for 6th term||India was re-elected to the UN Human Rights Council for the 2022-24 term on Thursday with an overwhelming majority in the General Assembly, with New Delhi’s envoy here describing the election as a "robust endorsement" of the country's strong roots in democracy, pluralism and fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. The 76th UN General Assembly held elections on Thursday for 18 new members of the UN Human Rights Council who will serve for a period of three years, starting in January 2022. India got 184 votes in the 193-member assembly, while the required majority was 97. "I am truly delighted at this overwhelming support for India in elections to Human Rights Council. It’s a robust endorsement of our strong roots in democracy, pluralism and fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution. We thank all UN Member States for giving us a strong mandate,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told PTI. India’s Permanent Mission to the UN tweeted "India gets re-elected to the @UN_HRC (2022-24) for a 6th term with an overwhelming majority. Heartfelt gratitude to the @UN membership for reposing its faith in India." “We will continue to work for promotion and protection of Human Rights through #Samman #Samvad #Sahyog #Samman #Samvad #Sahyog," India’s Permanent Mission to the UN tweeted. India’s current term was set to end on December 31 2021. For election for the term 2022-2024, there were five vacant seats in the Asia-Pacific States category - India, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. The 193-member General Assembly elected by secret ballot Argentina, Benin, Cameroon, Eritrea, Finland, Gambia, Honduras, India, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Montenegro, Paraguay, Qatar, Somalia, UAE and the USA for the 2022-2024 term on the Council. India’s mission congratulated other UN Member States for their election to the Human Rights Council, which consists of 47 Member States elected directly and individually by secret ballot by the majority of the members of the General Assembly. The members of the Council shall serve for a period of three years and shall not be eligible for immediate re-election after two consecutive terms. The membership is based on equitable geographical distribution, and seats are distributed among regional groups Group of African States (13), Group of Asia-Pacific States (13), Group of Eastern European States (6), Group of Latin American and Caribbean States (8) and Group of Western European and other States (7). As of January 2021, 119 of the 193 UN member States will have served as a member of the HRC. "This broad membership not only reflects the UN’s diversity, but it gives the Council legitimacy when speaking out on human rights violations in all countries,” the UN said. In 2018, the US under the Donald Trump administration had withdrawn from the UN Human Rights Council. US Ambassador at UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield said Washington’s election to the Council has “fulfilled President Biden’s campaign pledge to rejoin the Human Rights Council” and the US will “work to ensure this body lives up to these principles.” "Our initial efforts as full members in the Council will focus on what we can accomplish in situations of dire need, such as in Afghanistan, Burma, China, Ethiopia, Syria, and Yemen. More broadly, we will promote respect for fundamental freedoms and women’s rights, and oppose religious intolerance, racial and ethnic injustices, and violence and discrimination against members of minority groups, including LGBTQI+ persons and persons with disabilities,” Thomas-Greenfield said. “We will oppose the Council’s disproportionate attention on Israel, which includes the Council’s only standing agenda item targeting a single country,” she said. She said the US, as a member of the Human Rights Council, will press against the election of countries with egregious human rights records and encourage those committed to promoting and protecting human rights both in their own countries and abroad to seek membership. "We hold others to our own standard: while we may sometimes fall short of our own ideals, we must constantly strive to be as inclusive, rights-respecting, and free as possible." She added that in its new role as a member, the US “can fully participate in the Council’s work of protecting and promoting human rights. We will use every tool at our disposal, from introducing resolutions and amendments to wielding our vote when needed. Our goals are clear: stand with human rights defenders and speak out against violations and abuses of human rights.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-re-elected-to-un-human-rights-council-for-6th-term-1040674.html
14-10-2021||National||Over 97 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India so far: Centre||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 97 crore, with more than 27 lakh jabs given on Thursday, the Union Health Ministry said. According to data updated till 7 pm, a total of 69,24,56,103 first doses have been administered while 27,86,64,302 second doses have been given. Cumulatively, 39,10,45,406 first doses have been administered to individuals in the 18-44 age group across states and Union Territories, and 10,80,93,471 second doses have been given in the same age group since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive, the data showed. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said. On Wednesday, 27,62,523 doses were administered as the vaccination coverage reached 97,11,20,405, it said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-97-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-centre-1040683.html
14-10-2021||National||Religious freedom of Hindus in Bangladesh being trampled: BJP leaders||Alleging that the religious freedom of Hindus in Bangladesh is being trampled upon with impunity, BJP leaders on Friday said this underlines the importance of the Citizenship Amendment Act.  BJP leader Amit Malviya, who is his party's co-in charge for West Bengal, also attacked Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying her opposition to the CAA and "studied silence" now should worry Hindus in the state.  "The impunity with which religious freedom of Hindus in Bangladesh is being trampled reiterates the importance of the CAA, humanitarian legislation. Mamata Banerjee's opposition to the CAA and studied silence now should worry Hindus of West Bengal who too are facing marginalisation under the TMC," he tweeted.  The CAA, which has not come into force yet, seeks to grant citizenship to minorities from some neighbouring countries, including Bangladesh and Pakistan, on grounds of their religious persecution.  BJP's leader in the West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari also raised the matter and wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah among others, urging them to take up this "painful and shameful" issue with the Bangladeshi authorities diplomatically.  He tweeted, "Vandalising temples and Durga Puja pandals in Cumilla district, Cox's Bazar and Noakhali in Bangladesh; following 'conspiratorial rumours' spread through social media is disheartening. Desecrating idols of Maa Durga at will is an orchestrated attack on the Sanatani Bengali community." Videos allegedly showing Islamic extremists in Bangladesh vandalising Durga idols have been circulating on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/religious-freedom-of-hindus-in-bangladesh-being-trampled-bjp-leaders-1040686.html
14-10-2021||National||India actively engaging with countries to facilitate travel of students, professionals abroad: Shringla||As the world appears to be coming to terms with living with Covid-19, India is actively engaging with other countries to facilitate the travel of students and professionals to their educational institutions and companies abroad, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Thursday. While noting that the pandemic continues to rage worldwide and affects all aspects of lives, Shringla, in his remarks at the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT), Bhubaneswar, talked about how diplomatic efforts contributed to the overall efforts of the government in dealing with Covid-19. He said during the initial stage in January last year when there was a lockdown in China, special flights were undertaken to evacuate Indian nationals who were stuck in Wuhan. Later, as many countries imposed lockdowns and international commercial travel came to a standstill, a lot of Indian citizens were stranded across the globe and the Ministry of External Affairs along with other ministries undertook the Vande Bharat Mission, which has been the largest and most complex exercise ever undertaken by the government for repatriation of Indian nationals, Shringla said. In total, so far, more than 25 lakh people have been brought back, including over 11,000 people from Odisha, Shringla said at the formal inauguration of the Japanese language programme and internship for KIIT students. "In addition, the (external affairs) ministry and our embassies abroad worked in tandem with other ministries of the government to secure provision of adequate supplies of PPE kits, testing kits etc. in India till our domestic production capacities were ramped up," he said. Shringla noted that another aspect was the supply of medicines to deal with Covid-19 such as hydroxychloroquine to more than 150 countries in keeping with India's well-earned reputation of being the pharmacy of the world. Earlier this year, under the Vaccine Maitri programme, India shared vaccines with 95 other countries and UN peacekeepers, he said. Rapid response teams from India visited a number of countries "in our region to assist with expertise and capacity in dealing with the Covid crisis", he pointed out. "These actions generated immense goodwill. The prime minister (Narendra Modi) referred to this as ‘human-centric globalisation’. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the Global Covid-19 Summit recently, this goodwill generated was in evidence when the world stood with India as we were going through the second wave of Covid-19 earlier this year," Shringla said. "The overwhelming solidarity we received from our partner countries was a consequence of our efforts to help others when they were in need," he said, adding that this support, in the form of items like oxygen generating plants, ventilators and oxygen concentrators, was distributed to a number of states. Going forward, vaccination against Covid-19 will remain the main focus of governments across the world, he asserted. "In this context too, India is playing its part. As you know, India is a global vaccine manufacturing hub. We are close to achieving the landmark of administering a billion vaccines to our citizens," Shringla said. "You would have seen reports of the recent visit of the prime minister to the US and to the United Nations recently, including for the Summit Meeting of Quad leaders. A Quad is a group of four countries consisting of India, Japan, Australia and the US. At the Quad Leaders’ Summit, a decision was taken for the Quad to supply a billion vaccines to the Indo-Pacific region," he said. The US and Japan will finance the supply of Indian made vaccines to these countries with Australia providing the last mile logistical support, Shringla said. "You can see how these four countries have come together to pool in their strengths and emerge as a force for global good," he added. Noting that the world now appears to be coming to terms with living with Covid-19, Shringla said, "We are actively engaging with other countries to facilitate the travel of students and professionals to their educational institutions and companies abroad." "We have introduced a system of mutual recognition of vaccination certification so that vaccinated people do not face restrictions on travel. By the way, all of us do need passports to travel abroad. The Ministry of External Affairs has in the last few years taken a series of reform measures to ease the process for citizens in obtaining passports and today it is much easier and quicker to obtain passports," he said. Asserting that India is a prominent global economy, Shringla said as it grows and develops, it will be beneficial for India too if its neighbours in South Asia see a stake in its growth and see their development linked with India's own growth. "We have to take them along so that when we develop, they too develop and the fruits of that are mutually shared," he asserted. Therefore, the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi has planned a special emphasis on the comprehensive development of relations with our neighbours, he said. He noted that Japan has played an important role in India’s economic modernisation. "Currently, Japan is the fifth largest investor in India. The number of Japanese companies in India has been increasing steadily and today, there are more than 1450 of them in India," he said. Underlining that Japan is also one of the most important development partners for India, Shribgla said its loans have been deployed over sectors ranging from healthcare to sustainable development. Japanese Ambassador Suzuki Satoshi was also present on the occasion. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-actively-engaging-with-countries-to-facilitate-travel-of-students-professionals-abroad-shringla-1040691.html
14-10-2021||National||India takes note of China-Bhutan pact on boundary negotiations||Bhutan on Thursday announced that it firmed up a "three-step roadmap" for expediting the negotiations with China to resolve the long-pending boundary dispute between the two countries, a development that India said it has taken note of. The signing of the pact came four years after the Indian and Chinese armies were locked in a 73-day stand-off at the Doklam tri-junction after China tried to extend a road in the area. "We have noted the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Bhutan and China today. You are aware that Bhutan and China have been holding boundary negotiations since 1984. India has similarly been holding boundary negotiations with China," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said. He was replying to a question on the agreement.   In a statement, Bhutan said its Foreign Minister Lyonpo Tandi Dorji and China's Assistant Foreign Minister Wu Jianghao signed the MoU on the "three-step roadmap" for expediting the Bhutan-China Boundary negotiations. "The MoU on the three-step roadmap will provide a fresh impetus to the boundary talks," the Bhutanese foreign ministry said. It is expected that the implementation of this roadmap in a spirit of goodwill, understanding and accommodation will bring the boundary negotiations to a successful conclusion that is acceptable to both sides," it said. The India-China stand-off in the Doklam plateau in 2017 even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. Bhutan said the area belonged to it and India supported the Bhutanese claim. India had strongly opposed the construction of the road at the Doklam tri-junction as it would have impacted its overall security interests. The India-China face-off was resolved following several rounds of talks. Bhutan shares an over 400-km-long border with China and the two countries have held over 24 rounds of boundary talks in a bid to resolve the dispute. "During the 10th Expert Group Meeting in Kunming in April this year, the two sides agreed on a three-step roadmap that will build on the 1988 Guiding Principles and help to expedite the ongoing boundary negotiations," the Bhutanese statement said. Bagchi did not reply to a question on whether the Bhutanese government kept India informed about the MoU with China. The signing of the pact came amid a continuing standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in several friction points in eastern Ladakh. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-takes-note-of-china-bhutan-pact-on-boundary-negotiations-1040692.html
14-10-2021||National||India expects China to work towards early resolution on Ladakh||India on Thursday said that it expected China to work towards an early resolution of all the remaining issues in eastern Ladakh, days after military talks to end the 17-month border row ended in stalemate. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the Indian side had put forward constructive suggestions during the 13th round of military talks but the Chinese side was not agreeable to them. The talks were held at the Chushul-Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on Sunday. "We expect the Chinese side to work towards an early resolution of all the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols," Bagchi said at a media briefing. He was replying to a question on the military talks. A day after the nearly eight-and-half-hour negotiations, the Indian Army said that the "constructive suggestions" made by it were neither agreeable to the Chinese side nor it could provide any "forward-looking" proposals. "The meeting thus did not result in resolution of the remaining areas," it had said. The Chinese PLA's Western Theatre Command said that India insisted on "unreasonable and unrealistic demands adding difficulties to the negotiations". In his comments, Bagchi said the two sides have agreed to maintain communications and to maintain stability on the ground which he described as "positive" development. He said that the resolution of issues in the remaining areas and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region would facilitate progress in the overall bilateral ties between the two countries. Bagchi said India is looking forward to continuing to engage with China on the issues. On Saturday, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane said if the Chinese military continues with its large-scale deployment in the eastern Ladakh region, then the Indian Army too will maintain its strength on its side which he said is "as good as what the PLA has done". The two sides held the 12th round of talks on July 31. Days later, the two armies completed the disengagement process in Gogra, which was seen as a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August and in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expects-china-to-work-towards-early-resolution-on-ladakh-1040694.html
14-10-2021||National Politics||Not many Congress leaders bothered to visit Manmohan, tweets Amit Malviya, deletes it later||BJP leader Amit Malviya on Thursday slammed the Congress, saying that the Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya visited former PM Dr Manmohan Singh at AIIMS Delhi but "not many Congress leaders" bothered to visit him. However, later Malviya deleted the tweet.  "Health Minister visits Dr Manmohan Singh, but not many Congress leaders have bothered to visit, yet. None from the Gandhi family for sure," he said in a tweet.  Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences on Wednesday evening after he complained of weakness following a fever. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday wished his predecessor Manmohan Singh a speedy recovery. Modi tweeted, "I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji." I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji. Earlier, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya visited the former prime minister and enquired about his health from the doctors treating him. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-many-congress-leaders-bothered-to-visit-manmohan-tweets-amit-malviya-deletes-it-later-1040510.html
14-10-2021||National Politics||BJP demands probe into recruitments during Congress rule in Rajasthan||The BJP on Thursday demanded an inquiry into all the recruitments that have taken place during the Congress rule in Rajasthan in the wake of alleged irregularities in the recently conducted state teachers' eligibility exam. State BJP chief spokesperson and MLA Ramlal Sharma said Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot should apologise to the youth of Rajasthan for “irregularities” in the recruitment exams while Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra should resign. "All the recruitments done in Rajasthan in the Congress rule are under doubt," Sharma said in a video message. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been demanding a CBI probe into the alleged irregularities in the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers-2021 (REET) while its state unit president Satish Poonia has claimed that the key accused in the case -- Batti Lal Meena -- is a Congress worker, a charge denied by the ruling party. A team of the Rajasthan Police's Special Operations Group (SOG) had arrested Batti Lal Meena and along with another person -- Shivdas Meena -- from Kedarnath last week. New layers are opening up in the investigation of the SOG in the paper leak case and it is clear that papers of competitive exams held in the past, be it of radiographers or lecturers, were leaked too, alleged Sharma. "BJP wants all recruitments that have taken place in Congress rule be investigated. The chief minister should apologise to lakhs of youth of the state and the education minister should resign," he said in a video message. The REET was held on September 26 across the state for which 16 lakh candidates had enrolled. After irregularities came to light in the conduct of the exam, the state government had suspended 14 state government employees including one Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) officer and one Rajasthan Police Service (RPS) officer.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-demands-probe-into-recruitments-during-congress-rule-in-rajasthan-1040518.html
14-10-2021||National Politics||BJP can't hold on to Haryana with just PM Modi's name, says MoS Inderjit Singh: Report||As the BJP is eyeing another victory in the Haryana Assembly polls in 2024, but to achieve a victory for the third time in a row would take more than just Narendra Modi's name, quipped Union Minister of State Rao Inderjit Singh. "Narendra Modi's blessing is on us. On our state... but there is no guarantee that his name alone will fetch us votes. It would be our intention that they (the voters) vote in the name of Modi. But it depends on the BJP workers, who are at the ground level, to ensure that the votes are cast", he said at a party meeting. Now, already thinking about a third victory, Singh said that Modi's name will not be enough to sweep a win any longer as people observe the work of the party workers in the state. The minister said BJP first won 47 of 90 assembly seats in Haryana. In the election that followed, Manohar Lal Khattar's government maintained its win with 40 seats. Holding on to the seats would take more than the Prime Minister's name now, he said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-cant-hold-on-to-haryana-with-just-pm-modis-name-says-mos-inderjit-singh-report-1040519.html
14-10-2021||National Politics||In apparent message to BJP, Varun Gandhi shares clip of Vajpayee's speech in support of farmers||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday posted on Twitter a short clip of a speech of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee from 1980 in which he warns the then Indira Gandhi government against repressing farmers and extends his support to them. Gandhi tweeted, "Wise words from a big-hearted leader..." The BJP MP has been vocal in empathising with farmers agitating against the three farm laws enacted by the Modi government and sharing Vajpayee's speech is seen as his message to the central government. In the video clip, Vajpayee is heard telling a gathering that farmers cannot be scared. "If the government will suppress (farmers), misuse laws, and repress a peaceful agitation, then we will not shy away from joining the farmers' struggle and standing with them," he is heard saying. Gandhi has also sought stringent action against those responsible for the death of four farmers after vehicles, allegedly linked to BJP leaders, ran over them in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. He was recently dropped from the BJP national executive in what was seen as an indication of the party leadership's unhappiness with the Pilibhit MP.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-apparent-message-to-bjp-varun-gandhi-shares-clip-of-vajpayees-speech-in-support-of-farmers-1040536.html
14-10-2021||National Politics||Why BSF jurisdiction extension has triggered a political row||To curb crime along the international border, the Border Security Force (BSF) forces can now carry out searches and make arrests within a 50 kilometres stretch into Punjab, West Bengal and Assam, which share international borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh. The power extending the BSF jurisdiction came into force after the Ministry of Home Affairs amended the BSF Act, 1968, which came into effect on October 11. Earlier, these limits were fixed to 80 kms in case of Gujarat and 50 kms in the case of Rajasthan and 15 kms in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. In Gujarat, which shares a border with Pakistan, the same limit has been reduced from 80 kms to 50 kms while in Rajasthan the limit has been kept unchanged at 50 kms. How does the amendment empowers BSF forces? With this notification, the 2.65-lakh personnel paramilitary force can now execute the powers of search and seizure, within a 50 kilometres stretch into Punjab, West Bengal and Assam, for the purpose of prevention of any offence punishable under the Passport Act, the Registration of Foreigners Act, the Central Excises and Salt Act, the Foreigners Act, the Foreign Exchange Management Act, the Customs Act or of any cognisable offence punishable under any other Central Act. The new amendment in the BSF Act will also allow the force to apprehend any person who has committed offences under these laws. What are the Opposition parties saying? The Centre's move to empower BSF forces, however, has triggered a political row with the ruling Opposition parties in Punjab and West Bengal dubbing it as an "attack on federalism" and an "attack on federal structure of India". Several political party leaders have questioned the intent of the BJP-led Centre behind the move. Alleging it is an "infringement" on the rights of the state, West Bengal and Punjab have demanded its withdrawal. "I strongly condemn the GoI's unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism..." tweeted Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urging immediate rollback of the "irrational decision". In Bengal, the TMC has claimed the decision was taken without consulting the West Bengal government. "We oppose this decision. This is an infringement on the rights of the state. What was the sudden need to enhance the BSF's jurisdiction without informing the state government?" TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh asked. Why are Opposition parties opposing the move? While the MHA claims that this decision has been taken to curb illegal activities linked to national security in 10 states and two Union Territories, states fear that it might raise administrative issues between police forces and the border security personnel. "If the BSF has to conduct any search, they can always do it along with the state police. This has been the practice for years. It is an attack on the federal structure," Ghosh added. Senior TMC MP Sougata Roy alleged that the BSF doesn't have a "good track record on human rights" in border villages. "Their operational duties are around Border Outposts but with these new powers they would also operate well within jurisdictions of some states," the official added. What did the BSF say about the amendment?  BSF officials said the amendment will help them in effectively curbing trans-border crimes and the new amendment brings in "uniformity" for its operations in the borders states of Punjab, West Bengal, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Assam.  "The amendment effected on October 11 establishes uniformity in defining the area within which Border Security Force can operate as per its charter of duties and execution of its role and task of border guarding in its areas of deployment. This will also enable improved operational effectiveness in curbing trans-border crime and to an extent of 50 kms from the international boundary within the states of states of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, West Bengal and Assam, running along the borders of India," the BSF said in a statement. A senior BSF officer told the publication that with the new rules in place if the force gets any intel, they would not have to wait for the local police's response and they would be able to take preventive action well in time. What did the earlier rule say? The earlier notification of July 3, 2014, outlined the BSF’s jurisdiction as “whole of the area comprised in the States of Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya and so much of the area comprised within a belt of 80 kilometers in the State of Gujarat, 50 kilometers in the State of Rajasthan and 15 kilometers in the States of Punjab, West Bengal and Assam, running along the borders of India”. Under Section 139 of the BSF Act, the central government has the authority to notify the area and extent of operation of the BSF from time to time. The BSF personnel will continue to invoke these powers in the "whole of the area" comprised in the states of Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya and Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-bsf-jurisdiction-extension-has-triggered-a-political-row-1040549.html
14-10-2021||National Politics||Attack on federal structure of India: TMC on Centre extending BSF's jurisdiction||Hitting out at the Centre over its decision to extend the jurisdiction of the BSF, the Trinamool Congress on Thursday said it was an "infringement" on the rights of the state and an attack on the federal structure of the country. The Centre has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Demanding its withdrawal, the TMC claimed the decision was taken without consulting the West Bengal government. "We oppose this decision. This is an infringement on the rights of the state. What was the sudden need to enhance the BSF's jurisdiction without informing the state government?" TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said. "If the BSF has to conduct any search, they can always do it along with the state police. This has been the practice for years. It is an attack on the federal structure," he added. Senior TMC MP Sougata Roy alleged that the BSF doesn't have a good track record on human rights in border villages. "The Centre and Home Minister Amit Shah are trying to weaken the states. BSF doesn't have a good track record when it comes to human rights in border villages," he said. State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury warned the Union Home Ministry of "consequences" over the move. "The expansion of #BSF area of jurisdiction upto 50 km from border of some states amounts to brazen infringement upon the territory of states. @HMOIndia (Home Ministry), you should not indulge any 'Chherkhani' (meddling) else will face the consequences," he said in a tweet. The state BJP slammed the TMC for its criticism, saying that its opposition to the changes is aimed at appeasing its vote bank. "The TMC government has failed to check cross-border infiltration and smuggling. The TMC's opposition is aimed at appeasing its vote bank," said Sayantan Basu, the BJP's state general secretary. The Union Home Ministry issued a notification in this context on October 11, amending a July 2014 enabling provision for the BSF personnel and officers while they operate in the border areas. BSF officials said the amendment will help them in effectively curbing trans-border crimes and the new amendment brings in "uniformity" for its operations in the borders states of Punjab, West Bengal, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Assam where it can now operate within 50 km area from the border. In Gujarat, which shares border with Pakistan, the same limit has been reduced from 80 km to 50 km, while in Rajasthan, it has been kept unchanged at 50 km.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/attack-on-federal-structure-of-india-tmc-on-centre-extending-bsfs-jurisdiction-1040560.html
14-10-2021||National Politics||Congress will win Goa elections in 2022, LS polls in 2024: Chidambaram||Congress veteran P Chidambaram on Thursday expressed confidence that his party will win the Goa Assembly elections due next year and also the next Lok Sabha polls in 2024. Chidambaram, who is the AICC Goa poll in-charge, was addressing party workers after inaugurating the state election campaign office in Panaji. “Let me say one thing from history...whoever wins Goa wins Delhi. In 2007 we won Goa...in 2009 we won Delhi. In 2012, we unfortunately lost Goa, in 2014 we lost Delhi. In 2017, you (referring to party workers) won Goa, but our legislators lost Goa,” he said, while noting that the Congress was defeated in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The former Union minister said this time, his party is moving forward with courage and confidence and "will win Goa in 2022 and Delhi in 2024". In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House. But, the BJP at that time forged an alliance with some regional outfits and independent legislators to form government. The Congress currently has only four legislators in the state. Chidambaram said, "The history is ours...we are beginning today on an auspicious day and our office has been inaugurated by a valuable statesman and former chief minister Pratapsingh Rane." Addressing the Congress workers, he said they should remember the "golden years" when Goa moved forward, progressed and developed in the fields like industries, schools, colleges and roads. "We will bring back that golden age of Goa, beginning 2022. I wish you go forward with courage and confidence,” he said to the Congress workers. Chidambaram also said Goa will not be colonised by "some political party". "Goa cannot become a political colony of any invader. Goa will be governed by Goans. Goa is of Goans, by Goans and for Goans. Goa will be ruled by Goans,” he said, without naming any political outfit. Notably, former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro quit the Congress last month and joined the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress. Chidambaram said the Congress has presented before the state the faces of its leaders. And in the days ahead, the party will come up with more young leaders, including from among women, Schedule Tribes, fishermen community and Dalits, to govern Goa, he said. Chidambaram also said he will be guiding the party workers on how to convert election offices into "vibrant election offices". “Every block committee will have an office and every block committee office will function as the block election campaign office,” he said. He also said that they had spent enough time on planning and discussions and now is the time to go out in the field and start the work. “Between now and 100 days from now, there will be elections. I don't know the date of elections, but let me count a 100 days from today. Everyday we must move forward, win more hearts and minds,” he said. The Congress should win more votes and send a credible message to the whole of Goa and the country that the coastal state will see the Congress government in 2022, he said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-will-win-goa-elections-in-2022-lok-sabha-polls-in-2024-chidambaram-1040569.html
14-10-2021||National Politics||Sidhu meets party leaders at AICC HQs, says he has full faith in Sonia Gandhi's leadership||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday met senior party leaders at the AICC headquarters and said he has full faith in the leadership of party chief Sonia Gandhi and any decision taken by her will be acceptable. Sidhu met AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and party general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat, at the party headquarters. The meeting lasted around an hour after which Sidhu said any decision taken by the Gandhis would be in the interest of the party and Punjab. "I have already expressed my concerns to the party high command and I am sure any decision that will be taken by the Congress president would be in the best interest of the party and Punjab," he told reporters after the meeting. "I have full faith in the leadership," he said. "Navjot Sidhu has been asked to work as Punjab Congress president and set up the organisation structure and strengthen it," said Rawat after the meeting. Sidhu had recently resigned as Punjab Congress president but the decision to accept his resignation is yet to be taken.  Sources said a final decision on his resignation will come by Friday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sidhu-meets-party-leaders-at-aicc-hqs-says-he-has-full-faith-in-sonia-gandhis-leadership-1040689.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Always grateful to party high command for facilitating me: Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu Wednesday said he is always grateful to the party high command for "facilitating" him even as he asserted there "can never be compromises". He further said those who understand his 'ishq' (love) for Punjab will never level any accusations against him. Sidhu shared a video of him on his Twitter handle, discussing various Punjab-related issues. "I have 'ishq' with Punjab. What is the meaning of 'Ishq'? People think it is something physical. No..... It breaks away from all relationships and this is the kind of my 'Ishq' for Punjab. Those who understand my 'Ishq' for Punjab will never level any allegations against me," he said. "Everywhere my merit was ignored. In politics 5 can be made 50 and 50 can be turned into zero,” he said. "You should be facilitated and which is done by the high command. I will always be grateful to them. But how to move forward by making compromises? This system stands up like a monster and bites you," he said. He also talked about curbing corruption and stressed on raising resources and income of the state. "Solution of every problem of Punjab is income, he said. Amid the factional feud in the Punjab Congress, Sidhu will be meeting AICC general secretary Harish Rawat and senior party leader K C Venugopal on October 14 for a discussion on organisational matters related to the party's state unit. Sidhu was made the Punjab Congress chief in July despite strong opposition from the then chief minister Amarinder Singh. However, Sidhu last month had resigned as the Punjab Congress chief and also had raised a question over the appointments of director general of police, state's advocate general and “tainted” leaders. Later, the party decided to form a coordination panel for consultation before making any major decisions by the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/always-grateful-to-party-high-command-for-facilitating-me-sidhu-1040444.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||MP govt withdraws bull sterilisation campaign after Pragya Thakur cries 'conspiracy'||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday withdrew a bull sterilisation campaign after it faced strong criticism from BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur, who termed the programme as an attempt to put an end to indigenous cows. “I brought the order (of bulls' sterilisation) into the notice of Chief Minister (Shivraj Singh Chouhan) and Animal Husbandry Minister (Prem Singh Patel). "(After I brought the issue to their notice) The order was cancelled today,” Thakur told reporters here on Wednesday night. The Lok Sabha MP from Bhopal dubbed the campaign as "an internal conspiracy". She said, “I feel this is an internal conspiracy and there is a need to be careful because no one can ever destroy the indigenous cow. It should not even be done. How this happened is a matter of investigation." Thakur said she will urge the Chief Minister to order a probe to find out how it all happened. Earlier in the day, the Animal Husbandry Department shared the order halting the bull sterilisation campaign on its official Twitter handle. The order, issued by department's Director RK Mehia and addressed to all deputy directors of the department, said the campaign to sterilise bulls on a mass scale, which started on October 4, has been immediately stopped. The campaign was scheduled to continue till October 23. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-govt-withdraws-bull-sterilisation-campaign-after-pragya-thakur-cries-conspiracy-1040445.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||16 J&K districts achieve 100% vaccination coverage for 18+ age category||As many as 16 Jammu and Kashmir districts have achieved 100 per cent coverage of the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine for the age group of 18 years and above, according to official figures. The union territory, meanwhile, recorded 75 fresh cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the infected number of persons to 3,30,741. In total, 99.89 per cent of the population above the age of 18 years has been vaccinated across Jammu and Kashmir. The 16 districts with 100 per cent coverage for the category are: Anantnag, Bandipora, Baramulla, Budgam, Kulgam, Ganderbal, Pulwama, Shopian and Srinagar in the Kashmir valley and Doda, Jammu, Kathua, Poonch, Rajouri, Ramban and Samba in Jammu division. On Wednesday, 96,550 doses of Covid vaccine were administered in 24 hours across the UT bringing the cumulative number of doses administered in the UT to 13,430,141. J-K registered 75 new positive cases of coronavirus on Wednesday -- 15 from Jammu division and 60 from Kashmir division. Srinagar reported the highest of 37 cases, followed by eight in Baramulla. The number of active cases was 946, while 325369 patients have recovered. The total number of deaths due to the virus was 4426 as no fresh death took place in the last 24 hours.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-jk-districts-achieve-100-vaccination-coverage-for-18-age-category-1040446.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||'Attack on federalism': Punjab CM Channi wants Centre to roll back BSF jurisdiction order||The Punjab government took strong exception on Wednesday to the Centre's reported move of empowering the BSF to carry out searches and make arrests up to an area of 50 km from the international border, dubbing it as an "attack on federalism". Some reports suggest that the Centre has empowered the Border Security Force (BSF) to conduct searches, arrest suspects and make seizures up to an area of 50 km inside the Indian territory from the international border. Earlier, the BSF was only empowered to take action up to 15 km inside Punjab. Several political party leaders have questioned the intent of the BJP-led Centre behind the move. "I strongly condemn the GoI's unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately rollback this irrational decision," Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi tweeted. However, former chief minister Amarinder Singh came out in support of the move, saying, "BSF's enhanced presence & powers will only make us stronger. Let's not drag central armed forces into politics." Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa condemned the decision and urged the Centre to withdraw it. "I urge the prime minister and the home minister to withdraw the move. I do not understand what is in the mind of the government. It is an interference and an attack on our rights," he told reporters. Rather than addressing the issue of drones coming from across the border, the Centre has decided to allow the BSF to take action 50 km inside the border, Randhawa said. "I feel the Centre has doubts on our nationality. I want to say that Punjabis are patriots and love the country," he added. Later, in a statement, Randhawa slammed the Centre for a recent amendment in Section 139 of the BSF Act, saying it is tantamount to an "attack on federalism". "This illogical decision was absolutely against the spirit of the raising of border-guarding forces, which are required to focus on the international border and act as the first line of defence," he said. The Congress leader said policing is not the role of a border-guarding force, rather it will weaken the capacity of the BSF in discharging its primary duty of guarding the international border. Highlighting the need for excellent cooperation between central and state agencies, he said such coordination must be enhanced with information sharing for taking prompt action to resist illegal activities. He further said joint operations against drugs and terrorist modules were successfully conducted by the BSF and the Punjab Police in the past, besides mechanisms for information sharing and coordination are already in place. There are no justifiable reasons for unilaterally changing the existing arrangements by the Centre, except to weaken the state government and the spirit of federalism, Randhawa said. The notification issued by the Centre, without obtaining the concurrence of the state government, amounts to an "encroachment" on the powers of the states, he said. By conferring powers of police officers on BSF officers without consulting the states or obtaining their concurrence, the Centre is "attempting to distort" the federal structure of the Constitution, he added. Meanwhile, Amarinder Singh said the issue of central armed forces should not be dragged into politics. "Our soldiers are being killed in Kashmir. We're seeing more & more weapons & drugs being pushed by Pak-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF's enhanced presence & powers will only make us stronger. Let's not drag central armed forces into politics: capt_amarinder," read a tweet by his media advisor. "Partisan considerations can't & shouldn't dictate our stand on issues of national security. I'd said that at the time of the 2016 surgical strikes & am saying it again. We've to rise above politics when India's security is at stake, as it is now': @capt_amarinder," read another tweet. Earlier, former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar appeared to attack his own party's government over the issue. "Be careful what you ask for! Has @CHARANJITCHANNI unwittingly managed to handover half of Punjab to Central govt. 25000sq km (out of total 50,000sq km) has now been placed under BSF jurisdiction. Punjab Police stands castigated. Do we still want more autonomy to states," he tweeted. However, Randhawa said Channi has neither raised the issue with the Centre nor asked for enhancing the jurisdiction of the BSF along the international border. Meanwhile, Congress leader Manish Tewari asked Channi to oppose the move. "MHA Notification enhancing operational mandate of BSF, 15 to 50 KMs in Punjab, West Bengal & Assam transgresses upon Constitutional Public order & Policing remit of States. Half of Punjab will now fall under BSF jurisdiction @CHARANJITCHANNI must oppose it," he wrote on Twitter. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal came down heavily against the Centre as well as the Punjab government for what he described as "central rule by proxy". Channi's "sudden and unscheduled" meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah last week had apparently cleared the decks for this "highly provocative and dangerous move", he alleged. "It is most unlikely that the Centre would have taken such a drastic decision without the knowledge and prior consent of the state government and all the noises which Channi and his colleagues are now making are a mere attempt to hide their complicity in this decision," Badal said in a statement. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/attack-on-federalism-punjab-cm-channi-wants-centre-to-roll-back-bsf-jurisdiction-order-1040493.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi wishes Manmohan Singh speedy recovery||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday wished his predecessor Manmohan Singh, who has been admitted to the AIIMS, a speedy recovery. Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences on Wednesday evening after he complained of weakness following a fever. Modi tweeted, "I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji." I pray for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji. Earlier, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya visited the former prime minister and inquired about his health from the doctors treating him. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-wishes-manmohan-singh-speedy-recovery-1040516.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||18 IAS officers, 39 IPS officers transferred in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government has transferred 39 IPS officers, including two ADGs, and 18 IAS officers.  The transfer lists were issued by the state department of personnel late on Wednesday night.  Secretary, Labour, Employment, Skill and Entrepreneurship, Niraj K Pawan and MD of Rajasthan Skill and Livelihood Development Corporation (RSLDC) Pradeep Gawande, who was mired in controversy after the anti-corruption bureau arrested two RSLDC employees for allegedly taking bribes, are among the 18 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers transferred.  Pawan has been made Secretary, colonisation department, in Bikaner, while Gawande has been made Director of Department of Archaeology and Museums in Jaipur.  Two Additional Director Generals (ADGs) are among the 39 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers who have been transferred.  ADG, Law and Order, Saurabh Srivastava has been made ADG PHQ while ADG Traffic, Smita Srivastava, was shifted as ADG Civil Rights.  Jaipur range IG, Hawa Singh Ghumariya, will be the IG, law, and order, while IG, CM security, Sanjay Shotriya will be the new Jaipur IG.  Superintendent of Police of Bikaner, Baran, Jhunjhunu, Barmer, Ajmer, Sriganganagar, Pali, Bundi, Jhalawar, Jalore, Banswara, Kota rural and DCPs of Jaipur West and Jodhpur West have been transferred. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/18-ias-officers-39-ips-officers-transferred-in-rajasthan-1040525.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Muzaffarnagar: Court rejects interim bail plea of ex-MLA Shahnawaz Rana in rape attempt case||A special court here has rejected the interim bail plea of former MLA Shahnawaz Rana, who is accused of attempting to rape a woman, and asked him to surrender before it. A non-bailable warrant has already been issued against Rana for not appearing in court. Rejecting the former MLA's interim bail plea, Special Judge Gopal Upadhyay asked him to surrender before the court. According to the prosecution, the case against Rana was registered in 2001 on the basis of a complaint lodged by the victim. In her complaint lodged at the Civil Lines police station, the victim alleged that Rana called her to Muzaffarnagar on the pretext of providing her a job and attempted to rape her along with another man, Sartaj. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muzaffarnagar-court-rejects-interim-bail-plea-of-ex-mla-shahnawaz-rana-in-rape-attempt-case-1040535.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Doctors assaulted inside Delhi hospital after newborn dies||Three doctors were allegedly assaulted by the family members of a patient at a private hospital in northwest Delhi's Pitampura after a newborn baby died during a caesarean procedure, police said on Thursday. The patient's family members, who were later detained, alleged that the baby died due to the "negligence of doctors." It was found that a 26-year-old pregnant woman, a resident of Rani Bagh, was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. Due to certain complications, the doctors performed a C-section on the woman but even after that the baby was stillborn, a senior police officer said. Enraged at this, some family members of the woman quarrelled with the doctors and manhandled them, blaming them for the baby's death, the officer said. Footage of the incident showed a group of people hurling abuses at a doctor and assaulting him. The body of the baby was later shifted to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital for a post-mortem examination, the police said. One of the doctors lodged a police complaint against the patient's family members for manhandling doctors and causing damage to the hospital, they said. The MLC (Medico-Legal Case) report of the three doctors found their injuries to be of simple nature, they added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northwest) Usha Rangnani said that based on the doctor's complaint and the MLC, a case was registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused were also booked under the Delhi Medicare Service Personnel and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage of Property) Act, 2008, she said. The accused have been detained and the matter is being investigated, the police said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctors-assaulted-inside-delhi-hospital-after-newborn-dies-1040547.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Navrang Saini gets additional charge as IBBI Chairperson||Navrang Saini has been given the additional charge as the Chairperson of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI). The post fell vacant after MS Sahoo retired after a five-year tenure on September 30. Saini is a Whole Time Member of IBBI. IBBI said the government has assigned additional charge of Chairperson to Saini in addition to his existing duties. This will be for three months or till the joining of a new incumbent to the post or until further orders, whichever is earlier, it said in a release on Wednesday. IBBI is a key institution in implementing the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), which came into force in 2016. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navrang-saini-gets-additional-charge-as-ibbi-chairperson-1040553.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Temple priest shoots himself dead in Uttar Pradesh's Etah||A 60-year-old temple priest allegedly died by suicide in Raja ka Rampur Police Station area, police said on Thursday. Local residents, however, alleged that he was killed. According to police, Fakkad Baba, the priest of Shiva temple on Kanesar Road, allegedly shot himself in the head on Wednesday evening. Senior police officers visited the spot and a probe has been ordered. A forensic team has been called in for assistance, an official said. Circle Officer (CO) Aliganj Raghavendra Singh Rathore said a firearm and a suicide note were recovered from the priest's room. The body has been sent for a post-mortem examination and a case of suicide has been registered, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/temple-priest-shoots-himself-dead-in-uttar-pradeshs-etah-1040563.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||New Chief Justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court takes oath||Justice Ravi Vijaykumar Malimath was sworn in as the new Chief Justice of the Madhya Pradesh High Court on Thursday. State Governor Mangubhai Patel administered the oath of office to the new Chief Justice at a function in the Raj Bhawan. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and his ministerial colleagues were present on the occasion. Chief Justice Malimath (59) succeeds CJ Mohmamad Rafiq, who has been transferred in the same capacity to the Himachal Pradesh High Court, an official said. Justice Malimath is the 26th Chief Justice of the MP High Court. In 2008, Justice Malimath was elevated as judge of the Karnataka High Court. Later, he served as the Acting Chief Justice of the Uttarakhand High Court and the Himachal Pradesh High Court, the official said.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-chief-justice-of-madhya-pradesh-high-court-takes-oath-1040579.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence: SIT takes Union minister's son Ashish, three others to recreate sequence of events||The SIT probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Thursday took Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son and three others arrested in the case to recreate the sequence of events leading to the incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Tikonia village. Amid tight security, the three accused were taken to the site of the incident on the Tikonia-Banbirpur road, around 60 km from district headquarters Lakhimpur city, police said. Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. In the incident, a journalist was also killed. Farmers claimed that Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra 'Monu' was arrested in the case on October 9 after 12 hours of questioning, and a court has accepted his police custody from October 12 to October 15. The other three — Shekhar Bharti was arrested on October 12, and Ankit Das and Latif alias Kale were arrested on October 13. Das, Latif and Bharti are in police custody from October 14 to October 17. On Thursday, investigators reached the district jail premises in the morning to take Das, Latif and Bharti into police custody. The trio were taken to the crime branch’s office at the Reserve Police Lines, which is near the district jail where main accused Ashish Mishra is lodged. They were taken to Tikonia village by the special investigation team (SIT) amid heavy security for further investigations, police said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-sit-takes-union-ministers-son-ashish-three-others-to-recreate-sequence-of-events-1040583.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court frames charges against accused; says 'miscarriage of justice' to throw out case over police delay||A Delhi court has framed charges of rioting and arson against nine accused in a February 2020 riots case, saying that it would be a “miscarriage of justice” to throw out the prosecution's case merely because the statements of the public witnesses were recorded after a delay. Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhat said that the delay in recording statements of the witnesses by the police was not deliberate or contumacious and was occasioned on account of the situation which prevailed in Delhi's northeast area during and after the alleged rioting. The nine accused were allegedly part of the unlawful assembly and caused damage, looted properties worth crores of rupees, burnt a large number of houses, shops, schools, and vehicles on February 25, 2020, as per the police. It relied on the statements of four public witnesses. The judge took exception to the submission made by the defence counsel that the public witnesses were not trustworthy and were planted as their statements were recorded one month after the date of the alleged incident. The judge noted that there was an atmosphere of terror and trauma for several days even after these riots and the public witnesses were terrified and reluctant to present their version of the incident before the investigating agency. “Keeping these circumstances in view, it would be a miscarriage of justice to disbelieve the statements of these witnesses at this very stage and throw out the prosecution case merely for the reason that their statements were recorded after about one month of the incident,” ASJ Bhat stated in an order dated October 11. He added, “In the opinion of this court, the delay in recording of the statements of witnesses does not appear to be deliberate or contumacious. It appears to have occasioned on account of the situation which prevailed in the area during and after the incident of rioting and therefore, the accused cannot claim discharge in this case merely on this score.” During the course of the hearing, Delhi Police apprised the court that the nine accused created disharmony in the society by threatening and terrorising the public at large and that their action was not only anti­national but also a challenge to Rules of Law in Delhi. The defence counsels, however, submitted that CCTV video footage which forms part of the charge sheet in the case pertains to the date February 24, whereas the incident admittedly took place on February 25, 2020. The counsels pointed out that there was no CCTV video footage on record which pertains to the date February 25, a fact not disputed by the senior public prosecutor, according to the court's order. However, the prosecutor said that they did not rely on the CCTV video footage and that their case is based on other evidence on record, including the ocular version of the witnesses. After considering the entire material on record, the judge said that it is prima ­facie evident that the charges under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 380 (theft), 427 (mischief), 436 (arson), 452 (house-trespass) of the Indian Penal Code are liable to be framed against all the accused. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-frames-charges-against-accused-says-miscarriage-of-justice-to-throw-out-case-over-police-delay-1040585.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||These states allow government workers to have links with RSS||The Haryana government Monday withdrew two orders, issued in 1967 and 1980, that restrained its employees from taking part in the activities of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), prompting a strong reaction from the Congress which asked if the Khattar dispensation was running a "BJP-RSS Pathshala". “Moreover, he has to make an endeavour to stop his family members from indulging in any subversive activities. While the government employee can exercise his right to vote, he cannot campaign for any candidate or use his influence in connection with any election. On the other hand, Clause 9 specifies that he cannot join any association whose activities are prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India or public order. Is (Manohar Lal Khattar) running the government or a BJP-RSS school?”, he further said. Apart from Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Himachal Pradesh also allow government workers to have links with the RSS. However, Rajasthan bans government workers from being affiliated with the organisation. There are 18 other organisations in the state, including Jamaat-e-Islami, with which a government employee cannot have ties. Even a social media post by an employee that backs any of them can have serious consequences. In 2016, some RSS members were not permitted to work for the government in Goa, the report added. The Mohan Bhagwat-helmed outfit termed the move as “unjust, unlawful and undemocratic". Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/these-states-allow-government-workers-to-have-links-with-rss-1040592.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Police invoking POCSO law at behest of girl's family against boy 'unfortunate', says HC||Expressing concern over the “unfortunate” practice of police invoking provisions of sexual assault at the behest of a girl's family objecting to her involvement with a boy, the Delhi High Court has said the rigor of POCSO law is being “misapplied” and “misused”. The high court, granting bail to a 21-year-old man who was accused of raping a minor girl with whom he claimed to be in a relationship, said it cannot ignore the friendship between the two and added that it appeared the FIR was lodged at the insistence of the girl's family which was embarrassed on finding out that she was pregnant and this would lead to a social backlash in the neighbourhood. “Consensual sex has been in legal grey area because the consent given by minor cannot be said to be a valid consent in the eyes of law. The short question which arises is as to whether the petitioner (man) should be granted bail or not. “Whereas, what has become a trite and unfortunate practice is that the police are filing POCSO cases at the behest of the family of a girl who object to her friendship and romantic involvement with a young boy. The rigor of the law is, therefore, being misapplied and subsequently misused,” Justice Subramonium Prasad. The court said the age of man and girl, photographs which categorically pointed towards a relationship between the two and discrepancies in the statements given at the time of recordings of medical report, FIR and before the magistrate are all mitigating factors which tilt the balance towards grant of bail to the accused. It said it appeared that to avoid social embarrassment and to get the pregnancy medically terminated, this FIR has been filed giving it a colour of sexual exploitation and bringing it in the ambit of the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act which envisages abolition of child abuse. The court, which noted that the girl has no objection to grant of bail to the man, said they both are more or less of the same age and this fact cannot be overlooked that the accused is only 21-year-old, having a complete life ahead of him. The court was informed that after being released on bail, the man would stay with his parents in Uttar Pradesh's Hardoi and that the address has been verified by the prosecution. The man was directed to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with two sureties of the like amount and not to leave the district of Hardoi unless for appearing in court proceedings. “The petitioner shall not, directly or indirectly, tamper with evidence or try to influence the witnesses. Violation of any of these conditions will result in the cancellation of the bail given to the petitioner,” the court said. According to the FIR, the girl complained that she was 16 years of age and a student of class 12th and in January last year, the man used to stalk her while she was on her way to school and he had expressed his intention to make friends with her but she resisted. It alleged that during the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown last year, when she was returning from a friend's place, the man stopped her and took to a house and gave her some snacks after which she became unconscious and fainted. It alleged that when she woke up, she felt pain and realised that she had been raped but did not disclose it to her family at that stage. The girl alleged that after sometime when she started vomiting, she was taken to a doctor where it was revealed that was pregnant and a case was lodged against the man and later her pregnancy was terminated. The man, while seeking bail, submitted that he had developed friendship with the girl in school and while the girl was 18-year-old, he was 21-year-old and that the complainant has been coerced by her family members to file the FIR. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-invoking-pocso-law-at-behest-of-girls-family-against-boy-unfortunate-says-hc-1040599.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Rakesh Tikait expresses displeasure over probe into Lakhimpur violence case||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait expressed dissatisfaction over the ongoing investigation into the Lakhimpur violence case on Thursday and said the "red-carpet arrest" of MoS Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish has fuelled anger among protesting farmers. Demanding dismissal of Ajay Mishra, Tikait said there cannot be a fair investigation in the case if the accused person's father continues to hold the chair. The minister's son Ashish Mishra, alleged to be in one of the cars that mowed down the protesters in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, was arrested after 12 hours of questioning last week. "The red carpet arrest of the minister's son who is the main accused in the incident has fuelled anger among the protesting farmers," the BKU leader told newspersons here. "The whole world understands that no justice can be given if the minister whose son is being investigated continues to hold his chair," Tikait said at a function in Tappal town. Expressing dissatisfaction over the ongoing probe, he claimed that the minister was influencing the SIT investigation. He reiterated that the protest against the Lakhimpur violence would intensify if Ajay Mishra was not removed from his post. The Bhartiya Kisan Union leader said 'rail roko' protest would be held for six hours on October 18. He said the BKU will hold a big kisan panchayat in Lucknow on October 26.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rakesh-tikait-expresses-displeasure-over-probe-into-lakhimpur-violence-case-1040625.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Badal, other Akali leaders briefly detained during protest over Centre's BSF jurisdiction order||Some SAD leaders, including party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, were briefly detained by police here on Thursday when they tried to march towards the governor's residence to protest the Centre's decision to extend the BSF's jurisdiction in Punjab, among other states, according to officials. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) alleged that the police manhandled and hustled Badal and some party supporters who were part of the protest held outside the Raj Bhawan. Police said SAD leaders and supporters were briefly detained when they were marching towards the Governor's House. However, SAD said in a statement that Badal courted arrest and was taken to the Sector 3 police station along with senior party leaders and workers in a bus. The Union government has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50-km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km, from the international borders in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. The Union home ministry issued a notification in this context on October 11, amending a July 2014 enabling provision for BSF personnel and officers while they operate in the border areas. Punjab shares border with Pakistan. Badal, who was accompanied by party leaders Bikram Singh Majithia and Daljit Singh Cheema, said that the Akalis wanted to meet Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit and apprise him that the Centre's move to "attack the federal structure" is not good. Addressing party leaders and workers at the protest site, Badal claimed, "Through this order, Amritsar city, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur, Fazilka and virtually half of Punjab will come under their (BSF's) domain. Law and order will eventually come under the Centre's control." He claimed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is sitting silently and "has surrendered, abdicated responsibility to secure few more months in power". The Akali Dal has been fighting to ensure that the country's federal structure remains intact and will continue to fight for it, he said. Channi had on Wednesday slammed the Centre's "unilateral decision" to extend the BSF's jurisdiction and called it a "direct attack on federalism". Badal alleged, "First the Centre framed the farm laws, a subject which is states' domain, and now they want to take control of law and order too." Meanwhile, Punjab ministers Pargat Singh and Vijay Inder Singla addressed a press conference and termed the Centre's decision to extend the BSF's jurisdiction an "attack on federalism". Pargat Singh also slammed former chief minister Amarinder Singh, who voiced his support for the Centre's move on Wednesday and said that it will "only make us stronger". Dubbing Amarinder Singh's statement as unfortunate, Pargat Singh said, "He acts like he is with the BJP." With this order, Pargat Singh claimed, half of Punjab will come under the BSF's control. The Centre wants to "later show Punjab as a disturbed state and push for the imposition of Governor's rule", he alleged. Singla said that the BJP-led central government is trying to "infiltrate rights of states, but it will not be allowed to break the federal structure". "We have seen earlier how the Centre has tried to weaken the rights and powers of states," he said. Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said security forces should not be used as a political tool. "We are proud of our security forces which are meant to secure our borders and protect India from foreign aggressors. Using them to cover up the failures & to clean up the mess created by leaders & govts is very alarming," he said in a tweet. "It not only denigrates our brave forces but also adversely affects their morale discipline & preparedness. It's this use of our forces as political tool which should be avoided. No one knows it better than @ capt_amarinder Singh ji," he said. The government notification will allow the BSF to execute the powers of search, seizure and arrest for the purpose of prevention of any offence punishable under the Passport Act, the Registration of Foreigners Act, the Central Excises and Salt Act, the Foreigners Act, the Foreign Exchange Management Act, the Customs Act or of any cognisable offence punishable under any other Central Act, according to officials. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/badal-other-akali-leaders-briefly-detained-during-protest-over-centres-bsf-jurisdiction-order-1040631.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan man held for spying for Pakistan||An employee in the chief engineer office of the Military Engineer Service (MES) in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur was arrested for allegedly spying for Pakistan, police said on Thursday. Gajendra Singh, aged around 35 and a resident of Sirohi district, was in touch with a Pakistani woman through WhatsApp. He was passing on information of strategic importance to her, Director General of Police, Intelligence, Umesh Mishra said. Singh is a Class IV employee and used to move files and letters and operate a photostat machine in the chief engineer office of the MES. He would click photos of important files on his mobile phone and share them with the Pakistani woman, Mishra said. “Based on intelligence inputs about him, he (Singh) was kept on surveillance and his activities were monitored. He was detained in Jodhpur and was jointly interrogated by intelligence agencies,” the officer said. Mishra said Singh’s mobile phone was examined in Jaipur and evidence of obscene chats and sharing of information of strategic importance was found, following he was placed under arrest. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-man-held-for-spying-for-pakistan-1040637.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||BJP leader accuses Ajay Mishra of being behind Lakhimpur violence||BJP leader Ram Iqbal Singh on Thursday accused Union minister Ajay Mishra of being behind the Lakhimpur violence and sought his sacking from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said that questions are also being raised about the prime minister for not sacking the minister. Singh alleged that Mishra was behind the Lakhimpur violence. His "threatening statement" added fuel to the fire. "He should have apologised to farmers but he only tried to defend his son. He has not regretted the incident yet. This incident is a blot on humanity," Singh, BJP state executive member, told reporters. "His son crushed farmers to death under his car. He was arrested after the intervention of the Supreme Court, but even today the minister is sitting on the chair. In such a situation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi should sack him immediately," he said. In response to a question, Singh said that the image of the BJP government has been "tarnished" by the Lakhimpur incident and the Gorakhpur businessman murder case. He said that BJP workers have also been killed in the Lakhimpur incident and the government should also take care of them.  "Activists across the state are angry due to the callousness of the government on this incident. Like the farmers, the government should also provide financial assistance to the relatives of the deceased workers and a job to their family members," he said.  The former MLA claimed that the condition of dedicated party workers in the BJP has become like a "bonded labourer". The BJP leader has been criticising the government through his statements. He had earlier said that bureaucrats are running the government in the state and had also raised a question mark on handling of the second Covid wave by the Yogi Adityanath government. Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. In the incident, a journalist was also killed. Farmers claimed that Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra 'Monu' was arrested in the case on October 9 after 12 hours of questioning, and a court has accepted his police custody from October 12 to 15. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-accuses-ajay-mishra-of-being-behind-lakhimpur-violence-1040644.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Transfer officials posted in home districts: EC to five poll-bound states||In the run-up to the Assembly polls in five states due early next year, the Election Commission (EC) has directed the governments of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh to transfer officials posted in their home districts and those who have spent three years in a district in the last four years. In a letter to the chief secretaries and chief electoral officers of the poll-bound states on Wednesday, the commission pointed out that the terms of the legislative assemblies of Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa are ending on different dates in March, 2022. The term of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly ends on May 14 next year. It is usual for the poll panel to issue such directions ahead of Lok Sabha or Assembly elections to ensure that officials do not interfere in the poll process in any way and the democratic exercise remains free and fair. "The Commission further desires that no officer/official, against whom a criminal case is pending in any court of law, be associated with/deployed on election-related duty," the letter said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/transfer-officials-posted-in-home-districts-ec-to-five-poll-bound-states-1040649.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||You can now book parking slots online in Delhi||In a bid to ease congestion of vehicle parking in south Delhi, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur on Thursday launched a mobile application that will enable people to book parking slots online. While launching the 'MyParkings' app, the minister said, “Parking is a difficult issue and this app is an effort to reduce stress and help people plan their trips better.” The app launch was attended by Mukkesh Suryaan, Mayor, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC); Gyanesh Bharti, Commissioner, SDMC and George Kuruvilla, CMD, BECIL. “Smart parking solution through an app or through card is an effortless solution towards hassle-free parking and booking of online parking slots will enable people to park their vehicles without inconvenience,” Thakur said. He said that the ease of parking through the app will also help reduce pollution from vehicles by minimising the time spent searching for parking spots. “This app is thus a win-win solution for every Indian,” he said. This app has been developed by Broadcast Engineering Consultants India Limited (BECIL) with SDMC with the purpose to digitise all authorised parking under the civic body's municipal limits. The minister said that he hoped that other municipal corporations will adopt similar solutions and congratulated BECIL and SDMC for their efforts in creating this app. With the growing population of vehicles in the city, the problem of parking has also grown over time. MyParkings is an IoT technology-enabled end-to-end digital solution and will be available for use with mobile apps on both Android and iOS platforms. This facility will be rolled out in future to other municipality divisions across India, the I&B ministry said. MyParkings app will offer various features, including on the spot and advanced bookings of vehicle parking, the flexibility of selecting slots through easy to use mobile app, parking solution enabled with prepaid/smart cards, the option of paperless check-in and check-out of vehicles shared parking for safety and recall, display of amenities and facilities in and near parking location. It will also help in the management of parking pass for daily/regular commuters, will provide options for the electric vehicle charging station and integration of card with DTC/Delhi Metro; smart QR code for slot booking, check-in and checkout and Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) system.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/you-can-now-book-parking-slots-online-in-delhi-1040661.html
14-10-2021||North and Central||Army jawan arrested for passing secret information to Pakistan||Haryana Police on Thursday said it arrested an Army personnel for allegedly passing secret information to Pakistani intelligence agency ISI. Rohit Kumar was arrested on Wednesday evening on a tip-off, it said. Kumar is a resident of Kodwa Khurd village in the Naraingarh area in Ambala district. Currently, he is employed as Havaldar in an engineering regiment of the Army in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, the police said. He had come to his village a few days back on leave, Superintendent of Police Hamid Akhtar said. Akhtar said police had received an input about Kumar and on the basis of which he was taken into custody. During interrogation, it came to the fore that he was in contact with a Pakistani agent and was sharing secret information and photographs to a Pakistani intelligence agency, the SP said. He said Kumar’s two mobile phones, which were used for sharing information, were seized. The police will check all the details of his mobile phones, he added. Akhtar said Kumar joined the Army in 2012 and had been indulging in espionage activities since 2018. Police said during interrogation, Kumar confessed that he had shared some information with the Pakistani intelligence agency. A case has been registered against him under the provisions of the Official Secrets Act, they said. Kuamr was produced before a court on Thursday evening, which remanded him to police custody for seven days, police said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawan-arrested-for-passing-secret-information-to-pakistan-1040682.html
14-10-2021||South||Kerala continues to receive heavy rain||Several parts of Kerala continued to receive heavy rains on Thursday as the weatherman issued an 'orange alert' for six northern districts indicating heavy to very heavy rainfall. According to the latest update from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Orange Alert was issued for Palakkad, Kozhikode, Kannur, Malappuram, Wayanad and Kasaragod districts and a Yellow Alert for Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki and Thrissur districts. It also said the southern state was expected to receive widespread rainfall for the next three days from today under the influence of a low pressure area, formed in the Arabian Sea off Lakshadweep area. "A Low Pressure Area has formed over East central and adjoining Southeast Arabian Sea off Lakshadweep area . It is likely to move east­ southeast wards as a Low Pressure Area towards Kerala coast during next 48 hours," the IMD said. Under the influence of the above, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected over Kerala during October 14-16, it added. Meanwhile, the four shutters of Neyyar Dam here, managed by the state Irrigation Department, would be raised by a total of 160 cm by afternoon as the capital city received widespread rainfall, authorities said. They were already raised by a total of 120 cm (30 cm each), the district collector said here in a statement on Thursday.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-continues-to-receive-heavy-rain-1040584.html
14-10-2021||South||Man-eater tiger seen on camera finally, Tamil Nadu Forest Department speeds up combing||The Tamil Nadu Forest Department has sped up its combing operations in the forest tracts of Gudalur, Masinagudi, and Singara areas after the hidden cameras spotted the MDT23 tiger which had remained elusive for the past five days. Chief Wildlife Warden Shekar Kumar Neeraj, who is heading the operations personally on the ground, told IANS that they cannot reveal the exact location of the tiger for the safety of the animal. Residents of villages surrounding Gudalur and Masinagudi forest areas have complained that the tiger had killed four human beings and 12 cattle heads and has remained elusive. Forest officials confirmed that they had seen the picture of the tiger in the camera trap on Tuesday and the tiger is moving along its home territory of Gudalur, Masinagudi, Singara, and Bospara. "The veterinarians and forest staff are deployed in the area where the tiger's photo was captured in the camera and on Tuesday we tried to dart it with a tranquillizer but it managed to escape by taking the cover of the undergrowth," Neeraj told IANS. The Forest Department has deployed two teams at the spot where the picture of the MDT23 tiger was captured but other teams are surrounding the Devan estate areas and other areas in Masinagudi, Singara, and Bospara which is the natural habitat of the animal. The Forest Department has also advised the villagers living in Gudalur and on the fringes of the MTR that they should not venture into forest land for cattle grazing as the suspected man-eater tiger is on the run and can reach that area on sighting cattle. Police Department has also joined the operation to help patrol in villages adjacent to forest land and also to warn people against venturing into forest land for cattle grazing or to collect forest produce. Six teams of the Tamil Nadu Forest Department and one team each from Kerala and Karnataka Forest Departments, along with sniffer dogs and kumki elephants, are on the search mission for the MDT23 tiger for the past 18 days but it remains elusive. Following a petition filed by the animal rights group, People For Cattle in India (PFCI) that the tiger should not be killed, the Madras High Court had given a directive to tranquilise the animal and to capture it. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-eater-tiger-seen-on-camera-finally-tamil-nadu-forest-department-speeds-up-combing-1040594.html
14-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt lifts curbs on weekend worship, allows shops to function till 11 pm||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday lifted the restriction on weekend worship in temples with effect from today and also permitted all shops including restaurants and bakeries to function till 11 pm. The restriction on visiting the beaches on weekends, too, has been relaxed. Tuition centres and job fairs, as well, can be conducted by adhering to the Covid-19 safety protocols, the government said. Chief Minister M K Stalin, who reviewed the pandemic situation in Tamil Nadu and also the conditions prevailing in the neighbouring states with senior officials, made the announcement on allowing worship in temples on all days in the week. Reacting to his gesture, BJP state chief K Annamalai said the State government has allowed the opening of temples on all days for worship. "This is what the BJP has been insisting all along and staged a protest on October 7, across the State," Annamalai said and "sincerely thanked" the Chief Minister and Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department Minister P K Sekar Babu for "acceding to the people's wish." Following the government's announcement, HR & CE Commissioner J Kumaragurubaran directed the joint commissioners and assistant commissioners to make necessary arrangements. "The Government has permitted the devotees to visit the temples on all days from tomorrow. Necessary arrangements has to be made in accordance with the SOP laid down by the government," the Commissioner said. In a circular issued on Thursday, Kumaragurubaran asked the department senior officials to visit as many temples as possible tomorrow and verify the preparedness. "Alert the executive officers immediately," he said. Ahead of the temple reopening for darshan, HR & CE Minister Sekar Babu visited the renowned Sri Kalikambal temple here and inspected the arrangements. On September 29, the Tamil Nadu government had extended the ongoing lockdown till October 31 with more relaxations. A release from the government on Thursday, quoting the Chief Minister, said the ban on holding political, social, cultural and festivals will however continue to avert the spreading of the Coronavirus. Further, the government relaxed certain restrictions and said beaches will be thrown open to the public during the weekends. Play schools, kindergarten classes and Anganwadis have been allowed to reopen from November 1 and all employees working there should have been vaccinated against Covid-19. Permission has been accorded for 100 people to attend wedding functions from November 1. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-lifts-curbs-on-weekend-worship-allows-shops-to-function-till-11-pm-1040633.html
14-10-2021||State||Video shows 'groupism' in Congress, says Union minister Khuba||Reacting to the viral video involving discussion between Congress leaders MA Saleem and V S Ugrappa with regard to alleged corruption in the party, Union Minister of State for Chemicals, Fertilizers and New & Renewable Energy Bhagwanth Khuba taunted that it was the real culture of Congress party and both the leaders have told the truth. Speaking to media persons here on Wednesday, he said, there is 'groupism' in Congress party and the conversation is the best example for it. There are many factions in Congress party such as the Siddaramaiah faction, D K Shivakumar faction. "The two leaders of Congress discuss corruption in the party and we have to accept it. BJP leaders are not speaking about it. KPCC President D K Shivakumar must respond to the conversation," he added.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/video-shows-groupism-in-congress-says-union-minister-khuba-1040462.html
14-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress Karnataka chief D K Shivakumar says that he 'won't blame others for viral video'||The Congress' Karnataka unit president D K Shivakumar said he will not blame anyone for the viral video in which former Lok Sabha member V S Ugrappa and media coordinator M A Saleem attributed him to an alleged scam when he was a Minister. "People have already spoken whatever they wanted. I will not blame the BJP or the media. We only gave others a chance to use us," Shivakumar told reporters here. He was responding to the queries on the embarrassing video of the purported conversation between Saleem and Ugrappa on Tuesday ahead of a press meet at the party's meeting hall. In the video, Saleem is purportedly heard calling Shivakumar a 'Collection Giraaki' (extortionist), who allegedly increased the 'commission' in irrigation contracts from eight per cent to 12 per cent. The party suspended Saleem from the party for six years and served a show-cause notice to Ugrappa, who is Congress spokesperson, seeking an explanation in three days. The Congress state chief said the issue related to the viral video was not personal but pertained to a party, which was built by the lakhs of party workers. Hitting back at the BJP for targeting him following the viral video, Shivakumar said let the BJP take note of what their leaders have spoken against their leader such as MLC A H Vishwanath, C P Yogeshwar, Ramesh Jarkiholi and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal. "Why the BJP has not yet answered to the charges levelled by Vishwanath, Yogeeshwar, Ramesh Jarkiholi and Yatnal (against former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his family)? Why are they not speaking about collection during the BJP's tenure," the Congress state chief said. Check out DH's latest videos:  He said his sole objective is to bring the Congress to power once again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-karnataka-chief-d-k-shivakumar-says-that-he-wont-blame-others-for-viral-video-1040578.html
14-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sudeep's fans vandalise theatres in Karnataka over delay in release of Kotigobba-3||Frenzied fans of Kannada star Kichcha Sudeep went on a rampage in some cinema halls across Karnataka on Thursday as his latest movie Kotigobba-3 could not hit the screens as announced. Alarmed by the violence, film producer Soorappa Babu and Sudeep appealed to the fans in separate video messages not to vandalise cinema theatres and said the film would be released on Friday. Waiting eagerly to watch the first show of the film, Sudeep’s fan queued up outside cinema halls in many parts of the state early in the morning. To their disappointment, they learnt that the movie would be released only on Friday. Some fans got upset and broke the iron gate of a cinema theatre here and also indulged in stone-pelting. After violence was reported in some theatres in the state, Babu said, “.. my film Kotigobba-3 could not be released today as I was cheated. There are many reasons.. Some people have conspired against me. The movie will be released tomorrow at 6 am. Please pardon me. I am not at fault.” Urging his fans not to vandalise theatres and maintain calm, Sudeep said, “I saw Babu’s video message. I know well who conspired against you (Babu). Only time will give the answer to them (Babu’s opponents)." Kotigobba-3 also features actors Madonna Sebastian, Ashika Ranganath, Shraddha Das and Aftab Shivadasani. Shiva Karthik is the director and Arjun Janya has scored the music. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sudeeps-fans-vandalise-theatres-in-karnataka-over-delay-in-release-of-kotigobba-3-1040602.html
14-10-2021||West||Covid-19 effect: Gujarat provides one year relaxation in upper age limit for govt jobs||In a bid to compensate for the loss of a year suffered by job seekers due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Gujarat government on Wednesday decided to provide relaxation of one year in the upper age limit in the upcoming recruitment for various vacancies. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel during the cabinet meeting in view of the fact that recruitment for government jobs could not take place for almost a year due to the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, an official release said. In order to allow maximum number of youths to take part in the upcoming recruitment process, the chief minister has decided to raise the upper age limit, it said, adding that the relaxation will remain in effect from September 1, 2021 to August 31, 2022. With this, the age limit for the general category male candidates applying for jobs with graduation as the minimum qualification has been increased from 35 years to 36 years. Similarly, for jobs which do not require graduation as the minimum qualification, the age limit has been increased from 33 years to 34 years. The age limit for male candidates of reserved categories applying for jobs having graduation as the minimum qualification has been increased from 40 years to 41 years. For jobs which do not require graduation as the minimum qualification, the age limit for reserved category males has been increased from 38 years to 39 years. For the general category women, the age limit has been increased from 40 years to 41 years in the case of jobs wherein graduation is a must. For jobs that do not require graduation as the minimum qualification, the limit has been increased from 38 to 39 years for general category women, the release said. Notably, the age limit for female candidates of reserved categories applying for jobs having graduation as the minimum qualification is 45 years at present and it will remain as it is, it added. However, for jobs that do not require graduation as the minimum qualification, the age limit for reserved category female candidates has been raised from 43 years to 44 years.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-effect-gujarat-provides-one-year-relaxation-in-upper-age-limit-for-govt-jobs-1040438.html
14-10-2021||West||Give information about drugs, get cash reward: Gujarat govt||The Gujarat government on Wednesday came out with a generous reward scheme to curb the drug menace under which informers, be it government officials or private individuals, will be given cash amount up to 20 per cent of the seized value of banned narcotics substances. The move comes at a time when Gujarat has emerged as an entry point for drugs smuggled from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran due to its long coastline. Last month, 2,988.21 kg of heroin, having a market value of Rs 21,000 crore, was seized from the Mundra Port in Kutch district. “We have to finish the network of drug suppliers and peddlers or else it can ruin vulnerable youth. The scheme was in discussion for some time and the state government on Wednesday decided to implement it,” Minister of State for Home Harsh Sanghavi told reporters. “The reward for informers on whose tip narcotics are seized, be it from any government department or from public, will be up to 20 per cent of the value of seized drugs which are listed under the NDPS Act,” he said. Sanghavi said the reward amount will be given as ex-gratia and will be decided by competent state authorities. For government servants, the upper limit of this reward during their entire service tenure will be Rs 20 lakh, while in a single case the highest amount that can be paid to individual personnel or officer will be up to Rs 2 lakh, he said. Government servants will not be rewarded if they have played a role in the contraband seizure as part of their duties. Only those who have taken extra risks will be given the reward, as per scheme rules. “Drug menace will weaken our society and it is important for youths to remain away from it. Drugs may give a temporary high feeling but in the long run it causes irreversible damage to our body. Youths should inform the police and the state home department if they know the place where drugs are being sold,” he said.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/give-information-about-drugs-get-cash-reward-gujarat-govt-1040442.html
14-10-2021||West||Getting sound sleep in BJP as there are no inquiries: ex-MLA Harshvardhan Patil||BJP leader Harshavardhan Patil on Wednesday quipped that he was getting "sound sleep" in the saffron party as there are "no inquiries", a remark that came on a day when NCP chief Sharad Pawar alleged the misuse of the Central agencies like the CBI, ED, and NCB to target the Opposition. Patil, a former MLA from Indapur in the Pune district, had quit Congress and switched over to the BJP before the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls. "We too had to go to BJP. He (referring to someone from the Opposition sitting next to him on stage) asked why did I join the BJP. I told him to ask his leader why I went to BJP. ....Everything is easy-going and peaceful (in BJP). I get sound sleep as there are no inquiries," Patil said while speaking at an event in Maval in the Pune district. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/getting-sound-sleep-in-bjp-as-there-are-no-inquiries-ex-mla-harshvardhan-patil-1040485.html
14-10-2021||West||Heavy traffic jam on road connecting to Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway after oil tanker accident||An oil tanker rammed into a road divider here in Maharashtra on Thursday, resulting in massive traffic at a junction of the busy Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway and other key roads on the outskirts of Thane city, officials said. There was no report of any casualty, they said. The tanker, which was on way to Shilphata in Thane from Gujarat, met with the accident on the city's arterial Ghodbunder Road around 1:30 am, following which furnace oil from the vehicle leaked on either side of the road, Thane Municipal Corporation's regional disaster management cell (RDMC) chief Santosh Kadam said. This caused heavy traffic congestion on both sides of the Ghodbunder Road and at the key junction of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway, an official from Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar police commissionerate control room said. "Commuters faced a tough time because of the terrible traffic jam on the key roads," the official said. After being alerted, local firemen, police, and RDMC personnel rushed to the spot where they sprayed water and put sand to clear the oil, Kadam said. But, the vehicular movement was still badly affected, officials said. "No one was injured," Kadam said, adding that efforts were on to restore smooth traffic movement on the roads. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-traffic-jam-on-road-connecting-to-mumbai-ahmedabad-highway-after-oil-tanker-accident-1040503.html
14-10-2021||West||Nora Fatehi, Jacqueline Fernandez summoned by ED in PMLA case||Bollywood actors Nora Fatehi and Jacqueline Fernandez have been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a Rs 200-crore money laundering case. However, there is no official confirmation. The case pertains to an FIR filed by the Delhi Police in connection with an extortion racket allegedly perpetrated by one Sukesh Chandrashekhar and others. Fatehi, 29, appeared before the investigating officer of the case at the agency office here. Sources told PTI her statement is being recorded under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with a money laundering case filed against Chandrashekar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. The agency had earlier questioned actor Jacqueline Fernandes in this case. She is expected to depose again before the agency on Thursday. Both the actors are understood to be helping the agency in taking the probe forward as they themselves had been allegedly conned in the racket run by Chandrashekhar and his wife. The two were recently arrested by the ED while they were already lodged in jail after they were arrested by the Delhi Police on charges of cheating some people including some high-profile individuals including former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. In August, the ED had raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakh cash and over a dozen luxurious cars.  It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about Rs 200 crore. "Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him and is presently lodged in Rohini jail (in connection with the Delhi Police case)," the ED had said. Despite being in the jail, it said, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people, the ED said.  "He (with a cellphone procured illegally in prison) with the help of technology, made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged to senior government officers. "While speaking (from prison) to these persons, he claimed to be a government officer offering to help people for a price," the ED had claimed. (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nora-fatehi-jacqueline-fernandez-summoned-by-ed-in-pmla-case-1040524.html
14-10-2021||West||BJP will win absolute majority in Goa Assembly polls and form government again: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday exhorted BJP workers to elect a government with a full majority in Goa in the 2022 state assembly polls, promising double-paced development in the coastal state if the party wins the polls on its own steam. Shah also slammed competing political parties for offering freebies ahead of the state assembly polls, urging Goan voters to reject such overtures. “Everyone talks about a double engine government… You form a double engine government, but some compartments are falling short. Am I right or wrong? We do not want a government with fewer compartments. Step into the electoral fray to bring a government with a full majority. Full majority means stability…” Shah told a meeting of key BJP workers near Panaji late on Thursday.  Shah is on a two-day visit to Goa. In the 2017 state assembly polls, the BJP won only 13 seats in the 40 member state legislative assembly but managed to rope in post-poll alliance partners to form a government. In 2019, the BJP later inducted 15 MLAs from the Congress and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, taking the legislative strength of the party to 27 MLAs.  “Those who want to contest should contest on our symbol (and) win a majority. Why should we be concerned about 'aaya raams gaya raams'. Elect a government with a full majority, it will be our responsibility to double the speed of development. There is a certain flair to a government with a full majority. It comes with many advantages. It also ensures transparency,” Shah said. Obliquely commenting on freebies, like free power and unemployment doles promised by the Aam Aadmi Party in Goa, Shah said, “Some people come here and promise freebies. What do they think of Goa? Just because you are offering freebies, you will get votes? We want a government which takes the right tax and carries out development without corruption”. “We do not want a government which gives freebies. We want a government that teaches people to live with respect and partner people in development. Those who do not know Goa, have not seen Goa at all, are coming here preaching,” Shah also said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-will-win-absolute-majority-in-goa-assembly-polls-and-form-government-again-amit-shah-1040580.html
14-10-2021||West||NCB says Aryan Khan a regular consumer of drugs, court to pass order on his bail on October 20||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was a regular consumer of drugs, the NCB on Thursday told a special NDPS court here while opposing his bail plea in a case of alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship. Aryan (23), arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3, will have to remain in jail for at least six more days as the court, after hearing arguments, posted the matter for orders on October 20. Khan and two others — Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha — have sought bail from the court of V V Patil, special judge for cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Appearing for the NCB, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh claimed that there was evidence to show that Aryan Khan was a regular consumer of drugs for the last few years. He also reiterated the charge of conspiracy against Aryan, based on his WhatsApp chats. Since his arrest, the NCB has maintained that though nothing was recovered from him personally, Aryan's WhatsApp chats revealed his links with drug peddlers. The ASG further contended that drugs were seized from Merchant at the docks, and they were meant for consumption by both Aryan and him. The NCB has also been claiming that Aryan was in contact with members of an international drug racket. The NCB was in touch with the External Affairs Ministry to identify them, the ASG said. Singh also cited a high court ruling in another case that if an accused is shown to be in touch with drug dealers, bail cannot be granted even though there is no drug recovery. Drug abuse is affecting youngsters, and being college-going boys should not be a consideration for bail, the NCB lawyer said, adding that the future of the country depends on this generation. "This is not what our freedom-fighters had in mind. This is the land of Mahatma Gandhi and Buddha. The investigation is at preliminary stage, this is not the stage for grant of bail," he added. Senior Advocate Amit Desai, representing Aryan Khan, said the NCB was pointing to international trafficking racket, but if the consumer states from where he procured drugs, then "the chain is complete". The NCB itself had alleged that Aryan disclosed the name of Achit Kumar, another arrested accused, he said. The agency can continue the probe, but the allegation of links to international racket against Aryan is "inherently absurd and false", he said. "I don't think there can be a debate that the entire world is fighting the drug menace. We got our freedom and we must protect it and save the younger generation from the drug menace," the lawyer said. On Aryan's WhatsApp chats, Desai said today's youth have different ways of expressing themselves which might be a "torture" for the older generation. The language could seem like something different than what ought to be (expected) in a court of law and might lead to suspicion, advocate Desai said. "These are private moments which are being investigated. You can go ahead and investigate...But it has nothing to do with illicit behaviour, illicit drug trafficking," he added. Aryan Khan had lived abroad for some time, and lot of things are "legitimate" in other countries, the lawyer added. Earlier, Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were among those arrested by the NCB on October 3, had been denied bail by a magistrate's court which said it can not hear the pleas in a case triable by a special NDPS court. While Aryan and Merchant are lodged at Arthur Road jail, Dhamecha is at Byculla women's prison in the city. Based on a tip-off that a rave party was scheduled on the ship off the Mumbai coast, an NCB team, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise on October 2 evening and allegedly seized drugs. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-says-aryan-khan-a-regular-consumer-of-drugs-court-to-pass-order-on-his-bail-on-october-20-1040606.html
14-10-2021||West||NCB has 'malafide intentions', making 'selective leaks' to frame people, alleges Nawab Malik||Against the backdrop of various raids conducted by the NCB, including on some high-profile people, Maharashtra minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik on Thursday alleged that the anti-drugs agency has "malafide intentions" and is involved in "selective leaks" to frame people. Addressing a press conference, Malik also said that his son-in-law Sameer Khan, who was recently granted bail in a drugs case after nine months, will move the high court to seek quashing of charges levelled against him by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). However, when contacted for response on allegations levelled by Malik, NCB's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede told PTI that the case is before a court. "We respect the court and we don't talk about the matter which is sub-judice," Wankhede said. Khan was arrested by the NCB in January this year in an alleged drug case. He got bail last month. Apart from the recent drugs bust onboard a cruise liner off the Mumbai coast, that led to the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, Wankhede last year investigated a drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and several other matters related to narcotics involving high-profile people. Malik last week alleged that the NCB's raid on the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2 was “fake”, and no narcotic drugs were found during it. On Wednesday, the minister alleged that the "NCB has malafide intentions and is involved in only selective leaks to frame people". He also said that his security was beefed up after he started getting "threats" when he raised doubts over the NCB's investigations. R eferring to the bail order issued by an NDPS court in connection with the case involving his son-in-law Sameer Khan, Malik said there was "no prima facie evidence of a drug syndicate". It is surprising that an agency like the NCB cannot differentiate between drugs which fall under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and tobacco-related items, the NCP leader said. "It (NCB) said ganja was seized (in the case involving Sameer Khan), but there was none. I just had to make things clear today after the bail order, since the BJP was targeting me over my son-in-law when I raised issues about the NCB's fake case of the cruise drug party," the NCP leader said. Malik also claimed his family faced trauma and stigma due to the NCB. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-has-malafide-intentions-making-selective-leaks-to-frame-people-alleges-nawab-malik-1040610.html
14-10-2021||West||Aryan Khan shifted to general barracks of prison after quarantine ends||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and five others arrested in a drug seizure case have been now shifted to general barracks of the Arthur Road prison here as their quarantine period was over, an official said on Thursday. Aryan (23), arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3 from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, will have to remain in jail for at least six more days, as a special court earlier in the day posted his and two others' bail pleas for orders on October 20. They had been shifted to the Arthur Road prison in central Mumbai after their initial custodial remand with the NCB got over and a magistrate sent them in judicial custody but denied them bail. They were kept in quarantine barracks for seven days, a prison official said, adding the quarantine period ended on Wednesday. All of them were subjected to RT-PCR tests for coronavirus on Wednesday morning, and as the results were negative, they were separated from each other and shifted to various general barracks, he said. Based on a tip-off that a rave party was scheduled on the ship, an NCB team raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise on October 2 evening and allegedly seized drugs. Several persons including Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aryan-khan-shifted-to-general-barracks-of-prison-after-quarantine-ends-1040668.html
