15-10-2021||Comment||Religion and science in ‘New India’||In the journey of human civilisation, cosmologies came to represent the distilled wisdom of humankind, accumulated over millennia in its quest for survival in the face of the adversities of nature and the basic human need to relate to fellow beings. Indeed, for thousands of years, cosmologies guided human thought and action concerning nature and the human and the non-human world. Western modernity sought to relegate “faith” to the footnote of history and bring the “scientific” to the centre of human affairs. In the ensuing turmoil, a great deal of wisdom lying in the grey areas of the cosmologies of non-Western societies was lost as the quest for, and the claims of, universal truths came to be associated with the binary of religion and science. Decolonisation saw cultural assertions in defence of indigeneity by the peoples of the colonies. Tradition and revivalism constituted important elements of the Indian renaissance and nationalism, too. However, though present in the public sphere during our national movement, religion was not allowed to get in the way of the imagination of India as a humane, pluralist and inclusive society. The founding fathers of our Constitution gave us a secular, democratic republic in which people of all faiths would enjoy equal citizenship rights. It was an audacious experiment in arguably the most diverse society in the world. Nehruvian India celebrated the diversities of Indian society, and while reposing faith in science and technology as a vehicle of economic prosperity and well-being, the Indian State was guided by the principle of “neutrality” in respect of religion. Gradually, as political parties of all hues gave in to the lure of vote-bank politics, the State faltered in its commitment to secularism. Religion and religiosity are on the rise in India, to the eclipse of constitutionally ordained secularism. The past few years have seen unprecedented brutalisation of our society in the name of religion and erosion of constitutional morality. Growing vigilantism has instilled a sense of insecurity and fear into the minds of the minorities. Ethnic majoritarian nationalism flattens diversities and others the minorities. In his recent book, Partitions of the Heart: Unmaking the Idea of India, human rights and peace worker Harsh Mander has meticulously documented communal polarisation taking place first in the society of Gujarat in the wake of the Godhra incident in 2002 and then its replication in the rest of India since 2014. He feels fraternity, our most cherished constitutional value, is being irremediably corroded in India of today. Based on massive global survey data, Ronald F Inglehart, in his book, Religion’s Sudden Decline, has argued that since 2007, the world is generally becoming less religious. India is an exception in this survey, where religiosity increased markedly. The Pew Research Centre’s latest survey, Religion in India: Tolerance and Segregation, confirms this trend. Several commentators have interpreted the findings of the survey. They seem to agree that the findings hint at a marked rise in majoritarian tendencies in India and, thus, lend credence to the tide of Hindutva. Our leaders’ growing display of religiosity in the public sphere of today’s India seems to be in sync with the finding that 64% of the Hindus in the Pew survey thought that “politicians should have a large or some influence in religious matters.”  Hindu nationalism attempts to blend religion and science to secure India’s rightful place in the comity of nations; domestically, its goal is to establish the supremacy of Hindu religion and culture, and ultimately a Hindu Rashtra in India.  This blending of religion and science finds expression in wild and bizarre claims made about scientific and technological progress made in ancient India and in imputing scientific significance to narratives found in our folklore and mythologies. Our political leaders have speculated on the prevalence of genetic science and stem cell research and the significant advancement of science and technology in ancient India.  In a remarkable interdisciplinary study, Holy Science: The Biopolitics of Hindu Nationalism, Banu Subramaniam has argued that contemporary India envisions alternative modernity by bringing “together a melding of science and religion, the ancient and the modern, the past and the present into a powerful brand of nationalism.” This, she terms, archaic modernity. While Subramaniam celebrates the progressive possibilities that the convergence of science and religion may offer, she is emphatic in her rejection of the ends that the project of Hindu nationalism seeks to attain by blending science with religion – that is, the supremacy of Hindu religion and culture.       Recently, prominent industrialist and philanthropist Azim Premji appealed to fight the Covid-19 pandemic with good science and truth. He said: “At the core of the idea of good science is the matter of being willing to accept and confront the truth…Science and truth are the foundation on which we can tackle this crisis and ensure that it is not repeated,” he said, “Together we are stronger, divided we continue to struggle…we need to restructure our society and economy such that our country does not have this kind of inequity and injustice.”  We are not sure whether Premji was endorsing the universal truth claims of modernity. However, besides science, Premji also highlights the importance of togetherness and the need to restructure our society and economy to fight inequity and injustice, which primarily pertains to politics.  The question that stares us in the face is: Does the nature of prevailing politics allow, if not actively promote, the practice of good science and good religion in our society? Science and religion must come together in the project of the creation of a compassionate man and a compassionate society. No religion is good unless it dispels unreason, brings people together, and ushers in an era of peace and goodwill. And no science is good unless anchored in a higher moral purpose and is helpful in leading a lifestyle that is in harmony with nature. (The writer is Adjunct Faculty, Department of Social Sciences, FLAME University, Pune) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/religion-and-science-in-new-india-1040922.html
15-10-2021||First Edit||Flawed, dangerous reading of human rights||The criticism made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of selective reading of human rights issues and the linkages he has made between rights and duties and rights and basic needs are problematic, and will not promote the cause of human rights. On the 28th foundation day of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) last week, Modi cautioned against the “selective interpretation of human rights and using human rights to diminish the image of the country.” But the Prime Minister is as guilty of selective flagging of human rights as others whom he accuses of that fault. He cited the enactment of the triple talaq law by his government to honour the rights of Muslim women but has been silent on the growing attacks on and suppression of constitutional and human rights in the country. His government and its agencies cannot escape responsibility for them.  Political contestation of rights and values is natural in a democracy. It is not right to claim that looking at human rights through the political prism is their biggest infringement. Politics might actually make violations more visible, and take the right into the more active democratic conversation. The government should in any case not be selective, even if politicians tend to be so. The problem actually arises when the violation is judged on the basis of the identity of the victim and of the person who raises the issue. That risk has risen in the country of late. The statement that human rights are used to harm the country’s image is dangerous and seems like a warning.  From there, it is only a short step to saying that advocacy of human rights is anti-national.  The Prime Minister made other untenable propositions, too. He said the duties of a citizen were closely linked to human rights and they should not be discussed separately. But such a linkage would work against the rights of the citizen because the State, which is a powerful entity, would be inclined and well-placed to extract duties out of the citizen before respecting her rights. It should be noted that the Constitution originally had no provision for fundamental duties and they were incorporated into it in another time of authoritarian rule, the Emergency. Duties are important, but linking them with rights would give primacy to them and limit the salience of rights. Similarly, the linkage between the basic needs of people and human rights is unacceptable. The Prime Minister said that the government has acted well and done much to meet the basic needs of the people. But it's the people's right to have their needs met, and there can be no trade-off between needs and rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/flawed-dangerous-reading-of-human-rights-1040924.html
15-10-2021||In Perspective||Jallianwala Bagh: What was the redesign for?||There has been much consternation over the redesigned Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Amritsar. The original memorial, designed by Benjamin Polk, was stark; the redesigned one has been called a ‘Disney-fied’ version of reality; that is, a happy place, complete with a sound-and-light show, desensitised to the terrible event that it memorialises. Under the current political regime, there is much effort at re-narrating the past through the monumentalisation/ memorialisation of events and people. But there are three sets of questions that come to mind: One, what are we memorialising? Is there a narrative on the design of memorials? Two, who actually redesigned the memorial? How were they chosen? Was the selection process different from that in the past? And three, what is the design process for memorials? Were the public and stakeholders consulted in the redesign of Jallianwala Bagh? When memorialising a tragic event such as the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, a public memorial is meant to keep past events alive in the common memory through physical representation. The memorial design is meant to imprint on social memory, remind the visitor/society of the violent history and pain caused so that they may seek ways to prevent such events from occurring in the future. Memorials are designed to carry the past to the present and to encourage survivors and future generations to explore contested memories of the past. Public memorials contribute to the city landscape and their design is therefore critical. “Disneyfication” -- cultural shorthand for a sanitised and “imagineered” spectacle of urban reality and an opiate for the middle-class masses -- of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial is problematic. Vama Communications, a company in Ahmedabad, redesigned Jallianwala Bagh. The redesign of the memorial was sanctioned in 2019 under the National Implementation Committee to mark 100 years of the massacre of hundreds of Indians by British General Reginald Dyer and his troops in 1919. The advisory committee had officials from the ministries of culture and tourism, besides the Archeological Survey of India and NBCC Ltd., which floated a tender. Vama Communications -- designer of the National Police Museum, New Delhi; the Dinosaur Museum, Balanisor, Gujarat; Mahatma Gandhi Museum, Rajkot; and the Kanji Swami Museum, Umrala -- was selected based on the tender requirements. The process of selection of the designer was no different from the process used by previous regimes and was technically above board. Due to the lack of ‘capacity within governments (local, state and national), project statements are usually developed by private parties or non-profits or advocacy firms close to the political party in power. Monies are allocated and tendering is facilitated. Typically, firms known to the agencies involved in the ‘development' of the project are shortlisted and selected. In the case of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial, Vama Communications, well-known to the ruling regime, which designs museums and memorials with a technology-driven path (3D projections, virtual reality, touch interactive surfaces) was selected. Unfortunately, this did not equate to a sensitive and quality designed project. Thirdly, apparently, some form of public consultation was conducted. Some of the stakeholders were asked how they would like the memorial to look and some were shown some drawings of the designs. This was unfortunately a tokenistic process. A truly consultative process would have started well in advance of the design, elicited discussion from, and engaged with, stakeholders throughout the design process. Ultimately, the redesign of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial is a case of poor design. Even if the monument is meant to reflect the cultural values of the masses and not the values of the elite, the monument reflects poorly as an aesthetic and historical object. This is partly because the structural process associated with the selection of the designer is opaque, skewed and easily influenced. This needs reconfiguration for the selection of better designers for future monuments and public infrastructure. Perhaps, if a competition method or participatory process (often used for public infrastructure design abroad) had been used, a more sensitive selection could have been made. Unfortunately, this was not the case. The current structure devalues the participatory process and creates an atmosphere for more projects that lack true public participation. And finally, regarding the ‘Disneyfication’ of the memorial: Many historical monuments are in dire need of repair and there has been much discussion on ‘privatisation’ of historical and urban design. The process of determining what shape a memorial project should take and how memorial space should be used is essential -- more important, ultimately than the monument itself. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based urban designer) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/jallianwala-bagh-what-was-the-redesign-for-1040923.html
15-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru illumination extended for nine days||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the illumination of the Mysuru city has been extended for nine days. He was speaking to reporters during his visit to Suttur Mutt branch. The CM said a large number of people from parts of the state are visiting the city to enjoy the illumination. The Minister in-charge of the district and MLAs of the region have asked for an extension and thus, the lighting will continue for another nine days, the CM said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-illumination-extended-for-nine-days-1040884.html
15-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Dasara illumination extended by nine days||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the Mysuru Dasara illumination of the city would be extended for nine more days. Speaking to reporters during his visit to the Suttur Mutt branch here, the CM said, "A large number of people from various parts of the state are visiting Mysuru to enjoy the illumination. Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar and MLAs of the region have asked for an extension. The lighting will continue for another nine days." Although the government celebrated simple Dasara, the city’s illumination was grand. Thousands of people thronged the city to enjoy the illumination. The authorities of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) had illuminated a stretch of more than 100 kilometres. The illumination will be between 6.30 pm and 10 pm. The CESC has revised the timing due to the night curfew. Earlier, the illumination was between 6.30 pm and 10.30 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-dasara-illumination-extended-by-nine-days-1040895.html
15-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka CM assures good news for protesters in Mandya||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday assured that he would give good news to farmers of Mandya district during a meeting of protesters and elected representatives on October 18. The Chief Minister visited the protest venue in Mandya en route Mysuru before participating in Jamboo Savari celebrations. Members of Raitha Hitarakshana Samiti have been staging a protest for two months urging the government to run the Mysore Sugar (MySugar) factory in Mandya. Bommai said, "I had planned to visit the protest venue last time when I visited Mysuru. I could not visit due to various reasons. MySugar factory is a historical one. It was the reason for Mandya district to get the tag - Sugar district. I know all the developments. It is my wish to save the factory." "It is our responsibility to ensure that the factory resumes operation. We will put an end to all issues on October 18. There is no need for any confusion among the protesters. Once the factory resumes, it should not stop for any reason. Such a decision has to be taken," the CM said. The protesters insisted that he announce that the factory would be run by the government on the spot. However, the CM explained that it was not possible to make spontaneous announcements and a procedure had to be followed. The government would take a suitable decision after discussing with the authorities concerned, he said. MLC K T Srikantegowda was present. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cm-assures-good-news-for-protesters-in-mandya-1040900.html
15-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tableaux, folk troupes add glitter to simple Dasara procession in Mysuru||Mysuru Dasara 2021 concluded with the Jamboo Savari on the premises of Mysuru Palace on Friday. Though the number of tableaux and cultural troupes was limited, they added glitter to the procession that was completed in around 20 minutes. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai offered puja to 'Nandi Dhwaja' near Kote Anjaneya Swami temple and unfolded Vijayadashami celebrations for the year 2021. With the threat of a Covid third wave, the authorities decided for simple Dasara and limited Jamboo Savari for only 500 people within the Palace premises. But, thousands of people were present on the premises during the procession. The number of tableaux was limited to six this year. The first tableau by the Dasara sub-committee highlighted the platinum jubilee of Indian Independence 1947-2021. The freedom struggle and pictures of freedom fighters were recreated on the tableau. The next tableau was by Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA), highlighting its ambitious multi-storeyed housing complex projects at Jayanagar, Dattagalli and other parts of Mysuru. The Health and Family Welfare department tableau was about the Covid pandemic and replicas of health personnel creating awareness on Covid vaccination. The next tableau was to create awareness on environmental conservation. This was followed by the Department of Agriculture and Horticulture that stressed on comprehensive farming and its projects - Vidyasiri, Jenu Krishi and others. The last tableau was the most popular 'Anebandi' carrying the police band performing traditional and western musical instruments. Around 400 folk artists performed various folk arts during the procession. Veeragase, Nadaswaram, Saxophone, Kamsale, Dollu kunitha, Nagari, Puja kunitha, Chilipili gombe, Kombu kahale, Garudi gombe, Chende vadan and Yakshagana were a visual treat for the thousands of people gathered at the Mysuru Palace and also lakhs of people watching the Jamboo Savari on television and on social media platforms. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tableaux-folk-troupes-add-glitter-to-simple-dasara-procession-in-mysuru-1040906.html
15-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Property dispute claims three lives in Kodagu||Two people were shot dead while another ended his life by suicide over a property dispute in Kiruguru, Gonikoppa on Friday. The deceased have been identified as Yashoda (44) and Madhu Muttappa (39). Sagar Somaiah (50) ended his life after he shot dead the other two. Madhu died at the spot while Yashoda breathed her last on the way to the hospital.  It is said that there were frequent quarrels between Sagar Somaiah and his close relative Madhu Muttappa, over the property. On Friday, when Madhu Muttappa was harvesting areca on his farm. Sagar, in a fit of rage, rushed to open fire at Madhu. When Sagar’s wife Yashoda objected, he shot at her. He drove a tractor to the farm of Madhu and opened fire at Madhu killing him on the spot. Later, Sagar jumped into the lake and ended his life. A case has been registered. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/property-dispute-claims-three-lives-in-kodagu-1040950.html
15-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bypolls: Bommai, Yediyurappa to hit campaign trail soon||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and his predecessor BS Yediyurappa will hit the campaign trail soon for the October 30 bypoll at Sindagi and Hangal assembly segments. While Bommai will launch his campaign on October 17, Yediyurappa will start electioneering from October 21. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said that he would start campaigning at Hangal on October 17. “After that, I will campaign for two days at Sindagi,” he said. To a question on Yediyurappa’s campaign, Bommai said that he had spoken to the former CM about the same. “After October 20, he will campaign in both Hangal and Sindagi constituencies,” he said. Yediyurappa is likely to campaign for four days.  On Turuvekere MLA and Spices Board chairman Masala Jayaram threatening to quit the party if he is not given a better Board or Corporation, Bommai said that he would speak to the MLA. Jayaram has said that he would wait till November after which he would take a decision. “I will not comment on that. He is my good friend,” Bommai said. On rumours that Yediyurappa had held a secretive meeting with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, Bommai dismissed them. “Since Yediyurappa has categorically denied such a meeting, is it not clear that they have not met?”  Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh met Bommai and his ‘bete noire’ Yediyurappa at the latter’s residence on Friday and exchanged pleasantries of Dasara festival.  ‘Cong will win Hangal’ KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed, who is in charge of the party’s poll effort in Hangal, said an internal survey showed a Congress victory. “Our candidate Srinivas Mane will win big,” he said. According to Ahmed, the AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala will campaign at Sindagi on October 19 and then Hangal the next day. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah will visit Hangal on October 16 and 17 and the KPCC president will go to Hangal on October 18. “We will have campaigns till October 27,” Ahmed said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bypolls-bommai-yediyurappa-to-hit-campaign-trail-soon-1040968.html
15-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress will split into three: Vijayendra||The internal bickering in Congress has reached a decisive stage and the party will soon split into three, claimed BJP state vice president B Y Vijayendra. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Vijayendra said that Congress had been losing its existence in the country and the party iWAShanging on to power only in some states. "Still, it is dreaming of coming to power in Karnataka. BJP candidates will emerge victorious in the upcoming bypolls," he said. Vijayendra dismissed the claims about a meeting between Siddaramaiah and B S Yediyurappa. He said there was no substance in the statement of Kumaraswamy and it was only a political ploy. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-will-split-into-three-vijayendra-1040972.html
15-10-2021||Mysuru||In a first, Chamundeshwari idol brought to Mysuru Palace ||For the first time, Chamundeshwari Devi Utsava Murthy was brought in a grand procession from Chamundi Hill to the Mysuru Palace. The idol of the Devi will be placed inside golden 'howdah', which will be carried by Dasara elephant Abhimanyu, during the Jamboo savari today evening. Minister in-charge of the district S T Somashekar offered puja to the idol and it was taken out in a procession in an open vehicle. Various art troupes, police band, horses attached to Mounted Police participated in the procession. The idol was brought to Mysuru Palace via Tavarekatte, Ittegegoodu and Harding Circle. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/in-a-first-chamundeshwari-idol-brought-to-mysuru-palace-1040819.html
15-10-2021||Mysuru||People gather near Mysuru Palace gate for a glimpse of Jamboo Savari||Amid strict Covid-19 restrictions and limited entry inside the Mysuru Palace premises for the Jamboo Savari procession, a large number of people are thronging near Palace. The people, particularly tourists, are arriving at the Palace gates to take a glimpse of Dasara Jamboo Savari.  A visitor Ramesha from Hassan said, he is not allowed to enter the palace premises. "I am waiting at the gate at least to get a glimpse of Jamboo Savari," he said. Another Arun Kumar from Shivamogga said he has been requesting the Police to allow him to the palace premises.  It has been difficult for the police on duty near the gates to manage the crowd.  The City Police Commissioner Chandragupta had said there would be a ban on vehicles on the streets surrounding the palace on Vijayadashami day. However, it has not been implemented. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/people-gather-near-mysuru-palace-gate-for-a-glimpse-of-jamboo-savari-1040847.html
15-10-2021||National||'By when will govt push China out of Indian territory?' Congress asks Amit Shah||The Congress on Thursday questioned Home Minister Amit Shah over Chinese incursions along the border and asked by when the government would push China out of Indian territory. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that instead of fake chest-thumping, Shah should take stock of the internal and external security threats as he has failed on these fronts. The remarks came after Shah in Panaji talked tough on Pakistan and said the surgical strikes carried out by India five years ago sent a strong message to the world that no one can interfere with its borders. "Amit Shah is first advised to utter the word China, of which the Modi government is scared, and then tell us by when will the government push China back from India's territory. Let him give a deadline for reclaiming our 900 km of Indian territory which is illegally occupied by the Chinese by their brazen incursions," Surjewala told reporters. He asked the home minister to tell the country when would he reclaim Depsang and Gogra Hotsprings and when he would give a befitting reply to China in Uttarakhand. Surjewala also asked how he will tackle the Chinese over its "brazen incursions" in Doklam plateau up to the Chicken's neck that is the entry to seven eastern states. "Instead of fake chest-thumping and statements to captive media friends, let him take stock of the growing and uncontrollable external and internal security threats. The truth is Amit Shah has failed at the wheel," the Congress leader said. Shah at a function in Goa said that under the BJP-led NDA rule, India gives a befitting reply to terrorist attacks which was not the case when the Congress-headed UPA was in power.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/by-when-will-govt-push-china-out-of-indian-territory-congress-asks-amit-shah-1040702.html
15-10-2021||National||Cruise drug case: After snooping claims, Mumbai cops step up security of NCB officer Wankhede||After allegations of snooping, the Mumbai police on Thursday increased the security cover of NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede, who is currently supervising the investigation into the high-profile drugs-on-cruise case, an official said. Wankhede, who earlier this week claimed that two policemen were monitoring his movements, confirmed the development. According to the official, the police have provided a gunman and three more personnel to guard the senior IRS officer. The vehicle, which he was using earlier, has been replaced with an SUV as part of his new security detail, he said. The number of police personnel deployed outside the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office at Ballard Estate in South Mumbai has also been increased, the official said. Wankhede is currently supervising a probe into the case of alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship in which Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, is among those arrested. The senior bureaucrat had lodged a complaint alleging his movements were being tracked by some unidentified persons and two policemen from the Oshiwara Police Station in suburban Mumbai. The NCB officer also had met Maharashtra DGP Sanjay Pandey and told him he was being stalked. After his snooping allegations, Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil had said the state government had not ordered police or any other agency to monitor the movements of Wankhede. Besides the cruise drug bust, Wankhede had been involved in investigations of a string of high-profile narcotics cases, including the one related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput last year.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cruise-drug-case-after-snooping-claims-mumbai-cops-step-up-security-of-ncb-officer-wankhede-1040707.html
15-10-2021||National||Sitharaman and US counterpart talk fighting money laundering, terror funding||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and her American counterpart Janet Yellen on Thursday discussed among other issues fighting illicit finance, money laundering and combating terrorism financing. The two dignitaries had a wide-ranging discussion during the eighth India-USA Economic and Financial Partnership meeting. The importance of fighting illicit finance and the need for continued cooperation in tackling money laundering and combating the terror funding was underpinned by Sitharaman and Yellen, the Finance Ministry said in a tweet, as the two countries issued a detailed joint statement after the meeting. “We continue to strengthen our cooperation in tackling money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism through increased information sharing and coordination,” said the joint statement. “Both sides agree on the importance of fighting financial crimes and on the effective implementation of the Financial Action Task Force standards to protect our financial systems from abuse,” it added. During the first India-US Economic and Financial Partnership meeting since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the two countries also agreed on further engagements on emerging financial sectors such as cross-border payments, payment systems and the development of an International Financial Services Centre. Sitharaman and Yellen were also joined by Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell and Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das, during the meeting. Sitharaman and Yellen affirmed their commitment to continue engagement both bilaterally and multilaterally to address global economic issues. “During the ministerial meeting, we took stock of the extensive efforts that have already been undertaken by both sides to deepen mutual understanding and highlighted new elements of the vital bilateral relationship,” the joint statement said. “We had productive discussions on a range of subjects, including the macroeconomic outlook and recovery from the pandemic, financial regulatory and technical collaboration, multilateral engagement, climate finance, and anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT),” it said. The two leaders acknowledged the unprecedented impact that the Covid-19 crisis has had on lives and livelihoods. “We also addressed the importance of maintaining supportive policies until a strong and inclusive recovery is firmly entrenched,” it said. According to the Joint Statement, the meeting featured the Economic and Financial Partnership’s first session dedicated to climate finance, reflecting their respective commitments to driving urgent progress in combating climate change and the critical role of climate finance in achieving this shared global goal. “We shared views on the re-energized global efforts to increase climate ambition as well as our respective domestic efforts to meet our publicly expressed climate goals,” the statement said. “We agreed that public finance, when paired with enabling policies, can promote private finance,” it added. The two countries reaffirmed the collective developed country goal to mobilise USD100 billion annually for developing countries from public and private sources, in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation. “We intend to engage further on addressing climate change between our two ministries, as well as through the Finance Mobilization pillar of the recently launched Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD) under the US-India Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership,” it said. Reemphasizing their commitment to the central role of multilateral cooperation in addressing global challenges, both sides affirmed their commitment to debt sustainability and transparency in bilateral lending. Acknowledging the importance of working through multilateral development banks to help India access and mobilise available funds to support development objectives, including for climate, the two leaders welcomed the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework political agreement on October 8 as representing a significant accomplishment for updating the international tax architecture to reflect the modern economy and establish an international tax system that is more stable, fairer, and fit for purpose for the 21st century. “We take note of the progress made in sharing financial account information between the two countries under the Inter-Governmental Agreement under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA),” it said. “The two sides should continue to engage in discussions on the full reciprocal arrangement on FATCA. The two sides look forward to continued collaboration for increased cooperation in sharing of information for tackling offshore tax evasion,” the statement added. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitharaman-and-us-counterpart-talk-fighting-money-laundering-terror-funding-1040754.html
15-10-2021||National||India reports 16,862 new Covid-19 cases, 379 deaths||India logged 16,862 new coronavirus infections  taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,40,37,592, while the active cases declined to 2,03,678, the lowest in 216 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,51,814 with 379 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 21 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 110 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.60 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.07 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,908 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. As many as 11,80,148  tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 58,88,44,673. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.43 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 46 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.42 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 112 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,33,82,100, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 97.14 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 379 new fatalities include 174 from Haryana, 96 from Kerala and 35 from Maresharashtra.  Haryana added the death figures after the report of the State Death Audit Committee, the ministry said. A total of 4,51,814 deaths have been reported so far in the country including  1,39,705 from Maharashtra, 37,922 from Karnataka, 35,853 from Tamil Nadu, 26,667 from Kerala, 25,089 from Delhi, 22,897 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,945 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-16862-new-covid-19-cases-379-deaths-1040756.html
15-10-2021||National||PM Modi remembers former president Abdul Kalam on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to former president A P J Abdul Kalam on his birth anniversary on Friday, saying he dedicated his life in making India strong, prosperous and capable, and will always remain a source of inspiration for the people of the country. "Tributes to former president Dr APJ Abdul Kalam ji, known as the 'Missile Man', on his birth anniversary. He dedicated his life in making India strong, prosperous and capable. He will always remain a source of inspiration for the people of the country," Modi said in a tweet in Hindi. Kalam served as the 11th president of India from 2002 to 2007 and earned the respect and admiration of people and political parties across the spectrum for his simple living and non-partisan conduct. He is also credited with opening the doors of the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the masses and came to be affectionately called the "People's President". Kalam, who passed away in 2015, also earned the sobriquet "Missile Man of India" for his role in the development of the country's missile programmes. Modi also wished his ministerial colleagues Mahendra Nath Pandey and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on their birthday, and lauded their work in the government.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-remembers-former-president-abdul-kalam-on-his-birth-anniversary-1040758.html
15-10-2021||National||India faced Covid crisis with resilience and fortitude: Sitharaman||India has not only faced the Covid-19 crisis with great resilience and fortitude but has also played a major role and "walked the talk" on the global fight against it, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said. Pointing out the fast recovery of India’s economy, Sitharaman in her address to the Development Committee of the World Bank said the Modi Government, besides taking economic relief measures, has also undertaken significant structural reforms to turn the crisis into an opportunity and emerge stronger. “The measures undertaken by the government have set a strong foundation for India’s sustained economic growth,” she said. According to the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook, India is estimated to be the fastest-growing major economy in 2021, projected to grow at 9.5 per cent in 2021 and 8.5 per cent in 2022. Observing that despite the pandemic, India received its highest ever FDI inflows of $82.0 billion in fiscal 2020-21, the finance minister said this trend in India's FDI is an endorsement of its status as a preferred investment destination amongst global investors. Addressing the Development Committee meeting, Sitharaman said India has faced the Covid-19 crisis with great resilience and fortitude. The country’s pandemic response has focused on the twin goals of saving both the lives and livelihoods, she said. “When faced with the second wave of infections, India again mounted a carefully calibrated and dynamic response to the evolving situation. Given that the second wave was asynchronous in its onset across states and wider in its spread, only localised lockdowns were imposed during the second wave,” she said. This approach aided reduction in cases in the Covid-19 hotspots without dampening economic activity in regions with fewer cases, she said. “Despite a more brutal second wave, India’s GDP grew at 20.1 per cent YoY during April-June quarter of 2021, recovering more than 90 per cent of the corresponding pre-pandemic output levels of 2019,” she added. The broad-based and swift recovery of both the demand and supply-side components reaffirms India’s resilient recovery and strong macroeconomic fundamentals. “With the easing of the Covid-19 restrictions, GST collections for July, August and September 2021 have crossed the INR 1 trillion mark, which testifies to the fact that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The robust GST revenues are expected to continue in the coming months too as the economic recovery gathers momentum,” the finance minister said. India, she said, is one of the frontrunners in the global vaccine deployment race with the second-highest total number of Covid-19 vaccines administered all over the world. As of September 30, India has administered 951.35 million doses, covering 72.8 per cent of the 18 years (as on August 10, 2021) and above population with at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. “India has also played a major role and truly ‘walked the talk’ on the global Covid-19 effort. India’s massive Vaccine Maitri programme, under which more than 66.3 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines were exported to 95 countries worldwide bears special mention. India is all set to resume vaccine export in October 2021,” she said. India also made its digital platform for Covid-19 vaccination, CoWIN, an open-source for all countries to access, adapt and use. India is also at the forefront of multilateral efforts, including the Quad plan for the production of one billion vaccines to be offered to South-East Asian countries, she added. Sitharaman said in addition to economic relief measures, India has undertaken significant structural reforms to turn the crisis into an opportunity and emerge stronger. These reforms across diverse areas include agriculture and food processing, commercial coal mining, financial support to MSMEs and change in definition with increased thresholds, production linked incentive schemes to boost manufacturing, privatisation of PSUs and asset monetisation, increased FDI limit in defence and insurance are amongst the most notable reforms and have set a strong foundation for India’s post-Covid economic growth, she said. Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes have been introduced across key sectors to create national manufacturing champions and generate employment opportunities for the country’s youth. “The objective is to make India a bigger and more important part of the global economy by pursuing policies that are efficient, competitive and resilient,” she said. Observing that Infrastructure development has assumed a major focus in strengthening India’s economic recovery, the finance minister said India has a robust National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) which is a first-of-its-kind, whole-of-government exercise to provide world-class infrastructure. “Measures have been undertaken to promote ease of doing business with rational tax systems, simple and clear laws, reducing compliance burden and leveraging technology for better compliance,” she said. “As a recent major initiative, the government has taken steps to scrap the retrospective tax law which would help resolve tax disputes and boost investor confidence,” she added. “Despite the pandemic, India received its highest ever FDI inflows of $82.0 billion in FY 2020-21. The trend in India's FDI is an endorsement of its status as a preferred investment destination amongst global investors,” said the Union finance minister.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-faced-covid-crisis-with-resilience-and-fortitude-sitharaman-1040759.html
15-10-2021||National||IIT JEE Advanced 2021 results declared: How to check marks||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced 2021 results have been declared. Candidates can check the result on the official website, jeeadv.ac.in. Candidates can access the results using their exam roll number, registration number and date of birth. JEE Advanced Results 2021: How to check your result 1. Visit the official website on jeeadv.ac.in. 2. Click on JEE Advanced 2021 Result. 3. Log in using credentials like registration number. 4. Submit the details and the result will appear. 5. Download and take a printout for future reference. The JEE advanced 2021 final answer key will also be released today.  A total number of 1,41,699 candidates appeared in both papers 1 and 2 in JEE Advanced 2021. A total of 41,862 candidates have qualified JEE Advanced 2021 of the total qualified candidates, 6,452 are females. Mridul Agarwal of IIT Delhi zone topped the Common Rank List (CRL) in JEE Advanced 2021. He obtained 348 marks out of 360 marks. Kavya Chopra of IIT Delhi zone is the top ranked female with CRL 98. She obtained 286 marks out of 360.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-jee-advanced-2021-results-declared-how-to-check-marks-1040762.html
15-10-2021||National||Terrorists resorting to targeted killings in J&K: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Amid a sudden spate of terrorist activities in Jammu & Kashmir, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday said that they need to be countered. “Terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir have restarted the spate of targeted killings of national-minded citizens, especially the Hindus, to destroy their morale and reestablish the reign of terror in the valley. Efforts for curbing and finishing off the terrorist activities need speeding up,” Bhagwat said addressing the annual VijayDashami rally at Nagpur on the occasion of Dussehra.  “Sanatan Hindu culture and its magnanimous Hindu society that has the ability to accept all, alone can be the saviour of the world from the catastrophic grip of radicalism, intolerance, terrorism, conflict, animosity and exploitation,” he said in his hour-long address.  Expressing concern over the bitcoin currency, he said: “Clandestine, uncontrolled currency like Bitcoin has the potential to destabilise the economy of all countries and pose serious challenges”. On the OTT platforms’ content, the RSS chief said: “In the backdrop of the pandemic, online education was introduced. School-going children are now hooked on mobile phones as a rule. The government must make efforts to create a content regulatory framework for OTT platforms,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrorists-resorting-to-targeted-killings-in-jk-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-1040765.html
15-10-2021||National||Bitcoin can destabilise world economies, claims Mohan Bhagwat||Expressing concern over Bitcoin, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday claimed that the "clandestine, uncontrolled currency" has the potential to destabilise the economy of all countries and pose serious challenges. He was addressing the annual Vijayadashmi rally at Reshimbagh ground in Nagpur. On the OTT platforms’ content, the RSS chief said: “In the backdrop of the pandemic, online education was introduced. School-going children are now hooked on mobile phones as a rule. The government must make efforts to create a content regulatory framework for OTT platforms,” he said. Bhagwat pointed out: “In absence of prudence and a regulatory framework, it will become difficult to predict in which way and to what extent will this emerging phenomenon of contact with fair and unfair means sweep our society. However, to what extent anti-national forces wish to use these means is well-known. Therefore, the government must make efforts to regulate these affairs in no time.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bitcoin-can-destabilise-world-economies-claims-mohan-bhagwat-1040769.html
15-10-2021||National||VP Naidu hopes Dussehra brings peace, prosperity in India||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday extended greetings on Vijaya Dashmi, hoping the festival brings peace, harmony and prosperity in the country. "My warm greetings on the auspicious occasion of Vijaya Dashami. Dussehra is an occasion to remind us that we need to constantly quell the demonic forces within us and foster goodness and harmony," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Naidu.  May this festival bring peace, harmony and prosperity in our country, he said.         Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-hopes-dussehra-brings-peace-prosperity-in-india-1040770.html
15-10-2021||National||Fuel rates burn a hole in pocket as petrol, diesel prices hiked again||Petrol and diesel prices on Friday rallied to their highest-ever levels across the country, as fuel rates were hiked again by 35 paise a litre. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.14 a litre and Rs 111.09 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 101.78 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 93.87. This is the second straight day of 35 paise per litre increase in petrol and diesel prices. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. Since the ending of a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 14th increase in petrol price and the 17th time that diesel rates have gone up. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in a dozen states, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Leh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude is trading at $84.61 per barrel for the first time in seven years. A month back, Brent was trading at $73.51. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 5.25 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 4.25. Before that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-rates-burn-a-hole-in-pocket-as-petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-again-1040780.html
15-10-2021||National||Mridul Agarwal tops JEE Advanced, Kavya Chopra topper among girls; nearly 30% candidates clear exam||Nearly 30 per cent of the 1.41 lakh students who appeared for the JEE-Advanced cleared the entrance test for admissions to IITs with Mridul Agarwal from Delhi zone topping the charts nationwide. Kavya Chopra, also from the Delhi Zone, is the top-ranked girl student with 286 marks out of 360, who is 98th on the common rank list. The 17-year-old Agarwal, who plans to pursue B.Tech in Computer Science from IIT Bombay, has scored 348 out of 360 marks in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Advanced. Priyanshu Yadav from IIT Delhi topped the charts among OBC candidates, while Ramaswamy Santhosh Reddy from IIT Hyderabad top-scored among economically weaker sections in the general category. Among Scheduled Castes, Nandigama Nikhil (Hyderabad) ranked first, while among tribal candidates Bijili Prachothan Varma (Hyderabad) topped the list. Among persons with disabilities category (PwD), Arnav Jaideep Kalgutkar (Bombay) topped in the general category, Yuvraj Singh (Kanpur) ranked first in Gen-EWS category, Gorle Krishna Chaitanya (Hyderabad) aced the exams among OBC students. Rajkumar (Bombay) topped the exams in the PwD category among SC candidates and Ravi Shankar Meena (Delhi) ranked first in PwD category among ST students. Of the total 1,41,699 candidates who appeared for the entrance tests, 41,862 managed to qualify for admissions to IITs – a passing percentage of 29.54 per cent. Of the total 41,862 candidates who have qualified in JEE-Advanced this year, 6,452 or 15.41 per cent are girl students. “While 97 foreign candidates had registered for the exam only 42 of them appeared out of which seven have qualified,” an official statement said. The top 10 students on the CRL are Agarwal, Dhananjay Raman, Anant Lunia, Ramaswamy Santosh Reddy, Polu Lakshmi Sai Lokesh Reddy, Soni Naman Nirmal, Kartik Sreekumar Nair, Chaitanya Aggarwal, Arnav Aditya Singh and Modulla Hrushikesh Reddy. Among girl students Neerja Vishwanath Patil (CRL 266) topped in IIT Bombay Zone, Kavya Chopra (98) in Delhi Zone, Camelia Roy (1377) in Guwahati Zone, Shreya Tiwari (279) in Kanpur Zone, Bethina Joshitha Chowdhary (148) in Kharagpur Zone, Palle Bhavna (107) in Hyderabad Zone and Deepasha (718) in Roorkee Zone. In 2020, 43,204 (28.64 per cent) candidates of the 1,50,838 students appearing for the JEE-Advanced cleared the entrance test. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mridul-agarwal-tops-jee-advanced-kavya-chopra-topper-among-girls-nearly-30-candidates-clear-exam-1040782.html
15-10-2021||National||Home Minister Amit Shah to visit Andaman and Nicobar Islands||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will arrive here on Friday on a three-day visit to Andaman and Nicobar Islands to take stock of various development initiatives in the archipelago, an official said. He will visit the National Memorial Cellular Jail and lay a wreath at the Martyrs’ Column. Shah will also visit the cell of Veer Savarkar and pay homage, the official said, adding that the union minister will attend a cultural programme as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. On Wednesday, Shah will undertake an aerial survey of various developmental initiatives, including Shaheed Dweep eco-tourism project and Swaraj Dweep Water Aerodrome, in the Union Territory. He will visit Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Island during the day. The union minister is scheduled to attend a programme to be organised by A&N Police on Sunday, the official added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-minister-amit-shah-to-visit-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-1040784.html
15-10-2021||National||Aryan Khan video calls SRK, Gauri from Mumbai jail||Aryan Khan spoke with his father Shah Rukh Khan and mother Gauri Khan via video call from inside Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail, jail officials told ANI. Mumbai Special court has reserved order for October 20 on his bail application in the high-profile drugs-on-cruise case. Drugs-on-cruise case | Aryan Khan spoke with his father Shah Rukh Khan and mother Gauri Khan via video call from inside Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail: Jail officials Mumbai Special court has reserved order for 20th October on his bail application. Check out latest videos from DH:  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aryan-khan-video-calls-srk-gauri-from-mumbai-jail-1040791.html
15-10-2021||National||PM Modi urges 7 state-run defence companies to prioritise research||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday dedicated seven new state-run defence companies to the nation and urged them to prioritise 'research and innovation' in their work culture.  "You have to take lead in future technology, give opportunities to researchers. I would also urge startups to collaborate with these seven companies," said PM Modi at the event.  Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and representatives from the defence industry associations were also present. Referring to the seven new companies, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said the government has decided to convert Ordnance Factory Board from a department into seven fully government-owned corporate entities as a measure to improve self-reliance in the country's defence preparedness. This move will bring about enhanced functional autonomy and efficiency and will unleash new growth potential and innovation, it said. The seven new defence companies that have been incorporated are Munitions India Limited (MIL), Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited (AVANI), Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWE India), Troop Comforts Limited (TCL), Yantra India Limited (YIL), India Optel Limited (IOL) and Gliders India Limited (GIL), the PMO said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-urges-7-state-run-defence-companies-to-prioritise-research-1040797.html
15-10-2021||National||Over 30 nations now recognise India’s Covid-19 vaccination certificate: Here’s the list||Over 30 countries now recognise India's Covid-19 vaccine certificates with India, including the UK which received flak for its 'discriminatory rules' for Indian travellers vaccinated with Covishield. Countries that have agreed on mutual recognition with India include the UK, France, Germany, Nepal, Belarus, Lebanon, Armenia, Ukraine, Belgium, Hungary and Serbia, PTI reported. Hungary and Serbia are the latest additions to the list of countries who agreed to recognise India's vaccination certificate, informed ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi last week. Bagchi added that the recognition of the vaccination certificates will cater to help people move across countries for education, business, tourism, and other things in the post-pandemic world. Meanwhile, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China and some nations in Europe are among countries whose travellers need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing. Last week, the UK government removed the requirement of mandatory quarantine for some vaccinated Indian passengers after the government voiced its displeasure regarding the decision and imposed travel requirements on passengers from Britain in a tit-for-tat move.  After the UK agreed to recognise Covishield and its certificate, the Centre said it will issue similar relaxation for UK travellers and the health ministry will issue the guideline.  With the mandatory quarantining now lifted, vaccinated people coming from the UK to India will require a negative RT-PCR test report and a self-declaration form. With PTI inputs Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-30-nations-now-recognise-india-s-covid-19-vaccination-certificate-here-s-the-list-1040798.html
15-10-2021||National||Second Covid wave in Delhi shows herd immunity against Delta variant difficult: Study||The severe outbreak of Covid-19 in Delhi this year showed that the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 can infect individuals previously infected by a different variant of the coronavirus, highlighting the challenges of reaching herd immunity against the variant, according to an international team of scientists. The study, published in the journal Science on Thursday, also found that the Delta variant was between 30-70 per cent more transmissible than previous SARS-CoV-2 lineages in Delhi. Since the first case of Covid-19 was detected in Delhi in March last year, the city experienced multiple outbreaks, in June, September and November 2020. The situation became worse in April this year, when daily cases increased from approximately 2,000 to 20,000 between March 31 and April 16. This was accompanied by a rapid rise in hospitalisations and ICU admissions, severely stressing the healthcare system, with daily deaths spiking to levels three-fold higher than previous waves. The study authors noted that Delhi's overall seropositivity was reported to be 56.1 per cent which was expected to confer some protection from future outbreaks through herd immunity. Herd immunity is a form of indirect protection from a disease that can occur when a sufficient percentage of a population has become immune to an infection. The latest study used genomic and epidemiological data, together with mathematical modelling, to study the outbreak. The work was led by the National Centre of Disease Control and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) in New Delhi with collaborators from the University of Cambridge and Imperial College London, UK, and the University of Copenhagen, Denmark. "The concept of herd immunity is critical in ending outbreaks, but the situation in Delhi shows that infection with previous coronavirus variants will be insufficient for reaching herd immunity against Delta," said study co-author Professor Ravi Gupta from the University of Cambridge. "The only way of ending or preventing outbreaks of Delta is either by infection with this variant or by using vaccine boosters that raise antibody levels high enough to overcome Delta's ability to evade neutralisation," Gupta added. To determine whether SARS-CoV-2 variants were responsible for the April 2021 outbreak in Delhi, the team sequenced and analysed viral samples from Delhi from the previous outbreak in November 2020 until June 2021. They found that the 2020 outbreaks in Delhi were unrelated to any variant of concern. The Alpha variant, first identified in the UK, was identified only occasionally, primarily in foreign travellers, until January 2021, according to the researchers. Alpha increased in Delhi to about 40 per cent of cases in March 2021, before it was displaced by a rapid increase in the Delta variant in April, they said. Applying mathematical modelling to the epidemiological and genomic data, the researchers found that the Delta variant was able to infect people who had previously been infected by SARS-CoV-2. The researchers noted that prior infection provided only 50-90 per cent of the protection against infection with Delta variant that it provides against previous lineages. "This work helps understand the global outbreaks of Delta, including in highly vaccinated populations, because the Delta variant can transmit through vaccinated or previously infected people to find those who are susceptible," said Anurag Agrawal from CSIR-IGIB, senior author and co-lead investigator of the study. To look for actual evidence of reinfection to support their modelling work, the researchers examined a group of people recruited by CSIR. In February, 42.1 per cent of unvaccinated subjects participating in the study had tested positive for antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. In June, the corresponding number was 88.5 per cent, suggesting very high infection rates during the second wave of the outbreak in the country. Among 91 subjects with prior infection before Delta, about one-quarter (27.5 per cent) showed increased levels of antibodies, providing evidence of reinfection. When the team sequenced all the samples of vaccination-breakthrough cases at a single centre over the period of the study, they found that among 24 reported cases, Delta was seven-fold more likely to lead to vaccination breakthrough infections than non-Delta lineages. Previous study by Gupta showed that the Delta variant has most likely spread through its ability to evade neutralising antibodies and its increased infectivity. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-covid-wave-in-delhi-shows-herd-immunity-against-delta-variant-difficult-study-1040802.html
15-10-2021||National||Manmohan Singh's condition stable, says AIIMS official||The condition of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who is admitted to AIIMS, is stable and improving, a hospital official said on Friday. Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here on Wednesday evening after he complained of weakness following fever. The 89-year-old former prime minister has been admitted to a private ward in the Cardio-Neuro Centre of the hospital and is under the care of a team of cardiologists led by Dr Nitish Naik. "His condition is stable and improving," the AIIMS official said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi visited Singh on Thursday evening to enquire about his health. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya also met Singh on Thursday and inquired about his health. Check out latest videos from DH:  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singhs-condition-stable-says-aiims-official-1040804.html
15-10-2021||National||More trust, transparency in defence sector than ever before, says PM Modi after unveiling of 7 defence firms||There is more transparency, trust and technology-driven approach in India's defence sector now than ever before and major reforms are taking place for the first time since Independence while discarding stagnant policies, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. In an address at an event to dedicate seven new defence companies to the nation, Modi, referring to the self-reliant India campaign, said the goal is to make the country the world's biggest military power on its own. In a major reform initiative, the seven state-run defence companies were created after dissolving the over 200-year-old Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). The assets of the OFB including its 41 ordnance factories were transferred to the seven new firms. Modi mentioned that the target should be that the companies not only establish expertise in their products but also become global brands. He urged that while competitive cost is India's strength, quality and reliability should be its identity. He said the world saw the strength of India's ordnance factories at the time of World War I and that they used to have better resources and world-class skills, but the companies were ignored in the post-Independence period, leading to the country's dependence on foreign supplies. "After Independence, we needed to upgrade these factories, adopt new-age technology. But it was not given much attention. Over time, India became dependent on foreign countries for its strategic needs. These new seven defence companies will play a big role in bringing change in this situation," he said in his video address. Modi said that as India entered 75 years of Independence, projects are being completed that were stuck for a long time. "Today, there is more transparency, trust, and technology-driven approach in the defence sector of the country than ever before. For the first time after Independence, so many major reforms are happening in our defence sector and instead of stagnant policies, a single-window system has been arranged," he said. "These seven defence companies will play a major role in changing this situation," he said. The prime minister hoped that the new companies would play an important role in import substitution. An order book of more than Rs 65,000 crore reflects the increasing confidence of the country in these companies, he added. Noting that the decision on reform of the OFB was pending for the last 15-20 years, Modi said works stuck for decades are being completed and India is taking new resolutions to build a new future. "In the 21st century, whether a country or a company, its growth and brand value is determined by its research and innovation. From software to the space sector, India's growth, India's new identity is the biggest example of this," he said. "Therefore, I also make a special request to all the seven companies that research and innovation should be a part of your work culture....You not only have to match the world's biggest companies, but also take the lead in future technology," he added. Modi said the government has given full functional autonomy along with giving a better production environment to all the companies, adding it has also been ensured that the interests of the workers of these factories are fully protected. The prime minister also underlines the need for giving maximum opportunity to research-oriented youth and give them full freedom to think. "I will also tell the start-ups of the country, through these seven companies, the new beginning that the country has started today, you should also be a part of it," he said. "You should think about your research, how your products can benefit from each other's capabilities in conjunction with these companies," he added. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and representatives from the defence industry associations were present on the occasion. Singh has already clarified that there will be no change in service conditions of nearly 70,000 employees of the erstwhile organisation and the decision to corporatise the OFB is driven by efforts to boost India's defence manufacturing sector. The new defence companies are Munitions India Limited (MIL), Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited (AVANI), Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWE India), Troop Comforts Limited (TCL), Yantra India Limited (YIL), India Optel Limited (IOL) and Gliders India Limited (GIL). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-trust-transparency-in-defence-sector-than-ever-before-says-pm-modi-after-unveiling-of-7-defence-firms-1040816.html
15-10-2021||National||Army chief Gen. Naravane witnesses culmination of military exercise between India and Sri Lanka||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday witnessed the culmination of the military exercise between India and Sri Lanka focusing on enhancing counter-terror cooperation and lauded the troops of both contingents for their high standards of training and professionalism. India and Sri Lanka last week began a 12-day mega military exercise with a focus on enhancing counter-terror cooperation at the Combat Training School in the island nation’s eastern district of Ampara. Chief of Army Staff Gen Naravane arrived here on Tuesday on a four-day visit at the invitation of his Sri Lankan counterpart Gen Shavendra Silva. "General MM Naravane #COAS witnessed the culmination exercise of Bilateral Exercise #MitraShakti21 at Special Forces Training School, #SriLanka," the Indian Army said in a tweet. "The #COAS complimented the troops of both contingents for their high standards of training & professionalism," it said. The eighth edition of the 'Mitra Shakti' exercise from October 4 to 15 got underway with the participation of an all arms contingent of 120 Indian Army personnel, headed by Colonel Prakash Kumar. The joint military exercise has been designed to enhance understanding of transnational terrorism, inter-operability skills, conduct of joint tactical operations, sharing of each other’s best practices and experiences, the Sri Lanka Army said. The annual training programme, which has largely contributed to strengthen bilateral military cooperation, understanding and bonds of neighbourly relations between both services, takes place alternately either in India or Sri Lanka every year, it added. On Thursday, Naravane inaugurated two simulator facilities gifted by India towards enhancing capacity building of the Sri Lankan Army and to further bolster the defence cooperation between the two countries. During his visit, Gen Naravane met Sri Lanka’s top civilian and military leadership and discussed steps for further enhancing the excellent defence cooperation between the two neighbouring countries. He called on President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who is the Commander-in-Chief of the Sri Lankan Armed Forces, and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and discussed with them issues of mutual and strategic cooperation. Gen Naravane also called on Foreign Secretary Admiral (Prof.) Jayanath Colombage and Gen GDH Kamal Gunaratne (Retd), Secretary, Ministry of Defence, and discussed steps to take forward the excellent defence cooperation between the two countries. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-chief-gen-naravane-witnesses-culmination-of-military-exercise-between-india-and-sri-lanka-1040829.html
15-10-2021||National||India's economy recovered very fast after tough phase of Covid-19 pandemic: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the recovery of India's economy after the difficult phase of Covid-19 pandemic has been robust. He was speaking after a virtual ground-breaking ceremony of a boys' hostel here. "After the difficult phase of the coronavirus pandemic, the Indian economy has recovered very fast. The world is hopeful about India because of this recovery," the prime minister said. He added that an international organisation had recently said that India is once again on its way to becoming the fastest growing economy in the world. Modi was apparently referring to International Monetary Fund's report 'Recovery During a Pandemic Health Concerns, Supply Disruptions and Price Pressures', which made a projection that India will grow at 9.5 per cent in the current fiscal. As per the IMF's projection, India will be the fastest-growing economy among big countries of the world. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-economy-recovered-very-fast-after-tough-phase-of-covid-19-pandemic-modi-1040836.html
15-10-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: Indian children likely to get jabbed soon||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-indian-children-likely-to-get-jabbed-soon-1040838.html
15-10-2021||National||Over 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states, UTs: Centre||More than 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Over 10.53 crore (10,53,11,155) balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, it said. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-100-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-centre-1040842.html
15-10-2021||National||Wealth of Hindu temples must be used for Hindus only: Mohan Bhagwat||Expressing concern over the state of affairs of some temples in the country, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday said the operating rights of such entities must be handed over to Hindus and its wealth be utilised for the welfare of the Hindu community only. Speaking at the annual Vijayadashmi address at Reshimbagh here, he said temples of south India are fully controlled by the state governments, while in the rest of the country some are managed by the government, some others by devotees. Citing the examples of government-run temples like the Mata Vaishno Devi temple, he said it is being run very efficiently. Similarly, the Gajanan Maharaj temple at Shegaon in Buldhana district of Maharashtra, the Jhandewala temple in Delhi, which are operated by devotees, are also being run very efficiently. "But there is a loot where temples are not being run efficiently,” he said. Few temples completely lack any system of governance. Instances of misappropriation of movable and immovable assets of temples have come to light, he added. "The wealth of Hindu temples is used for non-Hindus - who have no faith in Hindu Gods. Even Hindus need it, but it is not used for them," Bhagwat said. He said there are Supreme Court orders related to the management of temples. "It (the Supreme Court) has said that no one else can be the owner of the temple but God. The priests are only the managers. It has also said that the government can take control of it for management purposes, but only for some time. But then it has to return the ownership. So a decision on this needs to be taken properly. "And a decision also needs to be taken on how the Hindu society should maintain these temples," he added. In his written speech shared by the RSS, Bhagwat said a non-discriminatory ease of access and opportunity for seeing, worshipping God's shrine, to all devotees irrespective of caste and creed is also not practised everywhere and this should be ensured. It is apparent for all that many decisions regarding the religious code of conduct of the temples are "whimsically made" without any consultation with the scholars and spiritual teachers and within difference towards the sensitivities of the Hindu community, Bhagwat's written speech observed. "The injustices such as the exclusive appropriation of Hindu religious sites for decades and centuries, handing over of the operations to the non-devotees/irreligious, unethical heretics despite the state being secular must be expunged," it said. It is also necessary and only reasonable that the "operating rights of Hindu temples be handed over to the Hindu devotees and the wealth of the Hindu temples is utilised for the worship of the deities and the welfare of the Hindu community only", he said. The written speech said it is also necessary to devise a scheme to once again make temples the epicentre of our social-cultural life while ensuring appropriate management and operation of the temples based on the strength of the Hindu society.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wealth-of-hindu-temples-must-be-used-for-hindus-only-mohan-bhagwat-1040845.html
15-10-2021||National||Wealth of Hindu temples must be used for Hindus only: Mohan Bhagwat||Expressing concern over the state of affairs of some temples in the country, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday said the operating rights of such entities must be handed over to Hindus and its wealth be utilised for the welfare of the Hindu community only. Speaking at the annual Vijayadashmi address at Reshimbagh here, he said temples of south India are fully controlled by the state governments, while in the rest of the country some are managed by the government, some others by devotees. Citing the examples of government-run temples like the Mata Vaishno Devi temple, he said it is being run very efficiently. Similarly, the Gajanan Maharaj temple at Shegaon in Buldhana district of Maharashtra, the Jhandewala temple in Delhi, which are operated by devotees, are also being run very efficiently. "But there is a loot where temples are not being run efficiently,” he said. Few temples completely lack any system of governance. Instances of misappropriation of movable and immovable assets of temples have come to light, he added. "The wealth of Hindu temples is used for non-Hindus - who have no faith in Hindu Gods. Even Hindus need it, but it is not used for them," Bhagwat said. He said there are Supreme Court orders related to the management of temples. "It (the Supreme Court) has said that no one else can be the owner of the temple but God. The priests are only the managers. It has also said that the government can take control of it for management purposes, but only for some time. But then it has to return the ownership. So a decision on this needs to be taken properly. "And a decision also needs to be taken on how the Hindu society should maintain these temples," he added. In his written speech shared by the RSS, Bhagwat said a non-discriminatory ease of access and opportunity for seeing, worshipping God's shrine, to all devotees irrespective of caste and creed is also not practised everywhere and this should be ensured. It is apparent for all that many decisions regarding the religious code of conduct of the temples are "whimsically made" without any consultation with the scholars and spiritual teachers and within difference towards the sensitivities of the Hindu community, Bhagwat's written speech observed. "The injustices such as the exclusive appropriation of Hindu religious sites for decades and centuries, handing over of the operations to the non-devotees/irreligious, unethical heretics despite the state being secular must be expunged," it said. It is also necessary and only reasonable that the "operating rights of Hindu temples be handed over to the Hindu devotees and the wealth of the Hindu temples is utilised for the worship of the deities and the welfare of the Hindu community only", he said. The written speech said it is also necessary to devise a scheme to once again make temples the epicentre of our social-cultural life while ensuring appropriate management and operation of the temples based on the strength of the Hindu society.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wealth-of-hindu-temples-must-be-used-for-hindus-only-mohan-bhagwat-1040846.html
15-10-2021||National||Centre has developed strategy to tackle Jammu and Kashmir situation: L-G Manoj Sinha||Condemning the terrorist attacks on civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha on Thursday assured that the “selective and targeted" deaths would be avenged by destroying the “ecosystem of terrorism". “I take the responsibility for these unfortunate killings. To ensure that such killings don’t happen again-we have developed a full-fledged strategy and our actions will be seen soon. It is a fact that there have been selective and targeted killings in Jammu and Kashmir to create an atmosphere of fear. "For the last two years, Jammu and Kashmir were witnessing a rise in tourism, prospering, and development, those who couldn’t stand all of this orchestrated all of this to disrupt peace. Those who were killed, their deaths will be avenged. This ecosystem of terrorism will get destroyed," he told the publication. Earlier this week, the Lieutenant Governor had visited the family members of Deepak Chand, a teacher who was shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar, and offered his condolences to them for their "irreparable loss". Chand was among the seven civilians killed by terrorists in separate incidents in the Kashmir valley recently. Two teachers -- Supinder Kour, a Srinagar-based Sikh, and Chand, a Hindu from Jammu -- were shot dead on October 7 by members of The Resistance Force (TRF), a shadow outfit of proscribed terror organisation Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). They were killed two days after the outfit claimed responsibility for three more killings in the Union Territory. Makhan Lal Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit and the owner of Srinagar's most famous pharmacy, was shot dead at his shop on the evening of October 5. Minutes later, a "chaat" vendor, Virendra Paswan from Bihar, was gunned down elsewhere in the city. Around the same time, another civilian, Mohammad Shafi Lone, was killed at Naidkhai in Bandipora. On October 2, terrorists shot dead Majid Ahmad Gojri at Srinagar's Karan Nagar locality and Mohammad Shafi Dar at the city's Batamaloo area.  Check out latest videos from DH:  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-has-developed-strategy-to-tackle-jammu-and-kashmir-situation-l-g-manoj-sinha-1040850.html
15-10-2021||National||Coal ministry to augment fuel supply to power sector from captive mines||The coal ministry on Friday said it has taken various measures, including diverting the output from captive coal mines, to augment fuel supply to the power sector. The development assumes significance in the wake of country's power plants grappling with coal shortages. "The ministry of coal has taken all efforts to augment coal supplies to the power sector and decided to divert and augment the supplies to power sector from captive coal blocks," the coal ministry said in statement. Captive mines are those that produce coal or mineral for exclusive use by the company that owns the blocks. The ministry offered coal supply from NLC India's Talabira II & III mines in Odisha to NTPC. In this connection, both the companies worked together to commence the supply of coal from Talabira II & III open cast project (OCP) to NTPC (Darlipali & Lara Power Plants). With timely support and necessary coal delivery permits from the department of mines, Goverment of Odisha, the coal delivery to the Darlipali power station has been commenced, within 24 hours from the directives from the Ministry of Coal. NLC India Limited, a navratna company under the administrative control of the Ministry of Coal is operating Talabira II & III coal mines having annual capacity of 20 million tonnes in in Odisha. Talabira II& III OCP has commenced production from the financial year 2020-21. State-owned NLC India this week said it is making efforts to ramp up coal output from one of its mines in Odisha to up to 10 million tonnes per annum this year. The company aims to increase coal production to up to 20 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) from next year onwards, according to a regulatory filing. NLC India had said it has taken steps to achieve the target of six MTPA, from its original schedule of four MTPA during the current year. Considering the high demand for coal, the company is making all-out efforts to augment the coal production of Talabira mine up to 10 MTPA for the current year and up to 20 MTPA from the next year onwards. This will not only provide fuel security to end-use plants but also make available coal in the market, it had added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-ministry-to-augment-fuel-supply-to-power-sector-from-captive-mines-1040860.html
15-10-2021||National||Dhoni salutes medical fraternity for their sacrifice and hard work||Legendary Indian cricketer and Chennai Super Kings captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has saluted the medical fraternity for their service and hard work during the coronavirus pandemic. In a video campaign released by Kauvery Group of Hospitals on Friday to recognise the efforts of the fraternity, Dhoni, its brand ambassador, said doctors and nurses were the real heroes and their hard work kept us safe and healthy. "Thala...whenever you call me Thala, I feel like a real hero. But our real heroes are doctors and nurses who save lives day in and day out. It is their sacrifice and hard work which keeps us safe and healthy," Dhoni, who is known as 'Thala' (leader) among his CSK fans, said in the video message. The video campaign has been released by Kauvery Group of Hospitals to recognise the work of the medical fraternity during the pandemic which saw many doctors, nurses and healthcare staff working round-the-clock and some succumbed to the virus, a press release said here. The video drives home the message that the healthcare personnel are the unsung heroes who have been relentlessly serving people and saving lives. The CSK captain was roped in as brand ambassador by Kauvery Group of Hospitals earlier this year. Dhoni is currently in the UAE with the CSK team which will take on Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL final later on Friday night. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dhoni-salutes-medical-fraternity-for-their-sacrifice-and-hard-work-1040871.html
15-10-2021||National||I got opportunity to lead despite having no political, dynastic background or caste backing: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said he was given the opportunity to serve as chief minister of Gujarat and then as prime minister of the country even though he had no political or dynastic background, or a caste support. Modi was speaking after laying the foundation stone virtually for a boys' hostel on the outskirts of Surat, being constructed by the Saurashtra Patel Seva Samaj, a trust working for the welfare of the Patidar community. "I was a common man who did not have any political or dynastic background and no support of caste-based politics. Despite that, your blessings gave me the opportunity to serve Gujarat way back in 2001," he said. "And, such is the power of your blessings that even after 20 years, I am still serving. First I served the people of Gujarat and now I am serving the country," the prime minister added. He urged people to walk on the path shown by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. "Sardar Patel had said that we should not let castes and religious faith become a hindrance for us. We are all sons and daughters of India and we all should love our country. We all should love each other. People of Gujarat always believed in strengthening Sardar Patel's teachings. `Nation First' is the motto of Sardar Patel's children," Modi said. The prime minister also recalled the contribution of several prominent reformers and educationists from Gujarat, including Chaganbha of north Gujarat and Bhai Kaka of the Charotar region. He also spoke about Sankalchand Patel, Ganpat Patel, Mohan Lalji Patel and Karshan Virani. He gave the credit to some of the initiatives started during his tenure as chief minister for improvement on the education front and a dip in the school drop-out ratio among girl students. "There was a time when Gujarat did not have good quality schools and teachers. With the blessings of Maa Umiya and Maa Khodal (deities of the Patidar community), we included people in the movement and launched initiatives like Praveshotsav and Gunotsav," Modi said. As lack of toilets at schools was leading to girls dropping out, these facilities were provided and as a result the number of girls leaving schools midway significantly decreased, he said. While Mahatma Gandhi had the dream of creating a society which followed the ideals of `Ram Rajya', people of Gujarat were walking on that path and strengthening those principles, the prime minister said. Modi also lauded the new Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel, saying though he speaks less, one can not find any flaw in his work. Patel has been in public life for over 25 years and had started out as a councilor of a municipality, the prime minister noted. He also mentioned that he was addressing the people of the state for the first time after Patel took over as CM in September. In the first phase of the project undertaken by the Saurashtra Patel Seva Samaj near Valak village, a hostel for 1,000 male students of the Patidar community will be built. In the second phase, another hostel having the capacity to accommodate 500 girl students will be constructed. Kanji Bhalala, president of the trust, said the boys' hostel will also have a large auditorium, digital gallery showcasing the history of the Patidar community and its leaders and a library which can be accessed by students of all castes. There would be a 31-feet statue of Sardar Patel on campus, while a statue of Patel's daughter Maniben will be installed on the campus of the girls' hostel. The boys' hostel will mostly cater to students who are preparing for professional courses such as Chartered Accountant and competitive exams such as UPSC. While a nominal fee will be charged to boys, the trust will not charge anything to girl students, Bhalala added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-got-opportunity-to-lead-despite-having-no-political-dynastic-background-or-caste-backing-modi-1040873.html
15-10-2021||National||India most cost-effective globally in rooftop solar power: Report||A global study has found that India is the most cost-effective country for generating rooftop solar energy at $66 per megawatt-hour, while the cost in China is marginally higher at $68 per megawatt-hour. Due to the lower cost, rooftop solar photovoltaics (RTSPV) technology, such as roof-mounted solar panels used in homes, and commercial and industrial buildings, is currently the fastest deployable energy generation technology. This, according to this global study, is projected to fulfil up to 49 per cent of the global electricity demand by 2050. Over the past decade, the massive drop in deployment cost coupled with policy-driven initiatives has led to a rapid uptake of RTSPV globally. Between 2006 and 2018, the installed capacity of the RTSPV has grown from 2.5 gigawatts (GW) to 213 GW. With an additional capacity installation of 41 GW, RTSPV currently accounts for 40 per cent of the global cumulative installed capacity of the solar energy and nearly one-fourth of the total renewable capacity additions since 2018, which is more than the combined new installed capacities of both coal and nuclear. At the same time, RTSPV technology has shown a steep decline in deployment cost, which ranged between $63 and $265 megawatt-hour in 2019. It is a reduction of 42-79 per cent over 2010 value. Rooftop solar photovoltaics account for 40 per cent of the global solar photovoltaics installed capacity and one-fourth of the total renewable capacity additions. According to the study, India has a significant solar rooftop potential of 1.7 petawatt-hour per year. This is against the country's current electricity demand of 1.3 petawatt-hour per annum, it said. To understand the electricity generation potential of RTSPV globally and its associated costs, the study mapped 130 million square km of the global land surface area to identify 0.2 million sq km of rooftop area using a machine learning algorithm. This rooftop area was then analysed to document the global electricity generation potential of RTSPV and together represent 27 petawatt-hour per year of electricity generation potential for cost between $40 and $280 per megawatt-hour and of this, $10 per megawatt-hour can be realised below $100. The cost of attaining the potential is the lowest in India (at $66 per megawatt-hour) and China at $68, while the  same is at $238 per megawatt-hour in the US, and $251 per megawatt-hour in England, said the study. The study has been co-authored by Priyadarshi Shukla, a professor at Ahmedabad University and director of its global centre for environment and energy; Shivika Mittal from the Imperial College, London; and  James Glynn from Columbia University. The team was led by Siddharth Joshi, researcher at MaREI, the SFI Research Centre for Energy, Climate and Marine in University College Cork. The global potential of RTSPV is 27 petawatt-hour per year and the global average megawatt-hour cost for this varies in the range of $40-280 per megawatt-hour with the greatest energy generation potential in Asia. The global potential is predominantly spread between Asia (47 per cent), North America (20 per cent) and Europe (13 per cent), according to the study. The second-cheapest market for this method is China where it is pegged at $68 per megawatt-hour -- $2 higher than the potential Indian rate, while England and the US are among the costliest. Maharashtra, with 181 terawatt-hour per year and Uttar Pradesh with 168.07 terawatt-hour per year have the highest solar rooftop potential in the country now. The average cost of obtaining solar rooftop potential in India will be between $60 and $65 per megawatt-hour, with Gujarat and Rajasthan offering the lowest rates, according to the study. The findings have an important implication for sustainable development and climate change mitigation efforts. The International Solar Alliance, a joint initiative launched by India and France, is planning to mobilise $1 trillion in investments by 2030 to increase penetration of solar energy. This means that from powering Nasa's Vanguard satellites in 1958 to lighting homes in sub-Saharan Africa, solar photovoltaics technology has come a long way. The Rooftop solar photovoltaics technology as a subset of the solar photovoltaic electricity generation portfolio can be deployed as a decentralised system either by individual homeowners or by large industrial and commercial complexes, the study said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-most-cost-effective-globally-in-rooftop-solar-power-report-1040883.html
15-10-2021||National||Govt terms dip in India's rank in Global Hunger Index shocking', claims methodology used 'unscientific'||The Centre on Friday said it was shocking that India's rank was lowered on the Global Hunger Index, terming the methodology used for rankings "unscientific". India slipped to 101st position in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 of 116 countries, from its 2020 position of 94th. It is now behind its neighbours Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. Reacting sharply to the report, the Women and Child Development Ministry said it is "shocking" to find that the Global Hunger Report 2021 has lowered the rank of India on the basis of FAO estimate on proportion of undernourished population which is found to be "devoid of ground reality and facts and suffers from serious methodological issues". "The publishing agencies of the Global Hunger Report, Concern Worldwide and Welt Hungerhilfe, have not done their due diligence before releasing the report," the ministry said in a statement. The methodology used by FAO is "unscientific", the ministry claimed. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-terms-dip-in-indias-rank-in-global-hunger-index-shocking-claims-methodology-used-unscientific-1040885.html
15-10-2021||National||India ‘strategic partner and very close friend’: Israeli official says ahead of EAM's visit||Ahead of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's important visit to Israel, a top Israeli Foreign Ministry official on Friday said that India is “a strategic partner and a very close friend” as he extended warm greetings to the people on Dussehra. Ambassador Alon Ushpiz, the Director General of Israel's foreign ministry, took to Twitter to wish the people of India on the occasion of Vijaya Dashami or Dussehra which marks the triumph of good over evil. In the tweet, he announced that Jaishankar would travel to the Jewish state. It is understood that Jaishankar is expected to visit Israel from October 17. “Shubho Bijoya/Happy Dussehra to all of you, on the eve of @DrSJaishankar’s important visit to Israel. India is a strategic partner and a very close friend,” Ushpiz said in a tweet. During his visit, Jaishankar would meet the country’s top leaders, including President Isaac Herzog, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi. In August, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with his Israeli counterpart Bennett with the two leaders agreeing on the potential to further expand cooperation and deciding that the foreign ministries of the two countries would work on preparing a roadmap for further enriching the India-Israel strategic partnership. During their telephonic conversation, Modi reiterated his congratulations to Bennett for assuming office as the Israeli Prime Minister in June. Prime Minister Modi emphasised that India greatly values its robust cooperation with Israel in areas like agriculture, water, defence and security, and cyber-security. Recalling that next year would mark the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Israel, Prime Minister Modi extended an invitation to Bennett to visit India. India is the largest buyer of Israel's military hardware and the latter has been supplying various weapon systems, missiles and unmanned aerial vehicles over the last few years but the transactions have largely remained behind the curtains.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-strategic-partner-and-very-close-friend-israeli-official-says-ahead-of-eams-visit-1040901.html
15-10-2021||National||Chhattisgarh: One killed, 16 injured as SUV runs into religious procession||One person was killed and 16 others were injured when an SUV ran into a religious procession at Pathalgaon in Jashpur district of Chhattisgarh on Friday afternoon, police said. The incident took place when residents of Bazarpara locality had taken out procession for the immersion of Goddess Durga idols, an official said. The deceased man was identified as Gaurav Agrawal (21). Two occupants of the vehicle, Bablu Vishwakarma (21) and Shishupal Sahu (26), natives of Singrauli in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, were later arrested from the outskirts of the town while the vehicle itself was found burning, he said. Locals claimed that the two were smuggling ganja and set the SUV on fire themselves to destroy evidence as they were being chased. Tension prevailed in the town and a large number of people gathered outside the Pathalgaon police station. Terming the incident as "sad and heart-wrenching", Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said the accused were immediately arrested and action has also been taken against some police officers who were prima facie found at fault. "An inquiry has been ordered. No one will be spared. Justice will be done to all. May the departed soul rest in peace. I pray for the speedy recovery of the injured,” Baghel tweeted in Hindi. Senior BJP leader and former chief minister Raman Singh demanded a compensation of Rs 50 lakh for the kin of the deceased. Singh tweeted a video of the incident and wrote, “This video is very painful. In Chhattisgarh, the drug mafias have no fear of anyone. Will those taking out religious processions be crushed like this now? "Jashpur SP (Superintendent of Police) should be removed immediately. The kin of the deceased should be given Rs 50 lakh compensation and immediate arrangements should be made for the treatment of the injured,” he demanded. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-one-killed-16-injured-as-suv-runs-into-religious-procession-1040903.html
15-10-2021||National||Railways to resume on-board catering services||Indian Railways may restore on-board catering services soon as Covid-19 cases as the Passenger Amenities Committee (PAC) is set to meet in the last week of October to decide on the same. The PAC, a statutory organisation body under the Ministry of Railways, is likely to take a decision to restore the food catering services which have been suspended for 18 months due to Covid-19. The panel may also discuss other matters including starting a base kitchen and an onboard kitchen service. As railways received requests from many passengers and passenger associations to restore the onboard catering services, the regular catering service could soon start in trains, said the official. At present, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) offers an on-board catering service in trains. Previously, the pantry facility was provided in 19 Rajdhani, 2 Tejas, 1 Gatimaan, 1 Vande Bharat, 22 Shatabdi, 19 Duronto and 296 Mail/Express trains. The IRCTC is also talking with food aggregators on building a large-scale delivery network to ensure delivery of fresh food delivery from restaurants to passengers at his/her seat. Though IRCTC currently offering e-catering services, these are available at limited stations and restaurants due to logistical issues. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-resume-on-board-catering-services-1040914.html
15-10-2021||National||Govt removes export curbs on all diagnostic kits, reagents||With Covid-19 cases coming down in the country, the government on Friday removed export curbs on all diagnostic kits and reagents including instruments, which are used in detection of coronavirus infections. India logged 16,862 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,40,37,592, while the active cases declined to 2,03,678, the lowest in 216 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,51,814 with 379 fresh fatalities. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 21 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 110 consecutive days now. "The export policy of all diagnostic kits and reagents (including instruments /apparatus) ... is being made free with immediate effect," the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) said in a notification. The DGFT is an arm of the commerce ministry which deals with export and import related norms. The export restrictions on these products were imposed in June last year and August 16, 2021 on account of increasing Covid-19 cases. An exporter has to seek licence or permission from the government for exports of goods which are under a restricted category. Diagnostic kits and reagents include RT-PCR kits and reagents, RNA extraction kits and reagents, synthetic fibre swabs, Proteinase K, magnetic stand, beads, and Covid-19 rapid antigen testing kits. In a separate notification, the DGFT revised its earlier decision of October 4 with regard to export of syringes with or without needles. It was earlier put under restricted category for export purposes, but now the curbs would be there for only certain denominations of syringes. Further, in another notification, the directorate removed a ban on exports of melt blown fabric of any GSM, used in air filtration equipment, mask materials  and liquid filtering materials.. "The melt blown fabric of any GSM has been made freely exportable with immediate effect," it said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-removes-export-curbs-on-all-diagnostic-kits-reagents-1040916.html
15-10-2021||National||Govt's foreign policy -- how to lose friends, influence nobody: Rahul Gandhi's dig at Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday took a dig at the Centre over Bhutan and China signing a pact on border talks, saying the government's foreign policy is about how to lose friends and influence nobody. In a statement, Bhutan said its Foreign Minister Lyonpo Tandi Dorji and China's Assistant Foreign Minister Wu Jianghao signed on Thursday the MoU on the "three-step roadmap" for expediting the Bhutan-China Boundary negotiations. "GOI's foreign policy: How to lose friends and influence nobody," Gandhi tweeted and tagged a media report over the agreement signed between Bhutan and China. GOI’s foreign policy: India on Thursday reacted cautiously to Bhutan and China signing the agreement. "We have noted the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Bhutan and China today. You are aware that Bhutan and China have been holding boundary negotiations since 1984. India has similarly been holding boundary negotiations with China," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govts-foreign-policy-how-to-lose-friends-influence-nobody-rahul-gandhis-dig-at-centre-1040927.html
15-10-2021||National||India notifies 8,424 tonnes of raw sugar exports to US under tariff rate quota||The government on Friday permitted export of 8,424 tonnes of raw or white sugar under tariff-rate quota (TRQ) to the US, which enables shipments to enjoy relatively low tariff. TRQ is a quota for a volume of exports that enter the US at relatively low tariffs. After the quota is reached, a higher tariff applies on additional imports. "The quantity of 8,424 tonnes of sugar (raw and/or white sugar) to be exported to the US under TRQ scheme from October 1 to September 30, 2022, has been notified," the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said in a public notice. India enjoys duty-free sugar exports to the US for up to 10,000 tonnes annually under the preferential quota arrangement. India, the world's second-biggest producer and the largest consumer of sugar, has a preferential quota arrangement for sugar export with the European Union as well. The country's sugar export rose 20 per cent to an all-time high of 7.1 million tonnes in the 2020-21 marketing year ended last month, on the back of better demand and financial assistance from the government. Sugar exports stood at 5.9 million tonnes in the marketing year 2019-20. According to ISMA, the sugar production is estimated to remain flat at 31 million tonnes in the marketing year 2021-22. The total availability of sugar is estimated to touch 39.5 million tonnes, including an opening stock of 8.5 million tonnes of sweetener. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-notifies-8424-tonnes-of-raw-sugar-exports-to-us-under-tariff-rate-quota-1040938.html
15-10-2021||National||ED issues fresh summons to actor Jacqueline Fernandez after she skips summons||Actor Jacqueline Fernandez has been asked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to appear before the agency and record her statement on Saturday after she skipped her summons on Friday in connection with a money laundering case being probed against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekar, officials said. Fernandez, 36, once appeared before the federal agency in August and recorded her statement under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in this case. The officials said that after she skipped her fresh summons for Friday, the Bollywood actor has been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case on Saturday. It is understood that the agency wants to confront her with Chandrashekhar and his actor wife, Leena Maria Paul. The agency, they said, wants to understand some trail of funds and transactions that are allegedly linked to Fernandez in this case. Actor and dancer Norah Fatehi, 29, recorded her statement with the ED on Thursday in this case. "Nora Fatehi has been the victim around the case and being a witness, she is co-operating and helping the officers in the investigation," her representative said. The spokesperson maintained that Fatehi has not been a part of "any money laundering activity" and urged the media to "refrain from slandering her name". "She does not know or have any personal connection with the accused and has been called by the ED to strictly help with the investigation," the spokesperson said. Chandrashekhar and Paul were recently arrested by the ED while they were already lodged in a local jail after being taken into custody by the Delhi Police on charges of cheating some people, including some high-profile individuals like former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. In August, the ED had raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakh cash and over a dozen luxury cars.  It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about Rs 200 crore. "Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him and is presently lodged in Rohini jail (in connection with the Delhi Police case)," the ED had said. Despite being in the jail, it said, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people. "He (using a cellphone procured illegally in prison) with the help of technology, made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged to senior government officers. "While speaking (from prison) to these persons, he claimed to be a government officer offering to help people for a price," the ED had claimed. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-issues-fresh-summons-to-actor-jacqueline-fernandez-after-she-skips-summons-1040943.html
15-10-2021||National||Jagran group chairman Yogendra Mohan passes away||Jagran group chairman Yogendra Mohan passed away in Kanpur on Friday, the media house said. His last rites will be performed in Kanpur on Saturday, Dainik Jagran tweeted from its official handle about the death of Yogendra Mohan. The 83-year-old was unwell and breathed his last at a private hospital, the media house said. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among the leaders who condoled his death. Extending condolences to the bereaved family, President Kovind said while working to increase the reach of Hindi newspapers, he also made special contributions in the field of educational projects. Prime Minister Modi said he was deeply saddened by the demise of Yogendra Mohan Gupta. His death is an irreparable loss to the world of art, literature and journalism, Modi said. Vice President Naidu described the death of Yogendra Mohan as an irreparable loss to the world of journalism. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Yogendra Mohan had a very nuanced understanding of issues. His passing away is a great loss for Hindi journalism, he wrote on Twitter. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the death of the Jagran group chairman was an irreparable loss for journalism. He prayed to Lord Ram to grant the departed soul a place in his supreme abode and give strength to the bereaved family and the readers to bear the loss. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jagran-group-chairman-yogendra-mohan-passes-away-1040961.html
15-10-2021||National||India likely to do better than its Paris agreement targets: Sitharaman tells IMF||India is all set to meet its Paris climate agreement target to reduce emissions by 33-35 per cent of its GDP by 2030 from the 2005 level, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has told the IMF, asserting that its ambitious renewable energy goal of 450 gigawatt by 2030 is a game changer in the successful global fight against the climate change. India barely makes it to the list of top 100 countries in terms of per capita emissions and its per capita energy use is less than half the world average, Sitharaman said in her address to the International Monetary and Financial Committee. “Nevertheless, India is on track to meet its Paris Agreement targets – to reduce emissions by 33-35 per cent of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 2030 from the 2005 level; it is very likely that India will do better than this target. “The share of non-fossil fuels in electricity generation capacity is set to reach almost 60 per cent, well above the 40 per cent that India had pledged,” she said. India, Sitharaman said, has embarked on the most ambitious renewable energy project in the world targeting 450 gigawatt by 2030, which can become a game-changer in India’s fight against climate change and will help to secure the world’s climate transition. Sitharaman said that the formidable challenge for India and the rest of the developing countries is the access to adequate and affordable finance and low-cost technology, which is the fulcrum for limiting carbon footprint. “The developing countries will require new investments of up to $500 billion annually by 2030 – to adequately limit their growing greenhouse gas emissions. “These countries will also require an additional several hundred billion dollars to protect themselves from the worsening physical and economic impacts of greenhouse gases,” she said. Private capital may not be able to play a significant role in climate change mitigation and adaptation activities, given the public good nature of these investments, Sitharaman said. “A recent Oxfam Report finds that the true value of support for climate action of $100 billion annually committed by advanced countries under the Paris Agreement may be as little as $19-22 billion per year,” the finance minister added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-do-better-than-its-paris-agreement-targets-sitharaman-tells-imf-1040970.html
15-10-2021||National||India to join talks with Taliban in Russia||A senior diplomat of India will join representatives from China, Pakistan and other nations to attend a meeting Russia is organizing with the leaders of the Taliban regime of Afghanistan in Moscow on October 20. New Delhi has accepted an invitation from the Russian Government to attend the meeting in Moscow. This will be the first such occasion when a serving diplomat of the Government of India will attend a plurilateral meeting with attendance of the leaders of the Taliban, which returned to power in Afghanistan a couple of months back through a swift blitz across the country, taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. “We have received an invitation for the Moscow format meeting on Afghanistan on October 20th. We will be participating in it,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. India had sent two retired diplomats to attend a conference hosted by Russian Government in Moscow in 2018. A delegation of Taliban too had attended the conference in the capital of Russia. India had also sent its ambassador to Qatar to attend the ceremony that marked the signing of the US-Taliban deal in Doha in February 2020. New Delhi also had some back-channel engagements with the Taliban over the past few months before the militant organisation returned to power in Kabul. Finally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government on August 31 for the first time publicly acknowledged its engagement with the Taliban as New Delhi’s envoy to Doha had a meeting with Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the militant organisation’s political office in the capital of Qatar. Notwithstanding calls from New Delhi and the majority of the international community, the Taliban – guided by the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) of Pakistan – on September 8 announced an interim government in Kabul, with hardly any representation of the ethnic communities other than the majority Pashtuns. The new dispensation also had no representation of women and the religious minorities of Afghanistan. Modi had on September 17 called out the Taliban’s government in Afghanistan for its lack of inclusivity and urged the world community to tread cautiously on legitimising or recognising it. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-join-talks-with-taliban-in-russia-1040984.html
15-10-2021||National Politics||Centre's move to extend BSF jurisdiction is for well-being of border states: BJP||The BJP on Thursday strongly defended the Centre's move to amend the BSF Act, saying this step is for the welfare of the border states, especially Punjab, to check to smuggling of drugs and arms. Many opposition parties, especially the Congress, which is in power in Punjab, has been opposing the Centre's move to authorise the Border Security Force (BSF) to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km. "...The decision to give powers to the BSF to search, seizure, arrest within 50 km of international borders, is in the national interest. It will help in stoppage of smuggling of drugs, arms and cows," senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar tweeted while asking why Congress leaders in Punjab are opposing it. Echoing similar sentiments, the Union minister and BJP MP from Punjab Som Parkash said, "It is very strange that the Congress leaders from Punjab are opposing this step because this is what they have been demanding. They have been raising concerns about threats from across the border, including smuggling of drugs, and this step has been taken to check that threat." The Union government has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Opposition parties mainly the Congress and the TMC have been alleging that this is a conspiracy to take away the powers of the state and attack on the federal structure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-move-to-extend-bsf-jurisdiction-is-for-well-being-of-border-states-bjp-1040700.html
15-10-2021||National Politics||'Dictatorship': AAP on Centre's decision to increase BSF jurisdiction in Punjab, other states||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday hit out at the Union government over its decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF), saying states should have been consulted before reducing the jurisdiction of their police. Party's chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj termed the Centre's move "dictatorship" and cautioned it against taking a highhanded approach in decision-making. "You (Union government) reduced jurisdiction of the states' police by increasing jurisdiction of the BSF. The kind of 'dadagiri' (highhandedness) and dictatorship it is, it would not be liked by any party or any state government and the people of the states," Bharadwaj said when asked for his party's stand on the issue. The Union government has recently amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. "Everybody would have welcomed this decision if it was taken after holding consultation with all the states concerned," Bharadwaj said, adding "They (Union government) should work in consultation with the states. Dictatorship will not be appreciated." While the Centre's decision to extend the jurisdiction of the BSF was opposed by the Punjab government on Wednesday, Trinamool Congress (TMC), which rules West Bengal, hit out at the Centre on Thursday, saying it was an "infringement" on the rights of the state and an attack on the federal structure of the country. "I strongly condemn the GoI's unilateral decision to give additional powers to the BSF within 50 km belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately roll back this irrational decision," Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had tweeted on Wednesday. The AAP is the main opposition party in Punjab where assembly polls are due to be held early next year.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dictatorship-aap-on-centres-decision-to-increase-bsf-jurisdiction-in-punjab-other-states-1040705.html
15-10-2021||National Politics||'Attention diverted' from Lakhimpur Kheri incident through Aryan Khan case: Kapil Sibal||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Friday alleged that attention was diverted from the Lakhimpur Kheri incident through the Aryan Khan drug case. He also alleged that a "guilty till proven innocent" template was being applied in the case of Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan. Aryan (23), arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3, will have to remain in jail for some more days as a court on Thursday, after hearing arguments, posted the matter for orders on October 20. "Aryan Khan -- Narcotics Control Bureau investigation -- New Jurisprudence: No evidence of: consumption, possession. Guilty till proven innocent. Attention successfully diverted from Ashish Mishra (Lakhimpur Kheri)," Sibal tweeted. Aryan KhanNarcotics Control Bureau investigation New Jurisprudence: No evidence of :consumptionpossession Guilty till proven innocent Attention successfully diverted from Ashish 𝐌𝐢𝐬𝐡𝐫𝐚 ( Lakhimpur Kheri ) Stepping up pressure over the Lakhimpur incident, a Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi had met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday and urged him to ensure the immediate sacking of Union Minister Ajay Mishra and an impartial judicial probe by two sitting judges of the Supreme Court. Minister of State for Home Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who has been named in an FIR, was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with the mowing down of four farmers on October 3 in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. In another tweet, Sibal also took a dig at the government over India slipping to 101st position in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 of 116 countries, from its 2020 position of 94th. Congratulations Modi ji for eradicating :1) poverty2) hunger3) making India a global power4) for our digital economy5) …………… so much more Global Hunger Index : 2020 : India ranked 942021 : India ranks 101 Behind Bangladesh , Pakistan & Nepal "Congratulations Modi ji for eradicating: 1) poverty 2) hunger 3) making India a global power 4) for our digital economy 5) …………… so much more. Global Hunger Index: 2020 : India ranked 94. 2021: India ranks 101," the Rajya Sabha MP tweeted. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/attention-diverted-from-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-through-aryan-khan-case-kapil-sibal-1040841.html
15-10-2021||National Politics||Mansukh Mandaviya draws flak for clicking picture with bed-ridden Manmohan Singh at AIIMS||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday landed in controversy over visiting former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in AIIMS with a photographer and getting clicked with the ailing leader in a hospital bed "against the wishes" of the family. The 89-year-old Rajya Sabha MP was admitted to AIIMS on Wednesday after he complained of fever and weakness. His condition is stable and improving, an AIIMS official said. AICC Secretary Pranav Jha tweeted, "This is to inform that Dr Manmohan Singh-ji is doing fine. He is better than yesterday (Thursday). Let's all wish him a speedy recovery. Any unfounded speculation is unnecessary and in bad taste. Also request all to respect the former Prime Minister's privacy. Thank you!" Mandaviya and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi visited Singh on Thursday to enquire about his health. While photographs of Rahul enquiring with doctors and Singh's wife Gursharan Kaur were released, the photos of Mandaviya with Singh lying on the bed and pictures of him entering the hospital with a photographer have gone viral and has drawn flak. There was no immediate word from Mandaviya about the controversy, who is also the president of AIIMS. Singh's family is said to be upset with the episode involving Mandaviya's photographer. His daughter Damandeep Singh said her mother had objected to the presence of a photographer clicking pictures but was "completely ignored". "She (Gursharan Kaur) was very upset. My parents are trying to cope in a difficult situation. They are elderly people. Not animals in a zoo," Damandeep said adding that it was nice of the Health Minister to visit and express his concerns but her parents were not in a state to be photographed. Senior Congress MP Abhishek Singhvi said, "I know you all are concerned about the health of former PM Manmohan Singh but kindly do stop sharing photos of him from his hospital bed. It is an invasion of his and his family's privacy and not good conduct in any way." While Jha made a remark on the photos without mentioning it in his tweet, Congress Lok Sabha Whip Manickam Tagore tweeted that it was a "serious breach of privacy" and asked why the Union Health Minister walked in with cameras into the hospital and published it. "When former PM Vajpayee was in hospital, did we get pictures from AIIMS?" He said, asking AIIMS to answer. He said he would write to President Ram Nath Kovind to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ministers to "stop these petty things".  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mansukh-mandaviya-draws-flak-for-clicking-picture-with-bed-ridden-manmohan-singh-at-aiims-1040853.html
15-10-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah attacks Savarkar's critics, says they should have some shame||"Veer" Savarkar's patriotism and valour cannot be questioned, Union Home Minister Amit Shah asserted on Friday, as he hit back at those doubting the freedom fighter's commitment to India and its freedom struggle, and asked them to have "some shame". Shah's comments came against the backdrop of a massive row over Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's recent remark that V D Savarkar, a venerated Hindutva ideologue, had filed mercy petitions before the British at the advice of Mahatma Gandhi. "How can you doubt the life, the credentials of a man who was sentenced to two life imprisonments, made to sweat like a plodder bullock (kolhu ka bail) to extract oil at this prison. Have some shame," he told a gathering after garlanding the portrait of Savarkar at the cellular prison here where hundreds of freedom fighters were incarcerated during India's long freedom struggle. Shah said Savarkar had everything that he needed for a good life, but he chose the tough path, which indicated his unwavering commitment to the motherland. "There cannot be a greater pilgrimage than this cellular jail. This place is a 'mahatirth' where Savarkar experienced inhuman torture for 10 years but did not lose his courage, his bravery," Shah said, addressing an event as part of 75 years of India's Independence which the government is celebrating as "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav". The minister said the sobriquet "veer" was bestowed on Savarkar not by any government but by the people of the country in endorsement of his indomitable spirit and courage. "This title fondly given to him by 130 crore people of India cannot be snatched away," he said. Shah also laid a wreath at a memorial to the martyrs of the freedom struggle. He said most people in today's India were born after Independence and so did not get an opportunity to "die for the country". "I urge the youth of today to live for this great nation," he said. A big row had recently erupted after Rajnath Singh targeted the critics of Savarkar, saying the freedom fighter was being defamed over the mercy petitions. "Time and again, it was said that he filed mercy petitions before the British government seeking his release from jail...The truth is, he didn't file mercy petitions to get himself released. It is a regular practice for a [jailed] person to file mercy petitions. It was Mahatma Gandhi who asked him to file mercy petitions," Singh had said, drawing criticism from BJP's opponents who called it an "attempt to rewrite history". Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-attacks-savarkars-critics-says-they-should-have-some-shame-1040892.html
15-10-2021||National Politics||CWC Saturday meet to announce membership drive, delay organisation elections||The meeting of Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Saturday will finalise a time table for the organisational elections but immediate changes in leadership as demanded by a section is unlikely as the party is planning a mega membership drive that could take months. Sources said the CWC will give final touches to the membership drive from booth level ahead of organisational elections and this exercise is likely to take 7-8 months, virtually ruling out an immediate replacement for Sonia Gandhi, who took over as interim party president after Rahul Gandhi had quit following the Lok Sabha debacle. The leadership is also said to have factored in the upcoming Assembly elections early next year before deciding on the schedule, as conducting polls would divide the party's attention at a time it is planning an improved show in five states - Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh. It is to be seen how the change seekers or G-23 leaders respond if a full-time president is not appointed and organisational elections are further delayed. Rahul Gandhi was elected president in 2017 and had resigned after the Lok Sabha poll debacle following which Sonia was chosen as interim president. The tenure of Congress party president is five years and if a leader is chosen now, the argument is that he or she will have only a year and in such a scenario, one could wait till then.  While Sonia is likely to continue, it was earlier speculated that Kamal Nath or Sachin Pilot may be appointed as party president as an interim measure. Saturday's meeting, which is called to "discuss current political situation, forthcoming assembly elections and organisational elections", will be the first physical meeting after Covid-19 struck the country. The meeting is expected to discuss organisational issues, including the trouble in party-ruled states like Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. On the positive, the central leadership appeared to have brought some peace in the Punjab unit where its president Navjot Singh Sidhu had put the party in trouble by playing the rebel. On Thursday evening, Sidhu held a meeting with Congress General Secretaries Harish Rawat (Punjab in-charge) and K C Venugopal (Organisation) during which he said he would abide by any decision of the Gandhis. Though there is no official word, sources said, it has been decided that Sidhu will continue as Punjab president. The CWC meeting also comes after senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad wrote to Sonia seeking an immediate meeting of the CWC to discuss the crisis in the party. A number of G-23 leaders are unhappy with the leadership in the manner in which Amarinder Singh was ousted as Punjab Chief Minister following a campaign by Sidhu, which has the support of Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. Another concern will be Chhattisgarh where a section led by T S Singh Deo has been raising the demand for removing Bhupesh Baghel as per a perceived formula of sharing Chief Ministership. Baghel has also been appointed as senior party observer for UP Assembly polls. The leadership tussle in Rajasthan would also come up for discussion during the meeting. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cwc-saturday-meet-to-announce-membership-drive-delay-organisation-elections-1040905.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Over 48,000 students secure seats in DU under two cut-off lists||Over 48,000 students have secured their admission at Delhi University under the two cut-off lists, while the varsity has received more than 1.18 lakh applications till now, according to official data. Thursday was the last day for colleges to approve pending applications and the third cut-off would be released on Saturday. The university has received a total of 1,18,878 applications under the two cut-offs, while 48,582 students have paid the fees, thereby filling up more than half of the 70,000 undergraduate seats. As many as 10,591 applications have been approved by college principals. Dr Jaswinder Singh, the principal of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College, said nearly 440 seats out of 820 have been filled up. "We have 10 students who have applied to the B.Com programme. The cut-offs are likely to see a one per cent decline in the third list," he said. The cut-off for the B.Com programme was pegged at 100 per cent in the first list but the course did not find any takers so the cut-off was reduced in the second list. At Hindu College, 1,858 students have secured their admission to date. "The third cut-off list is likely to see a decline of up to one per cent for courses. We have already filled up the unreserved seats for B.Com(Honours) while OBC is almost filled up. There will be vacant seats in the reserved categories and there is likely to be a reduction of up to one per cent in the third list. A meeting will be held on Saturday to decide on the cut-offs," said Manish Kansal, admission convener at the college. Thursday was the last day for colleges to approve pending applications and the third cut-off would be released on Saturday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-48000-students-secure-seats-in-du-under-two-cut-off-lists-1040696.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Israel Consul General attends Dussehra festivities at Nagpur RSS headquarters||In a significant development, the Mumbai-based Consul General of Israel attended the annual Dussehra festivities at the RSS headquarters in Nagpur.  Kobbi Shoshani, the Consul General of Israel was seen sitting next to Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari in the annual event when RSS chief Dr Mohan Bhagwat addressed the cadres. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/israel-consul-general-attends-dussehra-festivities-at-nagpur-rss-headquarters-1040750.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Eye on Nishad votes, Akhilesh meets Phoolan Devi's mother||Bandit queen-turned-politician, Phoolan Devi, is emerging as a one of a major poll issue in the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. While the Nishad Party has been bending backwards to claim Phoolan's legacy and the Nishad votes, the Vikassheel Insaan Party of Bihar has announced that every Nishad home should have a Phoolan statue. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday evening met Phoolan's mother, Moola Devi in Jalaun district and sought her blessings. This was the first time that he had met Phoolan's family. Akhilesh was on the first leg of his 'Samajwadi Vijay Yatra' when he took time off to meet Moola Devi who wished him success in the coming elections. Besides promising all help to the family, he also assured that he would recommend a CBI inquiry into the Phoolan's murder when his government is formed. It may be recalled that it was Mulayam Singh Yadav who had withdrawn cases against Phoolan Devi in 1994 and later, ensured her entry into politics. In 1996, Phoolan Devi became an MP from the Mirzapur Lok Sabha constituency in eastern Uttar Pradesh and was re-elected in 1999. In 2001, she was shot dead outside her Delhi residence. The former MP was popular among the Most Backward Castes (MBCs) in Mirzapur and other parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh. Phoolan Devi was born into the Nishad community in 1963 in the Ghura Ka Purwa village of Jalaun district. The SP's backward caste wing recently tried to install her statue in Raebareli but was not given permission. The VIP leaders had also made similar attempts but were denied permission. The move to eulogise Phoolan Devi is seen as an attempt to consolidate the votes of the Nishad community and set up Phoolan as an icon in the community. Her life in the ravines is being touted as a result of oppression by upper caste and the Behmai massacre, in which she reportedly gunned down 20 Thakurs, was her way of avenging her humiliation by the Thakur community. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eye-on-nishad-votes-akhilesh-meets-phoolan-devis-mother-1040755.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Two soldiers killed in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||Two army soldiers, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), were killed in an overnight fierce gun battle with militants in the Mendhar area of Poonch in Jammu on Thursday night. A defence spokesperson said the JCO and a jawan were critically injured during a counter-insurgency operation in Nar Khas forest area of Mendhar sub-division on Thursday night. Both of them succumbed to their injuries subsequently, he said. The slain soldiers were yet to be identified. This was the first contact of the security forces with the militants since Tuesday, when there was an exchange of fire for around 15 minutes, reports said. Sources said the militants were suspected to be part of the same group which killed five Army soldiers in an encounter on Monday in the same district. The twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine militants in separate encounters. 10 soldiers have laid down their lives in these operations so far. Violence has witnessed a spurt in Jammu and Kashmir in recent days. Seven soldiers, seven civilians and a dozen militants have been killed in separate incidents across the Union Territory. Check out the DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-soldiers-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-1040768.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi citizens once again have to turn their 'Gaadi off' at traffic signals to help curb pollution||With pollution levels rising in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign will be reintroduced from October 18 and will go on till November 18. The drive will be carried out at 100 traffic intersections spread across 13 police districts in the city and 2,500 civil defence volunteers will enforce the campaign, deployed in two shifts of 8 am to 2 pm and 2 pm to 8 pm. Volunteers will ask drivers to turn off the vehicle engines if they have to wait for the green signal for more than 15 seconds. The 20 major intersections which will be under surveillance include  ITO, Bhagwandas crossing on Tilak Marg, Tolstoy crossing on Barakhamba Road, Chandgi Ram Akhara crossing, near Moti Bagh Metro, Peeragarhi Chowk, Prithviraj Road crossing, Rajesh Pilot Marg, Madhuban Chowk, Pitampura metro crossing and Karkari Mor. Addressing a virtual conference, Kejriwal urged the people of Delhi to help bring down pollution in the city by giving up the use of personal vehicles at least once a week and turning off engines of their vehicles at red lights. "I have been tweeting air quality data for the past one month. It shows pollution has started increasing because neighbouring states did not help their farmers who are forced to burn paddy straw stubble," he said. "As per a PCRA (Petroleum Conservation Research Association) report, switching off engines on red lights can reduce pollution by about 13-20 per cent and can save around Rs 2,500 crore annually. Last year this campaign was a success so we appeal to the public to make it a success again this year" Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said.  Rai said that to make this campaign successful, RWAs, market associations, clubs and NGOs are also being approached to help spread awareness about the campaign through their platforms.  The 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign was launched by Gopal Rai last year. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-citizens-once-again-have-to-turn-their-gaadi-off-at-traffic-signals-to-help-curb-pollution-1040771.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Body of man found at farmers' protest site in Haryana's Kundli||A 35-year-old man was found brutally murdered at the Singhu border near Delhi, one of the sites where farmers are protesting against the Modi government's agricultural laws, with the chilling incident inviting a sharp response from the BJP against farmers leaders. The Nihangs, a Sikh order known for their distinct blue robes, have claimed responsibility for the murder of the man who has been identified as Lakhnir Singh, a Dalit from Taran Taran district of Punjab. Singh had been accused of committing sacrilege in the area, which may have led to his lynching. The police have registered an FIR and said the Nihangs initially resisted attempts to take the body for a post mortem. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers' movement, has distanced itself from the lynching. The SKM said it had nothing to do with the incident and the law should take its own course. The body reportedly had at least 10 injury marks. One of Singh's hands had been cut off while his leg had been severely injured. He was allowed to bleed to death and later strung on display from a metal barricade at the protest site. Several videos of a group of Nihang Sikhs surrounding the man surfaced on social media. In one of the videos, a group of Nihangs with spears in their hands are seen questioning the man as he lay in a pool of blood on the floor.  The BJP latched onto the incident and attacked farmer leaders, accusing them of spreading anarchy under the garb of farmers. BJP leaders said the youth murdered at the Singhu border was a Dalit and wondered why Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi were silent at the lynching. “The body of a Dalit youth was found hanging from a barricade at the Singhu border. Rahul and Priyanka are silent because they are eyeing the votes of anarchists,” Gaurav Bhatia, BJP spokesperson said. BJP General Secretary B L Santhosh said the protesters had lost the right to call themselves farmers. “It’s time saner elements if any among them to apologise to the nation & withdraw & engage with government unconditionally,” Santhosh said. Amit Malviya, BJP IT Cell chief, wanted "anarchists" behind the protests to be exposed. “Had Rakesh Tikait not justified mob lynching in Lakhimpur, with Yogendra Yadav, sitting next to him, maintaining sanctimonious silence, the gory murder of a youth at Kundali border would not have happened. Anarchists behind these protests in the name of farmers need to be exposed,” Malviya said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-man-found-at-farmers-protest-site-in-haryanas-kundli-1040773.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||President interacts with troops of Army's Northern Command at J&K's Udhampur||Reaching out to the Army's Northern Command troops looking after the operational area of Jammu and Kashmir, President Ram Nath Kovind broke away from tradition and had "bada Khana" with the soldiers and their families here on the occasion of Mahanavami, the culmination of the nine-day-long Navratri, on Thursday. The president began his visit to the region on Thursday from the Union Territory of Ladakh, where he performed the Sindhu Darshan puja at the Sindhu Ghat in Leh, officials said. The Sindhu riverbank, known for its beautiful and scenic landscape, is situated near Shey village in Leh and is hosting a multitude of cultural programmes, including the Sindhu Darshan festival. The president was received by the Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh, RK Mathur, at the Leh airfield and was accorded a guard of honour. Late in the evening, Kovind arrived at the main ground of the Army's Northern Command headquarters in Udhampur. He was received by top officials, led by Kargil war hero and Northern Command chief Lieutenant General Y K Joshi, the officials said. The president interacted with the troops and their families amid "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" slogans raised by the soldiers. He enquired about the welfare of the troops and gave a chocolate to the child of a jawan. On the occasion of Mahanavami, the president had "bada khana" with the troops and their families, the officials said. Patriotic songs were sung by boys and girls at the venue and the troops of the Army's Sikh regiment showcased their martial arts skills before the president. Kovind will celebrate Dussehra with the soldiers of the Indian Army in Ladakh's Drass area, one of the coldest places in the world. He will be breaking away from tradition to celebrate Dussehra in Drass. The president usually participates in the Dussehra celebrations in Delhi every year. Kovind will fly to Drass from Udhampur along with the Army commander, where he will first pay tributes to the martyrs of the 1999 Kargil War at the Kargil War Memorial. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/president-interacts-with-troops-of-armys-northern-command-at-jks-udhampur-1040778.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Woman raped, forced to convert religion in Uttar Pradesh||A woman was raped by a man, who recorded a video of the act and forced her to convert her religion in a village here, police said Friday. The accused, Waseem alias Akash, has been arrested and a case registered against him at New Mandi police station for the incident that took place on Thursday. According to the complaint, the accused “established” love affair with the woman and raped her several times. He raped her and recorded a video of the act, it said, adding the victim was being pressurised to convert. The accused threatened to post the video online. The victim told police that she didn't know about the man’s religion as he introduced himself as Akash while his real name was Waseem.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-raped-forced-to-convert-religion-in-uttar-pradesh-1040789.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Minor girl raped, obscene videos uploaded online||A minor girl was allegedly raped by a 20-year old man, who circulated her obscene photos and videos on social media in Jalore district of Rajasthan, police said Friday. Saila Station House Officer (SHO) Jalore Dhruv Prasad said a case under relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code, the IT Act and the POCSO Act was registered against the accused, Mansoor, on Thursday night. “The accused befriended the minor girl and allegedly raped her. He also shot obscene videos and photos and circulated them. He has been detained and is being interrogated,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-raped-obscene-videos-uploaded-online-1040808.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||24 empty wagons of goods train derail in Uttar Pradesh||Twenty-four empty wagons of a goods train derailed near Ambiapur on the busy Delhi-Howrah rail route, almost 50 km from Kanpur railway station Friday, officials said, adding no loss of life has been reported. However, operation of trains has been affected, and efforts are on to restore the rail traffic, they said. Chief PRO of North Central Railway (NCR) Shivam Sharma told PTI that on Friday, around 4.15 am, on the Ghaziabad-Rura rail route near Ambiapur (50 kilometres from Kanpur railway station), 24 wagons of the goods train, which was going to Mughalsarai derailed. The wagons have been badly damaged, rail tracks have got uprooted due to the accident, sources in the railways said. Sharma also said that operation of memu trains and some long-distance trains has been disrupted, and efforts are on to restore them. Apart from this, the routes of some trains have been diverted. He also said that senior railway officials have reached the spot, and normal rail traffic will be restored soon.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/24-empty-wagons-of-goods-train-derail-in-uttar-pradesh-1040828.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||UP woman delivers in a toilet, newborn dies after being stuck in toilet seat||In an incident reflecting gross negligence on part of the doctors, a newborn died allegedly when his head got stuck in the toilet seat after the mother was refused help by the doctors and had to deliver in the toilet of a hospital in Kanpur. Reports suggest that 30-year-old Haseen Bano, a resident of Kanthipur in Kanpur district, was admitted to the government hospital with symptoms of dengue on Thursday. Bano, nine months pregnant, experienced acute labour pain around midnight and her husband, Mobeen, sought help from the nursing staff in her delivery. ''They (staff) told me that it was not their job,'' Mobeen said. As the pain became unbearable, the woman somehow managed to go to the toilet with the help of her husband. She delivered the baby almost immediately, reports said. Unfortunately, the head of the newborn got stuck in the toilet seat and the nursing staff tried to pull the newborn out of the seat but he had already died when he was taken out. A senior official of the hospital said that the woman had been admitted to the maternity ward initially but was shifted to the medicine ward after she developed symptoms of dengue. ''It is a very serious issue. A committee of doctors has been formed to probe the matter. We will take action in case it is found that there was laxity,'' said the official. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-woman-delivers-in-a-toilet-newborn-dies-after-being-stuck-in-toilet-seat-1040843.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||MP varsity discovers chocolate for cattle to improve milk production||A state-run university in Madhya Pradesh has discovered a yummy alternative to fodder and cattle feed in the form of a chocolate, which will help ramp up milk production and improve reproduction rate of livestock, an official said on Friday. After research of two months, the Jabalpur-based Nanaji Deshmukh Veterinary Science University has prepared a multivitamin and mineral-rich chocolate for cattle, which can be an alternate feed when there is a non-availability of green fodder, the University's Vice-Chancellor professor S P Tiwari said. The university, with the help of the state Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Department, will soon supply these chocolates to farmers across the state, he said. The university has plans to transfer the chocolate manufacturing technique to veterinary graduates who are willing to open a start-up unit for chocolate production, Tiwari said. “The chocolate will enhance milk production, reproductive growth and conception rate in cattle. It is rich in vitamins and protein,” he said. Cattle can consume the chocolate as it is and it can also be served with other feeds, he added. “Each piece of chocolate is around 500 gm and is prepared with ingredients traditionally used in cattle feed such as mustard cake, rice polish, molasses, starch, lime powder and common salt,” Tiwari said, adding that each piece will cost Rs 25. The university has designed wooden moulds for production of these chocolates and 500 pieces have been manufactured so far, he said. The university has written to the state government and once it gets a go-ahead, the product will enter the market, Tiwari said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-varsity-discovers-chocolate-for-cattle-to-improve-milk-production-1040852.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Members of farmers' body detained in Lucknow for trying to burn effigies of PM Modi, Shah||The Socialist Party (India) on Friday claimed some members of its farmers' wing were detained by police after they gathered here to burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and MoS Home Ajay Mishra in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The members of the Socialist Kisan Sabha also carried placards demanding the resignation of Mishra, whose son Ashish is alleged to have been in one of the cars that ploughed into farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, leaving four of them dead. The Socialist Kisan Sabha is a constituent of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions that is spearheading the stir against the Centre's three agri laws. Last week, the SKM had called on all its constituents to burn effigies of Modi, Shah, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and others on the occasion of Dussehra on October 15. General secretary of Socialist Party (India) Sandeep Pandey, who was also part of the gathering, told PTI, "We were not allowed to burn the effigies. The effigies were taken away from us along with the placards. We had reached the Shaheed Smarak, and as soon as we started climbing the stairs, we were stopped by the police." Pandey said he and six workers of the Socialist Kisan Sabha were detained by the police. In a statement issued here earlier, the Socialist Kisan Sabha said, "On the call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, effigies of Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and Ajay Mishra will be burnt on October 15, Friday, Dusshera day, at 2 pm at Shaheed Smarak, Lucknow to demand the resignation of Union Minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni' for the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. Besides the four farmers, a journalist and three BJP workers were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. MoS Home Mishra's son Ashish and five other people had been arrested in the case till Wednesday evening. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/members-of-farmers-body-detained-in-lucknow-for-trying-to-burn-effigies-of-pm-modi-shah-1040855.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||NGT directs Uttarakhand government to take action on waste dumps along Khoh river||The National Green Tribunal has slammed the the Uttarakhand government over disposal of waste dumps along river Khoh in Kotdwar district and directed the state chief secretary to take action in this regard. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the state authorities continue to commit violation of statutory rules, which is a punishable offence. “We, thus, note with disappointment the attitude of the state in not adhering to the rule of law in complying with the specific directions of this tribunal and for failing to comply with the statutory mandate of waste management rules, having statutory timelines, violation of which is criminal offence. “Let the Chief Secretary, Uttarakhand now take further stringent remedial action consistent with the spirit of the orders already passed and the present order, in accordance with law,” the bench said. The Uttarakhand pollution control board told the NGT that it has directed the Nagar Nigam, Kotdwar to immediately stop illegal dumping of solid wastes at the bank of river Khoh, Village Ratanpur, Kotdwar. The state pollution control board told the NGT that it has also issued show cause directions under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 to Municipal Commissioner, Kotdwar for imposition of an environmental compensation of Rs one lakh from April 1, 2020 onwards. The NGT said the report of the state pollution control board does not advert to the earlier non-compliances and the counsel for the state has expressed ignorance of the deficiencies pointed out by the state PCB and sought adjournment. “Moreover, there is no mention for the payment of compensation for restoration of environment and action against erring officers, in terms of orders of this Tribunal quoted earlier. Learned Counsel for the State has no explanation for such non-compliance in spite of directions in the last order,” the bench said in its October 7 order. The green panel was hearing a plea filed by Uttarakhand resident Arvind Baniyal, seeking action against waste disposal dump yards illegally set up on the banks of the Khoh at Ratanpur, Kashirampur, Gadighat and near Sports Stadium, Kotdwar in Uttarakhand where garbage was being burnt and the river polluted. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-uttarakhand-government-to-take-action-on-waste-dumps-along-khoh-river-1040857.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||11 killed after tractor-trolley overturns in UP's Jhansi||At least 11 people, including four children, were killed here on Friday after a tractor-trolley in which they were travelling overturned when the driver suddenly applied the brakes to avoid hitting an animal, police said. Six people were also injured in the accident that occurred in Chirgaon area here, they said. Senior Superintendent of Police Shivhari Meena said that around 30 families from Madhya Pradesh's Pandokhar were going to a temple in Erach here in the tractor-trolley. The tractor-trolley overturned after the driver of the vehicle suddenly applied the brakes to avoid hitting an animal that had strayed onto the road. Four children and seven women were killed in the accident, he said. The injured have been hospitalised, he said. According to an official statement, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the accident and directed officials to provide adequate medical treatment to the injured. Check out latest DH video here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-killed-after-tractor-trolley-overturns-in-ups-jhansi-1040872.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Devotees not allowed to offer Friday prayers at Srinagar's Jamia Masjid by authorities: Mosque management||The managing body of Srinagar's historic Jamia Masjid on Friday claimed that authorities did not allow congregational prayers there by deploying security forces in large numbers. In a statement, the Anjuman Auqaf Jamia Masjid also said that police personnel "forced" employees to close all gates of the mosque and no 'namazis' (devotees) were allowed inside. "Authorities did not allow congregational Friday prayers to be held at the Jamia Masjid Srinagar today. Heavy deployment of forces was carried out since early morning in the entire area. When Auqaf employees opened the gates of the mosque, police personnel forced them to close all gates, and no 'namazis' (devotees) were allowed inside the mosque for offering the obligatory Friday prayers," the mosque’s managing body said. A large group of devotees, including women and children, who had gathered outside the mosque, strongly protested this "authoritarian move" and demanded that they be allowed to go inside the mosque to offer prayers, but to no avail, it claimed. The Anjuman said that the earlier pretext of Covid-19 pandemic by authorities to prevent Muslims from offering Friday prayers at the Jamia Masjid stood completely exposed today. "It is extremely unfortunate and disdainful of authorities to disallow Muslims of the (Kashmir) Valley from praying at the central mosque by use of brute force and cause them hurt and grief. Muslims of the Valley denounce this injustice and interference in religious freedom in strongest terms," it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/devotees-not-allowed-to-offer-friday-prayers-at-srinagars-jamia-masjid-by-authorities-mosque-management-1040877.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||BSF jurisdiction row: AAP accuses Punjab CM of surrendering over half of the state to Modi govt||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday targeted the Punjab government over the issue of extension of the Border Security Force's jurisdiction by the Centre, saying Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has "surrendered" more than half of the state to the Modi government. The central government had on Wednesday increased the powers of the BSF by increasing its jurisdiction in poll-bound Punjab by up to 50 km from the international border. The jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) has been extended by the Centre in the name of national security only to bring over half of Punjab under the Centre's rule, the AAP alleged. Extension of the BSF's jurisdiction in Punjab and other states is "a direct attack" on the federal structure of the country, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha told a press conference at the party’s headquarters here. Chadha is also co-in charge of the party's political affairs in Punjab, where the Congress is in power. "By extending the jurisdiction of the BSF, the Narendra Modi government has imposed President's Rule in more than half of Punjab. This area will now be ruled by the BJP and the Narendra Modi government,” he said. “It has been done because the BJP has understood that it will not be able to form its government in the state," Chadha said. The AAP leader said that his party "firmly" condemns and opposes the Centre's decision to extend the BSF's jurisdiction. "We will not let this happen," he said. The AAP is the main opposition party in Punjab where assembly polls are due to be held early next year.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-jurisdiction-row-aap-accuses-punjab-cm-of-surrendering-over-half-of-the-state-to-modi-govt-1040880.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Two militants involved in recent Srinagar killings gunned down: J&K police||Two militants, who were responsible for the recent killing of civilians and a police officer in Srinagar, were gunned down in two separate encounters in Kashmir on Friday. In the first encounter which erupted in Wahibug village of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, police said, Shahid Bashir Sheikh, a resident of Srinagar, who was involved in the killing of civilian Muhammad Safi Dar on October 2, was gunned down. One AK-47 rifle and a magazine were recovered from the possession of the slain militant, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said. In the second gunfight which erupted in Bemina area of Srinagar in the evening, a militant, who police said was involved in the killing of sub-inspector Arshid Ahmad, was gunned down. Ahmad was shot dead by pistol-borne militant outside police station Khanyar in old city Srinagar on September 12. Last evening two army soldiers, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), were killed in a fierce gun battle with militants in Mendhar area of border district Poonch in Jammu region. Violence has witnessed a spurt in Jammu and Kashmir in recent days. Seven soldiers, seven civilians and over a dozen militants have been killed in separate incidents across the Union Territory. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-involved-in-recent-srinagar-killings-gunned-down-jk-police-1040899.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||SC stays criminal proceedings against retired Chief Engineer in disproportionate assets case||The Supreme Court has stayed the criminal proceedings initiated against a retired chief engineer of the Hemavathi project in a disproportionate assets case.  The top court asked Karnataka's Lokayukta to respond to a petition filed by him against the summons issued against him in the case. He claimed the process has been issued by the trial court in a mechanical manner without applying its mind as he had been previously discharged due to lack of sanction. He is alleged to have amassed wealth to the tune of Rs 2.27 cr and had an expenditure of Rs 1.71 cr during a check period, taking his disproportionate income to the time of 97.08 per cent of the income generated by him.  A bench of Justices R Subhash Reddy and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the Lokayukta on the petition filed by S C Jayachandra against the Karnataka High Court's order of May 18, 2020 declining him the relief. The top court also stayed the proceedings before the special judge Bengaluru initiated on the order passed on January 1, 2019, after hearing senior advocate Devadatt Kamat and advocates Nishanth Patil and Rajesh Inamdar on behalf of the petitioner. In his plea, the petitioner claimed there was no independent application of mind by the authority in granting sanction for his prosecution as the order claimed it was being issued at the behest of the investigating officer. He also contended that the High Court failed to consider that his family had many sources of income apart from his job while incomes of his wife were not noticed at all, besides the property returns filed by him with the government. The petitioner also submitted since the previous charge sheet against him was quashed, a fresh sanction could not have been issued against him without additional materials. The trial court has taken cognisance of the matter on April 25, 2019, and also dismissed his discharge application on October 5, 2019. The Lokayukta police had registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act in 2008. After more than 10 years, the police filed a charge sheet against him in 2018. However, due to lack of proper sanction, he was discharged on January 1, 2019. Subsequently, the prosecution obtained fresh sanction on March 20, 2019 on the basis of which, the trial court issued summons against him. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-stays-criminal-proceedings-against-retired-chief-engineer-in-disproportionate-assets-case-1040909.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Need to expose 'anarchists' behind farmers' protest: BJP on lynching at protest site||BJP on Friday launched a sharp attack on farmers’ leaders spearheading the 10-month-long agitation, accusing them of 'spreading anarchy' under the garb of farmers. The reaction came after a Nihang Sikh allegedly chopped the hand of a man, allowed him to bleed to death and later strung the half-naked dead body on display to a metal barricade at the Singhu border protest site. BJP leaders said that the youth murdered at the Singhu border was a Dalit and wondered why Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were silent at the lynching. “The body of a Dalit youth was found hanging from a barricade at the Singhu border. Rahul and Priyanka are silent because they are eyeing the votes of anarchists,” Gaurav Bhatia, BJP spokesperson said. “Had Rakesh Tikait not justified mob lynching in Lakhimpur, with Yogendra Yadav, sitting next to him, maintaining sanctimonious silence, the gory murder of a youth at Kundali border would not have happened. Anarchists behind these protests in the name of farmers need to be exposed,” Amit Malviya, BJP IT Cell chief, said. BJP General Secretary B L Santhosh said that the protesters had lost the right to call themselves farmers and appealed to the saner elements to apologise to the nation and withdraw the agitation. “It’s time saner elements if any among them to apologise to the nation & withdraw & engage with government unconditionally,” Santhosh said. The BJP sharpened the attack on the farmers’ agitation and accused the farmers’ leaders of spreading anarchy. “What is going on? Who are these people spreading anarchy in the name of farmers’ movement and defaming the farmers,” Malviya said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/need-to-expose-anarchists-behind-farmers-protest-bjp-on-lynching-at-protest-site-1040912.html
15-10-2021||North and Central||Sidhu withdraws resignation, to continue as Punjab Congress chief||Navjot Singh Sidhu has decided to take back his resignation and stay on as the Congress' Punjab unit chief after a meeting with Rahul Gandhi on Friday during which he shared his concerns with the former party chief and was assured that they would be sorted out. The meeting came a day after Sidhu had an hour-long meeting with AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and party general secretary incharge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat at the AICC headquarters. Rawat, who was present during the meeting between Sidhu and Gandhi, told reporters that Sidhu would continue as the state unit chief and all issues had been resolved. Sidhu, in his brief remarks to reporters after meeting Gandhi, said, "I shared all my concerns with Rahul Gandhi. They have been sorted out." Sidhu had resigned as Punjab Congress chief on September 28 after he posted his resignation letter on Twitter. No decision on his resignation was taken by the party leadership yet. During the meeting with Venugopal and Rawat, the Punjab Congress leader raised his concerns over the 18-point agenda taken up by the leadership on which actions are pending. These included action against those involved in the sacrilege issue and the drugs mafia. Sidhu had recently raised objections over the appointment of the new Punjab Police chief and the advocate general.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-withdraws-resignation-to-continue-as-punjab-congress-chief-1040941.html
15-10-2021||Opinion||Nobel to journalists and its message for Indian media||It's been a little over four years since journalist and activist Gauri Lankesh was gunned down in front of her home in Bengaluru. Even though 18 of the accused in the case continue to remain behind bars, convictions are yet to take place. The Special Investigation Team (SIT), constituted by the then Congress government, said in court that Lankesh was targeted for opposing the ideology of Hindutva in her writings and speeches. Journalists, not just in India, but worldwide are facing the brunt of authoritarian governments. Given the escalating attacks, this year's Nobel Peace Prize, awarded to journalists Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov, marks a significant moment in the life of not the media community alone but citizens more generally. The award outlines rarely mentioned yet important intersections between independent media, freedom of expression, and democracy—all of which contribute to an atmosphere of tolerance in society. The award conveys a special message for journalists at home, especially when mainstream media have abdicated their basic responsibility of speaking truth to power. As much as the Nobel Peace Prize rings in celebration for independent and brave journalism, equally, it signals embarrassment and shame for India's compromised journalistic scene. With big media capitulating to powers-that-be, it has been left to resource-starved small organisations to call the powerful out, to try and hold them to account. The work of Ressa, co-founder and chief executive of the news site Rappler, and Muratov, editor-in-chief of the Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta, needs little elaboration. Both journalists have taken head-on the illegalities and crimes committed by their respective governments—headed by Rodrigo Duterte and Vladimir Putin, respectively. Speaking to the Russian news agency Tass, Muratov said he could not take credit for the award, which was meant for journalists who lost their lives in defending the right to freedom of speech. Muratov went on to list the names of the paper's six journalists killed in the line of duty. Among the names of the slain was that of Anna Politkovskaya, who had just finished writing her book, A Russian Diary, when she was assassinated in a contract killing in Moscow. Much like Gauri Lankesh, Politkovskaya was shot dead in her apartment block lift on October 7, 2006. The journalist and writer had earned a distinct reputation for staunchly opposing the Chechen conflict and Putin in her writing. In the final section of A Russian Diary, titled "Am I Afraid?" Politkovskaya wrote: "If anybody thinks they can take comfort from the 'optimistic' forecast [her reference was to the government,] let them do so. It is certainly easier that way, but it is also a death sentence for our grandchildren." Philippine's writers, civil society, and people have a history of challenging authoritarian governments. In 1986, in what came to be known as the People Power Revolution, tens of thousands of Filipinos came out in the streets, overthrowing the corrupt and dictatorial government headed by Ferdinand Marcos. As Salil Tripathi wrote recently for Scroll.in: "Civil society in the Philippines, which mushroomed after Marcos's fall, has steadfastly defended democracy, and the media has played a crucial role. Journalists have died defending freedoms." Following the ascendance of Rodrigo Duterte as president, thousands of extrajudicial killings have taken place in Duterte's war on drugs. Notwithstanding severe harassment at the hands of the government, Maria Ressa has continued to expose the regime's brutalities. Strands of commonality bind the ways authoritarian leaders suppress the truth and distort public discourse to their survival in power. We have seen such mechanisms consolidate in India. Any measure of redemption from the present bleakness would depend largely on ethics and conscience in society—both as a collective and as individuals who make up that collective. As we know, conscientious objectors from within dictatorial systems have played an important role in bringing governmental excesses to light in other countries. We may think, in this context, of several films centred on the responsibility and challenges posed to journalists as voices dissent when a government violates the rights of its citizens. Released in 2005, the film Good Night and Good Luck, for example, explored the tensions and tussle between informational integrity and groundless fears spread by groups with vested interests. Set against the 1950s anti-Communist paranoia and witchhunts in the US in the 1950s, the film tracks a gripping confrontation between Senator Joseph McCarthy (from whom we get the practice of McCarthyism) and a CBS team led by the journalist Edward Murrow and producer Fred Friendly. A decade later, Spotlight, based on investigations by reporters at The Boston Globe, broke the secrecy of a powerful institution like the Church, revealing that scores of local priests had been sexually molesting minors. The local government helped in covering up their crimes. It may be argued that India is in dire need of such media which has the two qualities that are currently absent within the sector - conscience and courage. Grand sweeping ideologies can be set aside in favour of basic principles of justice, empathy and non-violence. Neutrality does not augur well in times of crisis. Neither does partisanship, regardless of the colour of the flag one chooses to wave. This year's World Press Freedom Index report published by the international body, Reporters Without Borders, showed India shares its "bad" classification tag with Brazil, Mexico, and Russia. It observed that journalists critical of the dominant ideology are subjected to police violence and attacks by political groups, stressing further that following the 2019 general elections and the victory of Narendra Modi and his party, "pressure has increased on the media to toe the Hindu nationalist government's line." India, which has consistently slipped from its position of 133 in 2016, now ranks 142 on the press freedom index. That media freedom is closely allied to freedom or the lack of it in society as a whole is evident from the increasing and widespread trend of violence in recent years. Two years before Lankesh's assassination, M M Kalburgi, a scholar, was shot dead in his living room in Dharwad. That same year, Govind Pansare, a trade union activist, was killed in neighbouring Maharashtra. Two years before these killings, the rationalist Narendra Dhabolkar was murdered in Pune. Opposed to the BJP's majoritarian politics, all three were killed in a similar manner. The suspects were subsequently identified as members of Sanatan Sanstha, a shadowy organisation headquartered in Goa. Nine years before she was killed, in a long essay posted on the blog Churumuri, Lankesh alerted readers to a polarised, intolerant future. Foregrounding incidents like the arrests of three young Muslim men on charges of vehicle theft and attacks on the distinguished litterateur Anantha Murthy, and former chairman of the State Backward Classes Commission, C.S.Dwarakanath, Lankesh wrote: "...Karnataka, it seems, is unfortunately and irreversibly hurtling towards its new position as the Gujarat of the South." She also criticised the media for intoning the official line of stigmatising Muslims. More than a decade later, her words indeed have a prophetic ring to them. The question that remains is how much does the rest of the country care? (Monobina Gupta is the author of 'Left Politics in Bengal' and 'Didi: A Political Biography') Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/nobel-to-journalists-and-its-message-for-indian-media-1040796.html
15-10-2021||Opinion||The paradoxes of PM's human rights speech||Addressing the foundation day programme of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "Some people see human rights violations in some incidents but not in others. Human rights are violated when viewed via political spectacles." He said, "Selective behaviour is harmful to democracy" and that some people "try to dent the country's image in the name of human rights."  While one could not agree more with the prime minister that selective outrage can be harmful to democracy, it is pertinent to point out that more than ever in the history of independent India, selectivity has been practised during his regime and leadership. Let's start with the most recent example, the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which the son of his cabinet colleague is the prime accused. It has been more than two weeks since the horrific incident of human rights violation, and the PM is yet to utter a single word on it. Contrast it to the PM taking barely an hour or two to tweet or issue a statement when some real or supposed human rights violations occur in the non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states or in other parts of the world. Silence and selective outrage have been the hallmarks of the current dispensation. Hence, while listening to the PM speak, one wondered if he was talking about himself and the behaviour of his cabinet colleagues and party workers. Another subject that the PM spoke about at the event specifically and proudly was how his government bestowed "new rights" on Muslim women. Here again, his claim was both misleading and selective. Over the last seven years, the Modi government has been silent on important issues affecting Muslim women. Members of his party and others in the Hindutva ecosystem have actively violated Muslim women's rights across the country. This was the reason hundreds of women's rights activists and others denounced the Modi government's decision to commemorate the day of criminalisation of instant triple talaq as the "Muslim Women's Rights Day" in August. According to them, the passage of the anti-triple talaq law, which claimed to protect Muslim women's rights, "in reality, had a more sinister purpose – to show Muslim men their place in a new India." Moreover, they noted that the law was an abomination and nothing but a charade because no such law was needed to "protect Muslim women, or secure their rights" since the Supreme Court had already struck triple talaq down. They went on to add, "This government has remained silent as Muslims have been lynched, and its leaders have garlanded the lynchers." The BJP has, they said, "both at the Centre and through its state governments, determinedly "gone after" Muslims under myriad laws, both old, new and proposed – beef bans, anti-conversion, including the recent UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020, and its proposed UP Population Control Bill." They justifiably noted, "It has systematically tried to rob Muslims of their right to livelihood, and Muslim women of their agency." Furthermore, the government has remained silent on constant online and offline sexual violence and threat to Muslim women. For example, in the notorious "Sulli Deals" episode, Hindu right-wing activists sought to auction Muslim women's bodies online. One can list dozens of such blatant incidents of violations of human rights, if not hundreds, but the government has hardly taken any interest to fix them. It seems the prime minister and his party colleagues are more interested in image building than actually fixing the problem and genuinely making India a human rights friendly country. It is not surprising that the government and its machinery spend more energy and money on image-making. Unfortunately, the NHRC, which is an independent body established by an act of Parliament, is increasingly and conveniently becoming the full-time public relations department of the government. More than anything, the speech of the NHRC chairperson Justice (retired) AK Mishra at the foundation day event is the latest testimony. It was nothing short of indulging in dog-whistle and dangerous on Justice Mishra's part to say it was inappropriate to call terrorists freedom fighters. In other words, the NHRC chairperson was trying to convey that human rights activists are defending "terrorists." This is misleading and akin to putting human rights defenders' lives and liberty at further risks. The fact of the matter is human rights activists are not defending terrorists but those who are accused of such heinous crimes. There is a critical difference between the two as the right to defend the accused no matter how heinous is the alleged crime is enshrined in our constitution and all the international covenants on human and civil rights to which we are signatory. According to the fundamental provisions of Indian law, every person is innocent unless proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. And human rights activists are just upholding the rule of law. On the other hand, we have been witnessing on a regular basis that terrorists like Nathuram Godse, who was convicted beyond reasonable doubts for killing Mahatma Gandhi, is glorified. Justice Mishra had nothing to say about this dangerous trend. The NHRC chief was well within his rights to appeal to social service organisations and human rights defenders to strongly condemn political violence and terrorism, which engenders "fundamentalism". However, appeals like these will only have any tangible impact when the NHRC stops acting selectively. It has been noted how the apex human rights body swings into action when human rights violations and political violence are reported from the non-BJP ruled states; it does hardly anything substantial in incidents reported from the BJP-ruled states. Perhaps, the starkest contrast in this regard is between West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. (The writer is a multilingual journalist and researcher) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-paradoxes-of-pms-human-rights-speech-1040817.html
15-10-2021||Opinion||Irony of 'housing for all' and evictions amid Covid-19 pandemic||What does it mean to be poor and homeless during a pandemic? Especially when the government tells us that we must review our understanding of human rights and that it is relentlessly working for the welfare of the poor, which helps protect their human rights?  For the answer, turn to the catalogue of ironies. Here is a compelling sample – the louder the talk about housing for all, the harsher the blows on homes of the poorest. During the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic, the worst public health crisis in our living memory, when the State's advice to people has been to stay indoors, the state machinery has been deployed to destroy homes of some of the most vulnerable. A recent study (Forced evictions in India in 2020: a grave human rights crisis during the pandemic) by the Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN) reveals that evictions took place during India's first wave of Covid-19 in 2020, and continued during its savage, the second wave earlier this year. They took place "even during strict lockdowns and curfews when people were ordered to stay at home, and no movement or activity was permitted." In short, evictions and demolitions of homes have continued amid high-decibel talk about providing "housing for all" in India by 2022, under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) and other state government schemes promising houses to the marginalized and low-income groups in urban and rural areas, the study points out. Being thrown out of one's home and have one's belongings destroyed are perhaps not what most urban middle-class Indians experience first-hand. There are images, however, that pop up whenever one hears a certain word. And some images are impossible to erase. Each time one hears the word 'eviction', the chilling image of lungi-clad Moinul Haque flashes. Haque, a father of three children, was the man who died in a police firing last month while protesting against an eviction drive in Assam's Darrang district and was subsequently stomped upon by a man with a camera. The gruesome video clip that went viral was eviction at its most savage and sectarian, but forced evictions are not new. Nor is brutal callousness towards those being evicted. Activists have been demanding a moratorium against such evictions during the pandemic, and it has not happened. Though we keep hearing the words "welfare" and "human rights." In 2020, the HLRN documented the demolition of homes of over 36,812 households/families, leading to the forced eviction of over 170,000 people across the country. These forced evictions and demolition of homes, which typically hit the urban and rural poor, occurred across the country – in megacities, smaller cities, towns, and villages. The official reasons for such evictions ranged from slum-clearance, encroachment-removal, city-beautification, infrastructure and ostensible "development" initiatives, environmental projects, forest protection, wildlife conservation, and "disaster management" efforts, to cite just a few. A preliminary analysis by the HLRN reveals that between January 1, 2021, and July 31, 2021, state authorities across India demolished at least 24,445 homes, affecting over 169,176 people. Of these, about 13,750 people were evicted during the peak of the second wave and resultant lockdowns in April and May 2021. The latest HLRN study also notes that in 2020, various court orders led to the eviction of over 88,560 persons. The overwhelming majority of evicted people (87 per cent) did not receive any rehabilitation from the government. Further, there was a lack of due process being followed in a large number of cases that the researchers documented. In most evictions reported in Delhi in 2020, for example, affected communities did not receive prior written notice of the impending demolition of their home. "For those who received some form of resettlement from the State, the sites they have been relocated to are remote and devoid of adequate housing and essential civic and social infrastructure facilities," the study notes. The HLRN study is only the latest flagging gross human rights violations that impinge on any discussion about a basic issue - the "right to the city" in rapidly urbanizing India.  Who does a city belong to? "There is no sidestepping this issue. When we talk about slums, evictions and urban displacements, the key issue is 'Right to the City.' Who has a right to the city, and what does an inclusive city mean?" says Sandeep Chachra, co-chair, the World Urban Campaign of UN-HABITAT and Executive Director, ActionAid India. In most countries across the world, including India, points out Chachra, a large part of the city caters to those who are numerical minorities. "In stark contrast, the numerical majority, most of whom can be best described as 'precarious informal workers' but who are actually makers, cleaners and sustainers of the city are squeezed into 20 to 30 per cent of the city landmass - often in hazardous sites. Where are they supposed to go, and how are they supposed to live in the absence of social housing? It is the State's responsibility to provide this. But currently, there is no security of tenure for such people, and they live wherever they find a spot – vacant public lands, dumps, river beds, etc.," he says.   Where do flagship housing programmes fit into this scenario? Here, it is important to read the fine print. As Chachra, and many other experts, who have looked at the issue closely, point out, the flagship housing programmes that we have do not really cater to the poorest of the poor. "These are meant for economically weaker sections - what one can call the relatively better-off sections among the poor, who have relatively stable incomes and are not so precariously placed. Because demand far exceeds supply, it is this section that benefits from the govt housing schemes that we have seen. Those who are most precariously placed are the ones most at risk and face evictions. We need a moratorium on evictions accompanied by regularisation of tenure if families are living on non-hazardous sites. There is no policy on this. And little discussion," says Chachra. Without rehabilitation, based on informed consent and dignity, forced displacement is not only inhuman but also unjust. "A fundamental step to making cities inclusive is to have a policy and commitment for zero evictions, and we can't have evictions without making rehabilitation a top priority. There also needs to be citizen participation in the assessment of how rehabilitation is done post evictions. With growing urbanization, this becomes critical," Chachra adds.  What makes those at the bottom also the most at risk of the bulldozer and eviction from their homes? Marina Joseph, who is with Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (YUVA), a grassroots NGO, says a key reason the poorest are the worst-affected is they don't often have the necessary documents which meet the criteria of the "cut-off date" and their constant mobility in search of livelihood. This also means that those at the receiving end of bulldozers are not necessarily the ones who benefit from housing programmes for the poor. The most vulnerable are also those who have no resources and are forced to build their homes on hill slopes, river banks, flood plains. When they are evicted from these hazardous areas in the name of environmental protection but are not adequately rehabilitated, they swell the numbers of the homeless. Thousands of disaster-affected are also not getting rehabilitated. As evictions continue, tens of thousands in every city are simply falling through the cracks; their families, including children, are left without homes and any social protection, says Joseph. Where is the Indian city headed? During a civil society-led national consultation on forced evictions during the second wave of the Covid–19 pandemic in India in June, Manju Menon, who works with the well-known think tank, Centre for Policy Research, stressed that evictions are a result of a serious problem of distribution of land. For instance, about two-thirds of Delhi's population lives on 15 per cent of the land. "There is no way the poor cannot break the rules while making houses as families expand. There is no land for the poor in cities. Also, what are the rights of the poor who cannot afford to buy land in cities?" asked Menon. This brings us back to the right to the city. If human rights are about focusing on what happens to the poor, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi told us the other day, we can't afford to ignore these questions, nor the predicaments of the poorest among the poor. Especially during a pandemic. (Patralekha Chatterjee is an independent journalist and columnist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/irony-of-housing-for-all-and-evictions-amid-covid-19-pandemic-1040832.html
15-10-2021||Right in the Middle||The day after Dasara||Our country has so many ways of celebrating this 10-day festival, from Dasara to Dussehra, Navarathri to Vijayadashami. However, as my Aussie manager says, with this festival, we celebrate the concept of “the good always prevailing over evil”. Mysore is my native city. However, I have never seen the Vijayadashami parade yet. As a child, Vijayadashami was the day I’d be travelling back home to Bengaluru — getting ready for school after a vacation. I have always seen the streets of Mysuru deserted after the parade just passed by.  Mysore Exhibition Ground is a favourite spot during Dasara. My aunts carrying homemade snacks, buying us new clothes instantly to change into after being drenched in the rain, some of the joy rides, and the final pitstop near the swings just before heading out... the memories are deeply etched in my mind.  Mysore hosts great attractions during Dasara. Everyone talks about the lightings, the jamboo savari, the culture and heritage, the overflow of talent shows and the rich itinerary at Banni Mantapa. Everyone wants to see it all! I usually stay away from Mysore during this time as it is too crowded. However, a few years ago, I got to live in Mysore for my studies. I lived there for two years and got to be a resident during Dasara. And I fell in love with the city! I always was, but not this way. Way before the headlines start talking about the Mysore festivities, you get to notice the increased number of cops. I never knew horses were so huge and tall until I started finding myself next to them at the city traffic signals. Imagine a cop on a beautiful horse manning the traffic! And no, it does not feel British at all; it is so Indian — so Mysore! Then come the showstoppers, the elephants! Drona, Balarama, Arjuna and this year’s main guy, Abhimanyu — you hear all about them on TV channels, but if you are a resident of Mysore, you get to host them. I am not an advocate of animal cruelty but when these majestic animals walk around the KR Circle with all that grace and calm, the feeling that gushes through your body is magical. There have been so many days when I have crossed their paths. As Vijayadashami comes closer, you see the artwork on their legs and their trunks getting fuller. Watching the lights and the decorations getting installed, the crazy traffic and people speaking so many languages — it all makes a Mysorean overwhelmed. And then suddenly, it all goes away. Everything is back to normal — no horse-mounted cops, no elephants, no traffic, no decorations. Only the feeling of being a part of something royal, majestic and beautiful stays on. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-day-after-dasara-1040926.html
15-10-2021||Second Edit||Ladakh stand-off: Failure of talks cause for concern||The failure of the 13th round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders on October 10 is the reason for great concern. The focus of this round of talks was to achieve a disengagement of troops from the Hot Springs area in Ladakh but it ended without a breakthrough. Previous rounds of talks have not always ended in the agreement or in a joint statement but what makes the latest round worrying is the shrill acrimony that the two sides have openly displayed in their separate statements. Both sides blamed the other for the failure of the talks. India said that it “made constructive suggestions” for resolving differences “but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals.” China lashed out at India for making “unreasonable and unrealistic demands.” “Instead of misjudging the situation, the Indian side should cherish the hard-won situation in China-India border areas,” the Chinese military statement said. That talks with the Chinese would be difficult was never in doubt. However, the talks now seem to have run aground. Unlike statements issued after previous rounds, which at least had a few positive, forward-looking words sprinkled in the text, this time around, the text was acrimonious, providing little reason for hope.   Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged so far from both banks of the Pangong Tso and Gogra Post, helped in no small measure by India giving in on some strategic heights. Disengagement from Hot Springs remains to be done. Besides, there is Depsang Plains, where the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has been preventing Indian patrolling. The PLA is unwilling to even discuss these friction points. A hardening in China’s position has been evident for some time. Its troops transgressed 5 km into the Indian side at Barahoti in the middle sector in August and then intruded into Tawang in the eastern sector last month. Clearly, they were signalling increasing bellicosity. Throughout the 17-month long crisis at the LAC, the Narendra Modi government has been preoccupied with managing the domestic headlines rather than dealing firmly with the PLA. The statement issued after the October 10 talks is the first admission that the Chinese are playing tough and that the talks are not going well, confirming what many have suspected all along. But it is a welcome shift towards giving the country an accurate picture of the situation and preparing it for whatever may come next. The situation at the border is fragile. The government must take the Opposition into confidence to discuss its next steps forward. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ladakh-stand-off-failure-of-talks-cause-for-concern-1040925.html
15-10-2021||South||When wild jumbos make life miserable in the 'Kashmir of the South'||When the majestic mammoth was suddenly seen emerging from the dark and turned to his estate grocery shop silently in the wee hours, a frightening anxiety and helplessness gripped Punyavel, who woke up hearing the dog barking. As the female elephant tried to break into the tin-roofed building after destroying its wooden-panel door, the terrified vendor and his family could do nothing but make some feeble sounds staying within their house, which was just a wall away from the shop. It was for the 14th time that the man with origins in Tamil Nadu and his family, who makes a living by running a shop at a local estate, had a narrow escape from the clutches of wild elephants last week in Munnar, one of the most sought-after hill stations in Kerala widely called the "Kashmir of the South" by travel buffs for its scenic beauty and cool climate, in the last 10 years. Not just Punyavel but Ouseph, a fruit and vegetable vendor whose shop was attacked seven times by the pachyderm, and Palraja, who fell into death trap due to the frequent jumbo raids at his outlet, are among the hundreds of ordinary people who bore the brunt of the jumbo menace in this hill station. For them, Munnar is not just about vast tea plantations, pristine valleys, scenic mountains and expansive grasslands but also about endless elephant fury, fear for life and debt traps. Punyavel said he initially had a sigh of relief seeing the female jumbo vanish into the dark after her hours-long shop raid but plunged into gloom suddenly after realising that he had to pick up pieces to rebuild the destroyed shop and bring back life in order again. "The female jumbo was part of a herd of wild elephants straying into the estate last week. Throughout the time the pachyderm was destroying my shop, a tusker and two calves could be seen waiting for her outside the building," he told PTI. His ancestors had settled in this Kerala tourist town years ago and the family has been running a grocery shop at Chokanad Estate, located about 1.5 kms away from Munnar town, for the last several decades. The hapless man said he does not know the reason why the animal was particularly attacking his shop. From the CCTV visuals of the shop, it was clear how the angry jumbo was taking each cardboard box from the shop with his tusk and crushing it after throwing it on the cement floor. "I have no issue if it takes something from the shop and eats it. It may be due to its hunger pangs. But, here, the jumbos are destroying everything in my shop. As our house is also just near the shop, we are living with extreme fear and anxiety every day," he said. The 50-year old man and his two sons had a close shave from the wild jumbos some months back when they tried to chase them away making noise. The pachyderm had also broken the compound wall of the house another day. Each time the jumbos attacked his shop, Punyavel would fall into a debt trap again. The man said he had not got any compensation from the Forest Department so far despite repeated filing of requests and complaints. When the 62-year old K Palraja had rebuilt his fruit shop near Grahamsland Estate, over two km away from the town, again after the jumbos destroyed it last year, the elephant came twice in a gap of two weeks and gulped down the fruits again. Shibu, a local journalist residing in Munnar, said the Covid pandemic also seemed to have a role in the increasing instances of wild elephants straying into human settlements in the tourist town in recent times. "After the imposition of lockdown curbs, the human intervention was very less in the otherwise busy areas. The decreased presence of men and unusual silence may also be a reason that persuades jumbos to stray into settlement areas," he told PTI. Leading wildlife expert Dr P S Easa also agreed to the "lockdown factor" to some extent for the recent spurt in the straying of wild jumbos. He, however, said the increased animal intrusion in places like Munnar was not the fault of wild creatures but that of humans who have claimed its traditional territory and constructed houses and resorts there. A host of reasons including shrinking habitat of elephants, the tendency to travel through their traditional route, the secondary growth of flora in fringe areas due to less human intervention during the lockdown period and so on might be the reasons for the increased jumbo presence, he said. "Jumbos generally like the areas having secondary growth, where plants and shrubs grow like forests. Waste management is also an issue as garbage always attracts them," Easa told PTI. Besides fruits, articles like salt, stored in grocery shops, also an attraction for jumbos, which can be a reason for its constant raids at Punyavel's shop, the expert added. Meanwhile, despite all these spine-chilling incidents, the people of the high range were keen to give unique names to these frequently straying pachyderms. While a constant crop-raiding jumbo was named "Padayappa", after Tamil superstar Rajnikanth's macho character in a 1999 year film, another one, expert in breaking metal fences around farms, was christened as "4G.'' A jumbo roaming around with a piece of hose stuck to its tusk was known as "Hosekomban" and another one, known for his love for 'ari' (rice), was called "Arikomban". "Chillikomaban", a tusker with twig shaped tusk, the highly dangerous "Murivalan " and well-behaved "Sugunan" were some of the wild jumbos having unique names in this high range district. Located 1,600 metres above sea level in the biodiversity hot spot of the Western Ghats, Munnar was once the summer resort of the erstwhile British government in South India.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/when-wild-jumbos-make-life-miserable-in-the-kashmir-of-the-south-1040792.html
15-10-2021||South||Tremors in Bidar, Kalaburagi an outcome of hydro-seismicity||The series of tremors in Bidar and Kalaburagi districts in North Karnataka were related to a phenomenon called hydro-seismicity, which occur post-monsoon, revealed a preliminary study by NGRI. "We had asked the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) to take up a detailed analysis of the micro tremors that we are experiencing in Kalaburgi and Vijayapura region," Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority commissioner Manoj Rajan told PTI on Friday. "Their preliminary observations indicated that the micro tremors of this nature normally occur during the post monsoon period. It is related to a phenomenon called hydro-seismicity after a heavy rainfall," Rajan said. He also said that within crustal volumes having fracture permeability, a natural increase in hydraulic head due to the elevation of the water table in recharge areas of groundwater basins increases the stress in earth. This event triggers micro tremors and in some cases it is accompanied by sound, the officer said. "These are due to shallow earthquakes that generate high-frequency surface waves. This type of seismic activity is very common and nothing to worry about, since it may not cascade into a large devastating earthquake," the officer said. Rajan added that the NGRI is sending a team of scientists to these regions in the next two days to study and ascertain the field conditions. Villages near Basavakalyan in Bidar and Chincholi in Kalaburagi witnessed at least six tremors ranging between 2.5 to 4 magnitude on Richter scale from October 1 to October 12. While most of the panicked villagers spent their night under the open sky fearing a major earthquake, a few others went to some other place till things are normalised.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tremors-in-bidar-kalaburagi-an-outcome-of-hydro-seismicity-1040824.html
15-10-2021||South||Stalin writes to CMs of four states on ban on fireworks, asks them to reconsider decision||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday wrote to his counterparts in four states, including Delhi, demanding that they reconsider their decision to ban the sale of firecrackers during the Deepavali season. In letters to Chief Ministers of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Odisha, Stalin asked them to allow the sale of firecrackers that fall within the norms set by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The Chief Minister said his government was in the process of reviving the MSME sector through focused interventions. "The firecracker industry, concentrated around the town of Sivakasi, is one of the most important industrial activities in the State. Around 8 lakh workers depend on the State’s firecracker industry for their livelihood, which is the largest in our country," Stalin said. He reminded them about their governments imposing a ban on the sale of firecrackers during this festival season. "I wish to draw your attention to the fact that the Hon’ble Supreme Court has already banned certain categories of polluting firecrackers and now, green crackers with significantly less emissions are being manufactured. Therefore a blanket ban on firecrackers is not reasonable," he said. Noting that such a ban is not prevalent in other countries, Stalin said a ban if imposed by other states also, would lead to the closure of the entire industry, jeopardizing the livelihood of around 8 lakh persons.  "You would also appreciate that bursting of firecrackers is an integral part of Indian festivals, especially Diwali. A balanced approach that gives due regard to environment, livelihood and public health is possible and necessary," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-writes-to-cms-of-four-states-on-ban-on-fireworks-asks-them-to-reconsider-decision-1040891.html
15-10-2021||South||Kerala cops fine 'Dasarathan's son Rama' for not wearing seatbelt||A police official in Kerala imposed a fine of Rs 500 on 'Rama, son of Dasarathan of Ayodhya' for not wearing a seatbelt. The strange incident happed at Chadayamangalam, in the rural part of the Kollam district, on Tuesday. With video footage of the incident going viral on social media and causing much embarrassment to the police, they have launched a search for the person who gave the wrong address. But no action was so far initiated against the police personnel who even issued a formal receipt to 'Raman, s/o Dasarathan, Ayodhya'. A police team led by an additional sub-inspector stopped the four-wheeler as the driver was not wearing the seat belt. But the driver entered into a verbal duel with the police. As the police insisted on the fine, the driver gave the identity as 'Raman, s/o Dasarathan, Ayodhya'. The police personnel, without any doubts, wrote the name and address on the receipt and issued it. Someone who recorded it posted the video on social media. Chadayamangalam station house officer told DH that there was an oversight on the part of the police personnel as there was even provision to produce a person who was unwilling to give real identity before the court. The vehicle's owner was issued a notice to give details of the person who gave the wrong identity. Action would be taken against him for giving a false identity. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cops-fine-dasarathans-son-rama-for-not-wearing-seatbelt-1040904.html
15-10-2021||South||TN forest department officials rescue elusive man-eater tiger alive||The T23 tiger was elusive for the past 22 days and had escaped from the net several times. The tiger was captured after it was tranquilised with a dart, officials said, adding that the animal was examined by a team of veterinarians after which it is being taken to Mysuru zoo which houses a rescue centre.  Friday’s rescue came after the tiger was shot with two tranquillizer darts on Thursday night. However, the tiger escaped into the dense forest. But, it was found in the Mayar region on Friday afternoon leading to its rescue. A hunt for the tiger was launched on September 24 after the tiger killed the third person and Tamil Nadu Chief Wildlife Warden Shekar Kumar Niraj issued an order to hunt the tiger on October 1 following the tiger killing a fourth person.  The order was issued after the Forest Department came under severe pressure from locals after the news of the tiger fatally attacking its fourth target spread like wildfire on October one. Villagers in Masinagudi and Gudalur complain that the tiger has been wreaking havoc in the area.  The decision to hunt the “problematic tiger” was taken under Section 11 (1) (a) of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The section says the Chief Wildlife Warden may, if he is satisfied that any wild animal specified in Schedule I has become dangerous to human life or is so disabled or diseased as to be beyond recovery, by order in writing and stating the reasons therefore, permit any person to hunt such animal or cause such animal to be hunted.  However, the order was challenged before the Madras High Court which asked the forest department to take efforts to capture the tiger alive. “Don’t go for the kill immediately. It may not be a man-eater. It may have been misunderstood,” the first bench had said, asking the state government to file a status report after the Dussehra holidays. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-forest-department-officials-rescue-elusive-man-eater-tiger-alive-1040917.html
15-10-2021||South||Maoists confirm death of key leader Akkiraju Haragopal alias RK||The CPI (Maoist) party has confirmed the death of Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna (RK), a key figure in the Maoist movement in the country. RK (63), CPI(M)'s central committee and politburo member, died on Thursday morning due to kidney failure and chronic illness, in the south Chhattisgarh forests. “Comrade Haragopal had suddenly developed kidney complications. Though dialysis etc treatment was provided, he died of kidney failure and other health problems. The party could not save him despite extending good medical care,” a statement from Abhay, CPI(M) central committee representative said on Friday. RK was said to be suffering from chronic ailments for some time and the news of his death first came out on Thursday evening. “Haragopal's demise is an irreparable loss to the party,” Abhay said, adding that RK's final rites were held with tributes offered by the cadres. RK, also known as Saketh, Madhu, Srinivas, was accused of several violent incidents in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and most prominent among them is the October 2003 claymore mine blast attack on Chandrababu Naidu at Tirupati. The then AP chief minister narrowly escaped the attempt on his life by the People's War Group, who was popular as Naxalites, which had posed a major law and order challenge to the state government for over two decades. A year later, in October 2004, RK led the insurgent group's delegation participating in the truce negotiations in Hyderabad with Naidu's successor YS Rajasekhara Reddy government. The talks were abandoned after failing to make any headway. The PWG and the Maoist Communist Centre had merged in 2004 to form CPI (Maoists). From school teacher to Maoist central committee member RK was born in 1958 in remote Tumrukota village of Andhra Pradesh's Guntur district. He was attracted to the radical movement in his college days, influenced by Naxal leaders like Kondapalli Sitharamaiah. A postgraduate, RK joined the PWG in the early 1980s, after a brief stint as a school teacher. RK became the secretary of People's War's AP committee in 2000 and in 2001 the central committee member. For about a decade till 2014, RK has led the outlawed group's activities in the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB). Made CPI(M) politburo member in 2018, he was continuing to guide the AOB operations. RK's son Munna alias Prithvi who followed his father's footsteps into Naxalism was killed in the 2016 Ramaguda encounter in AOB, in which RK himself has purportedly escaped. RK's wife Sirisha, a former Maoist, now lives in Guntur. RK was carrying a reward of about Rs one crore on his head, adding the bounties announced by the Odisha, Chhattisgarh etc Left-Wing Effected state governments. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maoists-confirm-death-of-key-leader-akkiraju-haragopal-alias-rk-1040973.html
15-10-2021||State||Popular Kannada artist G K Govinda Rao passes away||Veteran Kannada actor and performer Professor G K Govinda Rao passed away due to age-related illness in Hubballi at 4.45 am on Friday. Govinda Rao is survived by two daughters. The 84-year-old acted in several Kannada films including 'Shastri', 'Mithileya Seetheyaru', 'Grahana' and appeared in lead roles in the Kannada TV serials Maha Parva and Malgudi Days. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai condoled the death of the actor, saying that with his death, "the country has lost a great thinker". ರಂಗಭೂಮಿ, ಸಿನಿಮಾ ಹಾಗೂ ಸಾಹಿತ್ಯ ಕ್ಷೇತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿಯೂ ತಮ್ಮ ಛಾಪನ್ನು ಮೂಡಿಸಿದ್ದ ಅವರು, ತಮ್ಮ ಜನಪರ ನಿಲುವಿನಿಂದ ಜನಮಾನಸದಲ್ಲಿ ವಿಶಿಷ್ಟ ಸ್ಥಾನ ಗಳಿಸಿದ್ದರು. (1/2)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/popular-kannada-artist-g-k-govinda-rao-passes-away-1040772.html
15-10-2021||State||Kotigobba 3 release: A day’s delay lands producer, exhibitors, distributors in distress||The unprecedented dispute that halted the release of Kichcha Sudeep-starrer ‘Kotigobba 3’ across Karnataka on October 14 has landed the producer, distributors and exhibitors in financial losses. They are learnt to have lost up to Rs 7 crore.  The episode affected the image of Sudeep and film’s producer Soorappa Babu, besides hitting the title ‘Kotigobba’ as a brand. A leading producer claimed that it also brought factionalism among actors to the limelight. Now, uncertainty looms large over Babu reuniting with Sudeep for ‘Kotigobba 4’. “The entire episode was executed perfectly. We know who is behind this,” Jack Manjunath, who stepped in based on Sudeep’s request to distribute the film, “ said. A few friends-turned-foes of Babu used two distributors who had the film’s rights for Mysuru and Ballari regions to target Sudeep as the actor had denied them dates in the past. The duo had made a 20% advance payment to Babu, promising to pay him the rest on October 13. Babu’s rivals had assured the distributors with financial help but backed out, landing them in trouble, said a distributor.  Babu had borrowed Rs 25 crore from a private financier in Hyderabad pledging certain documents needed to upload the film on a digital platform for the release. With the distributors failing to pay him, he could not, in turn, pay the financier. He suspected indirect involvement of a couple of leading stars, but clarified,” actor Duniya Vijay and ‘Salaga’ film producer KP Sreekanth was not involved.” ‘Salaga’ was released on Thursday and with no competition from ‘Kotigobba 3’, is learnt to have enjoyed a better response than expected. A largely positive response for the gangster flick was the icing on the cake. “Vijay and Sreekanth are in no way connected with the episode as I know them better,” Manjunath said. Babu has invested Rs 70 crore on the flick. The shooting concluded on December 12, 2019. He had planned the release in February last. The Covid-19 pandemic forced him to postpone the film indefinitely. He had to wait for 19 months while paying interest helplessly.  “Babu could not spend money on promotion as he had exhausted all finances. Babu and Sudeep had differences over the promotional matters,” a producer, who had teamed up with Sudeep in the past, said. The promotion for ‘Kotigobba 3’ was lukewarm. Many felt Sudeep was quite indifferent to the film. “Sudeep and Babu have differences but they will sort it out,” said Manjunath. “I admit my mistakes. I did not halt the release deliberately nor did I want to trouble Sudeep. I am thankful that the issue has been sorted and the flick has received a positive response,” Babu said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kotigobba-3-release-a-day-s-delay-lands-producer-exhibitors-distributors-in-distress-1040963.html
15-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai asserts his nationalist roots in Twitter spat with Siddaramaiah||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai hailed the RSS, the BJP’s ideological parent, and traced his nationalist roots to his father, during an unprecedented verbal duel with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on social media.  Bommai locked horns with Siddaramaiah on Twitter with the two shooting tweets at each other. It is not common for a chief minister to reply to political attacks on a social media platform.  “My father has taught me values of public good and I think he has also guided you in a similar manner. My father (SR Bommai) was nationalist and I follow that all along. That is what RSS stands for. However, you fought Congress tooth and nail and now you are signing the chorus of the family,” Bommai said in a tweet to Siddaramaiah.  This was in response to a tweet by Siddaramaiah questioning Bommai’s decision to join the BJP. “Mr Bommai, you have said that you need not learn administration or policing from me. Thank you. Had you learnt anything from your father Shri S R Bommai or me, you would not have joined a communal party just for power & support anti-constitutional activities,” Siddaramaiah said.  ನಾನೇ ಹಿಂದೂಗಳನ್ನು ಕೊಲ್ಲಿಸಿದೆ ಎಂದು ನಿಮ್ಮ ಪರಿವಾರದ ಕೂಗುಮಾರಿಗಳ ರೀತಿ ಆರೋಪ ಮಾಡಿದ್ದೀರಿ. ಇಂತಹ ಬೇಜವಾಬ್ದಾರಿ ಹೇಳಿಕೆಗಿಂತ ಮೊದಲು ನೀವು ಕೂತಿದ್ದ ಕುರ್ಚಿಯ ಘನತೆ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಯೋಚಿಸಬೇಕಿತ್ತು. Their Twitter spat started with Siddaramaiah slamming Bommai for his comments on moral policing. “By justifying acts of moral policing by goons, you have admitted that you can’t maintain law-and-order,” he said. “What jungle law are you preaching by saying every action will have a reaction? Must you stoop so low to appease the Sangh Parivar to save your chair?”  Siddaramaiah also wondered if Bommai planned on closing the police department to hand over law-and-order to the RSS.  “All I said was in our society there will be a reaction to every action and law will take its own course unlike in your tenure Hindus were killed right left and center,” Bommai countered. “You need to hold a mirror to yourself. God knows how you sleep with blood on your hands.” Bommai accused Siddaramaiah of presiding over the killing of Hindus when he was the CM. “...Hindus were killed on supari and many riots took place,” he said, adding that he need not learn administration or policing from “the icon of “anti-Hindus”. Bommai went on to hail RSS as the “tallest nation building organization which treats every citizen equally”. He said his government and the BJP worked as per the Constitution and “not as per extra-constitutional bodies like NAC”.  Siddaramaiah hit back at Bommai for his “loose comments”. “I can file a defamation case for this but I will just advise you to correct yourself,” the Congress leader said. “In a desperate attempt to please your RSS masters, you're deviating from facts & logic.” Among the examples he cited was the alleged murder of Vinayaka Baliga. “Naresh Shenoy, the main accused in the murder of Hindu RTI activist Vinayaka Baliga, is the best friend of your party president Nalin Kumar Kateel. Vinayaka Baliga was a hard Hindu & when will you ensure justice to his family,” he asked. “...you may be emotionally bankrupt and continue to light communal fires for political gains. But true Hindus are intelligent enough to see through your act of treason!”. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-asserts-his-nationalist-roots-in-twitter-spat-with-siddaramaiah-1040833.html
15-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rs 15 lakh stolen from Karnataka bizman's house||A businessman has accused his chauffeur of stealing Rs 15 lakh from his house when the family went on vacation earlier this month.  In a police complaint, Chandrashekar M, 42, stated that the money was stolen from his home in JP Nagar 4th Phase in the early hours of October 9. CCTV footage shows someone entering the house with a duplicate key at 3.09 am and sneaking out — most probably with the cash — at 3.33 am. Chandrashekar and his family left home on October 7 and returned two days later. They were visiting Mysuru, Dharmasthala and other places.  Key duplicated  Chandrashekar suspected that Lokesh, his chauffeur of three years, is behind the theft as he has gone missing. He had kept a spare key of the house in the dashboard of his car, which Lokesh most likely duplicated to burgle the home, he added.  The jurisdictional Puttenahalli police have taken up a case of servant theft and are looking out for Lokesh. A police officer said that as Lokesh had gone missing since the theft emerged, he was the prime suspect.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rs-15-lakh-stolen-from-karnataka-bizmans-house-1040949.html
15-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Alcoholic man shoots mother, sister dead||A 24-year-old man shot his mother and younger sister dead over a trivial issue in Kudegodu village of Siddapur taluk on Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as Parvathi Narayana Haslar (42) and her daughter Ramya Narayana Haslar (20). The police said that the suspect Manjunath Haslar was addicted to liquor and hunting. He was pestering his mother for money for his vices. He picked a quarrel with his mother over borrowing a loan for purchasing a mobile for his younger sister. In a fit of rage, he opened fire on them with a country-made revolver. Both died on the spot, the police added. Superintendent of Police Shivaprakash Devaraju and other senior police officers visited the spot. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/alcoholic-man-shoots-mother-sister-dead-1040951.html
15-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt urged not to defer reopening of primary classes||A group of academicians has sought the state government not to defer the reopening of physical classes for grades 1 to 5. Following the recent reports about the department of primary and secondary education planning consultations with parents and other stakeholders on reopening the schools,  the National Coalition on the Education Emergency has urged the government to resume classes for 60 lakh children in lower primary and pre-primary schools. A coalition is a group of individuals, organisations and networks across the country.  In a statement released to the media, the coalition urged the department to release guidelines for the safe reopening of schools and for helping children to resume learning.  "The parents who do not want to send their children to school should not be compelled, though the evidence about benefits from schooling must be communicated to them," stated Dr V P Niranjanaradhya, a senior academician. Gurumurthy Kasinatha, Founder Director, It for Change, said:  "Most parents who want to send their children to schools must not be deprived of the opportunity, rather the fundamental right of their children to education, because some parents are unwilling to send." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-urged-not-to-defer-reopening-of-primary-classes-1040962.html
15-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Splinter group will not make a political party: Karnataka HC||The High Court has said that coming out from a political party and forming a splinter group will not make such a group the political party. The court observed this while dismissing the petition filed by seven councillors of Kollegal City Municipal Council (CMC), challenging the disqualification from the membership of the council. The petitioners Pavithra and six others were elected as councillors on Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket in the elections held in 2018. After two years of the constitution of the council, notification for the elections to the office of the president and vice-president was issued on October 22, 2020. The BSP national party had issued instructions to vote in favour of the mandate of the whip. The petitioners voted in favour of a rebel candidate and the official BSP national party candidate secured only two votes. The deputy commissioner of the Mysuru district disqualified the petitioners from the membership of the Council on September 6, 2021, based on the complaint by the lost candidate on the ground that they had violated the direction and had defected from the party. It was informed to the court that the petitioners had resigned from the primary membership of the party long before the elections to the office of president and vice-president. The petitioners contended that there is a complete failure of Sections 3 and 4 of the Karnataka Local Authorities (Prohibition of Defection) Act, 1987. It was also contended that section 3A of the Act protects the disqualification of a member in case of a split in the political party. Justice M Nagaprasanna noted that the protection is not available since merely coming out from a political party and forming a splinter group will not make them a political party. “They should either form a political party and seek recognition or show that they have joined a political party which is recognized by the Election Commission of India. It is only then the petitioners can claim that they are protected under Section 3A of the Act,” the court said. The court further pointed out that while the elections, to the office of president and vice-president, took place eight months after the resignation, the petitioners have not produced any evidence to show that their splinter group is a recognised political party or they have joined any recognised political party. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/splinter-group-will-not-make-a-political-party-karnataka-hc-1040965.html
15-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||OVer 1,400 bonded labourers in Karnataka get their due||The state government has ordered the release of a lump sum for more than 1,400 bonded labourers freed from their ordeal over the last couple of years, but the process is confusing and red-taped, activists say.  The Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) has released the lump sum ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 a month for 1,483 bonded labourers who are being rehabilitated. This is under a nondescript scheme the state government formulated in 2005.  Of the 1,483 freed bonded labourers, 1,421 are from Chikkaballapur who was rescued three years ago. Others are in Tumakuru (51), Shivamogga (8) and Bengaluru Rural (3).  “While the Labour department identifies and releases the bonded labour, rehabilitation is handled by the RDPR department since we deal with a bunch of schemes,” RDPR principal secretary L K Atheeq said.  Under the state scheme, freed bonded labourers to get Rs 24,000 lump sum (Rs 1,000 each for 24 months). The amount was Rs 300 till it was revised in 2015.  Under a Central scheme, freed bonded labourers are to get Rs 1-3 lakh. “The Government of India says that only after the bonded labour is proved in a court of law can you give the assistance. The only people that effectively get an ex-gratia of Rs 20,000 are those who are released and get a release certificate by the assistant commissioners,” Atheeq explained.  Activists working to free bonded labour are not convinced. “There’s a lot of confusion,” said Kiran Kamal Prasad, founder of Jeevika, an organisation fighting against bonded labour.  “The lump-sum given for 24 months is a state scheme and the Centre has nothing to do with it,” Prasad said. “The Rs 20,000 assistance is given at the time of the release of bonded labour. For the remaining amount, there are two clauses: the state government has to work out a rehabilitation scheme, and the assistant commissioner or deputy commissioner should hold a summary trial of the person accused of employing bonded labour. The second clause is often construed by officials as ‘until after' the accused is sent to jail. But, the start of the summary trial itself will suffice,” he explained. Also, Prasad pointed out that the government order issued for the 1,483 freed bonded labour has excluded 107 people rescued in Belagavi and 42 in Mandya. “They have received their release certificates,” he said.  PUCL state president Y J Rajendra said ‘influential’ bonded labour employers getaway. “It gets managed at the AC-level,” he rued. “You’ll still find thousands of bonded labour in brick kilns and quarries,” he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-1400-bonded-labourers-in-karnataka-get-their-due-1040966.html
15-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to ease deadlines as Covid hits investments||The state government has decided to rework deadlines for investors to start their business operations as the Covid-19 pandemic has interrupted the implementation of 663 investment projects worth Rs 1.06 lakh crore that promise over two lakh jobs.  These projects were approved over the last three years. But, the pandemic has made sure none of them is ready for production or manufacturing.  According to official sources, investors are given a minimum of two years to start operations. “This time, there is no compulsion that they have to meet deadlines,” Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani told DH. “We are extending the time for anyone who approaches us. Our intent is to ensure that these industries start functioning,” he said. As per the data available with the industries department, a total of 663 projects were approved between 2019-20 and 2021-22 by the state-level Single Window Clearance Committee. The projects cumulatively add up to Rs 1.06 lakh crore. Together, they are expected to generate 2.36 lakh jobs.  Implementation of these projects is crucial for Karnataka that is looking to slowly come out of the pandemic-induced economic crisis, and with its flagship Invest Karnataka summit scheduled to take place in November 2022.  Based on the size of the investment, the state government usually gives industries anywhere between two and five years’ time to start their production. The government allows an extension in few cases where there are inevitable delays if the companies approach them after the deadline period. “Once the state government approves a project, the company approaches KIADB for land. Usually, they get a possession certificate for land within a couple of months. Later, they have to apply for departmental clearances and take up other pre-production work. While many have received possession certificates, there has been a lag in the rest of the work owing to the pandemic,” an official explained.   ‘30,000 acres land bank’ Meanwhile, the government is in the process of creating a land bank for industries. According to Nirani, over 30,000 acres of land have been identified across the state, with a specific focus on Tier-II and Tier-III cities. “For instance, in Kalaburagi, we have identified 2,000 acres and in Bagalkot, we’re looking at 1,000 acres. In another six months, we want to complete the process,” he said. The land bank will be showcased at the Invest Karnataka summit.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-ease-deadlines-as-covid-hits-investments-1040967.html
15-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Progressive thinker, actor G K Govinda Rao no more||Progressive thinker, theatre person and writer professor G K Govinda Rao (84), passed away at his daughter Shymala Guruprasad’s house here on Friday due to an age-related illness. Prof Govinda Rao was known for his social activism and strong, progressive political views. He was active in public life and took part in major social movements till recently. Popularly known as Prof GKG, Govinda Rao acted in several acclaimed Kannada films like ‘Katha-Sangama’, ‘Grahana’, ‘Bandhana’ and ‘Mahaparva’. He also featured in the popular TV series- Malgudi days. He was an active theatre personality having acted and directed severalplays. A well-known writer, his literary works include ‘Ishwar-Allah’, ‘Shakespeare - Yeradu Natakagala Adhyayana’, ‘Nade Nudi’, ‘Nagareekate mattu Araajakate’, ‘Bimba -Prathibimba’, ‘Manu vs Ambedkar’ and ‘Gandhijiya Upavasagalu’. He was a learned professor of English, having committed many Shakespeare plays to memory. A beloved teacher, GKG served as a professor of English at St Joseph’s college of commerce, Bangalore for over two decades. He has several admirers and friends who consider his passing a loss to society. He had come to his daughter’s house in August after his health deteriorated. Six days back, he was admitted to a private hospital here, family sources said. As per his wish, his eyes were harvested and donated to M M Joshi Eye Hospital. His mortal remains were consigned to flames at Mukthidhama here on Friday morning He is survived by his wife, two daughters, grandchildren and a great-granddaughter. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and others have condoled the death. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/progressive-thinker-actor-g-k-govinda-rao-no-more-1040969.html
15-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CSR spending rose 131% in 2020; Rs 271 cr more in pipeline ||Karnataka saw a 131% rise in corporate social responsibility (CSR) spending in the pandemic-hit year 2020 and much of this went into districts such as Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi and Kolar as industries looked to diversify their philanthropy beyond Bengaluru.  According to data from the Commerce & Industries Department, the CSR expenditure in 2018 was Rs 125 crore, which rose to Rs 289 crore last year. It was Rs 216 crore in 2019.  Last year, Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural received a total of Rs 2.1 crore. This pales in comparison to Mysuru (Rs 195 crore), Dakshina Kannada (Rs 37.67 crore), Kalaburagi (Rs 12.16 crore) and Kolar (Rs 11.86 crore).  Law mandates wealthy companies to spend at least 2% of their average net profits of the previous three years on welfare activities.  Between 2014 and 2018, some 2,588 companies based in Karnataka spent Rs 4,143 crore of CSR money. According to a report by Sattva Consulting last year, much of this money went into Bengaluru and its rural outbacks. The Covid-19 pandemic, however, seems to have pushed CSR funding outside Bengaluru. “Certain people wanted to consciously donate to rural areas,” Panchayat Raj Secretary Uma Mahadevan, the officer designated to liaise with the private sector during the pandemic, told DH.  “We’ve had a groundswell of support from civil society and corporates to districts in both waves of the pandemic,” she said. “We had great support in the second wave in Bengaluru and rural areas for health infrastructure, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, oxygen generation plants, consumables such as masks, PPE kits, face shields and so on.”  In May this year, the government launched tech-enabled portal Akanksha - akanksha.karnataka.gov.in - in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme to allow corporates to identify sectors where they want to pump their CSR money.   “Akanksha became a good platform for making visible the areas of need and matching offers of help,” Mahadevan said.  The Akanksha portal is linked with the government’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) targets. The government has set aside Rs 61,407 crore to meet SDGs in the current 2021-22 fiscal.  According to information made public by the government, corporates have committed to spend Rs 271 crore under CSR. Of the 137 projects available, 90 are in the areas of health, women and child development. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/csr-spending-rose-131-in-2020-rs-271-cr-more-in-pipeline-1040971.html
15-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Conman cheats civil contractor promising job at KIA||A civil contractor has been cheated to the tune of Rs 8 lakh by a conman who duped him in the guise of offering him a job at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). Koushik H told the Banashankari police that he works as a civil engineer with a private firm. A conman introducing himself as Raghavendra, who met him in December through a friend, claimed he has contacts in KIA and offered Koushik a civil contractor’s job for Rs 8 lakh. Koushik, a resident of Banashankari 2nd Stage, paid him the money at a relative’s house in January. Raghavendra told Koushik he would receive the offer letter in a week, but Koushik did not receive anything. Koushik’s attempts to contact Raghavendra for his money did not get any response. “We have taken up the case and are investigating,” said a police officer. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/conman-cheats-civil-contractor-promising-job-at-kia-1040978.html
15-10-2021||West||Bombay High Court building will now be open for visitors||The Bombay High Court, one of the oldest high courts of India -- which has a rich legacy, history, architecture and heritage -- would now be open for visitors.  The majestic and imposing building -- off the Oval Maidan -- is part of the Victorian and Art Deco Ensemble of Bombay, which was added to the list of World Heritage Sites in 2018. The Directorate of Tourism (DoT), in association with Bombay High Court and Tourist Guide Association (TOGA) has taken the initiative.  Tourists will now be able to take a tour of the building on non-working Saturdays and Sundays from 1000 hrs to 1400 hrs and the duration of each heritage walk will be a maximum one hour.  A total of 3 heritage walks will be conducted each on Saturday and Sunday in Marathi, English and Hindi languages respectively. A nominal entry fee of Rs. 100 (plus taxes, if applicable) per heritage walk per Indian national (domestic) tourist/visitor and Rs. 200 (plus taxes, if applicable) per international (foreign) tourist/visitor will be levied. The Bombay High Court is one of the oldest High Courts in India. It was inaugurated on August 14, 1862, under the High Court’s Act, 1861.  The work on the present building of the High Court commenced in April 1871 and was completed in November 1878. Bombay High Court is famed for its architecture as it was built in the 19th century, by the British, in the eye-catching Gothic Revival style. The building is part of the Victorian and Art Deco Ensemble of Bombay, which was added to the list of World Heritage Sites in 2018. The museum being the highlight of the building, inaugurated in 2015, has interiors designed exactly like a courtroom. The space has been curated with old legal rolls, portraits of the advocates and a minuscule model of the Bombay High Court in a corner Mahatma Gandhi’s application for studying law dating back to 1890s and his certificate from the year 1891 along with Vallabhbhai Patel’s certificates and degree are also displayed there. Speaking about the initiative, Principal Secretary (Tourism) Valsa NairSingh, said: “To create awareness of the rich heritage, history and architecture of this monumental structure, the walk has been curated.” TOGA President Jerroo Bharrucha added: “Dignitaries like Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Mahatma Gandhi and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar have walked these corridors and the tourists must feel proud that they are getting an opportunity to enter this beautiful heritage structure. We have arranged tour guides who will be guiding the tourists in Hindi, Marathi and English.” The heritage walk would start from Gate No. 4, from where they will be taken to the Judges Library, Central Court Hall no 46, the statue of the Justice M.C Chagla (first Indian Chief Justice of Bombay High Court) and the Museum.  The walk will come to an end at the Judges Porch. All the information about the architecture of the building will be provided by the tour guide and the group would be allowed to take photographs at specific points during this walk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-building-will-now-be-open-for-visitors-1040757.html
15-10-2021||West||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat calls for policy to control population||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday called upon the government to come out with a population policy that is acceptable by one and all.  “While reimagining the country’s development one predicament comes to the fore which appears to concern many. The rapid growth of the country’s population may give rise to many problems in the near future. Therefore, this challenge must be duly considered,” Bhagwat said addressing the annual VijayDashami rally at Nagpur.  Bhagwat also read out the resolution which was passed on this issue during the Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal (All India Executive Committee) meeting of Sangh held at Ranchi in 2015. "The ubiquitous and effective implementation of relevant policies pertaining to these matters will require widespread public sensitisation and impartial actions,” he said. Bhagwat pointed out that in the present circumstances, news of persecution of native Hindus, growing criminalisation and a mounting pressure on them to escape their areas where an imbalanced population growth have surfaced.  “The violence that broke out following the elections of West Bengal and the pitiable condition of the Hindu people there can also be attributed to the appeasement of barbarous elements by the government and population imbalance,” he said. “Therefore, a policy that is applicable to all groups in the same fashion is imperative. All of us need to inculcate the habit of considering the collective national interest above everything while coming out of attractive cobweb of milking the parochial group interests,” Bhagwat added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-calls-for-policy-to-control-population-1040760.html
15-10-2021||West||Freedom, Mahatma, 'Gen Next English' figure in Aryan Khan bail feud||The heated arguments for and against Aryan Khan's bail plea before the special NDPS court on Friday witnessed the prosecution and defence invoking Mahatma Gandhi and Queen's English versus the gen-next lingo. During the past couple of days, the Narcotics Control Bureau's legal battery alleged Aryan Khan, the son of Shah Rukh Khan, was involved in "illicit drug trafficking" with international ramifications and painted the superstar-son as a "junkie" regularly hooked to drugs. Senior advocate Amit Desai, representing him, urged Special Judge V.V. Patil saying the accused are young and their plea for bail should be considered. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh strongly disagreed saying that the "future generation" and the country would be depending on them. "This is not our freedom fighters in the land of Mahatma Gandhi envisioned... The NCB officers are working day and night to fight the drug menace. They also get beaten up when they are on duty," he argued. Besides, he said that international conventions mandate all countries to take drug trafficking seriously as it affects society and the whole world. Desai countered by reminding that the country fought for a Constitution and for the procedures established by law, so everything must happen as per this law. "I don't think there can be a debate that the entire world is fighting the drug menace. We got our freedom, and we must protect it and save the younger generation from it," he said. On the ASG and the NCB relying on certain WhatsApp chats of the accused ("Let's have a blast", etc), Desai said that the modern generation had a means of communication, which is English, but not the Queen's English. "It's sometimes what the older generation will call a torture. The way they (Gen next) communicate is very different. There is always a possibility that casual conversations between friends on WhatsApp may appear suspicious," he said. Hence, he argued that by no stretch of imagination is the boy (Khan) in illicit international drug trafficking, and said the NCB may write to the MEA and continue with the probe, but he should be granted his liberty. Desai admitted that Aryan Khan was abroad for a while and in other countries, lot of things are legitimate though he was not sure what type of chats were there, and it was the context of the chat conversation which was important. "Is this youthful banter, friendly gossip, joke...is someone trying to tell him I got this, I did this, were they trying to joke, laugh about it?" he asked. After the marathon arguments of over five hours, the Special NDPS Judge reserved his verdict in the bail pleas of Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant, and Munmun Dhamecha to October 20. The trio is among the 8 nabbed originally after the NCB's high-profile rave party raid on board a luxury ship, Cordelia Cruise on April 2. Later, another 12 persons were arrested. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/freedom-mahatma-gen-next-english-figure-in-aryan-khan-bail-feud-1040862.html
15-10-2021||West||Who will RSS chief blame for drugs menace in country, asks Raut while targeting Centre||After RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat expressed concern over the rising consumption of narcotics in the society, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday hit out at the Centre saying that although Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier asserted that demonetisation would curb the drug menace, it was still present in the country. Raut also asked who the Sangh supremo would hold responsible for the prevailing drug situation. The Sena leader said that Bhagwat's remarks show he has admitted that something was wrong with the assurances given by the Union government and their implementation. During his annual address made on the occasion Vijayadashmi in Nagpur earlier in the day, Bhagwat spoke on many issues, including drugs, which he said were being consumed by all sections of the society and posing a threat to national security. Referring to Bhagwat's remarks, Raut told reporters, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi had consistently promised that his decision to implement demonetisation was an attack on black money raised through drugs trade and which was allegedly used for anti-national activities." "But despite having such Hindutvawadi government in power for a long time, the RSS chief today expressed same concerns about drugs and the use of money. So we would like to know who is going to be held responsible for this situation mentioned by him," the Sena leader said. There is a staunch nationalist government at the Centre. The prime minister is a staunch supporter of Hindutva ideology, he said. "But despite that, if such drug menace is still taking place in the country, then who will be held responsible by the RSS chief for this? He has somehow admitted that something is wrong in union government's assurances and implementation," he said. Talking about the upcoming bypolls to three Lok Sabha seats in the country he said his party has a total of 21 members in both the houses of Parliament. "We are going to win the Lok Sabha bypolls of Dadra, Nagar and Haveli as well. After this, we will have 22 MPs in total and we will play an important role in national politics post-2024 general elections," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/who-will-rss-chief-blame-for-drugs-menace-in-country-asks-raut-while-targeting-centre-1040864.html
15-10-2021||West||Shiv Sena's Goa vice president Rakhi Naik resigns||The Shiv Sena's Goa unit vice-president Rakhi Prabhudesai Naik on Friday resigned from her post and primary membership of the party. Naik, who had been associated with the Sena for the last four years, is also the party's state spokesperson. “Here, I end my four-year long association with Shiv Sena. I have sent my formal resignation from the post of Vice President and Primary Membership of the party. Taken most important decision on the auspicious day of Dussehra,” she tweeted. When contacted, Naik said she had resigned after understanding that the Sena was not serious about Goa and has not been working in the interest of the state. “The central leaders arrive here only to pay lip service,” Naik said, adding that she is yet to decide on a future course of action. “I will have to speak to my well-wishers and followers before taking any decision, as this is a crucial time for Goa,” Naik said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-senas-goa-vice-president-rakhi-naik-resigns-1040874.html
15-10-2021||West||India’s first Diploma course in mountaineering launched||Coinciding with the auspicious day of Vijay Dashami, India’s first Diploma in Mountaineering course is launched by Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). The course is designed by Guardian Giripremi Institute of Mountaineering (GGIM), the pioneer mountaineering training institute in India. A year-long course will commence from Monday, October 18, 2021. The official launch of the course was organised on Friday, October 15 online. Dr Nitin Karamalkar, Vice Chancellor, SPPU made the formal announcement. The online inauguration programme was attended by Brig Ashok Abbey, President, Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF), Col Amit Bisht, Principal, Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM), Dr. N.S. Umarani, Pro-Vice Chancellor, SPPU, Dr. Dipak Mane, Director, Board of Sports and Physical Education, SPPU, Umesh Zirpe, Founder-Director, Guardian Giripremi Institute of Mountaineering (GGIM) along with dignitaries from mountaineering field and the students of first-ever batch of Diploma course. Bhushan Harshe, Everester and Head of Operations, GGIM anchored the programme. The year-long course is a perfect blend of theories and practical. The students will learn from the best of the faculties of the mountaineering field who have immense experience in mountaineering and adventure sports. Theory lectures will be conducted online as of now and the practical sessions are organised in Sahyadri as well in Himalayas in the later part. The students will undergo a 24-days training session at Nehru Institute of Mountaineering, Uttarakashi in the month of March to get hands-on experience of the Himalayas. SPPU and GGIM have signed an MoU with NIM to deliver specially designed training sessions for diploma students. Zirpe explained how making ‘mountaineering as a lifestyle’ can help in enhancing personality development. He highlighted the fact that Diploma in Mountaineering will be a game-changing course for the participants who will learn several life aspects through unique experiences. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-s-first-diploma-course-in-mountaineering-launched-1040881.html
15-10-2021||West||BJP hasn't understood either Savarkar or Gandhi: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday slammed his former ally, the BJP, over several issues including the controversy over Defense Minister Rajnath Singh's comment on freedom fighter Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. The BJP has not understood either Veer Savarkar or Mahatma Gandhi, Thackeray said, speaking at his party Shiv Sena's annual Dussehra rally at Shanmukhanand Hall here. Singh had recently triggered a row by claiming that Gandhi had advised Savarkar, who was incarcerated at Andaman's Cellular Jail, to write mercy petitions to the British. Thackeray, in his speech also mocked the BJP for fielding a former Sena MLA in coming Deglur assembly by-election in Maharashtra. "World's largest political party" has to import candidates even for assembly bypoll, he said. He also slammed the BJP for calling the Sena corrupt after the two parties' alliance ended in 2019, and dared it to topple his Sena-NCP-Congress coalition government which will complete two years next month. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-hasnt-understood-either-savarkar-or-gandhi-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-1040908.html
