16-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dasara party ends in murder in Mangaluru||A fun-filled party by friends celebrating the Dasara festival ended in a murder in the wee hours of Saturday in Mangaluru. According to the police, the deceased is Dhanush (20), a resident of Pacchanadi. Prameeth, Jayson, Karthik, Dhanush, Durgesh and Prajwal had booked a room in a lodge at Pumpwell, for partying on Friday night. There was an altercation between Jayson and Dhanush over an issue. In a fit of rage, Jayson stabbed Dhanush with a sharp-edged item that was in his possession. The grievously injured Dhanush was rushed to the nearby hospital, where doctors declared him dead. A case has been registered.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dasara-party-ends-in-murder-in-mangaluru-1041150.html
16-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru reeling under weight of its own epithets||Mysuru, which enjoys multiple sobriquets like planned city, clean city, cultural city, city of places, city of sandalwood and incense sticks, a heritage city, green city, cultural capital and tourist-hub, is reeling under its own weight of epithets and laurels. A Sundar Raj, an accountant with a private firm, said, "Common people of Mysuru have to suffer to entertain tourists and to show off the false pride of the city. On Vijayadashami on October 15, the city could not take high vehicular density coupled with a moderate rainfall despite Dasara being a low-key affair this year due to the Covid-19 crisis. Most of the roads turned into deep pools of water, choking traffic. For common people like me, who have to toil to make both ends meet whether it is a festival or a holiday, it is difficult even to get back home.”  Traffic jams He said, "It took almost two hours to reach his home in Kalyangiri Nagar from office in Chamaraja Mohalla which is just 10 km away on the usual route. I left my office and reached Sayyaji Rao Road via Sita Vilas Road and Rama Vilas Road. As the traffic was waiting from KR Circle signal up to old Janata Bazar. I turned right towards Maharaja Patashala. Again on the Palace Road seeing the waiting traffic I headed straight towards Agrahara. Luckily, except for a 15-minute wait at the Chamaraja Double Road signal, I could move forward.” “At Agrahara Circle, I took a left towards MG Road. Again, after a little wait at JSS Hospital junction, I could move ahead. But, near Poornaiah Choultry, there was a deep pool of water. Somehow, I crossed it. From JSS Superspeciality Hospital, there was a traffic jam. As the wrong side, the right partition of the road, was free, I wished to hoodwink other vehicles and sped on it, ahead of them. But, water was flowing down the road from the left and reaching Madhuvana Layout, in huge amounts. There was no chance of wading through it, on a scooter. So, I took a U-turn,” Sundar Raj said. Overflowing water “After some manoeuvring and waiting, I could turn left to Ramanuja Road, at JSS Hospital junction. Then, I turned left to Ele Thota Road, with a hope of reaching Lalitha Mahal Palace Road, via Nanjangud Road. However, the entire left side of Nanjangud Road was dedicated for traffic towards Nanjangud. So, the only way was to go straight, towards Chamundi Hill steps and turn left on the cemetery's road. But, just beyond the Nanjangud Road, a huge pool of water was created. It was too big for a scooter. So, I again took a U-turn and sped towards Nanjangud. Then, I reached the Outer Ring Road and took a left, towards T Narsipur Road,” he said. Sundar Raj said, “After a long ride on the Ring Road, around the Chamundi Hill, I finally reached Alanahall and took a left towards Mysuru, again, to reach home via Teresian College signal”. Illumination an eye-wash R Padmanabha, a retired government official said, even as the basic problems of Mysuru remain unaddressed, the officials are busy illuminating the unscientific and damaged roads and drainages. “If Mysuru is a planned and clean city, why does rainwater stagnate and flow on the roads? Why does rainwater, mixed with drain water, inundate houses in areas like Madhuvana Layout, if the epithets attached to Mysuru are true?” he asked. “Other problems of being a tourist hub are higher prices for some essential items and overcharging in public transport like autos and taxis. Mainly during Dasara, city bus services are suspended as the bus stand abutting the Mysuru Palace, the main attraction of Mysuru. Beggars and transgenders harass people in vehicles at traffic signals and pedestrians on footpaths, as they do to tourists. The authorities concerned have their own priorities. While the officials of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) are least bothered about the roads, circles and drains, the Police have turned a blind eye towards beggars and transgenders,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-reeling-under-weight-of-its-own-epithets-1041201.html
16-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||5.3 lakh people watch Mysuru Dasara on virtual platforms: Minister||Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar on Saturday said that over 5.3 lakh people had watched Mysuru Dasara events on virtual platforms. Dasara was held from October 7 to 15. "Following the good response for the procession of the idol of Chamundeshwari from Chamundi Hill to Mysuru Palace for Jamboo Savari, it will be continued henceforth. A maximum number of artists were given an opportunity in the Dasara events to encourage local talent even though the number of events and their duration was curtailed in the wake of the Covid crisis," he told reporters. "Separate meetings will be chaired by Chief Minister Bommai after November 1 on development of tourism in the region, the establishment of Film City and expansion of Mysuru Airport. We have urged the CM to consider these issues and he has given his assurance,” he said. He said that he had asked the authorities of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) to exhibit their Jamboo Savari tableau on group housing, across the city over the next 10 days to create awareness of the project and also to survey the housing needs of Mysuru. MLA G T Devegowda urged the minister to prevail upon the CM to constitute a permanent Dasara Authority with a panel of experts for organised planning and execution of annual Dasara celebrations. MP Pratap Simha said, "The detailed project report (DPR) for the comprehensive development of Chamundi Hill under Union government’s Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spirituality Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) by the Infrastructure Development Corporation (Karnataka) Limited (iDeCK) has been rejected multiple times since 2017 and a private agency will prepare a DPR soon. The new DPR will be submitted to the Union government.” Mayor Sunanda Palanetra, Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham, Police Commissioner Chandragupta, MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev, Zilla Panchayat CEO A M Yogeesh, and Superintendent of Police R Chetan were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/53-lakh-people-watch-mysuru-dasara-on-virtual-platforms-minister-1041203.html
16-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt plans to organise expo round the year: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the State government had plans to organise exhibitions round the year on Dasara exhibition grounds in Mysuru. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday Bommai said, "A final decision will be taken in connection with the establishment of a tourism circuit in Mysuru after holding a discussion with the authorities concerned." The CM said, "Dasara 2021 was a success and the festival will be organised in a grand manner next year. This time the festival was a low-key affair due to the Covid-19 crisis." Bommai expressed hopes on the BJP candidates winning the bypolls in Sindgi and Hangal Assembly constituencies. The CM said that he would tour the segments for four days from Sunday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-plans-to-organise-expo-round-the-year-cm-bommai-1041206.html
16-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man arrested for sexually assaulting endo victim||A man who had allegedly sexually assaulted a 20-year-old victim of endosulfan poisoning, by luring him with the promise of sugarcane, was arrested by Puttur town police on Friday night. According to Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane, the accused who sexually assaulted the endo victim was identified as Mohammed Haneef. The accused Haneef had lured the endo victim to a secluded area by promising to offer sugarcane. After sexually assaulting the endo victim he had issued life threats to the survivor. Following a complaint from the father, the police registered a case under sections 504 (provocation leading to disruption in public peace), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 377 (unnatural offence) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of IPC. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-endo-victim-1041239.html
16-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard caught in snare rescued near Mangaluru||A leopard trapped in a snare, placed for catching wild boars, was released at Kuthyadi in Iruvail on Saturday. On noticing the leopard struggling in a snare in a bush near a quarry, the local residents informed forest department officials. Veterinarian from Pilikula Biological Park Dr Yashaswi tranquilised the leopard. The leopard was shifted to a cage before being released into the forest. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-caught-in-snare-rescued-near-mangaluru-1041245.html
16-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka CM Bommai convenes meet on Mysugar||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has convened a meeting of all elected representatives from the Mandya district to discuss the rejuvenation of the historic, but ailing, Mysuru Sugar Company (Mysugar) on Monday.  The meeting is scheduled to take place in Vidhana Soudha.  The government's proposal to lease the factory, which was established in 1934, has met with stern opposition from farmer groups. Also, several elected representatives have petitioned the state government against the move. Earlier this month, the Cabinet constituted a sub-committee headed by Sugar Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa to take a call on what to do with the Mysugar factory.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cm-bommai-convenes-meet-on-mysugar-1041247.html
16-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||They found nothing, says Congress poll firm on I-T raids||Political campaign management firm DesignBoxed, which works with the D K Shivakumar-led Congress in Bengaluru, said Saturday that I-T sleuths “found absolutely nothing” in their raids on its offices.  The firm was raided by the I-T department earlier this week.  In a statement, DesignBoxed founder Naresh Arora said “no unaccounted valuables of any kind” were found during the I-T raids, which he charged was political.  “The raids were obviously so political. They targeted me and my colleagues only because we have been working for the opposition and mainly Congress party,” Arora said.  DesignBoxed has worked with Congress since 2016 in six states -- Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Rajasthan and Assam.  Earlier this year, Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar green-lit the onboarding of DesignBoxed to help the party boost its image for the 2023 Assembly polls.  “Apart from trying to find anything remotely incriminatory against top Congress leaders, the raids were intended to intimidate a self-made professional and political campaign management firm so that we don’t work for India’s main opposition party,” Arora said, adding that he and his colleagues are “law-abiding” and “proud tax payers”.  Blaming the ruling BJP, Arora said: “It is unfortunate that even after being so powerful the ruling dispensation needs to intimidate those working with the opposition.”  The raids were “an outright abuse of tax agencies for political aims” and “the harassment we have suffered is not ours alone,” Arora said. “It is part of the process of stifling the opposition through state power.”  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/they-found-nothing-says-congress-poll-firm-on-i-t-raids-1041114.html
16-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP using Christians as soft target for their political conspiracy: Lobo||Former MLA J R Lobo condemned the directions of the Karnataka State legislative committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare to submit a report on the activities of Christian missionaries and Christian institutions in the state. The committee in its recent meeting had even directed the committee members to visit Churches on Sunday. The decision of the Committee does not come under its purview. The legislative committee should work on the welfare of the backward classes and minorities and not engage in policing acts, said Lobo, who had served as the president of the committee for three years from 2015 to 2018,  The decision of the committee has an ulterior political motive to mislead the people on the activities of the Christian missionaries. There are enough laws to check the forcible conversion in India and the BJP government can act against those involved in forcible conversion using various sections of the law. The BJP is engaged in divide and rule policy and is trying to divide the society, he alleged. Christians are peace-loving people and have been engaged in serving society since the beginning. “If all the Christians are engaged in conversion, then all the beneficiaries of Christian missionaries in the field of education, health care and social service sectors should have been converted by now in the country. Christianity is not a new religion in the country. The religion had entered Kerala in the first century and Mangaluru in 1,500 AD. In spite of it, the Christian population in the country is only 3.5 per cent while in Karnataka it is only 2.5 per cent, he said. Further, Lobo sought to know whether there was conversion when a large number of Dalits joined Buddhism in the country and when the Lingayat community came into existence. “Christians are used as soft target for the political conspiracy of the BJP. The constitutional provisions do not restrict anyone from professing any religion or opting for the faith of their choice,” he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-using-christians-as-soft-target-for-their-political-conspiracy-lobo-1041146.html
16-10-2021||National||Need to focus on expanding primary vaccine coverage before boosters: WHO's Swaminathan||There is a global need to focus on expanding primary Covid vaccination coverage before booster doses, World Health Organisation (WHO) Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Friday. "There is more than enough evidence now to show that the currently used vaccines are highly effective in preventing serious illness and death due to Covid-19. We need to focus on expanding primary vaccination coverage before boosters, worldwide," she said on social media. However, the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts to the WHO said on Monday that people with weaker immune systems should receive an additional shot of approved Covid-19 vaccines. The recommendation came after a four-day meeting of the SAGE on immunisation. The WHO said that the final report on booster dose will be issued in December. The SAGE said that moderately and severely immunocompromised persons should be offered an additional dose of all WHO-approved vaccines, adding that these individuals are less likely to respond adequately to vaccination, following a standard primary vaccine series and are at high risk of severe Covid infection. Meanwhile, the top priority for India is to administer full vaccination of two doses across the nation, say officials. Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava, in a recent press conference, said that booster doses is not a "central theme" at the moment. "The booster dose is not a central theme in scientific discussion and public health discussion at the moment," he said, noting that several agencies have recommended that antibody level should not be measured because one can have antibody, cellular immunity, antibody immunity and that persists, so the important understanding is that two doses of complete vaccinations is only essential.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-focus-on-expanding-primary-vaccine-coverage-before-boosters-whos-swaminathan-1041066.html
16-10-2021||National||Lashkar-e-Toiba commander Khandey trapped in Pampore encounter||Lashkar-e-Toiba commander Umar Mushtaq Khandey is trapped in an encounter with security forces in the Pampore area of Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, a senior police official said on Saturday. Khandey is among the top militants whom the security forces are targeting since a hitlist was released by police in August this year. He was allegedly involved in the killing of two policemen at Baghat in Srinagar district earlier this year, Inspector General of Police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said in a tweet. "LeT commander amongst #top 10 #terrorists namely Umar Mustaq Khandey who was involved in #killing of two police personnel at Baghat #Srinagar & other terror crimes trapped in Pampore #Encounter," he tweeted.   Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lashkar-e-toiba-commander-khandey-trapped-in-pampore-encounter-1041072.html
16-10-2021||National||Biden admin, US companies welcomed economic reforms by India: Sitharaman||India’s Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman here said the Biden Administration and leaders from the corporate sector in the US have welcomed recent economic reforms introduced by her government. "The reforms that we've undertaken, particularly the steps taken for the withdrawal of the retrospective tax has been mentioned by the United States Administration as a very positive step," she said. "The businesses with whom we have been interacting have also welcomed that decision," Sitharaman told reporters here at the conclusion of the Washington DC-leg of her US trip. From here, she will go to New York for an interactive session with the business community before flying back home. She started her week-long trip from Boston. "Many of them (businesses) thought it was bold and even though it took some time to come. We have also explained that they were legal compulsions before which we had to wait because some of the litigations which were going on had to come to a logical conclusion," she said. "We waited and the moment the logical conclusions were reached, we went to Parliament in withdrawing that. That’s been overall very positively welcomed," she said. Responding to a question on a trade deal with the US, the finance minister said her focus was on investment incentivising agreement for which there is time till December. "We have spoken about it. The two countries would like to carry on the negotiation and conclude at the earliest," she said. "But on the larger issue of the trade itself, is something which commerce (ministry) is working together with the (American) counterpart. So, I have not engaged in depth into that," she said. No stranger to India-US relationship, as she played a key role in this during her previous stints as the commerce and defense minister, this was Sitharaman’s first trip to the US after the Covid-19 pandemic hit both the countries. In addition to participating in the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank here, her visit highlighted India’s economic recovery and her government's commitment to long-term reforms. On the sidelines of the IMF and World Bank discussions, Sitharaman had more than 25 bilateral meetings, the most significant of those was the India-US Economic and Financial Partnership. That meeting was co-chaired by the finance minister and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen. The discussions touched on key areas of economic recovery from the pandemic to macro economic outlook; cooperation on global economic matters; climate finance support to infrastructure funding and combating of financing of terrorism. She had a series of meetings with business leaders both in Boston and Washington DC. A dinner in her honour hosted by India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, at India House, was attended by top US officials, including Special Presidential Envoy on Climate Change John Kerry, World Bank President David Malpass, USAID Administrator Samantha Power and Surgeon General Dr Vivek Murthy. These engagements provided an opportunity to highlight structural reforms which the government has brought during the pandemic. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biden-admin-us-companies-welcomed-economic-reforms-by-india-sitharaman-1041075.html
16-10-2021||National||Fuel on fire: Petrol, diesel rates burn a hole in common man's pocket||Petrol and diesel price on Saturday was hiked again by 35 paise a litre to take retail rates across the country to new record highs. With this hike, petrol is now at Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all state capitals, while diesel has touched the 100-level in a dozen states. Diesel is nearing Rs 100-a-litre mark in Goal and Bengaluru. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.49 a litre and Rs 111.43 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 102.15 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 94.22. This is the third straight day of 35 paise per litre hike in petrol and diesel prices. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. Since ending of a three-week long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 15th increase in petrol price and the 18th time that diesel rates have gone up. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in a dozen states/UT including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka and Ladakh. In Panaji, diesel now costs Rs 99.56 a litre while in Bengaluru it comes for Rs 99.97 per litre and Silvassa for Rs 99.86. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. Shedding the modest price change policy, state-owned fuel retailers have since October 6 started passing on the larger incidence of cost to consumers. This is because the international benchmark Brent crude is trading at $84.8 per barrel for the first time in seven years. A month back, Brent was trading at $73.51. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rates on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rates have gone up by Rs 5.6 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 4.30 a litre. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 a litre during this period. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-on-fire-petrol-diesel-rates-burn-a-hole-in-common-mans-pocket-1041078.html
16-10-2021||National||India reports 15,981 new Covid-19 cases, 166 deaths||India recorded 15,981 Covid-19 cases in a day taking the infection tally to 3,40,53,573 while 166 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,51,980, according to the Union Health Ministry's data on Saturday. The number of active Covid cases has declined to 2,01,632 and comprises 0.60 per cent of the total infections. The national recovery rate was recorded at 98.07 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. In a day, the active Covid-19 caseload declined by 2,046. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,33,99,961, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. A total of 9,23,003 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 58,98,35,258. Over 97.23 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country till now under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-15981-new-covid-19-cases-166-deaths-1041086.html
16-10-2021||National||Too early to conclude on lessons learnt from Covid-19 crisis, says Sitharaman||It is too early to conclude on the lessons that India learnt from the Covid-19 crisis, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said as she stressed that the world is not going to be the same post-pandemic. Sitharaman said much before the second Covid wave struck, her government had extended a stimulus and was waiting for the economy to revive. In every exercise, which was done during that phase and post the second wave, they did not have any "precedent to depend upon", she told a group of Indian reporters as she concluded her meetings at the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. "It is a bit too early for me to conclude on lessons (learnt from the Covid-19 crisis)," she said. Sitharaman said they were not even those kinds of exercises that India was doing alone. Every country in the world has been touched by this crisis, she said. "Therefore, for me to quickly now look at and say, look at the last year experience and say, this could have been better handled, I think will be a bit too early," she said. "As I said there's no precedent and as I said to assess it from this short a year and half period, maybe limiting the scope," the finance minister said. Responding to a question, the minister said the post-pandemic world is not going to be the same. "India's priorities are definitely on the basis of the fact that I suppose most of us will agree on, that post the pandemic, it’s not really going to be the same world, whether it's the manufacturing universe or whether labour," she said. The issues are going to be fairly different from what they were earlier, she said. Sitharaman said a lot of resets is taking place currently, that too across the globe. "It is not just in one sector, it is across the sectors. There is definitely a lot of thinking in global institutions. It is also looking at how there can be greater convergence among nations so that resources are better utilised," she said. "And where there are issues of getting prepared for future pandemic or future any such emergency where countries will have to respond to help one another. There will be a better way of doing it than the way we did this time," Sitharaman added. "So, larger issues of global convergence, larger issues of the multilateral institution being ready for meeting such challenges, larger issues of having a global envelope, which can be contributed by everybody so that there is a better response for any such pandemic if in case we have to face it in the future, have all been part of all discussions in the multilateral fora, and in the bilateral and also among my company, and business leaders meets," she said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/too-early-to-conclude-on-lessons-learnt-from-covid-19-crisis-says-sitharaman-1041096.html
16-10-2021||National||UK Carrier Strike Group led by HMS Queen Elizabeth enters Bay of Bengal||The UK’s Carrier Strike Group (CSG) -- scheduled to take part in the most demanding exercise ever between the UK and India, incorporating elements from all three military services --sailed into the Bay of Bengal on Friday. In its most substantial port visit to date, the strike group, led by HMS Queen Elizabeth, will provide a platform for a wide range of cultural demonstrations and trade and investment initiatives. It is also a demonstration of the UK-India Comprehensive Strategic Partnership agreed upon by both Prime Ministers in May 2021.  British High Commissioner to India, Alex Ellis said that “the Carrier Strike Group’s visit demonstrates the deepening of the UK and India’s defence and security partnership.” He added: “Prime Ministers Modi and Johnson agreed to work in lockstep for our shared security and prosperity. This visit will boost the cooperation of our armed forces and show the living bridge connecting our people.” First Sea Lord Admiral Tony Radakin said: “The CSG’s engagement with India showcases the deepening comprehensive strategic partnership. Both the Indian and the Royal navy are blue-water, multi-carrier navies, which places us in a very exclusive club. "Our growing interactions are a testimony to the shared commitment to rules-based international system, a belief in the values of open trade, and in the importance of the freedom of the high seas -- a right conveyed on all nations.” Among the vessels in the carrier group is the Dutch frigate HNLMS Evertsen. The Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to India, Nepal and Bhutan, Marten van den Berg described the participation of the Evertsen in the UK Carrier Strike Group as providing the Royal Netherlands Navy with a unique opportunity for the operations and training with allies and partners and to enhance diplomatic, security and economic ties while visiting different countries along the CSG route. “The Netherlands and India are like-minded partners and are committed to an effective multilateralism. The visit definitely reaffirms support to the rules-based international order and shares the common principles of security, stability and freedom of navigation by both nations,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-carrier-strike-group-led-by-hms-queen-elizabeth-enters-bay-of-bengal-1041117.html
16-10-2021||National||Sitharaman discusses post-pandemic economic recovery, other issues with World Bank chief||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman discussed the post-pandemic economic recovery, India's major role in the global fight against Covid-19 and preparations for the upcoming Climate Change Conference among other issues during her meeting with World Bank President David Malpass. Sitharaman met Malpass at the World Bank headquarters in Washington DC on Friday. "Both sides discussed various issues including #Covid #vaccination, #economicrecovery, preparations for #CoP26, initiative of #WBG for increasing lending space for India, IDA 20 replenishment, knowledge partnership with @WorldBank," Finance Ministry said in a series of tweets. During the meeting, Sitharaman shared the measures being taken by India to contain the spread of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, including the major role played by India on the global Covid-19 effort, the ministry said. She appreciated the World Bank Group for their initiative for increasing lending space for India to enhance availability of finance for development. The minister also mentioned that the focus should be on technologies that need to be moved from lab to field and those that require targeted global research in the pursuit of low carbon growth. She “highlighted three broad suggestions, including strengthening #LighthouseIndia, #technology and special focus on #FinancialSectorReforms and #infrastructure sector to strengthen the knowledge partnership with #WBG,” it said. Earlier, in her address to the Development Committee of the World Bank, she said India has not only faced the Covid-19 crisis with great resilience and fortitude but has also played a major role and "walked the talk" on the global fight against the pandemic. She highlighted that the measures taken by the government have set a strong foundation of the country's sustained economic growth. She said the Indian government, besides taking economic relief measures, has also undertaken significant structural reforms to turn the crisis into an opportunity and emerge stronger. The minister also discussed the preparations for the upcoming Climate Change Conference in Glasgow. From here, she will go to New York for an interactive session with the business community before flying back home. She started her week-long trip from Boston. In addition to her meetings at the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, Sitharaman had more than 25 bilateral engagements. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitharaman-discusses-post-pandemic-economic-recovery-other-issues-with-world-bank-chief-1041122.html
16-10-2021||National||IMF hails India's 'swift and substantial' response to Covid-19 crisis||Describing the Indian government's response to the Covid-19 situation as "swift and substantial", the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said the country continued with labour reforms and privatisation despite the pandemic. The IMF in its report based on "consultations" among members, however, sounded a note of caution saying that the economic outlook remains "clouded" due to pandemic-related uncertainties, contributing to both downside and upside risks. In its "Article IV" consultations report, it further said that a persistent negative impact of Covid-19 on investment and other growth drivers could prolong the economic recovery. On the Indian government's handling of the pandemic, the multilateral agency said it was "swift and substantial...has included fiscal support, including scaled-up support to vulnerable groups, monetary policy easing, liquidity provision, and accommodative financial sector and regulatory policies". "Despite the pandemic, the authorities have continued to introduce structural reforms, including labour reforms and a privatisation plan," the report said. The IMF has projected India's economic growth at 9.5 per cent in FY2021-22 and 8.5 per cent in 2022-23. Headline inflation is projected at 5.6 per cent in 2021-22, amid elevated price pressures. "The economic outlook remains clouded due to pandemic-related uncertainties contributing to both downside and upside risks. A persistent negative impact of Covid-19 on investment, human capital, and other growth drivers could prolong the recovery and impact medium-term growth," the IMF said. It further said that while India benefits from favourable demographics, disruption to access to education and training due to the pandemic could weigh on improvements in human capital. At the same time, the recovery could also be faster than expected, it said adding that faster vaccination and better therapeutics could help contain the spread and limit the impact of the pandemic. In addition, successful implementation of the announced wide-ranging structural reforms could increase India's growth potential, the IMF noted. Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with members, usually every year. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imf-hails-indias-swift-and-substantial-response-to-covid-19-crisis-1041141.html
16-10-2021||National||LeT commander among two militants killed in encounter in J&K's Pulwama||Umar Mustaq Khandey, a Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) commander, who was involved in the killing of two policemen in February, was gunned down alongwith his associate in an encounter with security forces in Pampore area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday. Khanday was in the list of top 10 targets issued by J&K police in August. Kashmir zone police in a tweet said that Khandey was involved in the killing of two policemen - Mohammad Yousf and Suhail Ahmad in Baghat area of Srinagar while they were having tea in February this year. “We are committed to hunt down these terrorists who try to create fear among masses and spread mischief and tumult in the valley. Such elements and their name should be excised from society,” the police tweeted. The identity of the second slain militant was not immediately known. The gunfight broke out in the wee hours of Saturday after security forces cordoned Drangbal area of Pampore following a tip off about the presence of militants there. Violence has witnessed a spurt in Jammu and Kashmir in October. Police said 13 militants have been gunned down in nine encounters after the killing of seven civilians, including four from minority communities, since the first week of October. “We have neutralised three out of five terrorists in Srinagar city within less than 24 hours,” a police spokesperson said. Seven army soldiers, including two junior commissioned officers (JCOs), have also been killed during counter-terrorist operations in border Poonch district of Jammu region since last week. Check out latest videos from DH:  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/let-commander-among-two-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-jks-pulwama-1041145.html
16-10-2021||National||Irked over her 'missing' posters, Pragya Thakur says Congressmen, traitors have no place in India||Lashing out at a Madhya Pradesh Congress legislator for the posters during the Covid-19 pandemic, which claimed that Bhopal's BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur had gone missing, the latter has said "such Congressmen and traitors" have no place in India and only patriots will stay in the country. Congress's Bhopal South MLA P C Sharma, who was present at the programme held on Friday night where Thakur made the remarks targeted at him, left the event midway in a huff. During the programme, Thakur described Hindus as patriots and also took a veiled swipe at Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh, saying that no person can become pious by taking up “Narmada parikrama" (circumambulation of Narmada river). "Animals also have feelings. When its offspring dies or falls sick, animal cries. But they are worse than animals. Do not treat the sick as sick. At first, they tortured (me) and when I get sick, they put up my missing posters," Thakur told a gathering during the programme held on the occasion of Dussehra on MVM Ground in the city. She further said, "Shame on such people that they become MLAs. Such people do not deserve to become an MLA, but became one. Such people call themselves Hindus, but they are insensitive. They attack us. They cry over those who kill us. Shame on such Congressmen, shame on such traitors and I say there is no place for them in India. Only patriots will remain in India." The nation is with the Hindus as they are patriots, she said. "If the patriots understand their strength, then the country's borders will be protected, India will be integrated and country will reach its glory," she said. Thakur also said no 'adharmi' can become pious by taking up 'Narmada parikrama', an apparent attack on Digvijaya Singh, although she did not name anyone. The Congress leader had undertaken the 3,300-km Narmada parikrama in 2017. However, this is not the first time that she has attacked Digvijaya Singh, who had unsuccessfully contested the election against her during last Lok Sabha poll from Bhopal. Congress legislator Sharma, who left the programme midway after Thakur attacked him in her speech, later told PTI, "It was a social platform and not the political one, where she made political comments. It was a Dussehra programme, but she insulted those who undertake Narmada Parikrama, whoever his target may be. This is condemnable." "She said that her missing posters were put up. The people of Bhopal were in trouble for two years without bed and injections during the pandemic. She is MP from Bhopal and the people were demanding her to provide these facilities," he said. When asked about her comment about the Congressmen having no place in the country, Sharma said that this will be decided by the Constitution and not by Thakur. "Congress got the Independence to the country and at that time these people were with the Britons. She is trying to vitiate the atmosphere as she is playing kabaddi and Garba after being out on bail on health grounds (in 2008 Malegaon blast case). The court should take cognisance of this," he added. Earlier too, Thakur, who spent several years in jail after being arrested in the Malegaon blast case, had alleged that she was illegally detained and beaten up by police personnel to admit the crime. BJP secretary Rahul Kothari, who tried to stop Sharma during the Dussehra programme, told PTI that the Congress legislator should not have left the stage. "Why did the Congress legislator sit on stage when he felt ashamed? The Bhopal MP didn't name anybody," he said.     Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irked-over-her-missing-posters-pragya-thakur-says-congressmen-traitors-have-no-place-in-india-1041148.html
16-10-2021||National||US Development Finance Corporation chief to visit India to boost vaccine manufacturing||The head of the US International Development Finance Corporation would be visiting India later this month as part of the Quad's efforts to boost vaccine manufacturing. The United States International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) is a state-run development finance institution, which invests in development projects primarily in lower- and middle-income countries. Leading a high-powered delegation, DFC Chief Operating Officer (COO) David Marchick would travel to India from October 24 to 26. In Hyderabad, the delegation will visit the offices of the Indian vaccine manufacturer Biological E and participate in a signing ceremony to open a new facility with substantial capacity for vaccine manufacturing, an official release said. “This work is in support of the historic commitment set out by President (Joe) Biden and his counterparts in the 'Quad' - Australia, India, Japan and the United States," the DFC said in a statement. On September 24, Biden hosted the first-ever in-person summit of Quad leaders at the White House. At President Biden's invitation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterparts Scott Morrison from Australia and Yoshihide Suga from Japan had attended the Quad summit. After the conclusion of the summit, the Quad leaders in a joint statement had said that in addition to doses financed through COVAX, the four-nation bloc has pledged to donate more than 1.2 billion doses globally of safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines and has so far delivered nearly 79 million safe, effective, and quality-assured vaccine doses to countries in the Indo-Pacific as part of those commitments. Marchick would travel to India after his visit to South Africa beginning October 18. The travel to South Africa and India is to advance DFC investments helping boost global health and expand Covid-19 vaccine production capacity throughout the developing world. DFC Vice President of Development Credit Jim Polan and other DFC senior staff will accompany the COO. During the South Africa tour, the DFC delegation will visit Africa Data Centres, a DFC client that is developing and expanding critical technology infrastructure throughout Africa. The delegation will tour the sterile facilities of Aspen Pharmacare, Africa’s largest pharmaceutical manufacturer, in Gqeberha (formally known as Port Elizabeth), as well as meet with other pharmaceutical manufacturers critical to the Covid-19 response, a media release said. “Since day one of the Biden administration, President Biden has stated that the only way to defeat Covid-19 is to end the pandemic both at home and abroad by vaccinating Americans at home and non-Americans abroad,” the DFC said. The US has committed to donate 1.1 billion doses of Covid vaccines worldwide and has already shipped nearly 200 million doses to developing countries - more doses than the rest of the world combined, it said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-development-finance-corporation-chief-to-visit-india-to-boost-vaccine-manufacturing-1041152.html
16-10-2021||National||Man held for sharing fake photo of PM Modi's mugshot stuck to scarecrow on WhatsApp||A man has been arrested here for sharing on WhatsApp a morphed picture with mugshots of eminent personalities, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, stuck to a scarecrow. Superintendent of Police (SP) Chakresh Mishra on Saturday said Abhishek Gupta, a resident of Chandausi area, shared the picture as his WhatsApp status after editing it by himself. In the picture shared on the messenger by the accused, faces of Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and others can be seen pasted on a scarecrow. It is a morphed photograph, according to police. Police acted on it after getting a complaint on Twitter. Gupta was arrested and a case registered in this regard at Chandausi Kotwali police station, they said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-held-for-sharing-fake-photo-of-pm-modis-mugshot-stuck-to-scarecrow-on-whatsapp-1041154.html
16-10-2021||National||Over 13 lakh drinking water samples tested under govt programme, 1.11 lakh found contaminated||More than 1.11 lakh of the over 13 lakh drinking water samples tested across the country under a government programme have been found contaminated, according to official data. The samples were taken from the government's drinking water testing and surveillance programme. The contamination of samples includes that from naturally occurring chemicals and minerals, such as arsenic, fluoride, iron, and uranium, in the earth layer, local land use practices like fertilisers, pesticides, livestock, and concentrated feeding operations, data under the Jal Shakti ministry programme stated. It also said that contaminations can also be by manufacturing processes like heavy metals or cyanide near drinking water sources. Water contamination also includes malfunctioning on-site wastewater treatment systems such as septic systems and twin pit toilets; microbial contamination through a mixture of wastewater in the drinking water source or distribution line, the ministry said. In addition, drinking water that is not properly treated or that travels through an improperly maintained distribution system, pipes, may also create conditions that increase the risk of contamination, it said. Out of the 13,17,028 samples tested in laboratories, as many as 1,11,474 (or 8.4 per cent) were found contaminated, according to the data. If a water sample fails the quality test, authorities can be informed online and they can check if any action has been taken, an official said. The testing of water samples is being done across 2,011 active laboratories, and water from 2,05,941 villages have been tested till now, according to the ministry data. The government has also started water quality surveillance using field test kits (FTKs) under which five women from every village are trained in water quality surveillance using these kits to lead these activities in their village, the ministry said. Data stated that 7,39,362 users have been trained for testing water samples using FTKs and 6,27,752 samples have been tested across 32,697 villages, and 22,518 contaminated samples have been found using the kits. The ministry in March had launched a framework and guidelines for testing, monitoring and surveillance of drinking water quality as well as a water quality information management system (WQMIS), an online portal that provides detailed information on laboratories. The basic water quality parameters prescribed under the guidelines are pH value, total dissolved solids, turbidity, chloride, total alkalinity, total hardness, sulphate, iron, total arsenic, fluoride, nitrate, total coliform bacteria, E.coli or thermo-tolerant coliform bacteria, the ministry said. The initiative has been started under the Jal Jeevan Mission which aims to provide safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections by 2024 to all households in rural India. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-13-lakh-drinking-water-samples-tested-under-govt-programme-111-lakh-found-contaminated-1041167.html
16-10-2021||National||NASA's asteroid hunter Lucy soars into sky with diamonds||A NASA spacecraft named Lucy rocketed into the sky with diamonds Saturday on a 12-year quest to explore eight asteroids. Seven of the mysterious space rocks are among swarms of asteroids sharing Jupiter's orbit, thought to be the pristine leftovers of planetary formation. An Atlas V rocket blasted off before dawn, sending Lucy on a roundabout orbital journey spanning nearly 4 billion miles (6.3 billion kilometres). Lucy is named after the 3.2 million-year-old skeletal remains of a human ancestor found in Ethiopia nearly a half-century ago. That discovery got its name from the 1967 Beatles song “Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds”, prompting NASA to send the spacecraft soaring with band members' lyrics and other luminaries' words of wisdom imprinted on a plaque. The spacecraft also carried a disc made of lab-grown diamonds for one of its science instruments. The paleoanthropologist behind the fossil Lucy discovery, Donald Johanson, said he was filled with wonder about this “intersection of our past, our present and our future”. "That a human ancestor who lived so long ago stimulated a mission which promises to add valuable information about the formation of our solar system is incredibly exciting,” said Johanson, of Arizona State University, who travelled to Cape Canaveral for the launch. Lucy's $981 million mission is the first to aim for Jupiter's so-called Trojan entourage: thousands — if not millions — of asteroids that share the gas giant's expansive orbit around the sun. Some of the Trojan asteroids precede Jupiter in its orbit, while others trail it. Despite their orbits, the Trojans are far from the planet and mostly scattered far from each other. So there's essentially zero chance of Lucy getting clobbered by one as it swoops past its targets, said Southwest Research Institute's Hal Levison, the mission's principal scientist. Lucy will swoop past Earth next October and again in 2024 to get enough gravitational oomph to make it all the way out to Jupiter's orbit. On the way there, the spacecraft will zip past asteroid Donaldjohanson between Mars and Jupiter. The aptly named rock will serve as a 2025 warm-up act for the science instruments. Drawing power from two huge circular solar wings, Lucy will chase down five asteroids in the leading pack of Trojans in the late 2020s. The spacecraft will then swoop back toward Earth for another gravity assist in 2030 that will swing it back out to the trailing Trojan cluster, where it will zip past the final two targets in 2033. It's a complicated, circuitous path that had NASA's science mission chief, Thomas Zurbuchen, shaking his head at first. “You've got to be kidding. This is possible?” he recalled asking. Lucy will pass within 600 miles (965 km) of each target; the biggest one is about 70 miles (113 km) across. “Are there mountains? Valleys? Pits? Mesas? Who knows? I'm sure we're going to be surprised,” said Johns Hopkins University's Hal Weaver, who's in charge of Lucy's black-and-white camera. “But we can hardly wait to see what...images will reveal about these fossils from the formation of the solar system.” NASA plans to launch another mission next month to test whether humans might be able to alter an asteroid's orbit — practice in case Earth ever has a killer rock headed this way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nasas-asteroid-hunter-lucy-soars-into-sky-with-diamonds-1041169.html
16-10-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi to 'consider' becoming Congress chief again||Ruling out immediate elections in the party, Congress Working Committee on Saturday announced the schedule for organisational polls with a new president to be in place only by September 20 next year even as a chorus once again reverberated in favour of Rahul Gandhi at the helm with even the G-23 leaders raising hands in support. Rahul told the meeting that he would “certainly consider” returning as Congress president and thanked them for their faith in him, sources said. This is the first time in recent times the former party president has indicated his willingness to assume the hot seat once again even as Sonia Gandhi will continue in the post till the election of a new president. The “unanimous” decisions on the organisational poll schedule, agitation programme against price rise between November 14 and 29 and a training programme for party leaders and workers and endorsement of Rahul appeared to have stamped the authority of the central leadership. Sonia set the tone for the meeting with a terse, "I am, if you allow me to say so, a full time and hands-on Congress president and there is no need to speak to me through the media", sending clear signals to the G-23 leaders who were rebelling against Rahul and seeking immediate appointment of a full-time president in place of an “interim” chief. At the meeting, sources said senior leader A K Antony was the first to demand that Rahul should take the mantle, as it was not just his or Congress' demand but the "need of the country". Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot fully endorsed him, while Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi turned emotional saying it was because of Rahul's insistence a Dalit like him could be chosen as Chief Minister. G-23 leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik also spoke at the meeting but did not oppose the plans for organisational elections next year. Sources said Azad spoke about the necessity of winning polls, while Sharma emphasised that they were not against the Gandhis. At least three CWC members said Rahul spoke on “ideology” at length and pointed out that only Congress could fight "communal politics". He told the meeting that only Congress could make a Dalit the Chief Minister. In the first physical meeting held in 18 months after the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress decided to initiate the organisation election process with a massive membership drive between November 1 this year and ending March 31 next year. The primary list of eligible members will be published on April 15 and the elections to the booth and block committees will be held between April 16 and May 31. The district committees will be held between June 1 and July 22, while the pradesh (state) committee elections will be held between July 21 and August 20. "The elections for the Congress president will be held between August 21 and September 20, while the dates for the elections to Congress Working Committee will be decided at the Plenary. "Tentatively, the elections to the CWC will be held in October," Congress General Secretary K C Venugopal told a press conference. All the decisions were taken "unanimously" and there was no difference of opinion, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. It also decided to hold an elaborate training programme for party leaders and workers to equip them on party ideology and policy, expectation from party workers, election management and countering propaganda among others. A Jan Jagran Abhiyan against price rise will be held between November 14 and November 29. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-to-consider-becoming-congress-chief-again-1041172.html
16-10-2021||National||Singhu border lynching: Who are Nihang Sikh warriors?||Singh's hand was chopped off and his body bore over 10 wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons tied to a barricade at a farmers' protest site at Kundli near the Delhi-Haryana border. In a video clip that has gone viral on social media platforms, some Nihangs are seen standing as Singh lies on the ground in a pool of blood with his chopped off left hand lying next to him. The Nihangs are also heard saying the man has been punished for desecrating a holy book of the Sikhs. A look at the Nihang Sikh warriors Dressed in blue robes and decorated turbans, Nihangs, said to be an order of Sikh “warrior”, are often seen carrying spears and swords. They have been revered by Sikhs for their piety and bravery since their order was founded in the 17th century by the last Sikh Guru to defend the religion, which began around 1500. They played an important role in Punjab for over a century, including defeating Mughals and Afghan kings. British colonialists dissolved the Sikh empire in the mid-19th century and the Nihangs were reduced to ceremonial roles. Earlier in March, they were in the spotlight, after pictures and videos emerged of them brandishing swords and spears at policemen at Delhi's Red Fort. Farmers dissociate agitation from lynching incident Farmers' leader Yogendra Yadav in a video message tried to dissociate the farmers' protest from the incident. "The leaders of SKM had earlier appealed the Nihangs that they had nothing to do with farmers protest and they should leave because it was not a religious agitation," Yadav said condemning the incident. Around 15 Dalit outfits have submitted a memorandum to the National Commission for Scheduled Caste demanding stringent action against those who killed Lakhbir Singh. A court on Saturday remanded the accused Sarabjit Singh in police custody for seven days, with the accused pointing to the involvement of a few more people in the gruesome killing. The farmers' protest site is located close to the Delhi-Haryana border at Singhu. The farmers have been protesting against three agriculture laws of the Centre at the site for over 10 months.  Check out latest videos from DH:  (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singhu-border-lynching-who-are-nihang-sikh-warriors-1041182.html
16-10-2021||National||Covid-anthem penned by singer Kailash Kher released; India likely to cross 100-crore vaccinations next week||India will cross the landmark of 100-crore Covid-19 vaccine doses next week, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday as a Covid-anthem penned by singer Kailash Kher was released to dispel myths and shed vaccine hesitancy. Till this evening, as many as "97.23 crore have been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine in the country", he said at the launch event. The vaccines administered suggest about 70 per cent of the population getting at least one dose and about 30 per cent of the population has got two doses, he said. "We administered 2.5 crore doses one single day on September 17 and next week we will reach the 100 crore mark," he said. "This has happened because of the effort put in by all." Covid-19 infections are decreasing in India, with 15,981 new infections reported in a day, according to official data on Saturday. That's 4 per cent of the peak -- the highest daily average reported on May 9 this year. The minister said while it takes 5-10 years to test and develop vaccines, India has researched and developed an in-house vaccine, and to add to the complex manufacturing, the humongous logistics involving setting up cold chains, airport transfers, delivery to states, local storage and last-mile connectivity were set up in no time. Kher, who has composed and sung the anthem, said it is essential to dispel myths and rumours surrounding vaccines and promote its usage so as to ensure all get the vaccine. The development of a song called 'tika-anthem' or vaccine anthem has been sponsored by oil industry body FIPI. Speaking on the occasion, Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said vaccination has now become a people's movement despite the negative narrative and falsehood spread by some in the country. "It is not the government which is the enemy, it is the virus which is the enemy," he said referring to the narrative opposition parties tried to build around the vaccination drive in the country. Stating that vaccine manufacturing in the public sector was stopped during the Congress-led UPA regime between 2004 and 2014, he said the opposition tried to create a "negative narrative" over the issue of domestically manufactured vaccines being safe. "Vaccine hesitancy was spread but with the determination, focus and commitment of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we were able to overcome and vaccination became a 'jan andolan' (people's movement)," he said. Puri said when the second wave of Covid infections broke out in April/May, modelling of rate of infections threw a maximum number of infections of 2.5-3 lakh but the peak touched 4.24 lakh cases. "It's a combined effort due to which we have reached where we are," he said. "Artists capture people's imagination directly and so when we are within striking distance of the 1 billion vaccination mark, the vaccine anthem will look to promote greater use and reach the target of vaccine for all." He, however, cautioned that it was too early to declare victory over the virus. "We will be better equipped to deal with (a new challenge) both in terms of infrastructure and medical science" but "we should not declare victory yet".  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-anthem-penned-by-singer-kailash-kher-released-india-likely-to-cross-100-crore-vaccinations-next-week-1041189.html
16-10-2021||National||As sailors, we are united at sea: US Admiral||In a significant step in bilateral cooperation, Admiral Mike Gilday, the Chief of Naval Operations of the United States Navy, visited the Western Naval Command, the sword arm of the Indian Navy on Friday.  During the visit, Admiral Gilday met Vice-Admiral Hari Kumar, the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Western Naval Command and discussed areas for mutual cooperation and reaffirmed the growing level of naval collaboration and partnership between the two nations.  Among issues discussed during the interaction were avenues to strengthen the growing cooperation between the two nations and navies, deal with challenges emerging on the maritime front and enhance collaboration and interoperability to ensure maritime security in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). “Providing a safe, secure and stable maritime system is imperative to all mankind,” Adm Gilday said.  “Though our nations may have different histories, cultures and geographies, as Sailors we are united by the sea. Cooperation between our navies ensures that our most vital resource – seawater – is shared sustainably and responsibly.”  Gilday said the price of peace and prosperity is maintaining a vigilant watch on, under, and above the sea.    “Safe and secure seas cannot be preserved without a strong maritime force,” Gilday said.  “Our relationship is unwavering. The US Navy is committed to maintaining a steady course of naval cooperation and growing the connections between our two navies. I am committed to that. Without a doubt, our greatest strength lies in unity.”  During the visit, the CNO was provided a broad overview of regional security dynamics and the operational responses of the Western Naval Command in recent times, particularly those related to delivering Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) to friendly foreign countries, conducting counter-piracy operations, enhancing maritime safety and security in the region, and strengthening foreign cooperation, with special emphasis on Indo-US co-operation.  The crucial role played by IN ships through Operation Samudra Setu II in bringing home containerised medical oxygen to mitigate shortfalls in the country and strengthen its battle against Covid-19 was also highlighted.  He also visited Mazagon Dock Limited.  The CNO's visit was an important event in the continued and regular dialogue between India and the US to cement and strengthen their comprehensive global strategic partnership further. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-sailors-we-are-united-at-sea-us-admiral-1041213.html
16-10-2021||National||Releasing HIV+ woman involved in sex trade poses danger to society: Court||A sessions court in Mumbai upheld a magistrate's order to detain an HIV positive woman, allegedly involved in prostitution, and noted that setting her at large is likely to pose a danger to society. The woman, as per her lawyer, is an actor and her father is a policeman. The sessions court upheld the magistrate's order earlier this month, but the details were made available on Friday. Earlier, the Mazgaon metropolitan magistrate court had directed the detention of the woman, also referred to as victim who as per police was caught red-handed while trying to indulge in prostitution, for two years under section 17(4) of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act (PITA). As per the 17(A) of PITA, a magistrate can order a person in need of care and protection to be sent to a protective home or custody. The woman had filed an appeal in the Sessions court in Dindoshi claiming there was an error in the magisterial order, with her lawyer arguing her father could maintain her and that everyone in the victim's family was financially sound. The lawyer further said she was held due to a misunderstanding and because she was HIV positive, with the prosecution refuting the claim stating she was caught red-handed. The prosecution further said she was sent for vocational training etc as she was HIV positive and that the magistrate court's order was proper. Additional Sessions Judge SU Baghele said even though the appellant had submitted she was not involved in prostitution, the perusal of the FIR, prima­ facie, reveals otherwise due to which she was considered a victim. "As the victim is indisputably suffering from HIV, which can be easily transmitted through sexual intercourse, the setting of the victim at large is likely to pose danger to the society," he said. The court stated care and protection of the victim can be ensured by detaining her, as directed by the magistrate, so that the victim leads a normal life in future. The court held the magistrate's order as "correct and legal" and said it didn't require any interference.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/releasing-hiv-woman-involved-in-sex-trade-poses-danger-to-society-court-1041216.html
16-10-2021||National||Two non-local workers shot dead by militants in Srinagar||Two non-local workers were shot dead by unidentified militants in Safa Kadal area of Srinagar and south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday evening. Reports said 36-year-old Arvind Kumar, a resident of Bihar, who worked here as a street vendor, was shot at by pistol-borne militants in Safakadal area of old city at around 6:45 pm. Kumar was rushed to nearby SMHS hospital in Karanagar, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. Minutes after the first incident another migrant worker identified as Sagir Ahmad of Utter Pradesh was shot dead in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. “Terrorists fired upon 2 non local labourers in Srinagar & Pulwama. Shri Arvind Kumar Shah of Banka Bihar succumbed to injuries in Srinagar and Shri Sagir Ahmad of UP critically injured in Pulwama. Areas have been cordoned & searches started (sic),” Kashmir zone police tweeted. In another tweet, it said, “Non local labourer Shri Sagir Ahmad of Saharanpur, UP who was critically injured in a terror attack in Pulwama, also succumbed to his injuries. Search operations are in progress. Further details shall follow.” Virendra Paswan, another street-vendor and a resident of Bhagalpur in Bihar, was shot dead by militants near Madina Chowk Lalbazar in Srinagar on October 5. An hour before killing Paswan, the militants had shot dead Makhan Lal Bindroo, a famous Kashmir Pandit businessman at his pharmacy near Iqbal Park in Srinagar. A cab driver, Mohammad Shafi Lone, was also shot dead in north Kashmir's Bandipora that evening. On October 7, Supinder Kour, principal of Government Boys Higher Secondary school in Eidgah, Srinagar and a teacher at the same school, Deepak Chand, were shot dead by militants. The attacks created a sense of general fear and widespread panic in the Valley, particularly among the minority communities. Since last one week, security forces have gone on offensive against the militants, killing 13 ultras in nine encounters across the Valley. Police claimed that some of the slain militants were involved in the recent killings. The Resistance Front (TRF), believed to be an offshoot of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) outfit, claimed responsibility for the earlier killings issuing a warning that everyone other than "indigenous Kashmiris" would be treated as “occupiers” if they purchase property in J&K. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-non-local-workers-shot-dead-by-militants-in-srinagar-1041222.html
16-10-2021||National||Seven judges appointed in Gujarat HC||The Centre on Saturday issued notifications for appointment of seven judges, including two women, in the Gujarat High Court. In a notification, the Department of Justice said, in exercise of the power conferred under the Constitution, the President, in consultation with the Chief Justice of India, has approved the appointments. The advocates appointed as judges of the Gujarat High Court are Mauna Manish Bhatt, Samir J Dave, Hemant M Prachchhak, Sandeep N Bhatt, Aniruddh P Mayee, Niral R Mehta and Nisha M Thakore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-judges-appointed-in-gujarat-hc-1041228.html
16-10-2021||National||Accident claim tribunal not bound to go by FIR in deciding compensation: SC||The Supreme Court has said a motor accident claim tribunal is not bound to rely upon the FIR to decide compensation if the evidence before it runs contrary to the contents of the police report.  A bench of Justices R Subhash Reddy and Hrishikesh Roy dismissed an appeal filed by National Insurance Company Ltd appeal against the Madras High Court's order to pay Rs 1.84 cr compensation to Chamundeswari, wife and a minor son of a deceased, Subhash Babu, who worked as manager HR in a private company and died in 2013 at NH-47 after being hit by a negligently driven Eicher van. The company said the FIR revealed contributory negligence on the part of the deceased for the accident but the High Court ignored important documentary evidence and enhanced the compensation, though the tribunal had correctly noted it. The counsel for the family of the deceased employee, however, said Subhash Babu was driving Maruti car and the Eicher van was proceeding ahead of them and the driver suddenly turned towards right side without any signal or indicator and the said lapse resulted in the accident. Going through the statements of the wife of the deceased who was travelling in the car and an eye-witness, the court said their evidence is categorical and in absence of any rebuttal, the High Court has rightly held that the accident occurred only due to the negligence of the driver of Eicher van. "In view of such evidence on record, there is no reason to give weightage to the contents of the FIR. If any evidence before the tribunal runs contrary to the contents in the FIR, the evidence which is recorded before the tribunal has to be given weightage over the contents of the FIR," the bench said in its judgement.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accident-claim-tribunal-not-bound-to-go-by-fir-in-deciding-compensation-sc-1041231.html
16-10-2021||National||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for early announcement of UP candidates||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday urged the Congress Working Committee to take steps to finalise the candidates for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections at the earliest to ensure that the possible nominees do not desert them due to last minute decisions. She made the demand during her presentation of the party's chances in Uttar Pradesh at the Congress Working Committee meeting here. Sources said Priyanka wanted the CWC to instruct the Central Election Committee of the party to announce the candidates in advance and not leave it to "last minute" when the polls are just days away. Her reasoning was that it could send a message to other parties as well as rein in mass exodus. Sources said she argued that the announcement of potential candidates could deter them leaving the party fearing that they may not get the ticket. Priyanka got support from senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, who said announcing candidates at the earliest would increase the winning chances. Sources said the Central Election Committee is likely to meet on Sunday itself and a first list of candidates could be drawn up soon. In the meeting, Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other leaders should work together. "We have a good chance in Punjab," Rawat was quoted by sources as saying.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-for-early-announcement-of-up-candidates-1041234.html
16-10-2021||National||Do not upset farmers of Punjab, a border state: Sharad Pawar's advise to Centre||Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said the Union government should handle the ongoing agitation against new farm laws with sensitivity, keeping in mind that majority of protesters are from Punjab, a border state. The country has paid the price of upsetting Punjab in the past, he said, referring to former prime minister Indira Gandhi's assassination during Khalistan militancy. Speaking to reporters at Pimpri, Pawar, who has handled defense and agriculture portfolios at the Centre, was replying to a question about the farmers' agitation on Delhi borders which has been going on for several months. "I have been there (to the protest site) two-three times. The Union government's stand does not seem rational," he said. Participants in the agitation are from many states including Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, but most of them are from Punjab, Pawar noted. "My advise to the Union government is, do not let farmers of Punjab get upset, it is a border state. If we upset the farmers and people from border regions, then there will be other ramifications," he said. "Our country has paid the price of upsetting Punjab, even (then prime minister) Indira Gandhi lost her life. On the other hand, farmers of Punjab, irrespective of whether they are Sikh or Hindu, have contributed to food supply," the NCP chief said. People living in border areas face several security-related issues which those living in states such as Maharashtra do not experience, he said. "Therefore, when a person who is making sacrifices is siting in protest with some demands for a long time, paying attention to him is what the nation requires," Pawar added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/do-not-upset-farmers-of-punjab-a-border-state-sharad-pawars-advise-to-centre-1041235.html
16-10-2021||National||97.62 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India, says Health Ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 97.62 crore with more than 38 lakh jabs given on Saturday, the Health Ministry said. The figures are based on the 7 pm provisional report. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, it said. Cumulatively, 39,25,87,450 first doses and 11,01,73,456 second doses have been administered to individuals in the 18-44 age group across states and union territories since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive, according to data issued by the ministry. The ministry further said that cumulatively, 69,45,87,576 first doses and 28,17,04,770 second doses have been administered in the country so far. India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 97.62 crore on Saturday. A total of 38,27,173 doses have been administered till 7 pm, the ministry said. The vaccination exercise, as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19, continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9762-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-says-health-ministry-1041258.html
16-10-2021||National||Will work for poor, shun wrong path, Aryan Khan tells officials during counselling in prison||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan assured NCB officials during counseling that he would work for the welfare of the poor and never do anything that would besmirch his name in the future, an official said on Saturday. Aryan (23) is currently lodged in Arthur Road prison here after he was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau following alleged drug seizure from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2. During counselling by officials including NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede and social workers, Aryan said after his release, he will work for "social and financial uplift of the poor and downtrodden" and never do anything which could bring him publicity for the wrong reasons, said an agency official. "He said `I will do something that will make you proud of me,'" the official added. After the arrest, Aryan along with seven other accused including two women arrested by the NCB underwent a counseling session. A special court for Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act cases would pass order on Aryan's bail plea on October 20. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-work-for-poor-shun-wrong-path-aryan-khan-tells-officials-during-counselling-in-prison-1041259.html
16-10-2021||National||Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat to meet Navy commanders||Amidst an inter-service friction on the creation of proposed theatre commands, top officers of the Indian Navy will meet in the national capital next week for a Commanders Conference during which the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat would talk to the Navy commanders on the “convergence” of the three services in an operational environment. Besides Gen Bipin Rawat, Army chief Gen M M Naravane and IAF Chief Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari would interact with the naval commanders on a range of issues, including ways to enhance tri-services synergy in view of the evolving regional security scenario, a Navy spokesperson said on Saturday. The conference is happening at a time when the IAF expressed its opposition to the proposal, which is being pushed by the CDS. The plan includes merging the Eastern and Western Commands of the Indian Navy to create a Peninsular Command to tackle all types of sea borne threats. India currently has 19 military commands, out of which 17 are distributed between the Army (7), Navy (3) and IAF (7). The remaining two are tri-service Andaman and Nicobar Command and Strategic Forces Command under the Integrated Defence Staff. At the conference, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh along with other commanders will review issues relating to operational, logistics, training and human resource development and deliberate upon future plans for "important activities and initiatives". Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chief-of-defence-staff-gen-bipin-rawat-to-meet-navy-commanders-1041260.html
16-10-2021||National||Coercion marks India's digital healthcare push||On September 27, the Prime Minister launched the ‘Aayushman Bharat Digital Mission’ (ABDM) to create a seamless online platform that will enable interoperability within the digital health ecosystem.  As per the statement issued by the Prime Minister, “every citizen will now get a Health ID and their records will be digitally protected.” The ABDM is the latest of the government’s attempts at digitising service delivery in India under its flagship Digital India Mission launched in 2015.  The ABDM is the successor of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), which was launched by the Prime Minister in August 2020. The rollout of the NDHM (and now the ABDM) has raised crucial questions regarding the integrity and safety of an individual’s data, as well as accessibility for marginalised and impoverished communities. It has also led to concerns that those without a health ID could become targets for healthcare exclusion. Attempting to answer these questions requires a historical understanding of the government’s digitisation process and how the ABDM fits within it. Doing so reveals the fact that while digitisation may be a necessary step to future proof our systems of governance, it is currently hindered by legislative, infrastructural and accessibility roadblocks. The history of public sector digitisation can be traced back to the 2006 National e-Governance Plan (NeGP). The plan attempted to expand digital infrastructure within remote parts of the country and ensure that government services were easily accessible.  Initially, it focused on governance schemes such as banking, land records, issuance of pensions and passports. However, with the introduction of the Digital India Mission in 2015, the ambit of the digitisation process was expanded to include nearly all the interactions between the state and its citizens such as healthcare, education and transportation. Throughout this time, instances like the introduction of Aadhar have pointed to the shortcomings of viewing digitisation as a silver bullet for nationwide welfare service delivery.  The use of Aadhar over the past 10 years has been fraught with concerns over privacy, data security and exclusion, all of which are applicable now in the case of the ABDM. No legislative framework In most cases, the digitisation of public delivery services has been done in the absence of any legislative framework. Rather, they have primarily been undertaken through a series of administrative orders with minimal judicial and legislative oversight. The ABDM is no exception to this.  The Government first announced the NDHM policy in 2020 in the six union territories, later extending the ABDM to the entire country, all in the absence of clear law. The state may point to ‘The Health Data Management Policy’ as justification for such policies. However, a policy cannot be a substitute for a law passed by Parliament. It is also important to note that the ambit of these digitisation measures ranging from the PM-JAY scheme to ABDM has been undertaken and extended in the absence of any cohesive data protection law in the country. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 is still pending before the Joint Parliamentary Committee. Further, in certain jurisdictions, states like Delhi and Tamil Nadu have also announced the launch of health identity cards for residents of their states; and there is little or no clarity on the relationship between the state and central cards. No informed consent  The Health Data Management Policy recognises the Health ID as “requiring the express consent of an individual prior to its creation.”  However, multiple reports have pointed to Health IDs also being generated for citizens who used their Aadhaar card to register for their Covid-19 vaccines on CoWIN. This process was seemingly done without any prior attempt at informing citizens that the use of Aadhar would result in the creation of a health ID.  The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in its response to an RTI application filed by Medianama, stated that as of August 16, 2021, 11,05,42,794 Health IDs have been created through the CoWIN platform. This is in addition to the Health IDs which have been generated in the six union territories. Inadequate infrastructure The pandemic has underlined the importance of a health system that ensures both quality and affordability. Digitisation of healthcare will play a crucial role in this, provided that there is an underlying robust technological system.  A report by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology titled ‘Adoption of Electronic Health Records: A Roadmap for India’ highlighted that the government hospitals and dispensaries have very little ICT infrastructure with only some major public hospitals having computers and connectivity. As per the findings of another study, apart from poor infrastructure and poor connectivity, there are also issues relating to low spending/budget on information technology of hospitals. In comparison to many countries that spend close to 5% of the total hospital budget on IT, Indian private hospitals tend to spend only 2.5% of the total hospital budgets on IT. The corresponding share is much lower in government hospitals. Data security, data sharing  The government has stressed the voluntary nature of the health ID and how its absence cannot be used as a justification for failing to provide health services. However, as was demonstrated during the vaccination drive, the ground realities of introducing a new ID can be different from those mandated by the state. For example, despite Aadhar not being a mandatory requirement for obtaining vaccination, there have been instances of hospitals refusing to accept IDs other than Aadhar. The worry, therefore, becomes that there will be a similar disconnect in the case of the health ID. Given the sensitive and private nature of data associated with the health ID, concerns persist over its security and the extent to which it can be shared. The health management policy does lay out security measures that must be taken when handling such data; though with previous reports of Aadhar data being leaked, such measures are far from infallible — especially when data is shared across a number of entities. The policy also allows for the sharing of de-identified health data for research and policy formulation purposes.  However, the policy fails to identify the appropriate de-identification methods that would be necessary for such sharing. This combined with the absence of a clear non-personal data governance framework can cause ambiguity as to the extent to which information is de-identified prior to sharing. The Covid-19 pandemic has shown and highlighted the role that a well functioning public healthcare system plays in healthcare management.  And while digitisation of the healthcare system is necessary and can help in addressing certain challenges such as transparency, maintenance of large and voluminous health records, access by doctors to the patients' older records, it should not be at the cost of addressing the basic challenges faced by a large part of the population in accessing affordable and effective healthcare.  To that end, any attempt at digitisation should be very specific, limited in scope and have adequate protections to ensure that individuals are not excluded.  And such a process must be part of a much wider healthcare strategy that focuses primarily on ensuring that existing systems are strengthened and enhanced rather than replaced by technology.  (Aman Nair is a Policy Officer at the Centre for Internet and Society, Pallavi Bedi is a Senior Policy Officer at the Centre for Internet and Society) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coercion-marks-indias-digital-healthcare-push-1041285.html
16-10-2021||National||50% reservation for women, 13.33 % for OBCs in ZP presidents' posts in Odisha||The Odisha government Saturday proposed 50 per cent of reservation of seats for women and 13.33 per cent for OBC candidates in the coming election for the post of zilla parishad presidents in the state, officials said. The panchayati raj department issued a draft notification on it during the day. The department has sought objections or suggestions online with regard to allotment of reservations by 5 pm of October 24, they said. The state government’s draft notification on reservation for OBCs for the post of zilla parishad presidents came in the midst of a row over alleged inadequate quota for the section in comparison to their population ratio in the state. Of the 30 zilla parishad presidents' posts, four seats each are reserved for OBCs and scheduled castes, 10 for scheduled tribes and 12 seats will remain unreserved, the notification said. The four districts where zilla parishad presidents' posts are reserved for OBCs are Angul, Khurda, Gajapati and Keonjhar. This makes for 13.33 per cent of reservation for the OBCs, according to the notification. It said that posts will be reserved for SCs in four districts - Cuttack, Jajpur, Jagatsinghpur and Bhadrak. The reservation for SC like the OBCs is 13.33 per cent. The state government has reserved 10 districts for scheduled tribes candidates in the draft notification. The districts are Balasore, Koraput, Kandhamal, Nayagarh, Nabarangapur, Malkangiri, Mayurbhanj, Rayagada, Sundergarh and Subarnapur. The reservation for ST is 33.33 %, it said. The zilla parishad presidents' posts in 12 other districts have been grouped under the unreserved category. The seats are Kalahandi, Kendrapara, Ganjam, Jharsuguda, Dhenkanal, Deogarh, Nuapada, Puri, Bargarh, Bolangir, Boudh and Sambalpur and the ratio in this category is 40 per cent. The seats proposed to be reserved for women are Angul (OBC), Cuttack (SC), Kalahandi (unreserved), Koraput (ST), Khurda (OBC), Ganjam (unreserved), Dhenkanal (unreserved), Nayagarh (ST), Nuapada (unreserved), Bargarh (unreserved), Boudh (unreserved), Bhadrak (SC), Malkangiri (ST), Rayagada (ST) and Subarnapur (ST), the notification said. The list will be finalised on October 29 and submitted to the State Election Commission the following day, it added. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/50-reservation-for-women-1333-for-obcs-in-zp-presidents-posts-in-odisha-1041291.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||Congress constitutes UP poll panels, P L Punia to head campaign committee||The Congress on Friday constituted different panels for the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, with senior party leader P L Punia being named head of the crucial campaign committee. Party president Sonia Gandhi has approved the proposal of the constitution of election campaign committee, election strategy and planning committee, election coordination committee, charge sheet committee and election manifesto committee of the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC), a party statement said. Punia will head the 20-member campaign committee with Pradeep Jain Aditya as the convenor. The panel includes the likes of Mohsina Kidwai, Pramod Tewari, Raj Babbar, R P N Singh, Naseemuddin Siddiqui, Imran Masood and Imran Pratapgarhi. Rajesh Mishra has been named head of the 15-member election strategy and planning committee. Rakesh Sachan will be the coordinator of the panel. Nirmal Khatri will head the election coordination committee which includes the likes of Rajeev Shukla, Zafar Ali Naqvi and Begum Noor Bano. Acharya Pramod Krushnam will head the 15-member charge sheet committee with Nadeem Javed named the coordinator of the panel. UPCC president, CLP leader, AICC secretaries from UP and state heads of frontal organisations will also be members of these panels. The party stated that senior leader Salman Khurshid will chair the manifesto committee and Supriya Shrinate will be the coordinator of the 11-member committee. The Congress also appointed additional office-bearers in the UPCC, naming three vice presidents, twelve general secretaries, a general secretary organisation and 31 secretaries. Upendra Singh, Maqsood Khan and Jaywant Singh have been named vice presidents, while Dinesh Kumar Singh was appointed general secretary (organisation). The Congress is gearing up for the polls with the general secretary in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra leading the party's charge against the BJP government led by Yogi Adityanath. In the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the Congress managed to bag only seven seats, while its ally SP secured 47 seats and the BSP won 19 constituencies. The BJP, meanwhile, won the elections with a thumping majority as it clinched 312 seats in the 403-member legislative assembly to form the government. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-constitutes-up-poll-panels-p-l-punia-to-head-campaign-committee-1041022.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||'Full of lies': Owaisi attacks RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat's speech||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi attacked RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat's Vijayadashmi rally speech, claiming that it was full of lies and half-truths. Owaisi, who put out a series of tweets Friday night, criticised Bhagwat over the latter's comments on population policy, abrogation of Article 370 and others. "As usual, RSS Mohan's speech today was full of lies & half-truths. He called for a population policy & repeated the lie that the Muslim & Christian population has increased. Muslim population growth rate has had the sharpest decline among all. There's no 'demographic imbalance'," Owaisi said. What one has to worry about are the social evils of child marriages and sex-selective abortions, the Hyderabad MP said. He said, "84 per cent of married kids are Hindus". Between 2001-2011, the Muslim female-Male ratio leapt from 936 to 951 women for every 1000 Muslim men. But, the Hindu ratio only rose from 931 to 939, he claimed. India has already achieved replacement level fertility rates, without any coercive population policy, he said. "Similarly, fact-free Mohan is worried about India's ageing population & the need to have the younger population to help the ageing. He should tell his student Modi about it," he said in a tweet. "No man has destroyed India's demographic dividend like he has. The majority of India is young: they lack education, govt support & jobs. What's the future of a country whose PM cannot promise anything more than a few pakora stalls," the AIMIM leader said. Saying that population control policy would mean fewer youths of working age, he asked as to how will they support an ageing population. "Mohan called Taliban terrorists" and it is a direct attack on Modi, whose government "hosted" them in our embassy, he said. If they are terrorists, will government list them as such under UAPA, he wondered. Referring to Bhagwat's reported comments that people in Kashmir were "reaping the benefits of repealing Article 370", Owaisi asked if it is with "29 targeted killings of civilians in this year". He also asked if it is with internet shutdowns and mass detentions. On Bhagwat "demanding" NRC, the AIMIM leader claimed that it is nothing but a weapon to doubt citizens' Indianness and harass them. Alleging that Modi failed in stopping Chinese soldiers from coming into Ladakh, Sikkim and Uttarakhand, he said Bhagwat did not utter a word about "how our brave-hearts were treated by Chinese". Bhagwat mentioned Muslim patriots like Ashfaqullah Khan and the Muslims who had fought in the armies of Hindu Kings against so-called Muslim invaders, Owaisi said. Observing that Ashfaquallah Khan and Ram Prasad Bismil were great friends, he asked as to who destroyed such friendships "in the name of Fatherland and Holy land". "The record of Muslim freedom fighters is such that even Mohan is compelled to praise them. The same cannot be said about RSS & its ideologues. They were always epitomes of anti-national activities & cowardice. Savarkar advocated the use of rape against Muslim women during the war," Owaisi alleged. "RSS cannot coexist in a society that wants to progress economically, he claimed. Society must choose between RSS' cowardice and Ashfaqullah Khan's bravery. The society must choose between "RSS's betrayal of India & Gandhi's patriotism; RSS's ideology of whining/resentment & Maulana Azad's intellect & education," Owaisi tweeted. Bhagwat on Friday said that terrorists were carrying out ''targeted killings'' in Jammu and Kashmir to instil fear and asserted that military preparedness on the borders must remain very high. Addressing the annual Vijayadashmi rally of the Sangh at Reshimbagh Ground in Nagpur, he also called for a reformulation of the National Population Policy and also touched on the issue of control of Hindu temples. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/full-of-lies-owaisi-attacks-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwats-speech-1041026.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||Congress appoints observers for Bihar bypolls, plays the Yadav card||The Congress on Friday announced its observers for by-elections to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seats in Bihar, where it is trying hard to make a mark, while locked in a triangular contest with the much more formidable JD(U) and the RJD. According to a communication issued by AICC general secretary KC Venugopalan, the party has made its former MP Ranjeet Ranjan the observer for the reserved seat Kusheshwar Asthan, while secretary in charge for Chhattisgarh Chandan Yadav has been assigned Tarapur. The move is seen as an attempt by the party to make a dent into the “Yadav base” of the RJD, which has left the Congress, its old ally, sore with the unilateral announcement of candidates for the two seats that have fallen vacant upon the death of sitting JD(U) MLAs. Notably, the Congress had fought Kusheshwar Asthan in the assembly polls last year and, given the fact that it had lost the seat by a small margin, it was hopeful of wresting it back with RJD’s support. After receiving a cold shoulder from the domineering senior ally, the Congress threw its hat in the ring for both seats where voting will take place on October 30. Ranjeet Ranjan, who hails from Punjab, is well known in Bihar which she made her home after her marriage to Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, a controversial politician and several term MP himself. She began her career in 2004 as a Lok Janshakti Party MP from Saharsa, which has now been abolished. Five years later, she fought on a Congress ticket from Supaul, where she lost, only to wrest the seat back in 2014. She, however, lost again in 2019. Her husband, who was released from jail recently after being behind bars in connection with a three-decades-old case, heads the Jan Adhikar Party (JAP), which has been active on the streets but is yet to taste electoral success. Kusheshwar Asthan, besides obviously having a sizeable Dalit population, is also home to a large number of Yadavs, a fact hinted to by Lalu Prasad in a recent interaction with RJD workers by way of explaining the rationale behind entering the fray from there. The Congress has fielded Atirek Paswan, whose father Ashok Ram was the party candidate in the assembly polls. Chandan Yadav hails from Khagaria district, which is adjacent to Munger under which Tarapur, another constituency with a sizeable population of Yadavs, falls. The party has fielded Rajesh Mishra, an upper-caste leader, from the seat. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-appoints-observers-for-bihar-bypolls-plays-the-yadav-card-1041034.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | India at 101st rank in Global Hunger Index 2021||India has slipped to the 101st position in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 of 116 countries, from its 2020 position of 94th and is behind its neighbours Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. Eighteen countries, including China, Brazil and Kuwait, shared the top rank with a GHI score of less than five, the website of the Global Hunger Index that tracks hunger and malnutrition said on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-india-at-101st-rank-in-global-hunger-index-2021-1041061.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||Speak Out: October 16, 2021||Amid a sudden spate of terrorist activities in Jammu & Kashmir, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday said that they need to be countered. “Terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir have restarted the spate of targeted killings of national-minded citizens, especially the Hindus, to destroy their morale and reestablish the reign of terror in the valley. Efforts for curbing and finishing off the terrorist activities need speeding up,” Bhagwat said addressing the annual Vijay Dashami rally at Nagpur on the occasion of Dussehra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speak-out-october-16-2021-1041064.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||Key Congress Working Committee meet under way; new party chief election, Assembly polls on agenda||The Congress' top brass began on Saturday morning deliberations on key issues such as organisational elections, forthcoming assembly polls and the current political situation at the first physical meeting of the party's working committee since the Covid outbreak. Party president Sonia Gandhi, former chief Rahul Gandhi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress chief ministers Ashok Gehlot of Rajasthan, Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh and Charanjit Channi of Punjab attended the meeting. Senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma were among those present at the meeting at the AICC headquarters here. The meeting of the party's top decision-making body -- Congress Working Committee (CWC) -- has been convened after demands from some quarters to discuss important issues, including some defections in the recent past. The meeting also comes amid rumblings within the Congress' state units such as in Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan where the party is in power.  The G-23 leaders had been demanding to convene the CWC with Kapil Sibal last month and wondered who in the party was taking decisions in the absence of a full-time president. He has asserted that the G23 leaders' grouping is "not a Jee Huzur 23". Former leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad had also written to the Congress president to convene a meeting of the CWC at the earliest. During the meeting, the party leadership is likely to decide the schedule to elect the new Congress chief. The Congress in its CWC meeting held on January 22 had decided it would have an elected president by June 2021. But it was deferred at the May 10 CWC meet because of the Covid-19 situation. The latest meeting is being held in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3 in which eight people lost their lives. The dead included four farmers who were allegedly run over by an SUV belonging to the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra. Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, who has been named in an FIR, was arrested on Saturday by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with the mowing down of the four farmers. The incident has given enough ammunition to the Congress party to corner the BJP government and recapture the lost political space. The meeting is also likely to discuss key issues such as price rise, farmers' protests and the economic situation of the country. The CWC meeting will also discuss certain dissenting notes rising within the party over the spate of defections and the party's poor electoral fortunes. Sonia Gandhi took over as the interim Congress president in August 2019 after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the party's Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019.  There have been demands from a section of Congress leaders for having a full-time and active party president as well as an organisational overhaul. The demand became intense after a storm in the party in August last year over a letter to Sonia Gandhi by a group of 23 leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Mukul Wasnik raising these issues.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/key-congress-working-committee-meet-under-way-new-party-chief-election-assembly-polls-on-agenda-1041100.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||I am full-time and hands-on Congress president: Sonia Gandhi to G-23 at key CWC meet||Sonia Gandhi on Saturday sought to blunt the G-23 leaders' campaign for immediate change in party leadership and send a clear message to the rebels by asserting in a Congress Working Committee meeting that she is a "full-time and hands-on" party president and there is no need to speak to her through the media. Sonia, who took over the party's reins as interim president after Rahul Gandhi quit from the post, taking moral responsibility of the 2019 Lok Sabha poll debacle, did not mince words even as she did not mention any one by name while she set the tone for the meeting that was expected to have fireworks over organisational polls. She said the revival of the party "requires unity and keeping the party’s interests paramount" and "above all, it requires self-control and discipline". Her remarks came against the backdrop of G-23 leaders led by Ghulam Nabi Azad demanding a full-time party president and senior MP Kapil Sibal earlier holding a press conference saying that nobody knows who takes decisions in the party as there is no full-time president. The G-23 leaders had cited Sonia's request to be relieved as president owing to her health. Devoting the last ten lines or 186 words of her 967-word speech to speak up her mind on the internal tussle, Sonia touched upon the issue of organisational elections after her critique of the Narendra Modi government. First, she provided the sequence of events leading to her taking up charge in 2019, first saying she was "acutely conscious of the fact" that she has been "interim" Congress president ever since the CWC asked her to return as chief. She then pointed out that the CWC finalised a roadmap for electing a "regular" president by June 30 this year but the second wave led to the postponement of the plans and now a schedule for the full-fledged organisation elections is before them. Then she said, "I am, if you will allow me to say so, a full-time and hands on Congress President... Never have we let issues of public importance and concern go unaddressed." She said a large number of leaders, particularly the younger ones, have taken on leadership roles in taking party policies and programmes to the people, including the agitation of farmers, provision of relief during the Covid-19 pandemic, highlighting issues of concern to youth and women, atrocities on Dalits, adivasis and minorities, price rise, and the destruction of the public sector. Sonia said she has been taking these issues up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as have former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi. "I have been interacting with like-minded political parties regularly. We have issued joint statements on national issues and coordinated our strategy in Parliament as well," she said. "I have always appreciated frankness. There is no need to speak to me through the media. So let us all have a free and honest discussion. But what should get communicated outside the four walls of this room is the collective decision of the CWC," she said. On upcoming Assembly elections, she said the party has started its preparations. "Undoubtedly, we face many challenges but if we are united, if we are disciplined and if we focus on the party’s interests alone, I am confident that we will do well," she said. In her speech, she also referred to the ongoing agitation by farmers and said the "shocking" incidents at Lakhimpur Kheri recently "betrays the mindset" of the BJP, how it perceives the protest and how it has been dealing with this determined struggle by farmers to protect their lives and livelihoods. She rued that the economy continues to be a "cause of great concern in spite of the government propaganda to make us believe that it is not". Referring to the disinvestment drive, she said, "As we all know, the only answer the government seems to have for economic recovery is selling off national assets built with great effort over the decades. The public sector has had not just strategic and economic objectives -- it has had social goals as well, as, for instance, empowerment of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and development of backward areas. But all this is in jeopardy with the Modi government’s single-point agenda of Becho, Becho, Becho (Sell, Sell, Sell)." She said the prices of essential commodities continue to rise unabated. "Could anyone in the country ever imagine that petrol prices would be over Rs 100 a litre, diesel would be nearing the Rs 100 a litre mark, a gas cylinder would cost Rs 900 and cooking oil would be Rs 200 a litre. This is making life unbearable for people across the country," she said. On the developments in Jammu and Kashmir, she said the minorities (Kashmiri Pandits) "clearly have been targeted" and this must be condemned in the "strongest possible terms". She accused the government of damaging the consensus on foreign and neighbourhood policy because of the prime minister's continued reluctance to take the Opposition into confidence in any meaningful manner. "Foreign policy has become a diabolical instrument of electoral mobilisation and polarisation. We face serious challenges on our borders and on other fronts. The Prime Minister telling the opposition leaders last year that there had not been any occupation of our territory by China and his silence ever since is costing our nation dearly," she added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-am-full-time-and-hands-on-congress-president-sonia-gandhi-to-g-23-at-key-cwc-meet-1041104.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||Election of Congress president to be held between Aug 21-Sept 20 next year||Election of the new Congress president will be held between August 21 and September 20 next year, the party announced on Saturday after the crucial meeting of its working committee which approved the schedule for organisational polls at various levels. After a nearly five-hour-long meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Congress general secretary (oganisation) K C Venugopal announced the election schedule which includes a massive membership drive for the polls starting from November 1, 2021 and will go on till March 31, 2022. Venugopal also stated that election of PCC presidents, vice presidents, treasurers, PCC executives and AICC members by PCC general body will be held between July 21-August 20, 2022. Election of Congress president will be held between August 21-September 20, 2022, he said. Venugopal also announced that election of CWC members and other bodies by AICC members will take place at a plenary session dates for which will be announced later. The CWC also passed three resolutions, one on the political situation, and two others on inflation and a "diabolical attack" on India's farmers, Venugopal said at a press conference with the party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala by his side at the AICC headquarters here. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, three Congress chief ministers, among others, attended the meeting, the first such physical meet of the CWC since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/election-of-congress-president-to-be-held-between-aug-21-sept-20-next-year-1041126.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||MVA most corrupt govt in Maharashtra's history, extortion its only agenda: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday hit out at the Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray saying the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was the most corrupt in the history of the state with extortion being its "only agenda". The former chief minister alleged that the MVA government came to power by indulging in dishonesty, and claimed that the BJP is the number one party in the state. He made the statements a day after Thackeray, who is also the president of the Shiv Sena, launched a no-holds-barred attack on the BJP during the Sena's annual Dussehra rally. "Thackeray's speech reflected his frustration. You may try to defame the BJP, but the party is firmly grounded...You should remember that the BJP is the number one party in the state," Fadnavis told reporters. "You are saying that the people rejected the BJP, but in fact, they rejected the NCP-Congress and promoted you (Shiv Sena). Out of the seats that we fought together (in the 2019 Assembly polls), the BJP had won nearly 70 per cent seats and the Shiv Sena had won 45 per cent seats. Hence, you indulged in dishonesty with the peoples' vote and came to power," he said. The BJP and the Shiv Sena had parted ways after the 2019 Assembly polls over the issue of the chief minister's post. The Thackeray-led party later joined hands with the NCP and the Congress to form the government. In that election, the BJP had won 105 seats, followed by the Sena (56), the NCP (54), and the Congress (48) in the 288-member House. "This is a government formed through dishonesty and I feel that respected Uddhavji should now accept that he had ambitions of becoming a chief minister which he fulfilled. In politics, having ambitions is not wrong. But if you wanted to keep the word, you could have made senior Sena leaders Diwakar Raote, Subhash Desai, or Eknath Shinde a CM," Fadnavis said. In the past, Thackeray had said several times that he had made a promise to his late father Bal Thackeray to install a ‘Shiv Sainik (party worker) as chief minister of Maharashtra. "If you really did not want to become a CM, then why Narayan Rane had to leave Shiv Sena? Rane did not want to become the party chief. Also, why Raj Thackeray had to leave Shiv Sena?" Fadnavis asked. It is alright if you had ambitions of becoming chief minister, but now please stop blaming us, the BJP leader said. Over Thackeray's allegation that central agencies like ED and CBI were being misused, Fadnavis claimed, "These agencies were working on the orders of the high court and the reason for that is the government headed by you is the most corrupt in the history of Maharashtra." "You should keep in mind that it would be recorded in the history of Maharashtra that this is the most corrupt government in the history of the state. There is only one agenda of this government, which is extortion," he alleged. Fadnavis further said the Income Tax Department's raids have revealed that there was rampant corruption in the state. "The 'dalali' (middlemanship) has reached such level that some ministers have even got extortion software created to know how much money is to be extorted from whom. If such things are going on then it is natural that ED-CBI will come to the state," he claimed. Fadnavis said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi never lets these agencies get misused. The prime minister never interferes in the work of these agencies and never uses it for political gains, he added. "Had these agencies been misused, then half of the total number of your ministers would have been in jail. But we believe in democracy and will not misuse these agencies. The previous governments led by Congress and its allies used to misuse these agencies. One thing is certain that Modiji won't relax unless he completely roots out corruption," Fadnavis said. During his Dussehra speech, Thackeray urged Sena workers and people of Maharashtra to emulate the example of Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal which stood up to the BJP. Referring to it, the BJP leader asked Thackeray, "Why do you want to turn Maharashtra into that state (WB) where no industry could flourish because of union activities and extortion? Where people are beaten up and hanged for speaking against you. Do you want to build such Maharashtra? But the BJP will never let Maharashtra turn into Bengal, it will remain as Maharashtra." Fadnavis said that Thackeray in his speech raised questions over the Centre-state relationship and federal structure and talked about the Constitution framed by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. "The Constitution made by Dr Ambedkar will never change and no one can do it. Hence, this agenda of changing the Constitution taking along some Communists and Left ideology parties, we will never let it happen," he asserted. To a query on Thackeray's statement in which he dared the BJP to topple his government, Fadnavis said the if the government has to fall he would not even know. "I only want to say that we are not interested in that. We are interested in the issues concerning people. Why do you always say topple the government? You should rather solve the issues faced by people, show your work, show how you can help farmers, show you can run the government," he said. On Thackeray's statement about the NCB's raids, Fadnavis said he should decide on whose side he was - whether on the side of drugs suppliers and consumers or on the side of those acting against the drug peddlers. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mva-most-corrupt-govt-in-maharashtras-history-extortion-its-only-agenda-fadnavis-1041171.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||India must not remain mute spectator to Bangladesh communal violence: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday lashed out at the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre, urging it to play an effective role and not remain a mute spectator to the communal violence in neighbouring Bangladesh. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said that the party wants the safety of minorities in both India and Bangladesh. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has noted that the government in the neighbouring country has reacted promptly to ensure that the situation was under control and said that the Indian mission is in close contact with the Bangladeshi authorities over the matter. "Some disturbing news is coming from Bangladesh. Though the Sheikh Hasina government and many people of that country are opposing such acts, but why is @PMOIndia mute spectator? The Centre should play an effective role, and the BJP mustn't do cheap drama of fake Hindutva over it. We want safety of minorities in both India and Bangladesh," the West Bengal TMC general secretary tweeted in Bengali. Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly and Nandigram's BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari retweeted a tweet of ISKCON in which it said that its Noakhali premises in Bangladesh was attacked and one member killed. It is with great grief that we share the news of a ISKCON member, Partha Das, who was brutally killed yesterday by a mob of over 200 people. His body was found in a pond next to the temple. At least four people were killed in clashes between miscreants and law enforcers and several Hindu temples and Durga Puja pandals were vandalised in Bangladesh, following which paramilitary forces were deployed in 22 affected districts. Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, while exchanging greetings with Hindus during a recent event at Dhakeshwari National Temple in Dhaka, had said that all the perpetrators would be hunted down and punished.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-must-not-remain-mute-spectator-to-bangladesh-communal-violence-tmc-1041197.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||BJP mocks CWC as 'parivar bachao working committee', slams it for not reacting to Singhu killing||The BJP on Saturday mocked the Congress Working Committee meeting as "parivar bachao working committee" and alleged that it offered no answers to the issues of the party's internal rift and its leadership's failures, and instead indulged in spreading lies. BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia also criticised the CWC for not reacting to the ghastly murder of a Dalit man at the Singhu border, one of the sites for the farmers' protests, and questioned if the opposition party stood with the "Talibani mindset" behind the killing. Anarchic elements are using farmers for their politics, he said. "For the sake of petty and cheap vote bank politics, opposition parties, especially the Congress, will maintain deafening silence on this key issue. They will not have courage to call spade a spade because it does not suit their political narrative," Bhatia said while also attacking farmer leader Rakesh Tikait for his reported remarks that organisers cannot be blamed for such a incident. Taking a swipe at Sonia Gandhi over her assertion that she was a "full time and hands on" Congress chief, he noted her status as the interim president of the organisation and the demand of the group of disaffected party members, referred to as G-23, that it should have a full time head. "It will not be wrong to say that it was less a Congress Working Committee and more a parivar bachao working committee (save family working committee)," he said, alleging that Gandhi's opening remarks did not touch on a host of issues facing the party and left unanswered people's questions about Congress-run governments in different states. The Congress again advanced the politics of lies and spreading confusion, he said, in an apparent reference to her attack on the Modi government over a host of issues, including three "black (farm) laws", killings in Jammu and Kashmir, Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the state of the economy. Bhatia cited the police lathi-charge on a group of protesting farmers in the Congress-ruled states of Punjab and Rajasthan and also noted that a law on contract farming brought in by Punjab says that farmers can be arrested for breaking the agreement. This is what a black law is, and the Congress president should ensure that it is withdrawn, he said. The BJP spokesperson also took a dig at her for the part of her statement in which she is noting that all CWC are now doubly vaccinated, paving the way for its first physical meeting since the COVID-19 outbreak, as he noted the opposition party's trenchant criticism of the Modi government’s vaccination policies. The Congress should offer words of thanks to scientists and doctors when 100 crore doses of vaccines are completed in a few days, he added. Bhatia also criticised Gandhi for not visiting her Lok Sabha constituency of Rai Bareli for over 21 months, alleging that she has been a failure as a MP.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mocks-cwc-as-parivar-bachao-working-committee-slams-it-for-not-reacting-to-singhu-killing-1041204.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||BJP to keep its option open about any tie up with Amarinder Singh||While preparing for next year's assembly polls, the BJP is keeping its options open about any possible tie up or association with former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. The saffron party, however, is closely monitoring political moves of the former Chief Minister. BJP national general secretary and Punjab in-charge, Dushyant Gautam told IANS that the BJP has its plan and strategy for Punjab assembly polls and is working accordingly with the developing situation. "No doubt, Singh is a big name and has had an impact on state politics but first of all the former chief minister must clarify his position about the next political move. We have our plans and the BJP is moving ahead with it. We cannot say about Singh's plan and currently we can't say what will happen in future," Gautam said. Gautam pointed out that the doors of BJP is open for all nationalists. "We are a nationalist party and for us nation comes first. Anyone who believes in this is welcome," he said. Gautam mentioned that the party is currently working on strengthening the organisational presence across the state. "We are focused on getting 51 per cent of vote share and meanwhile several programs and campaigns are already going on to expand the party base in the state," Gautam said. Former Chief Minister Singh has made it clear that he was not joining the BJP but has no intention to continue in the Congress either. Many party leaders admitted that Singh will give the BJP's campaign a major boost and any tie up will happen only once he clarifies his stand. "Singh's image suits our nationalist politics and he can be used to pacify farmers protesting against the three farm laws for the last one year," a party leader said. Another leader pointed out that Singh will help BJP gain the ground lost after alliance with SAD was snapped. "Singh's stature and understanding of politics will help if we join hands with him," the BJP leader said. As part of its ongoing strategy, the BJP is already concentrating on about three dozen urban seats of Punjab spread across the state. A party insider explained that voters in urban constituencies have different aspirations. "Urban voters of Punjab want peace along with prosperity and they will support the party which promises both. Earlier they also supported BJP, now we are working on winning back their support in next state polls," party insider said. The BJP is facing toughest challenges in Punjab in comparison to other four states - Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand -- where polls will be held together in February-March next year. The BJP is contesting assembly polls on its own in Punjab for the first time after its one of the oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) walked away from alliance last year over new farm laws. In the last Punjab assembly polls in 2017, the BJP had won only three out of 23 seats it contested. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-keep-its-option-open-about-any-tie-up-with-amarinder-singh-1041205.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||Is it time to establish SC's regional benches or court of appeals?||In July this year, a group of Bar leaders from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu met Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, demanding setting up a regional bench in south India. An RTI query with the CJI's office, a month later, failed to elicit any information on action taken by the head of the judiciary to fulfil the long-pending demand to ensure access to justice. It has been argued that setting up regional benches would reduce the backlog of cases. Currently, the poor and the weaker sections of society find it difficult to travel long distances to pursue their legal remedies. Besides, exorbitant fees of lawyers and language barriers also come as major impediments. Indian Supreme Court was established on January 28, 1950. Earlier, it was called as Federal Court of India, established by the Government of India Act, 1935. It was the highest court that used to hear appeals from the high courts. During the British Rule, the Supreme Court functioned from Madras, Calcutta and Bombay. Subsequently, with the enactment of the Indian High Courts Act, 1861, these courts were declared as high courts. The Supreme Court initially started with the Chief Justice and seven other judges. However, with time, owing to the increasing number of cases, the strength of judges was periodically raised by Parliament. At present, the SC has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges, including the Chief Justice. Apart from taking up Constitutional issues, including the validity of laws, it also decides cases related to criminal matters, property disputes and dismissal of temporary employees etc. As a result, as many as 69,922 cases are pending as of October 1, 2021. Of these, 37 five-judge Constitution bench, seven seven-judge and five nine-judge cases are awaiting final adjudication with the SC devoting most of its time to other matters by assigning them to regular two or three judges bench. According to Article 130 of the Constitution, the Chief Justice can decide in consultation with the President, that is the Union government, on setting up regional benches. However, thus far, no Chief Justice has taken a call on the issue. It is due to this, DMK MP and senior advocate P Wilson decided to introduce a private member Bill. "It is a long-pending demand as the SC is far away situated in Delhi, litigants, particularly of economically weaker sections and oppressed class, are deprived of getting justice from the last court. Article 130 has not been invoked by any Chief Justice. So I am asking for an amendment to the Article by the Parliament to set up permanent benches at Delhi, Calcutta, Mumbai and Chennai, and the existing SC can function as a Constitutional court," he said. Former Additional Solicitor General Sidharth Luthra says as time progresses, the SC will not be able to tackle an increasing number of litigations. Two options are setting up an intermediate court of appeals between the high courts and the SC or establish regional benches. In the past, 95th Law Commission in its report on March 1, 1984, recommended for division of the SC into constitutional and legal parts. In 1988 too, it favoured splitting the apex court. Again in 2009, the panel in its 229th report suggested setting up four SC benches, in Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai and Mumbai. It said the constitutional issues and routine matters can be decided at the Delhi bench, while other regular matters can be handled at regional benches. It also cited the system prevalent in other countries like Italy, Egypt, Portugal, Ireland, the United States and Denmark. Numerous Parliament Standing Committee reports, the latest one of March 16, 2021, also favoured for setting up regional benches as people from far-flung and remote areas are not able to travel to the national capital seeking justice due to various reasons. In 2019, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu also suggested the same. Article 39A of the Constitution also enjoins the state to promote justice, based on an equal opportunity, and to ensure that it is not denied because of economic or other disabilities. However, no serious effort was made at the political level, though Congress made a pitch for it in its manifesto in the last Lok Sabha polls. The Union government has said the matter should be decided by the Supreme Court, which had on July 13, 2016, referred a PIL by V Vasanthkumar, for adjudication before a Constitution bench. However, senior advocate Mahalakshmi Pavani feels regional benches will dilute the prestige and importance of the top court and the word 'Supreme' will lose its significance. "Besides huge cost on infrastructure and manpower, multiple benches will result in a cacophony of voices with no consensus or binding principles," she claims. "Access to technology, not regional benches, is the answer," she maintains, citing transformation brought in through virtual hearings due to the pandemic. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-it-time-to-establish-scs-regional-benches-or-court-of-appeals-1041218.html
16-10-2021||National Politics||India no longer regarded democracy, has earned 'electoral autocracy' label, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday claimed that India is no longer regarded as a democracy and has earned the label of an "electoral autocracy", as it called upon all democratic parties to join hands in resolutely opposing the Modi government. In a resolution on the political situation in the country, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) said the "assault on democratic institutions completes the sad and shameless narrative of the Modi government". "India is no longer regarded as a democracy, it has earned the label of an electoral autocracy. Parliament has been contemptuously disregarded. The judiciary has been debilitated by not filling vacancies in courts and tribunals," the CWC said. The Congress alleged that independent watchdog bodies like the Information Commission, the Election Commission and the Human Rights Commission have been "debased and rendered virtual ciphers". The media has been threatened into meek submission through raids and false cases, it claimed. "Non-government organisations (NGOs) have been intimidated and their welfare activities have been halted. The government's agencies have been widely misused to suppress the voice of the people," the resolution alleged. In a reference to the Pegasus spyware controversy, the CWC said the government has "surreptitiously used malicious spyware" to intrude into the lives of the people. "Every aspect of democracy has been diminished. The Congress party will resist every sinister attempt to convert the country into a surveillance and police state. Under the Modi government, the constitutional promise of liberty and justice for all has receded into a vain hope," the resolution said. The CWC believes that it is its duty to sound the alarm bells, it said. "We do so and call upon all democratic parties and forces to join hands to resolutely oppose the Modi government in order to protect the values on which our country was founded and to advance the causes of the people," the resolution said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-no-longer-regarded-democracy-has-earned-electoral-autocracy-label-says-congress-1041221.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Stubble burning in northern states down 63% this year||The incidences of stubble burning has dropped by more than 60 per cent in the last one month, preventing the occurrence of a blanket of toxic smog choking the national capital and its satellite towns, but experts fear that the worst is yet to come. The Union Environment Ministry on Friday released data showing 1,795 fire counts since September 15 as against 4,854 such instances reported in the corresponding period last year – a drop of 63 per cent. The maximum decline has been seen in Punjab (69.5 per cent) followed by eight districts of western Uttar Pradesh (47.61 per cent) and Haryana (18.28 per cent). No fire incidences have been seen in Delhi and two Rajasthan districts that are part of the national capital region. The major hotspots of paddy residue burning in Punjab are Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Patiala and Ludhiana districts that account for 72 per cent of such events. Similarly, the major hotspots in Haryana are Karnal, Kaithal and Kurukshetra, accounting for 80 per cent of the stubble burning. The Commission for Air Quality Management is taking up with Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments on a daily basis to ensure strict implementation of the action plan and the framework to curb paddy residue burning events. However, with a nip in the air and an anticipated rise in paddy harvesting over the next three weeks, the experts are keeping their fingers crossed on the national capital region’s air pollution level over the next one month, even though local winds are keeping the polluting particles away at the moment and likely to do that for the next few days. Out of 1,795 sites where burning has been reported, 663 fields have been inspected by the enforcement agencies and officials concerned of the respective states. Environmental Compensation (EC) has been imposed in 252 cases. Harvesting will be at its peak in the next few weeks and the State Governments are taking steps as per the Plan of Action to improve the efficacy of enforcement and implementation to effectively tackle the problem of stubble burning. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stubble-burning-in-northern-states-down-63-this-year-1040994.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Students, activists demand justice for missing JNU student Najeeb Ahmed||Students and activists on Friday gathered here to demand justice for Jawaharlal Nehru University student Najeeb Ahmed, who went missing five years ago. Ahmed went missing on October 15, 2016, allegedly after an altercation with some members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP). On Friday, the Students Islamic Organisation of India (SIO) held the 'Justice for Najeeb Conference' to mark five years of his disappearance. Nadeem Khan, Convenor, United Against Hate, said that despite so many protests across the country, Najeeb Ahmed has not found justice. "I don't think there have been as many protests in anyone else's case as in Najeeb's case. It is clear that if you are a Muslim then you cannot get justice. As long as discrimination against Muslims continues in universities, Najeeb's movement will continue," he added. Snehashish Das, General Secretary of Birsa Ambedkar Phule Students Association (BAPSA) and a student of JNU said, "Najeeb was a simple and a sincere Muslim student. But being a Muslim is enough to make you disappear in India. In this country, pre-planned violence is perpetrated against Muslims and then a narrative is built that these people themselves are responsible for the violence." Sadat Hussain, a research scholar at JNU, called for a mechanism to ensure the safety of students from the minority community. "Najeeb's struggle is not a struggle of our victimhood but it is to ensure that such an incident never happens again. While there is a mechanism in every university to prevent raging, there must also be a mechanism for the safety of Muslim students on campus," he said. The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union took out a 'Mashaal Juloos' inside the campus and sought answers on his disappearance. The march started from Ganga Dhaba and culminated at the Chandrabhaga hostel.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-activists-demand-justice-for-missing-jnu-student-najeeb-ahmed-1041019.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah to address public rally in Jammu on October 24||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will address a huge public rally on October 24, the first in the winter capital after the abrogation of Article 370, said Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Thursday. Raina made the announcement while addressing a party meeting at its headquarters here. "The Union home minister will address a huge public rally in Jammu on October 24," he said. He stressed that the minister was going to address the first public rally here after the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution and the long-sought integration of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir with the rest of India. Raina said that only Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with the charismatic companionship of Shah, could do this and give justice to Jammu and Kashmir and its residents.  "Now this is the time we show Shah Ji how we are grateful to him and Modi Ji for this wonderful decision," he said. Raina, on the occasion, also formed teams and allotted different responsibilities to senior party leaders for the successful conduct of the public rally.  He said that the rally should be organised in such a professional manner that no inconvenience is caused to the visitors as well as people living nearby and commuters. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-to-address-public-rally-in-jammu-on-october-24-1041021.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||AIIMS doctor alleges rape by her senior colleague; Delhi Police register case||The Delhi Police has lodged a case after a doctor working at the All India Institute of Medical Science here alleged that she was raped by one of her senior colleagues during a birthday party inside the campus, officials said on Friday. The accused, who is married, is at large and efforts are on to nab him, they said. The incident took place on September 26 during a birthday party of one of her colleagues, police said. The police received information about the incident on October 11 at the Hauz Khas police station, officials said, adding that the MLC (Medico-Legal Case) was also done. According to the police, when their team reached the hospital and met the victim, she told them that on September 26, one of her senior colleagues allegedly raped her after she went to his room for the birthday celebration. The accused lives in the residential complex at AIIMS complex here. The woman told the police that on the day of the incident, she and her colleagues had alcohol at the party and she stayed back at night there. The accused then allegedly forced himself upon her and raped her. Based on her statement, a case was registered under sections 376 (Punishment for rape) and 377 (Unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code at the Hauz Khas police station, said Benita Mary Jaiker, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). "During the investigation, the statement of the victim was recorded before a magistrate under section 164 CrPC, and raids are being conducted at some hideouts of the accused. "Technical surveillance has also been mounted but the accused is still at large," she said. The accused lived with his family inside the residential complex of AIIMS. On the night of the incident, the family of the accused was out of town, police said, adding that other doctors who had attended the birthday party will also be questioned. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-doctor-alleges-rape-by-her-senior-colleague-delhi-police-register-case-1041025.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Singhu lynching case: Nihang Sikh member surrenders, admits to killing man||A man was lynched, his hand chopped off and the body bearing over 10 wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons tied to a barricade at a farmers' protest site at Kundli near the Delhi-Haryana border, a gruesome incident being blamed on a group of Nihangs. Hours after the macabre crime, a man wearing the blue robes of the Sikhs’ Nihang order, appeared before the media, claiming that he had “punished” the victim for “desecrating” a holy book. Other Nihangs claimed he had “surrendered” to police, who were yet to confirm this till late in the evening. They were, however, questioning some suspects. Earlier, in a video clip that surfaced on social media, some Nihangs are seen standing around the injured man with his severed left hand close to his head. The group is heard accusing him of desecrating a Sikh holy book. The video shows the Nihang group asking the badly injured man, who is pleading with them in Punjabi, where he had come from and who sent him. One of the Nihangs says the man is a "Punjabi" and not an outsider, and it should not be made into a Hindu-Sikh issue. Another raises a religious chant. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, said a group of Nihangs has claimed responsibility for the killing after the man allegedly tried to desecrate the Sarbloh Granth. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar held a meeting with Home Minister Anil Vij and senior police officers, directing strict action against those found guilty. The victim, Lakhbir Singh, was a labourer from Cheema Khurd village in Punjab's Tarn Taran and aged around 35 years, police said. His body was found tied to an overturned police barricade near a dais put up by the farmers protesting there for several months now over the Centre agri-marketing laws. “The Kundli police station received information at 5 am that a body was found near the farmers' protest site," a Sonipat police official said. A Haryana Police spokesperson said in Chandigarh that when Sonipat police reached the spot the man had died. "Some people were standing there. When police tried to take the body away, they protested. After some efforts, the body was brought to the civil hospital," the spokesperson said. Singh was found wearing only a pair of shorts. His hand was cut off at the wrist and a foot bore deep injuries. Altogether, there were over 10 injury marks inflicted by sharp-edged weapons. He was allegedly dragged by his assailants for a few metres before he was strung with ropes to the barricade. He is said to have bled to death. "We have registered a case and further investigations are on," Additional Director General of Police, Rohtak Range, Sandeep Khirwar told PTI over the phone. Khirwar, who later visited Kundli, told reporters that police hoped to make arrests very soon. “We have the names of some suspects and the investigations are on. I am hopeful that we should be able to make headway very soon, as we have some leads in the case,” he said. Back in his Tarn Taran village, Singh's family was in shock and said he could never desecrate a holy book. Some villagers told reporters that his parents died a few years ago and his wife and three children stayed with some relatives. He was said to be staying with his sister. The Sonipat police said some people initially resisted their entry into the area where the body was tied to the barricade, and were not cooperating with them. The Nihangs are a Sikh order, distinguished by their blue robes and often seen carrying spears and swords. Last year, a Punjab policeman's hand was chopped off with a sword and his six colleagues injured in an attack allegedly by a group of Nihangs at a village market in Patiala when the accused were asked to produce curfew passes. The policeman's hand was later reattached after a surgery at the PGIMER in Chandigarh. A case of murder was registered at the Kundli police station in Sonipat against unidentified people, police said. A board of doctors conducted the post-mortem at the Sonipat civil hospital. At least five video clips connected with the murder have surfaced on social media. In a statement, the SKM said it wanted to make it clear that "both the parties to the incident, the Nihang group and the deceased person, have no relation with the Morcha. The peaceful and democratic movement of the farmers is opposed to violence in any form, it added. The SKM said it is against the desecration of any religious text or symbol, but that does not give anyone the right to take the law into their own hands. It demanded that the culprits be punished in accordance with the law after investigating the allegation of murder and the "conspiracy" behind the "sacrilege". "As always, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will cooperate with the police and the administration in any lawful action," it added. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar told PTI that the Nihangs were not part of the SKM's protests and claimed that the victim had been staying with the same group for some time. In a video message, Yogendra Yadav, condemned the incident and said several SKM leaders had asked the Nihangs to leave the site, but they stayed put. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi for months, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/singhu-lynching-case-nihang-sikh-member-surrenders-admits-to-killing-man-1041076.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Pragya Thakur terms man who shot her kabaddi video as 'Ravana'||After a viral video showed her playing kabaddi, Bhopal's BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur, who was confined to a wheelchair for a long time and had obtained bail in the 2008 Malegaon blast case on medical grounds, described the one who shot and circulated the clip as "Ravana" and said his old age and next birth will get spoiled. Thakur was speaking during a Dussehra programme in Bhopal's Sant Nagar (Bairagarh), a Sindhi community-dominated area, on Friday night. "I went for offering aarti (at a Durga pandal) two days back, when some sportsmen playing on a ground requested me to conduct a (kabaddi) raid. A small clip of this was captured and shown in the media," she said. "If someone fretted and fumed, it was Ravana among you, some Sindhi brother...someone who is a big enemy (of mine). I am not his enemy, but he considered me as his enemy. I don't know what precious thing I snatched from him...But Ravana can be anywhere," she added. "I am telling the person, whose sanskaras have got spoiled, to mend them. If you don't, your old age and next birth will also get spoiled because whenever anyone has clashed with the patriots, revolutionaries and above all saints, neither Ravana or Kansa survived, nor will the 'adharmi' or 'vidharmi' of the present be saved," she said. She said that her 'tapasya' (penance) and meditation was for public. The video that went viral on social media showed Thakur playing a game of kabaddi on the premises of a Kali temple. Earlier, another video of her taking part in a Garba dance during the just-concluded Navratri festival had emerged. Defending the Bhopal MP, her elder sister Upma Thakur had earlier said that she suffers from a spine problem, which can give trouble to her any time. "You never know at which moment it can create problems for her. There is a problem with her L4 and L5 bones (vertebrae) as they got dislocated because ATS Maharashtra (investigators) threw her on the floor". "Whenever these problems occur, the lower portion (of her body) is left with no sensation....It can happen even when she sits or gets down from a vehicle," Upma had said. On the other hand, MP Congress leaders, while taking a swipe at Pragya Thakur accused her of having many faces as sometimes she is seen in a wheelchair, sometime she plays Garba and kabaddi too. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pragya-thakur-terms-man-who-shot-her-kabaddi-video-as-ravana-1041108.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||J&K encounters: Search operation continues in Poonch-Rajouri forest areas to track down terrorists||A massive search operation in the forest areas of Jammu and Kashmir's twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri to track down terrorists involved in the killing of seven Army soldiers entered its sixth day on Saturday, officials said. They said gunshots were heard as the joint search parties of the Army and the police resumed the operation in Poonch's Mendhar area. However, it was not immediately clear whether it was speculative firing by the search parties or fresh contact was established with the terrorists, they said. The area is mountainous and the forest is dense, which makes the operation difficult and dangerous, according to the officials. A vast forest area of Mendhar has been under tight security cordon since Thursday, when riflemen Vikram Singh Negi and Yogambar Singh, both from Uttarakhand, were killed in an encounter with terrorists in the Nar Khas forest. Earlier on October 11, five Army personnel, including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO), were killed when terrorists attacked a search party in Poonch's Surankote forest. There was an exchange of fire between the Army search parties and the fleeing terrorists in the adjoining Thanamandi forest in Rajouri the same day. The officials said that the entire forest area from Mendhar to Thanamandi remains under a strict cordon and a massive search operation is on to neutralise the terrorists who are moving from one place to another in an attempt to escape the dragnet. The traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended for the second day in view of the ongoing operation, they said. On Tuesday, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta had said that the terrorists involved in the attack on security forces in Poonch had been present in the area for the last two to three months. Rajouri and Poonch in the Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters. Meanwhile, a defence spokesperson said that the mortal remains of riflemen Negi and Singh were flown to Uttarakhand in a service aircraft this morning after a wreath-laying ceremony. The aircraft will reach the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun by 11.30 am, he said. From the airport, the mortal remains of the soldiers will be taken to their home towns by road and their last rites will be conducted with full military honours, he said.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-encounters-search-operation-continues-in-poonch-rajouri-forest-areas-to-track-down-terrorists-1041115.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Plea seeks early hearing of PIL in SC on removing protesting farmers from Delhi borders||A day after a man's body with a hand chopped off was found at the farmers' protest site at the Singhu border, a plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking an urgent hearing of a pending petition which has sought removal of protestors. The body of Lakhbir Singh, 35, from Punjab's Taran Taran district, was found tied to an overturned police barricade at the site where farmers are protesting three Central farm laws for over 10 months. His body bore over 10 wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons and the incident is being blamed on a group of Nihangs. Referring to the incident, a fresh plea has been filed for urgent hearing of the PIL, pending since March this year, saying "The right to freedom of speech and expression cannot supersede the right to life and if this protest is allowed to go in like this, the nation at large will be at a loss." The interim application has been filed by Swati Goel and Sanjeev Newar in their pending PIL through lawyer Shashank Shekhar Jha. "After the incident of mutilating and murder of the Dalit man, I have moved an urgent mentioning application before Supreme Court," the lawyer said, adding, "Anti-human activities are happening in the name of protests, including rape of a woman and killing of and mutilating a Dalit man. It cannot be allowed to continue." Besides seeking the removal of protesting farmers, the plea has also sought the issuance of guidelines by the Centre to the states and Union Territories to stop all kinds of protests and not permit them until the pandemic gets over. "A protest which in itself is illegal cannot be continued when it is witnessing anti-humanitarian acts," the PIL said, adding the protests have seen many unforeseen and unacceptable things including the tractor rally on Republic Day, rape of a woman and its cover-up at the site and murder of Lakhbir Singh on Dusshera. The plea said at a time when there is a ban on celebrating festivals, visiting temples, going to school and colleges, allowing such protests will serve no good. "Protestors are not only putting their life at risk but of millions of people of India and such a prolonged agitation cannot be allowed especially during ongoing pandemic since prolonged protests on public places are not only a clear violation of Supreme Court rulings but is violating Right of Life of others who are directly or indirectly affected by the said protests," it said. The plea said the PIL, which was listed first on May 10, could not be heard due to the crash of a server at the apex court on that day and later dates of hearings also, it could not be taken up. Meanwhile, the top court is also hearing a separate plea of a NOIDA resident Monicca Agrawaal. She has sought the removal of blockades saying earlier it took 20 minutes to reach Delhi and now it is taking over two hours and that people of the area are facing hardships due to the protests at the UP Gate on the Delhi border. On October 4, the top court sought responses from 43 farmers' bodies and their leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Darshan Pal and Gurnam Singh, leading protests at Delhi borders, on a plea of the Haryana government alleging they have not been participating in talks with its panel to resolve the impasses over road blockade here. Haryana has moved an application seeking to make 43 bodies and individual leaders of various farmers' organisations in the PIL filed by Agrawaal. The farmers are protesting for the last 10 months against the passage of three laws -- Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread mainly to Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-seeks-early-hearing-of-pil-in-sc-on-removing-protesting-farmers-from-delhi-borders-1041124.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||HC asks police to assess threat perception of inter-religion couple fearing for life from families||The Delhi High Court has asked police to give a personal hearing to an inter-religion couple to assess the threat perception as their families are against their decision to get married and they fear for their life. The court also directed that the mobile numbers of the beat constable or the division officer of the area be provided to the couple so that in case of any emergency they can contact police. "The station house officer concerned also to give a personal hearing to the petitioners so as to assess their threat perception and to act accordingly," Justice Yogesh Khanna said. The couple approached the court seeking protection and safety from the woman's family saying they are majors and are in a relationship for the last four years, and the woman left her house on her own will. In September, they applied for solemnisation of marriage under the Special Marriage Act and the woman also informed police officials about leaving her house and her marriage with the man. The couple said they reside in Delhi but at a different address due to fear as on October 5, the woman's family members came to the man's house and started pressurising and threatening them that they will be implicated in false cases if they do not send her back to her parents. The woman, who was present in the court hearing, told the judge that she does not intend to go to her parental house as her parents were objecting to her marriage with the man.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-police-to-assess-threat-perception-of-inter-religion-couple-fearing-for-life-from-families-1041130.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi greets Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on his 75th birthday. One of the longest-serving chief ministers, Patnaik, who heads the Biju Janata Dal, has been at the helm of the eastern state since 2000. In a tweet, Modi said, "Greetings to Shri Naveen Patnaik Ji on his birthday. I pray that he is blessed with a long and healthy life in service of the people."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-greets-odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-on-his-birthday-1041138.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Water supply hit in parts of Delhi due to rise in ammonia levels in Yamuna||Water supply to Delhi, Noida, and Agra are likely to get affected due to maintenance work of the Ganga canal here which was closed on Friday, an official of the Uttar Pradesh Irrigation Department said. According to Upendra Kumar, superintending engineer of UP Irrigation Department, the canal will remain closed till November 5 for maintenance work, affecting water supply in the national capital and Uttar Pradesh. Water supply at 19 districts in UP, including Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Aligarh, Etah, Hathras, and Firozabad, would be disrupted and farmers are likely to face a shortage. During the period of maintenance, farmers may have to partially rely upon tubewells and pumping sets to irrigate their fields. The Ganga canal is the lifeline to 19 districts of Uttar Pradesh, providing irrigation and drinking water. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/water-supply-hit-in-parts-of-delhi-due-to-rise-in-ammonia-levels-in-yamuna-1041149.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||UP: SP, BSP district chiefs among seven held for 17-year-old girl's rape||Seven people, including the district presidents of the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party, have so far been arrested in connection with the rape of a 17-year-old girl here, police said on Saturday. Superintendent of Police Nikhil Pathak said the arrests were made following the girl's complaint that she was raped for five years in different parts of the city and named 25 people in her complaint along with three unknown persons. A case was registered at Sadar Kotwali police station on October 12 against 25 people -- including the victim's father and uncle -- and three unknown persons. The SP said a hotel in Mirzapur district was raided on Friday from where Tilak Yadav and Deepak Ahirvar, the SP and BSP district chiefs of Lalitpur respectively, and an engineer named Mahendra Dubey were arrested. The three were produced before a local court, which sent them to 14-day judicial custody. Earlier, four people were arrested in connection with the case. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-sp-bsp-district-chiefs-among-seven-held-for-17-year-old-girls-rape-1041161.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||NSG deployed to provide counter-drone protection to Srinagar, Jammu IAF bases: DG||Counter-terrorism commando force National Security Guard has been deployed at the IAF Srinagar and Jammu stations to provide anti-drone cover to these vital installations, the force's director general M A Ganapathy said on Saturday. The first-ever drone attack took place on June 27 at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu where two unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), which came from across the border, dropped bombs, injuring two airmen and damaging a portion of a building. The two IAF facilities in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir are located close to the Pakistan border and are categorised as "sensitive" installations. The National Security Guard (NSG) chief said the federal counter-terrorist and counter-hijack commando force is enhancing its "counter-terrorism profile" and preparing itself to meet emerging security challenges. He was speaking during the 37th raising day celebrations of the force, also known as 'black cats', at its garrison in Manesar here. Ganapathy said the NSG "has been deployed" at the Srinagar and Jammu IAF stations to provide security cover to the facilities against drone attacks and this system is working "successfully." A senior officer added that this deployment "will continue till full-fledged counter-drone weapons and gadgets are deployed at these two bases". He said the NSG has an array of anti-drone equipment, radars, jammers and drone killer guns that essentially work for perimeter security. Soon after the drone attack on the Jammu IAF base, he said, an NSG 'technical surveillance' team was sent to the station which deployed its equipment there and the arrangement was stationed at the base. Officiating as the chief guest of the event, Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai lauded the commando force for its operations and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought an "independent security policy" for the country. The NSG was raised as a federal counter-terrorist force in 1984 to undertake surgical commando operations to neutralise terrorist and hijack threats. It is also a special squad that provides armed security cover to at least 13 high-risk VIPs at present. The NSG has five hubs in the country, apart from its main garrison here, and in each of them, a team of commandos is stationed in readiness 24x7 to respond to any threat situation within a 30 minute mobilisation timeframe. The five NSG hubs or bases are located in Gandhinagar, Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Chennai and they were created post the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nsg-deployed-to-provide-counter-drone-protection-to-srinagar-jammu-iaf-bases-dg-1041166.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Mortal remains of Uttarakhand martyrs brought home||The mortal remains of two soldiers from Uttarakhand, killed in an encounter with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, were flown in on Saturday. State cabinet minister Ganesh Joshi placed a wreath on their bodies at the Jollygrant airport before they were taken to their ancestral homes in Tehri and Chamoli districts for the last rites. Vikram Singh Negi (26) and Yogambar Singh (27) died of injuries sustained during a counter-terrorist operation in Mendhar sector of J&K's Poonch district on Thursday. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami expressed grief at the death of the young soldiers in action, saying the country will never forget their supreme sacrifice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mortal-remains-of-uttarakhand-martyrs-brought-home-1041177.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Prominent NC leader’s son joins Sajjad Lone’s Peoples Conference||Regional National Conference, on Saturday, suffered another setback as Hilal Rather, son of veteran party leader and former Finance Minister Abdul Rahim Rather joined Peoples Conference (PC) led by the separatist-turned-mainstream politician, Sajjad Lone. This comes days after Devendra Singh Rana, the party’s face in Jammu, a close confidant and friend of the party vice president Omar Abdullah, along with another senior leader Surjit Singh Salathia, resigned from the NC and joined the BJP. Octogenarian Rahim Rather has represented central Kashmir’s Chrar-e-Sharief constituency for a record of 36 years as MLA. His son’s joining the PC is a jolt to the NC after the exit of Rana and Salathia last week. After joining the PC, Hilal Rather said his decision to join the PC was his own and his father never “interferes in his decision making.” Junior Rather was arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in January 2020 for his alleged involvement in a Rs 177 crore bank fraud case sanctioned by J&K Bank for his ambitious township project known as Paradise Avenue at Narwal Bala, Jammu in 2012. He was released on bail in December 2020. The case which was probed by the ACB of J&K Police was later handed over to the CBI because of “international ramifications” of the conspiracy of loan funds diversion. In recent years the NC had succeeded in keeping its flock together unlike its arch-rival PDP, where most of the senior leaders quit after the fall of their alliance government with the BJP in June 2018. The firebrand PDP president and former chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti has been blamed by the government of India for dismantling her party and luring and threatening its members. However, senior leaders deserting the NC too has started now. According to unconfirmed reports several other senior NC leaders are going to quit the party in coming days and are likely to join the PC or Apni Party led by Altaf Bukhari. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prominent-nc-leader-s-son-joins-sajjad-lone-s-peoples-conference-1041180.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||J&K killings: Senior police officer denies security lapse||A senior Jammu and Kashmir Police officer on Saturday ruled out any security lapse behind the recent civilian killings in the Valley and said that it is not possible to provide security to all those who may be soft targets for terrorists. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a function here, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that none of the civilians killed last week had been provided security by the police. Seven civilians, including four from minority communities, were killed by terrorists in Kashmir last week, triggering fear among the people in the Valley and criticism of the security apparatus by political parties. "There was no lapse in security... They (terrorists) chose soft targets, we had not provided security to them (civilians). It is not possible to provide security to all soft targets," Kumar said. He said security forces acted swiftly and identified all five terrorists involved in the killings. "Two of them have been neutralised and the other three will also be tracked down soon," he added. Dismissing criticism of the security apparatus by politicians, Kumar said the police are dealing with the situation professionally. "It is the job of politicians to make all kinds of statements. I am a professional and I know how to deal with it (situation). We are dealing with it professionally," he said. The IGP said that 11 terrorists have been killed in nine encounters since October 8. "Two more are trapped (in an encounter at Pampore) and they will also be killed soon," he said. Many political leaders had criticised the Centre and the security forces over the civilian killings in Kashmir. Some had also demanded that accountability be fixed for the "repeated security lapses" and security be provided to members of minority communities living in the Valley.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-killings-senior-police-officer-denies-security-lapse-1041181.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Good Samaritan scheme aimed at motivating people to help road accident victims comes into force in MP||A Central scheme aimed at bringing down the fatalities in road accidents by rewarding Good Samaritans who rush the victims to a hospital within the "golden hour" has come into force in Madhya Pradesh, a senior official said on Saturday. Under the 'Good Samaritan Scheme,' any person who saves the life of a victim of a road accident by rushing him to a hospital or a trauma centre would be rewarded with Rs 5,000. “The Centre's Good Samaritan Scheme has come into effect on the day of Dussehra (October 15) in Madhya Pradesh'', State Traffic and Road Safety Additional Director General of Police (ADG) G Janardhan told PTI on Saturday. He said the scheme was aimed at motivating the general public to help the victims of road accidents in emergencies and inspire and motivate others to save innocent lives. In August, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways informed Parliament that a total of 3,66,138 road accidents occurred in India during the calendar year 2020, causing 1,31,714 deaths. The ADG said a Good Samaritan is eligible for the cash prize in case the road accident victim sustains brain, spinal cord injuries or is admitted to the hospital for a minimum of three days or undergoes major surgery. Janardhan, who is also ADG, MP Police Training and Research Institute (PTRI), said that each Good Samaritan would also receive a certificate of appreciation along with Rs 5,000 in cash for saving the life of a road accident victim. An individual could be awarded a maximum of five times in a year, he said. The senior official stressed that the details provided by the person who saves the life of a road accident victim will be used for giving incentives and they won't be used anywhere else. Explaining the procedure, Janardhan said after a Good Samaritan rushes the victim to the hospital or trauma centre, the doctor concerned will inform the police. Police will write down the details of him in a format and forward it to that district appraisal committee, comprising collector, superintendent of police, chief medical and health officer and Regional Transport Officer (RTO) which will scrutinise the cases and clear the reward. Asked about the golden hour, the senior police officer said, “ As per the Motor Vehicle Act's section 2 (12 A), it (golden hour) means the period lasting one hour following a traumatic injury during which there is the highest likelihood of preventing death by providing prompt medical care”. In the event of two people saving the life of a road accident victim, the Rs 5,000 reward under this scheme will be divided between them, he said. “If more than one Good Samaritan saves the life of more than one victim of a fatal accident involving a motor vehicle, the amount of award will be Rs 5,000 per victim saved subject to maximum Rs 5,000 per Good Samaritan,” he said quoting the circular. Janardhan further said the state-level appraisal committee comprises the home department additional chief secretary, health secretary and MP transport commissioner besides ADG Traffic & Road safety. He said there will be ten national-level awards each year for the worthiest Good Samaritans who will be selected from all those who have been awarded during the entire year and they would additionally be given an award of Rs 1 lakh each, a letter of appreciation and a trophy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/good-samaritan-scheme-aimed-at-motivating-people-to-help-road-accident-victims-comes-into-force-in-mp-1041183.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Singhu border lynching: Victim's family says he was 'god-fearing', demands high-level probe||The family of Lakhbir Singh, a Dalit farm labourer brutally killed by members of a Sikh sect for alleged sacrilege, said on Saturday he was a god-fearing man who would never think of desecrating a holy book and demanded a high-level probe to bring out the truth. His wife Jaspreet Kaur and three daughters aged 12, 11 and eight years live in a small temporary house made of mud and bricks in village Cheema Kalan, around 50 km away from the holy city of Amritsar. His son passed away two years ago. The family was barely managing two square meals a day when Lakhbir was alive and would work in the village fields or in the grain market of Tarn Taran district for his livelihood. “Who will come forward to look after his family now and what about the future of his children..who will help them,” laments his sister Raj Kaur. The body of Lakhbir Singh, 35, was found tied to an overturned police barricade at the Singhu Border site where farmers are protesting against the three central farm laws. His left hand was chopped off and his body had over 10 wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons. Hours after the macabre crime, a man wearing the blue robes of the Sikhs' Nihang order claimed that he had "punished" the victim for "desecrating" a Sikh holy book. The man, identified as Sarabjit Singh from Vitwha in Punjab's Gurdaspur district, was later arrested for the lynching.          Questioning his claim, Jaspreet Kaur and Raj Kaur said Lakhbir Singh "had a deep respect for the holy Guru Granth Sahib”. “He was a god-fearing man who could not never think of desecrating a holy book... Whenever he used to go to a Gurdwara, he would pray for the well-being of his family and the society,” said Jaspreet Kaur. He had no criminal record and there was no report of him being a bad character, the victim's family said and demanded a high-level probe into the entire episode to bring out the truth. Jaspreet and Raj Kaur said even if it is assumed for a moment that Lakhbir had done something wrong, those who killed him in such a barbaric manner should have given him time to prove his innocence, or they could have handed him over to the police.        “At no stage could they be the deciding authority while running their own self-styled court which pronounced punishment and then murdered him inhumanly. Where does the law of land prevail here?” said his grieving sister. His family members including sister-in-law Simranjit Kaur and mother-in-law Sawinder Kaur told the media that Lakhbir Singh and his sister Raj Kaur were adopted by a retired army man Harnam Singh who was issueless. Harnam Singh, however, is now no more. The family claimed that Lakhbir had no affiliation with any of the political outfits and never went to any political rally in support of any political person. His sister Raj Kaur said, “My brother was having mere Rs. 50 when he left home and that money was not enough to reach Singhu border but he might have reached there while taking a lift from some tractor trolley or truck”.        “Moreover, before the incident, my brother was living with those people, who are now behind his murder, for three days,” she claimed. Asked why Lakhbir had gone to the Singhu border, Raj Kaur said, “Someone might have offered him more money (for labour)”.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/singhu-border-lynching-victims-family-says-he-was-god-fearing-demands-high-level-probe-1041186.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Ratan Lal Gupta elected NC's provincial president for Jammu||Former MLC Ratan Lal Gupta was elected the National Conference provincial president for Jammu on Saturday, nearly a week after being nominated to the post following the resignation of his predecessor Devender Singh Rana. Gupta, a lawyer, was elected to the post in a vote held under the supervision of senior NC leaders, including Sheikh Mustafa Kamaal, at the party headquarters here, a spokesperson of the outfit said. "National Conference is the only party which can pull J&K out of the present turmoil as it has a strong base at the grassroots level," Gupta said after his election. On Rana and former minister S S Slathia quitting the party and joining the BJP in Delhi on October 11, Gupta said the NC is a movement and it has successfully fended off many challenges in the past. "J&K is going through a rough phase. Every section of the society, including youth, businessmen and industrialists, are suffering immensely, and nobody is happy with the present administration," the senior NC leader said. He said NC workers have pledged to strengthen the party further at the grassroots level to overcome this situation. "We will follow the guidelines of the party leadership and reach out to the masses at their doorsteps to provide assistance. The National Conference is like a fortress, and our activists will fight tooth and nail in the upcoming elections," Gupta said. He exuded confidence that the National Conference would fight the upcoming assembly elections on every seat across the Jammu region and emerge victorious. "We have a strong base in Nagrota, the constituency won by Rana in the 2014 Assembly elections. All the leaders from the constituency, including corporators, DDC and BDC members and party functionaries, attended the meeting," Gupta said. The NC is the only party with a strong presence in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, and it has never indulged in the politics of discrimination, he said, adding, "Our governments in the past have always ensured balanced development of all the three regions." "The bifurcation of the erstwhile J&K state was not a good step. Our party has taken a stand (on the issue of revocation of Article 370), and we will continue the struggle under the leadership of party president Farooq Abdullah and vice president Omar Abdullah as we believe Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh is a single entity and are strong together," Gupta said. Every NC activist is a dedicated soldier of the party and would stand up to the prevailing challenges for the betterment of the society, he added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ratan-lal-gupta-elected-ncs-provincial-president-for-jammu-1041193.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Some Delhi University colleges release third cut-off list||Some Delhi University colleges released their third cut-off list on Saturday with the required marks to get admissions in undergraduate courses seeing a decline in the range of 0.25 per cent to 1.5 per cent. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College released its third cut-off list with the marks required for B.Sc (Honours) Computer Science going down by 1.5 per cent. The cut-off for the course in the first list was pegged at 100 per cent but no application was received for the course in the first list. The cut-off for the course was reduced to 98.5 per cent in the second list and it has come down to 97 per cent in the third list. The course had closed for admissions in SC, ST, PwD and EWS categories after the first list. The cut-offs for B.Sc (Honours) Botany and B. Sc (Honours) Chemistry are at 93.33 per cent and 96.33 per cent. Female students will get a one per cent relaxation in the asking marks for all courses. The Delhi University will be releasing the third cut-off list later in the day. Aryabhatta College also released its third cut-off list with the decline ranging between 0.25 to 1.5 per cent. The college had kept the highest cut-off for BA (Honours) Psychology among all the courses at 98.5 per cent in the first list which came down to 98.25 per cent in the second list. The cut-offs for BA (Honours) Hindi saw a one per cent decline to 84 per cent. The cut-off for BA (Honours) English came down to 94.75 per cent from 95.5 per cent while the cut-off for B.Com (Honours) have come down to 97 per cent in the third list from 97.5 per cent. The courses that were closed after the first list were BA (Honours) Political Science, B. Com Programme and BA Programme combination of History and Political Science. However, B.Com programme has reopened in the third list at a cut-off of 96.75 per cent, a decline of 0.25 per cent from the first list. The courses that have filled up for the unreserved category after the second list are BA (Honours) Economics, BA (Honours) History, B.Sc( Honours) Mathematics and B.Sc(Honours) Computer Science. The cut-off for Hindi (Honours) has been pegged at 64 per cent in third list at Jesus and Mary College (JMC), a decline of four per cent from the second list. The other courses that are open at JMC are BVoc Retail Management and IT and BVoc Healthcare Management. The college has filled up the seats in other courses. At the College of Vocational Studies, the admissions had closed for Economics (honours), History (Honours), B. Com (Honours), Hindi (Honours) and B.Sc (Honours) Computer Science in the first list. Only BA (Honours) English is open with the college seeking 96-96.25 per cent for admission. The cut-off in the second list for English (Honours) was 96.25 per cent with the college asking for marks less than 96.25 per cent in the third list.  Over 48,000 students have secured admission to the university, which has 70,000 undergraduate seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-delhi-university-colleges-release-third-cut-off-list-1041198.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri: Congress slams PM for not removing Ajay Mishra despite son's arrest||The Congress on Saturday said the "brutal" mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri was a manifestation of the government's continuing "arrogance" and slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not removing the Union minister whose son has been arrested in connection with the incident. The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party's highest decision-making body, in a resolution alleged that the last seven years have witnessed a "diabolical design" to attack the livelihood of 'annadatas' and landless farm labourers. Referring to the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people died, four of them farmers allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers, the CWC said that "the brutal mowing down of farmers is a manifestation of the continuing arrogance". "This incident was preceded by the Union minister (of state) for home affairs, himself an accused in a case of murder in which the high court has reserved judgment for 43 months, publicly threatening the farmers with dire consequences, while flaunting his own dubious antecedents," the Congress said. Despite his son having been accused and arrested under relentless public pressure, Prime Minister Narendra Modi "shamelessly" refuses to remove Ajay Mishra as Union minister of state for home affairs, it said. On October 3, after the four farmers were knocked down, infuriated people then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. In the incident, a journalist was also killed. Farmers claimed that Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and his father who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra 'Monu' was arrested in the case on October 9 after 12 hours of questioning, and a court has accepted his police custody from October 12 to October 15. In its resolution, the Congress said it is committed to the repeal of the three farm laws and ensuring a just and fair minimum support price mechanism for India’s farmers as well as justice for landless farm labourers. "We reiterate our continued resolve to fight this battle alongside farmers and farm labourers to defeat the Modi government's deliberate attack on India’s 'annadatas'," the CWC said. The party alleged that the "attack" on farmers began with a sinister design to deny the land acquisition compensation guaranteed by the Congress led-UPA through an Act of Parliament. This was followed by a refusal to provide any form of relief from agricultural indebtedness, a dilution of the norms for crop compensation and the framing of a convoluted crop insurance scheme which singularly benefitted select insurance companies instead of the suffering farmers, the resolution said. Agriculture was subjected to unjustifiable levels of taxation by imposing Goods and Services Tax (GST) on fertiliser (five per cent), pesticides (18 per cent) and tractors and agricultural equipment (12 per cent-18 per cent), it said. Meanwhile, fertilizer, seed and pesticide prices skyrocketed, the resolution pointed out. This was compounded by astronomical increase in diesel prices that are touching an unprecedented Rs 100 per litre and have even surpassed the Rs 100 per litre mark in several cities across the country, the resolution said. All these retrograde and outright anti-farmer measures, including excessive taxation by the Modi government, have placed an additional burden of Rs. 20,000-25,000 per hectare on agriculture, it claimed. "The plight of India’s farmers can be gauged from the NSSO report, which highlights that the average income per day of the small and marginal farmer is a pittance of Rs 26.67/ day. And the average debt is Rs 72,000 per farmer. The average income per day is way below even the minimum daily wage for labour," the resolution stated. For over ten and a half months, lakhs of farmers have been protesting peacefully on Delhi's borders, blocked by spikes and boulders on the national highway from advancing further, it said. The CWC also noted the "courage and consistency" with which Rahul Gandhi has fought for the cause of farmers and the "resilience" of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in fighting the onslaught on farmers in Uttar Pradesh. In another resolution on the political situation in the country, the CWC said the tragic incident at Lakhimpur Kheri is a clear example of official support to the attempt to suppress the voice of the farmers. The refusal of the prime minister to condemn the brutal murder of the farmers and to sack the minister of state for home affairs have shocked the conscience of the country, it said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-congress-slams-pm-for-not-removing-ajay-mishra-despite-sons-arrest-1041226.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi will open 7 medical colleges in UP on October 25: UP CM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate seven new medical colleges in the state from Siddharthnagar district on October 25. The Chief Minister, who was here to review the preparations for the PM's arrival in Siddharthnagar, said a chain of new medical colleges will be functioning in UP. The newly constructed medical colleges in seven districts -- Siddharthnagar, Deoria, Mirzapur, Etah, Hardoi, Ghazipur and Bahraich -- will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister on October 25. The admission process will be done in these medical colleges from this academic session through NEET examination, he said. The Chief Minister, who inspected the newly constructed medical college building and its premises here, also held a meeting with public representatives and officials on the preparations for the arrival of the PM. Talking to media persons later, Adityanath said health services have improved in UP. “Three to five life supporting ambulances are available in every district of the state,” he said. These seven new medical colleges will not only help the people of nearby districts but also neighbouring Nepal, he said, adding that the medical college in Siddharthnagar will be named after Madhav Prasad Tripathi, who was an active member of Jana Sangh and the first state president of BJP. Tripathi was a resident of Bansi assembly constituency of the district.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-will-open-7-medical-colleges-in-up-on-october-25-up-cm-1041229.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||One more arrest in Singhu border lynching case||A second arrest was made on Saturday in connection with the lynching of a Dalit man at a farmers' protest site at the Singhu border, police said. Narain Singh, belonging to the Sikhs' Nihang order, was arrested by the Amritsar Rural police at Amarkot village in Amritsar district, they said. On Friday, Sarabjit Sigh was the first person to be arrested in connection with the case. A court in Sonipat on Saturday remanded him to police custody for seven days. Shortly after being taken into custody, Narain Singh claimed that he had surrendered before the police. He claimed that before coming to Amritsar, he telephonically informed the SSP Amritsar Rural that he wanted to surrender. Singh claimed that he had asked the SSP to allow him to visit the Akal Takht but police took him into custody at Amarkot village near Jandaila town, 25 km away from Amritsar city. Before his arrest, talking to the media, Narain Singh said that Lakhbir Singh, who was lynched, had been "punished" allegedly for sacrilege. He said that the accused of the Bargari sacrilege incident in Punjab had not yet been arrested but now if somebody were to commit such a heinous crime, he would be punished on the spot. Paramjit Kaur, the wife of Narain Singh, was present when he was taken into police custody. Kaur said that she was "proud" of her husband as "he has punished the guilty person responsible for sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib. If someone commits such a heinous crime, now I will punish him." Many Sikh outfits honoured Narain Singh with a robe of honour and even garlanded him with currency notes when he paid obeisance in the Amarkot Gurdwara. The body of Lakhbir Singh, a labourer from Punjab's Tarn Taran district, was found on Friday tied to a barricade at the Delhi-Haryana border, where the anti-farm law protesters have been camping, with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons. Hours after the macabre crime, Sarabjit Sigh, wearing the blue robes of the Nihang order, claimed that he had "punished" the victim for "desecrating" a Sikh holy book. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-arrest-in-singhu-border-lynching-case-1041236.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||BJP only knows 'jeebh chalana' and 'jeep chadhana', says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav Saturday took potshots at the BJP over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, saying the ruling party only knows 'jeebh chalana' (lip service) and 'jeep chadhana' (mowing down people). His criticism of the BJP came days after eight people were killed in violence during a farmers' protest in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri which left eight, including four farmers, dead. BJP leader and Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish has been arrested in connection with the case after he was accused of mowing down farmers with his vehicle. The minister has defended his son, claiming he is "innocent". "The truth is the BJP knows only two things -- 'jeebh chalana' (lip service) and 'jeep chadhana' (mowing down people). Crushing people and suppressing their voice is their (BJP) agenda," Yadav said while addressing party workers at the Samajwadi Party headquarters here. Ashish and others have been named in the FIR filed in this connection and the latter was arrested last week. Claiming the BJP government's tenure was "full of failures", Yadav alleged that because of "wrong policies" of the ruling party, the state lagged behind with runaway inflation and high unemployment. "The entire tenure of the BJP government was full of failures. Due to the wrong policies of the BJP government, Uttar Pradesh lagged behind and there was no control on inflation, unemployment. The law and order also got worse," said a party statement, quoting Yadav. "The BJP government has not done any work in public interest. The BJP is a strange party which is making tall claims without doing anything. The double engine government of the BJP has harassed every section of society and has not done anything itself but has been appearing in advertisements claiming the works of the Samajwadi Party government as its own," he said. Speaking about the 2022 assembly elections, he said it would decide the direction of national politics and would also be a testing time for democracy. Cautioning the workers, the SP chief said, "We have to be careful of the possible conspiracies of the BJP. Since the BJP is very clever, this time there should be no mistake and SP workers and leaders need to mobilise themselves up to the booth level." He said people's problems will end and the interest of farmers and youths protected only when the SP forms a government in the state.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-only-knows-jeebh-chalana-and-jeep-chadhana-says-akhilesh-yadav-1041242.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Syed Ali Shah Geelani's grandson sacked from govt service for 'security' reasons||The Jammu and Kashmir government headed by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha Saturday terminated service of Anees-ul-Islam, grandson of late Syed Ali Geelani “in the interests of the state’s security.” Anees had reportedly managed to get an out-of-turn job as Research Officer in SK International Convention Center (SKICC), a subsidiary wing of the J&K tourism department, when late Geelani was calling for protests and shutdowns in the second half of 2016 following Burhan Wani’s killing. Around 140 candidates had reportedly applied for the job, selection for which was made by an internal committee of the Tourism department, instead of J&K State Services Board or Public Service Commission, mandatory for the selection process. Anees’s father and Geelani’s son-in-law, Altaf Ahmad Shah alias Altaf Fantoosh is currently lodged in Tihar Jail in an alleged terror funding case. The termination was made under Article 311(2) (c) of the Constitution under which no inquiry is held and dismissed employees can only approach the high court for relief. Article 311 was extended to J&K after abrogation of its special status under Article 370 in August 2019. One of its provisions says that retention of a person in public service, if prejudicial to the security of the state, can be terminated without recourse to normal inquiry. “The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied after considering the facts and circumstances of the case and on the basis of the information available that the activities of Mr. Anees-ul-Islam, Research Officer in Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre S/o Altaf Ahmad Shah R/o 119-MIG Green Park, Bemina, Srinagar A/p Bachpora, Srinagar are such as to warrant his dismissal from service,” reads the order. The dismissal of Anees was greenlit by a committee headed by J&K’s chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta after the case was referred to it by a ‘Special Task Force’ (STF) chaired by J&K’s intelligence chief which was set up in April this year. So far on the recommendations of the committee, over two dozen government employees, including two sons of Pakistan-based Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahudin and tainted deputy superintendent of J&K police, Davinder Singh, who was chargesheeted by the NIA for providing support to the Hizbul, have been dismissed from the service. A senior officer in J&K General Administration Department (GAD) said the termination of employees is an “ongoing process.” For future appointments, the J&K government has already made the rules stricter wherein anybody joining the service will be subjected to CID verification which will unravel whether the fresh recruits have links in anti-national and anti-social activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/syed-ali-shah-geelanis-grandson-sacked-from-govt-service-for-security-reasons-1041244.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Bodies of two missing soldiers retrieved after 48 hours in J&K’s Poonch||The death toll of the army in ongoing anti-militancy operation in border Poonch district of Jammu region rose to nine after the bodies of the two soldiers, who went missing during a fierce gun battle with terrorists on Thursday evening, were retrieved on Saturday. This is the highest casualties to the army in a single encounter in recent times in Jammu and Kashmir. The bodies of Subedar Ajay Singh and Naik Harendra Singh were recovered 48 hours after the Army launched a major combing operation in the dense forest area of Nar Khas forest in Mendhar, Poonch. The duo was part of search operations launched by the security forces to flush out militants hiding in the forest area. “On October 14, 2021, after a fierce firefight with terrorists, the communication with Subedar Ajay Singh and Naik Harendra Singh was disrupted,” a defence spokesperson said. “Relentless operations continued to neutralise the terrorists and to re-establish communication with the soldiers. They were killed in action in the fight and their bodies have been recovered in the evening of October 16. The operations in the area are continuing,” he added. Earlier on October 14, rifleman Yogambar Singh and rifleman Vikram Singh Negi were killed in the encounter that erupted in Poonch-Rajouri forests, four days after five army personnel were killed in action in the same area. Sources said as the area, where the operation is going on for the last six days, is tough in terrain and densely forested, the soldiers are moving swiftly to zero in on the hiding militants.  “The heavily armed and battle-hardened militants, mostly believed to be Pakistanis, are hiding in dense woods. It will take the army some more days to neutralise them,” they said. Reinforcements have already been rushed to the area and as the Army is engaged in one of the longest counter terrorist operations in J&K. The Poonch-Jammu highway has been closed since Thursday evening as a safety measure. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bodies-of-two-missing-soldiers-retrieved-after-48-hours-in-jk-s-poonch-1041248.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||MP: Mob forces girl to take off burkha, shoots video; 2 men let off after warning||A girl was forced to remove her burkha and face covering by a group of people in Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday afternoon after suspecting that the man on whose scooter she was riding pillion was a Hindu, police said. No case has been registered in the connection with the incident that took place in Islam Nagar and a video of which went viral soon after, but preventive action had been taken under section 151 of IPC against two people, an official sad. In the video, a man from the group, who is apparently shooting the video, is heard telling the girl that her act was disgracing her community, while some women can be seen trying to force her to show her face. "A youth and the girl arrived in Islam Nagar in the afternoon. Some people stopped them and asked the girl to take off her burkha and show her face. It is suspected that the people believed the man was Hindu and the girl Muslim," Intkhedi police station in charge RS Verma told PTI. "No case has been registered but preventive action under section 151 of IPC was taken against two men seen in the video, who were let off with a warning to not repeat such an act," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-mob-forces-girl-to-take-off-burkha-shoots-video-2-men-let-off-after-warning-1041264.html
16-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi’s air quality slips to ‘very poor’ category; stubble burning contributes 14% to polluted air||Air quality in Delhi slipped to “very poor” category on Saturday with a steep rise in stubble burning in the last two days contributing to 14 per cent in the city’s deteriorating air, authorities said. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' forecast body SAFAR, Delhi's AQI slipped to a very poor category with PM 2.5 as the lead pollutant. “Favourable meteorological conditions lead to intrusion of stubble burning related air mass. With 1,572 effective fire counts as per SAFAR harmonised methodology which includes data of two ISRO satellites, the stubble burning contribution in Delhi's air has suddenly increased to 14 per cent. “Fire counts are gradually increasing and wind direction is favourable and coming from north-west direction at transport level (900 mb) for intrusion,” SAFAR said. It, however, said that rainfall is likely to happen on Sunday and improve the air quality but will remain in the 'poor' category. Accordng to the data from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), as many as 1,948 farm fires were recorded in the last two days - October 15 and 16- compared to 1,795 incidents which occurred in an entire month till October 14. In the last two days, 1,089 farm fires were recorded in Punjab, Haryana had 539 fires, Uttar Pradesh had 270 incidents, Rajasthan had 10 fires and Madhya Pradesh recorded 40 such incidents. The data showed that the fire incidents recorded within two days are much higher than the incidents which occurred in the last 10 days till October 14. A total of 1,008 fires were recorded in Punjab between October 6-14 and 463 fires occurred in Haryana during the same time. According to the Decision Support System (DSS) developed by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology-Pune (IITM), the ventilation index and the wind speed in the national capital will be lower than average in the next two days which is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. However, the air quality is likely to improve owing to the rainfall activities on October 17 and 18 which is favourable for removal of pollutants, IITM said, adding that the air quality is likely to remain largely in moderate category. Stubble burning in the neighbouring states significantly contributes to the air pollution in Delhi. The active fire events due to rice residue burning were monitored using satellite remote sensing, following the new Standard Protocol for Estimation of Crop Residue Burning Fire Events using Satellite Data. Punjab had recorded 1.02 lakh incidents of stubble burning in 2016. The number decreased to 67,079 in 2017; 59,684 in 2018 and 50,738 in 2019 from October 1 to November 30. The state logged 79,093 such incidents last year, according to the IARI. Haryana saw 15,686 farm fires in 2016; 13,085 in 2017; 9,225 in 2018; 6,364 in 2019 and 5,678 in 2020. Punjab and Haryana attract attention during the paddy harvesting season in October and November. Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-s-air-quality-slips-to-very-poor-category-stubble-burning-contributes-14-to-polluted-air-1041279.html
16-10-2021||Opinion||Veg vs non-veg: The battle within Hinduism||Two unrelated incidents last week brought into focus the clout vegetarians enjoy in a country where the majority eat meat. In Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh, Navratri was marked by the forcible closure of shops selling meat, including eggs. And in a distant suburb of Mumbai, a Marathi-speaking businessman was told he would not be sold a flat because only Gujaratis, Marwaris and Jains could buy property in that housing society, specifically not Marathis, Muslims and Christians. In Mumbaispeak, this meant the society was reserved for vegetarians. The response to the two sets of incidents was equally revealing: while the meat-sellers in the North watched helplessly as Hindutva toughs closed their shops and stalls (even entering a home in one case in Meerut), the Marathi-speaking buyer in Mumbai filed an FIR under IPC Sec 153A - promoting communal enmity - against the flat-owner who refused to sell him his flat. The two responses brought to light the complex nature of identity and communal politics. The Marathi-speaking buyer who filed the FIR has the silent support not just of his community but of the majority of meat-eaters in Mumbai, who are being increasingly kept out of the housing enclaves built and inhabited by traditionally vegetarian business communities. "For vegetarians only" used to be an excuse to keep Muslims out, but over the past decade, the tag has come to mean what it says. Ironically, many of these exclusive housing colonies in the distant suburbs are built on farmlands and salt pans once owned by meat-eating communities such as the Agris, who, along with the Koli fishing community, are the original inhabitants of Mumbai. Now, Agris cannot live in buildings that have come up on the land they sold to builders. For the same reason, those who grew up in the historic textile mill area, cannot gain entry into the "towers" that have come up on mill land, even when they can afford to. Marathi-speaking communities, pushed out of their old heartlands in the island city by builders, form a large proportion of those who flock to the distant suburbs for affordable housing. Besides keeping meat-eaters out of housing colonies, Mumbai's builders have also been able to dictate when Mumbaikars can eat meat. In 2004, the Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) government passed a GR (government resolution) banning the slaughter of animals and sale of meat on at least two days during the Jain festival of Paryushan. When the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took over in 2014, it increased the ban to four days across the city and all eight days of Paryushan in one suburb, where Jains constitute 25 per cent and meat-eaters 65 per cent of the population. The loudest opposition came from the BJP's ally, the Shiv Sena, and its offshoot, Raj Thackeray's Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, both of whom protested by selling and even cooking chicken on the roads. The Mutton Dealers' Association challenged the ban; the High Court stayed it as unsuitable for "a modern city like Mumbai", and the Supreme Court refused to interfere. Why didn't the North see such resistance to the forcible closure of meat shops this Navratri? That would have required the kind of support for the largely Muslim meat sellers that Marathi-speaking Hindus enjoy in Mumbai. They are, after all, the Shiv Sena's core constituency. That those punishing them for their food habits are Gujaratis only adds to the Sena's anger; the Marathi-Gujarati divide has been one of the party's oldest planks. There's one more reason this diet imposition hasn't found favour in Mumbai or, indeed, Maharashtra. It's not just that 59.8 per cent of Maharashtra's population eats meat. It's also which of them do so. Maharashtra's Brahmins are vegetarian, and while they dominate the bureaucracy, academia and culture, they stopped wielding political power long back. Neither the Marathas who've ruled Maharashtra since its inception nor Sena chief Bal Thackeray, who ruled Mumbai by remote control since the 1980s, espoused vegetarianism, notwithstanding his loud allegiance to Hindutva. Significantly, as long as only Muslims were being kept out of housing societies, no political party protested. The community continues to be denied flats, though at least one Muslim succeeded in getting a housing society to change its stand within days of filing an FIR against them. But he had the support of the Hindu who wanted to sell him his flat; when the society said no, the Hindu also went to the cops. This happened in 2016 under a BJP chief minister. It is difficult to imagine this happening in a BJP-ruled state today. It takes a Hindu to take on other Hindus; and, apparently, a Hindutva party to take on another Hindutva party. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/veg-vs-non-veg-the-battle-within-hinduism-1041127.html
16-10-2021||Opinion||Congress in UP: Has it finally got the Priyanka it needed? ||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi seems to have taken up the uphill but much-desired task of bringing a dormant Congress party back to life in the country's most populous state of Uttar Pradesh, where it has been out of power for 32 years. It may be too much to assume that the party will get anywhere close to returning to power. But Priyanka Gandhi's sustained efforts could put the party back on its feet in a state where it was reduced to a paltry seven seats (out of 403) in the last Assembly elections in 2017 and just one seat (out of UP's 80) in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019.  The Lakhimpur Kheri violence earlier this month on October 4, which took eight lives, including that of four farmers run brutally over by an SUV, allegedly at the behest of ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters, has come in handy for Priyanka Gandhi to show her real mettle now. Until now, Priyanka Gandhi, the party's general secretary in charge for UP, had failed to deliver because of her restrained visits to the state. Even after being entrusted with the responsibility, she could not keep her word that she would permanently camp on the soil of UP. Neither she nor Jyotiraditya Scindia, who was given charge of another half of UP, were not visible on the ground. Sure enough, that got reflected in the abysmal result in the Lok Sabha polls. Taking a cue from that, Priyanka Gandhi has decided to take the bull by its horns this time. What she has already done quite instinctively has earned her the sobriquet of a "street-fighter." It is something no prominent Congressman has shown over the past many years.  She was the first politician to make a serious attempt to reach Lakhimpur Kheri, no sooner than news broke out about the killings of farmers. She was followed by the police right from the time she landed at the Lucknow airport. On reaching her relative's house, where she camps in Lucknow, the cops piled up outside the gate and made it clear that she could not visit Lakhimpur Kheri.  About an hour later, as it grew dark, she sneaked out of the bungalow from the back gate, walked more than 500 metres to board a waiting car that drove her to the national highway leading to Lakhimpur Kheri. Once the police realised she had hoodwinked them, a cat and mouse chase began. Cops stopped all traffic at a toll barrier on NH-24, where they started checking vehicles to find Priyanka Gandhi. Here she switched from her SUV into a small car, a strategy that worked. While the police checked only SUVs and other big vehicles, the small car drove away unchecked. What she did thereafter was to take a detour through rural roads instead of the main highway. However, after covering a good 60 km, the police finally intercepted and took her into custody. She withstood a night-long ordeal, following which she was deposited at a government guest house in Sitapur that was formally declared as a "temporary jail" around 4.30 am on October 5. For more than two days, she fought relentlessly against the denial of permission to move on to Lakhimpur Kheri, after which the government gave in. Thousands of suddenly reactivated Congress workers had gathered outside the guest house protesting her arrest. Once the state government yielded, even other opposition leaders who had also demanded to visit Lakhimpur Kheri were allowed to proceed. She scored over all others. Samajwadi Party chief, the former UP chief minister, Akhilesh Yadav, followed suit only the next day. As if she works on instinct, Priyanka Gandhi's reaction to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's condescending remark about her sweeping the floor of the guest house room where the police detained her silenced the chief minister. "She is incapable of doing anything other than sweeping floors," was Adityanath's curt remark to Priyanka Gandhi's video that went viral. She retorted, "Yogi Adityanath's remark against my sweeping reflects his anti-Dalit mentality; he considers sweeping a demeaning act, which shows his mindset." Priyanka Gandhi did not stop there. Three days later, on her return to Lucknow, she went to a local Dalit locality and personally swept the floor of a Valmiki temple there. She also announced that all district Congress chiefs would sweep in Dalit localities in their respective towns. Many see this streak in her as somewhat reminiscent of her grandmother Indira Gandhi. These episodes have recharged the Congress rank and file, no matter how few they might be. She is, however, hobbled by the lack of an active and widespread party organisation, which she is now trying to rebuild. Though it may be rather late in the day to start that exercise, since state elections are barely four months away, still the effort is not likely to go to waste.  Priyanka Gandhi has found yet another way to inject some life into the party and its workers. She got four small booklets prepared with crisp content to counter the malicious campaign undertaken by the BJP and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) over the years to run down the Congress leadership. One of the booklets, Hum Congress ke log – dushprachar aur sach, talks about several Congress leaders involved in the freedom movement. Another booklet, Bharat aur Bhartiyata ke khilaf RSS aur BJP, attempts to expose the role of several saffron leaders whose "acts were against the fundamental ethos of Indianess and nationalism." A third booklet has facts on the first and second waves of Covid-19 and its alleged mismanagement by the Narendra Modi government.  The fourth booklet, Kisne bigara Uttar Pradesh, points to the alleged scams during the different BJP regimes, besides such schemes of these governments that were potentially against farmers, youth as also the economically weak and downtrodden in the society. While no Congress leaders made such efforts in many years, what remains to be seen is the impact of bringing the party out of the woods in the crucial March 2022 state elections. (The writer is a journalist based in Lucknow)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/congress-in-up-has-it-finally-got-the-priyanka-it-needed-1041194.html
16-10-2021||Opinion||Govt, by design, is a brake, Government by the people is the accelerator||Every week, there is a new announcement from the national government or the state, with one scheme or another being inaugurated. Usually, along with the launch, there is a lot of promotion as well, and a lot of this is over the top. One would think that our history of poor governance over 75 years should moderate such advertising, but clearly, that doesn’t deter anyone. For our leaders, every ribbon they cut opens doors to a sure hit, and India is always ‘certain’ to become the world’s best at anything they promote. The message that India is destined to become a great nation is not new. Nor is it surprising. India is a large country with a distinct culture, and therefore it is easy to imagine that the world stage would not be complete without our country on it. And once that’s fixed, it seems natural that everything that the government does should include a promise to help us get there quickly. If it’s all so ordained, then why isn’t it happening? Why is it that in many global indices of development, India figures in the bottom half -- or third, even -- than in the top? And why is it that the promises have remained just that, even as different leaders come and go? One reason is that the promises are only political, and there is no real intent to make them come true. But perhaps, that is too cynical. At least occasionally, we do get leaders who do want to push the nation onto a much faster path of development. Even then, however, we have to conclude from the evidence that we’re not quite getting there. Something else is holding us back. Sometimes, when policy experts talk about the unwieldy structure of our governance institutions or the weak design of our public systems, people’s eyes glaze over. What do these terms mean? I find it useful to think of these like the functioning of a motor vehicle. Two of its parts in particular -- the accelerator and the brake. The steering wheel is important too, for direction, but the movement itself is determined by these two. While there are nuances to every example, this one works well to explain system design. The next time you’re at the wheel, try this -- hold down the brake, and then rev up the accelerator. If everything works right, the vehicle should not move. Why? Because manufacturers, safety regulators and consumers all understand the greater risk that comes with movement. Although occasionally there could be situations where braking is the wrong choice, all things considered, it seems like more often, accelerating poses the greater risk. Even governments are ‘designed’ in some way, except that design is not as apparent as that of a vehicle. And much like a car or a bike, in government too, the brakes have precedence over the accelerator. Democracies strive to incorporate checks and balances in their design, and these are in some ways restraints on runaway decision-making by a few people in power. It is said only half in jest that a lower division clerk in government can hold up a Prime Minister’s scheme. That’s by design. One could argue that it should not be that way. What’s the point of a powerful leader rallying great public support to win elections and come to power if the checks on one’s authority are just as firm as before? But we have arrived at this through the collective wisdom of many nations’ histories of becoming free and self-governing. They have seen that power corrupts, and have decided that tempering it must be part of the design response. Democracy is a full automobile; it includes both accelerators and brakes, and both with good reason. Once we understand that, the rest is a simple choice. Within the democratic system, there is a path that permits and encourages rapid development. If we choose that path, we’ll surely get closer to our social and economic goals much more quickly. But if we seek any other kind of acceleration, then inevitably, the brakes will kick in, sooner or later. This democratic fast lane is not hard to find. It is made up of two principles, and both of these are written into our Constitution and the laws, and also a self-evident fact of all free societies. The first principle is that the State is not superior to the citizens, but is equal to them, created by them, and should serve them. We have inverted this, and find that the State now dominates the citizens, and even determines winners and losers in the market. Supporters of ruling parties think this is a feature of the accelerator, but from Nehru to 2021, there is plenty of evidence that it’s actually part of the brake. The second principle is that governance must be close to the people. While national and state governments are important, local councils and district governance are also key, and only when these layers are also powerful will we get the whole system working together like the parts of a machine. By disempowering these layers, however, we have left out some parts of our democratic machine, and find that it is sputtering. Government by the people is as important as the government of and for the people. And it is part of the design of liberal democracy. The day we embrace this, two things will happen -- leaders will make more credible promises, and those will be more likely to come true. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/govt-by-design-is-a-brake-government-by-the-people-is-the-accelerator-1041280.html
16-10-2021||Opinion||Walking the Razor’s Edge||The Katha-Upanishad (the Katha) is simple, direct and profound. Life itself is the subject of its study -- to unravel its mysteries -- and as a spiritual text, it points to what makes for self-knowledge and a deeply examined life. It is beautiful -- an allegorical tale par excellence -- and is presented as a riveting dialogue between a young boy, Nachiketa, and Yama Dharmaraya, the god of death and righteousness. The Katha belongs to a branch of the Krshna-Yajurveda and consists of two chapters, each divided into three sections, with a total of 119 verses. The chronology of the Katha is unclear, with differing views that rest on scanty evidence, and analyses based on philological approaches. Richard King and A L Basham date the Katha composition roughly to the 5th century BCE. First, the story in brief: Sage Vajasrava undertakes a ritual sacrifice that requires him to give away all his worldly possessions. During the course of the ritual, when the gifts are brought forward as offerings, his son Nachiketa, a mere lad then, notices that his father was offering only old and worthless cows. He was moved by Shraddha -- more than mere faith, and combines an independent sense of right and wrong -- that compels him to ask his father persistently “Father, to whom will you offer me?” Vajasrava, conscious that he was not making a true sacrifice, lashes out in annoyance at his son’s persistence, “I give you to Yama, the lord of death.” What follows when Nachiketa meets Yama in his abode is the dialogue on what kind of life is worth living; and the discourse on the fundamental spiritual question: “When a person dies, some say the self exists, and others say a self of this kind does not exist. I should like to know from you, the lord of death, the answer to this question (1.1.20).” This is the third of the three boons that Nachiketa seeks, after rejecting all of Yama’s allurements of wealth, long life, worldly and heavenly pleasures. Reading the Katha is a deeply personal experience. The meaning the reader might draw is inextricably intertwined with the life choices one makes between the principle of pleasure (Preya) and the principle of good (Shreya) (1.2.2). There is no apriori reason to suppose that the Katha will have a profound impact on you, it perhaps might. Those readers who take a deep dive into it will find just rewards. I do not propose to dwell on the meaning and interpretation of the Katha and its significance for the “illusion of time”; save to cite a couple of verses to reflect on how to think about ourselves. The Katha provides the frame to know yourself as you are. What is the world within and without like? Living in the middle of ignorance and regarding themselves as intelligent and learned, the ignorant go round and round, in many crooked ways, like the blind led by the blind (1.2.5). Beyond the senses are the sense-objects, beyond the objects is the mind, beyond the mind is the intellect, and beyond the intellect is the self (1.3.10). The Katha needs to be read from a modern perspective, one that recognises that this actual world of what is knowable, in which we are and which is in us, remains both the material and the limit of our consideration. The Katha treats death as a mere existential question, without resorting to God to escape mortality. It is profound because it deals with the question of death as a way of understanding life, and how it is best lived. Another fascinating feature of the Katha is the delightfully wry sense of humour and the laconic exchanges between Nachiketa and Yama. The Katha is the most widely studied amongst the Upanishads. Its early Persian translations found their way to Europe. Max Muller translated it in 1879, from which it was translated into Latin; Edwin Arnold rendered it in verse, in The Secret of Death; Ralph Waldo Emerson made it the central story at the end of his essay, Immortality; and Arthur Schopenhauer was so deeply influenced that he regarded it “the most elevating reading...possible in the world. It has been the solace of my life, and will be the solace of my death.” Must you read the Katha-Upanishad? Reflecting on life and contemplating death, W Somerset Maugham’s 1944 novel The Razor’s Edge was inspired by a verse from the Katha: “The sharp edge of a razor is difficult to pass over; thus the wise say the path to Salvation is hard.”(1.3.14). Time devours the universe. In the relentless march of time, ‘Varthamanamaham’-- I am the present -- is the only truth. Experiencing this makes walking the razor’s edge that much easier. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/walking-the-razor-s-edge-1041281.html
16-10-2021||Opinion||‘Due process of law’ or ‘procedure established by law’||Four words in the Constitution caused a heated, intractable debate in the Constituent Assembly (CA) on December 6, 1948. To the English-speaking non-lawyer, the words “procedure established by law” and “due process of law” might seem similar. To anyone with a knowledge of constitutional law and interpretation, the gulf between the words is vast and reflects two very different worldviews. The debate related to the draft Article 15, which guaranteed that “no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty, except according to procedure established by law.” Today, we know this as Article 21, and its text has remained unchanged since it was first introduced in the CA. So, what was all the fuss about? “Due Process of law” is found in the Fifth Amendment to the American Constitution, which guarantees that no one can be deprived of life, liberty or property without “due process of law”. “Procedure established by law” is a phrase borrowed from Article 31 of the post-World War 2 Japanese Constitution. The US Supreme Court had interpreted “due process of law” in a number of cases related to personal liberty and had applied it in many to strike down laws. The Japanese Constitution was less than two years old when this debate took place in the CA and the exact meaning of “procedure established by law” was still unclear. To complicate the situation, one has to keep in mind that the Japanese Constitution was also effectively drafted by Americans! The members of the CA were not just lawyers debating finer points of interpretation. Many of them had themselves experienced what it was like to have one’s personal liberty curtailed by draconian laws. To them “procedure established by law” was code for “anything goes.” It seemed to them that law, no matter how unjust, cruel or bizarre, would be permitted under the Constitution so long as it was cleared by Parliament. One gets a sense of the anguish of the members from this part of Chimanlal Chakkubhai Shah’s speech: “…I have no doubt that the judiciary will take into account fully the necessities of a situation which have required the legislature to pass such a law. But it has happened at times that the law is so comprehensive that the individual is deprived of life and liberty without any opportunity of defence. What is the worst that can happen in an Article like this if we put in the words “without due process of law”? Some men may escape death or jail if the judiciary takes the view that the law is oppressive. Sir, is it not better than nine guilty men escape than that one innocent man should suffer? That is the worst that can happen even if the judiciary takes a wrong view.” Mahboob Ali Baig Sahib Bahadur also pointed out that if Article 31 of the Japanese Constitution was to be borrowed, then the other provisions of the same Constitution that relate to the right to counsel, no arrest or search without a warrant, the right to a speedy trial, etc., also ought to be included. These views were countered by Alladi Krishnaswamy Iyer. He argued against placing so much faith in the judiciary which is itself just “three gentlemen or five gentlemen” who tend to let personal biases sway their interpretation and who do not necessarily give consistent interpretations of the Constitution. He pointed to the US Supreme Court striking down laws on minimum wage and those prescribing safe conditions of work using the “due process” clause to argue why the same should not be included in the Indian context. Babasaheb Ambedkar was himself ambivalent. It was one of the rare instances in which he did not firmly come down on one side of a debate or the other. His intervention, which came a week after the debate, on December 13, only summarises the views of both sides, with no firm commitment to either. His own views on the Article perhaps can be discerned from a discussion I have previously written about -- the one relating to the present Article 22. Ambedkar mentions his own dissatisfaction over the wording of draft Article 15 of the Constitution but proposes draft Article 15-A (Article 22), which elevates provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure to the level of fundamental rights, as “compensation” for the unsatisfactory wording of Article 21. In the end, however, the wording proposed by the Drafting Committee was accepted by the majority, and all the proposed amendments seeking to insert the phrase “due process of law” were rejected. But that is not the end of the story. Indian courts, post-Independence, added a different dimension to Article 21. And that’s a tale for another day. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/due-process-of-law-or-procedure-established-by-law-1041283.html
16-10-2021||Opinion||J H Patel, the Peg-vedi||J H Patel, who was the Chief Minister of Karnataka between 1996 and 1999, would have turned 91 this month had he been alive. A good orator, a shrewd politician, and a staunch socialist, his wit and sarcasm were unparalleled. Patel, who had endeared himself to all by his forthrightness, was often caught on the wrong foot. One such occasion was when, during a TV interview, he candidly admitted his love for wine and women. This was not the first time he had made such a confession. Much before he became CM, Patel was the minister for power (electricity) and excise (liquor). When a journalist asked about his twin portfolios, he had quipped: “One gives me a shock and the other gives me a kick.” Everybody had laughed away his remarks then, but now, with Patel himself bringing “women” into the conversation, the opposition was baying for blood. Unperturbed, Patel hit back with an anecdote. A guru and his shishya were approached by a woman who sought their help to cross a river. Taking pity on the woman, the student carried her across the water on his shoulders. When he returned, the good deed is done, his teacher bombarded him with questions: “How did you feel when you carried the woman? Was her body hard or soft? Was she warm or cold? How did it feel when her legs…?” The barrage of questions continued until they reached their ashram. Finally, the shishya retorted, “Guruji, I carried the woman on my shoulders barely for five minutes, but she has been on your mind for the past five hours.” And with a flourish, Patel said, “For five months, you have been harping on what I spoke about for five minutes.” The Chief Minister got embroiled in another controversy when the opposition accused him of receiving an expensive wristwatch as a bribe from a Malaysian politician. Patel refuted the charges with another story: A woman once asked the Shankaracharya the difference between truth and untruth. The Shankaracharya brought a pot of water held it so that the moon was reflected in the water. Pointing to the moon, he said, “That is truth.” Then, pointing to the moon’s reflection in the water, he said: “That is untruth.” The opposition, Patel said, could not distinguish between truth and untruth: “If you empty the water from the pot, will the moon disappear from the sky?” Patel’s innings as CM was constantly rocked by dissidence. When a few legislators and ministers resigned, threatening the survival of his government, Patel dismissed it in his inimitable style, “Political plague has broken out and a few rats have died. There is nothing to worry.” Later, when he had to face acute humiliation, with his own party legislators boycotting his public meetings, he responded, “The wedding will not stop just because the musicians are angry…Politics is like a train. A lot of people get in and out during the journey, but the train ultimately reaches its destination.” Sometimes, Patel became a victim of his own wit. Once, he made a sarcastic remark on the way elections were held in Uttar Pradesh. “In UP, there is a class called Rig-vedis—those who rig elections.” BJP legislator S Suresh Kumar, punning on Patel’s self-proclaimed love for wine, retorted: “In Karnataka, we have a class called Peg-vedis.” The chief minister had a hearty laugh. Unlike present-day politicians, Patel could and did employ wit as a weapon to deflect criticism, extricate himself from tricky situations, and even settle scores with others without even raising his voice. If there was one politician who put humour to good use, it was undoubtedly Patel. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/j-h-patel-the-peg-vedi-1041286.html
16-10-2021||Opinion||Is India really ready for foreign tourists?||Earlier in the month, the Indian tourism industry breathed a sigh of relief: the government had finally announced that foreign tourists would be allowed to visit India again. Confusion and frustration soon followed the welcome news though. With the finer details of the arrangement undecided, stakeholders and tourists were left wondering exactly how it would work. Persistent lobbying by state governments and industry groups convinced the central government to restart in-bound tourism, but what about preparedness? According to the government notification, charter flights can arrive in India from October 15 (these flights usually bring groups of tourists from Russia and the UK to Goa). Other foreign tourists will have to wait until November 15 to enter. All tourists must get fresh visas. This includes holders of multi-year tourist visas because these visas will remain suspended. (To compensate, the government is offering the first 500,000 new visas free of cost). Only 30-day, single-entry visas are available. However, it’s not known who can get one and what the rules will be. On October 15, the government’s online visa portal had not been updated with any information. Neither was it accepting visa applications. The government has indicated that “reciprocal treatment” will pertain to foreign tourists based on their country’s policy for Indian tourists, not on risk. It’s hard to understand how this will help India be tourist-friendly or mitigate the virus. As it is, inconsistencies in testing and quarantine requirements hinder travel. Mumbai, for example, currently imposes a 14-day home quarantine on international arrivals from certain countries irrespective of vaccination status. In Delhi, it is seven days. Regulations for inter-state travel also vary. Even if these issues are resolved, the big question still remains -- who will come to India? Until the ban on scheduled international flights is lifted, it’s necessary to take an ‘air bubble’ flight. Frequent visitors to India, who have ties such as friends and family, are keen to travel. Interest from other foreigners is lacking though. Apart from limited flight options and expensive airfares, the virus is a deterrent. Foreigners aren’t the only ones who are worried. Many people in India are scared of rising cases after the festival season and don’t think it’s wise to open up to tourism. What’s more, Kerala, one of India’s most popular tourist destinations, is struggling to control the virus despite a high vaccination rate. Here’s the conundrum. The inbound tourism industry has suffered immensely from lost business and income. And, it’s going to take a lot more than issuing new visas to revive it. Unfortunately, the pandemic has created a negative perception of India abroad. A major rebranding and promotional campaign is needed to entice tourists back. There is exciting potential for change and reinvention, but will it happen? Of concern to foreign tourists are crowds that may potentially spread the virus. Such crowds are hard to avoid in cities, but India is a massive country! While domestic tourists are discovering offbeat destinations, the same old monuments are sold to foreigners. Now is the perfect time to be innovative and switch the focus to regional areas, where foreign tourists can have local community experiences and form meaningful bonds with the heart of India. Tourist infrastructure needs attention, too. Given the emphasis on sanitation and hygiene, how can India be regarded as a desirable place to visit when basic facilities such as adequate and clean toilets aren’t provided? Yet, the powers that be don’t seem to regard this as problematic or important. The reality is that in-bound tourism won’t really start picking up until October next year. It will require motivated collaborative effort between the government, tourism associations, hotels, and travel agents. Disruption on the scale of the pandemic offers an incredible opportunity for transformation. Hopefully, India will make the most of it to evolve and harness its unparalleled tourism potential. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-india-really-ready-for-foreign-tourists-1041288.html
16-10-2021||South||Resentment against K C Venugopal's alleged intervention in Kerala Congress restructuring||Resentment is brewing among Congress leaders in Kerala over the alleged interventions of AICC general secretary K C Venugopal in finalising the list of Kerala PCC office-bearers. If the unrest in the Congress over the selection of District Congress Committee presidents last month broke out only after AICC announced the list, top party leaders in Kerala now seem to be putting pressure ahead of the AICC finalising the office bearers. It was learnt that even as the Kerala PCC leadership handed over a draft list to AICC general secretary in-charge of Kerala, Tariq Anwar, a couple of days back, Venugopal was allegedly making interventions to include some of his loyalists, particularly from his home town Alappuzha. Congress sources in Kerala said that some prominent leaders like former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and former opposition leaders Ramesh Chennithala would convey their resentment over Venugopal's interventions to the AICC leadership. Venugopal seems to be taking advantage of his proximity with Rahul Gandhi, said a Congress source. After the announcement of district presidents of the party last month, the major concern raised by prominent leaders like Chandy and Chennithala was that though their suggestions were sought, they were kept in the dark about the draft list sent by the Kerala PCC to the AICC. But now even as senior leaders were made aware of the draft list, it was alleged that Venugopal was making further interventions after it reached Delhi. The major aim of new Congress leadership in Kerala comprising PCC president K Sudhakaran and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala is to bring down the 'jumbo committee' of over 150 officer bearers to 51. As a result, the leadership is struggling to accommodate the interests of all leaders. There were also reports that some prominent leaders, including a former minister, even threatened to quit the party in protest of not being considered in the draft list. Five prominent leaders had already quit the party after the list of district presidents was announced. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/resentment-against-k-c-venugopals-alleged-intervention-in-kerala-congress-restructuring-1040986.html
16-10-2021||South||As it enters 50, bereft of charismatic face, AIADMK faces worst-ever crisis||On October 17, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) that ruled Tamil Nadu for three decades will enter its golden jubilee year. The party floated by the legendary M G Ramachandran in 1972 to take on the then all-powerful DMK, especially his friend-turned-foe M Karunanidhi, is truly at crossroads.  Out of power after being at the helm for two successive terms and suffering a humiliating defeat in the just-concluded elections to rural local bodies in nine districts, the AIADMK may be facing its worst-ever crisis in 49 years of its existence.  The power struggle The intense power struggle between Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam on who gets to control the party has dipped the morale of the cadre, to say the least.  Not to be left behind is their former boss V K Sasikala, who will visit the J Jayalalithaa memorial on Saturday after being confined to her residence in upscale T Nagar ever since her release from Parappana Agrahara prison early this year.  Her throwing the hat in the ring could make things worse for the AIADMK in the coming months at a time other parties are gearing up for the urban local body polls likely to be held by the end of 2021. The defeat in local body polls  The latest election results – AIADMK won only two of the 140 district panchayat wards that went to polls -- should serve as a “wake-up call” for the party, which now faces a resurgent DMK under Chief Minister M K Stalin, political observers say.  AIADMK’s decimation at the hands of DMK in the local body elections comes just five months after it pulled off its best performance in a losing election by winning 66 of the total 234 seats in the April 6 Assembly polls despite facing a 10-year anti-incumbency. Though the party has been waking up to one crisis after another since Jayalalithaa died in 2016, the glue called power kept the AIADMK together for about four-and-a-half years. However, the glue is now beginning to peel off with differences between EPS and OPS coming out in the open – they issue separate statements on public matters and rarely concur with each other, eventually hurting the party.  Also, the AIADMK now faces criticism of ceding the Opposition space to other “ambitious political parties” including its ally BJP, and watering down its core principle -- the anti-DMK stance that helped MGR, and Jayalalithaa scale several political heights.  Having been used to a singular, “strong and charismatic” leadership (read MGR and Jayalalithaa), AIADMK cadre and leaders are finding it difficult to work under a “dual leadership”, the political observers said, noting that influence of neither EPS nor OPS extends beyond their respective regions.  'AIADMK should find a leader who can bring order to the party' Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, said the immediate challenge before the AIADMK is to find a leader who can bring in a “certain order” to the party by uniting all factions.  “The AIADMK now speaks in divisive voices. Separate statements by the leadership are breaking the combined voice and strength of the party. The AIADMK has always been run by a leader with complete control over the party. Having used to that kind of a set-up, the first challenge is to find a leader who can control everyone,” Prof. Manivannan told DH. Senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh concurs. “The biggest challenge for the AIADMK is burying all the differences and working towards consolidation of unity. For every leader and cadre, revisiting the tough battle fought by their mentors, especially Jayalalithaa, is the call of the hour,” he told DH. 'Anti-DMK is central to AIADMK's existence'  Not just internal dissensions, the AIADMK faces external challenges too with several parties now vying for the anti-DMK space. Instances of Panneerselvam and former ministers K A Sengottaiyan and Sellur K Raju openly praising the present government and its policies have also not gone down well with the AIADMK cadre, who has all along opposed the DMK.  “Anti-DMK is central to AIADMK’s existence and is part of the cadre’s political DNA. Statements by senior leaders praising the DMK leadership amount to watering down the very core principle on which the party was found. Practising political decency is fine, but only a strident anti-DMK stance will help the AIADMK as a political party,” a party veteran told DH.  The observers said the AIADMK must put its “house in order” if it is serious about keeping bipolar the electoral contest in Tamil Nadu – between the party and the DMK. To this, Singh said the current AIADMK leadership should first understand the psyche of its cadre and work on the ground to keep their morale up.  “Jayalalithaa would fight like a tigress even on a non-issue just to engage her cadres in constant political activism and win the admiration of the voter. Even when consigned to the Opposition benches in an electoral setback, she would use her charisma and stinging rhetoric to turn the tide in her favour through just a couple of months of pre-poll touring.  “Now that she is no longer there, the AIADMK leaders should walk the extra mile to keep themselves relevant and their party alive in the public reckoning,” Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-it-enters-50-bereft-of-charismatic-face-aiadmk-faces-worst-ever-crisis-1041074.html
16-10-2021||South||Heavy rains batter Kerala; red alert in 5 districts||Several parts of Kerala have been witnessing heavy rains since the early hours of Saturday. So far, no casualties were reported. The India Meteorological Department sounded a red alert in five districts -- Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki and Thrissur. Orange alert was sounded in seven other districts. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan convened an emergency meeting to review the situation. The water level of many dams and reservoirs were being constantly monitored. Several parts of the Ranni and Konni areas of Pathanamthitta were flooded and several houses were damaged. Minor landslips were reported from the eastern sides of the Kottayam and Idukki districts. Heavy winds of up to 65 kilometres per hour were predicted. People in flooded areas and those living near rivers were shifted to safe locations. Vehicles to hilly areas were banned. Fishing activities from the coastal areas were also banned. Low pressure formation over the Arabian sea was leading to the heavy rains in the state. The State Disaster Management Authority was already on an alert and NDRF teams were deployed across the state. Kerala had suffered major natural calamities including major floods and landslides over the last few years claiming scores of lives. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-batter-kerala-red-alert-in-5-districts-1041129.html
16-10-2021||South||V K Sasikala visits Jaya memorial after four-and-a-half years||A teary-eyed V K Sasikala, ousted interim general secretary of the AIADMK, on Saturday visited the memorial of her long-time friend and late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa for the first time in four-and-a-half years, setting off intense speculation about her political comeback. Sasikala’s visit to the memorial – the last place she visited on February 15, 2017, before proceeding to Bengaluru to surrender before authorities of Parappana Agrahara prison for serving a four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case – is significant in more ways than one. The visit came a day before the AIADMK was to enter its golden jubilee year. Sasikala had planned to visit the memorial following her return from Bengaluru this year. However, the then AIADMK government led by her one-time protégé Edappadi K Palaniswami, had closed the memorial on the pretext of maintenance and construction activities. Sasikala left her residence in upscale T. Nagar at 10.30 am after the “inauspicious” rahu kalam ended and was greeted by hundreds of her supporters on her way to the memorial on Marina Beach. The car in which she travelled was the same vehicle used by Jayalalithaa and had AIADMK flag on its bonnet. At the Jayalalithaa’s memorial, Sasikala turned emotional and was seen wiping her tears, while laying a wreath. “Everyone knows the reason why I came here so late. I don’t want to talk about the past. I have poured my heart to her (Jayalalithaa). I told her whatever happened (in the past five years). I am confident Thalaivar (MGR) and Amma (Jayalalithaa) will save the AIADMK and its cadre. The future will be good,” Sasikala told reporters during a brief interaction. Sasikala also spoke about her association with Jayalalithaa in a bid to strike a chord with the cadres. “Amma and I were inseparable. I spent more than half of my life with Amma,” Sasikala said. Though Sasikala did not spell out definite plans about her political plunge, analysts say the former interim leader of the AIADMK has thrown ample hints that she would stake the claim for the party leadership. Sasikala, who had “stepped aside” from politics before the April 6 assembly elections, has been openly talking about “reclaiming” the AIADMK after the party’s defeat in the polls. Sasikala, who will visit MGR’s residence in Ramapuram on Sunday morning to mark 49 years of AIADMK’s existence, is expected to tour the state as part of her efforts to garner support to take over the AIADMK leadership. Though Sasikala has been claiming that the cadre are with her, the AIADMK top brass including Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam have been maintaining that she will not be taken back into the party. Reacting to Sasikala’s visit, former AIADMK minister D Jayakumar called the trip a “stunt” and mocked the ousted leader saying she can be considered for an “Oscar award” for her “acting skills” but will never be allowed back into the party. “Every day a lakh people visit Amma’s (Jayalalithaa’s) memorial, and she (Sasikala) is just one among them. There is no need to talk more about the visit,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/v-k-sasikala-visits-jaya-memorial-after-four-and-a-half-years-1041133.html
16-10-2021||South||NSCN-IM firm on separate flag, constitution; NNPG holds talk with GoI pointsman on Naga issue||The talks between the Centre and Naga insurgent groups to end the decades-long Naga conflict is still stuck on the issue of a separate flag and the Constitution with the rebel group NSCN-IM categorically rejecting the government's "post solution offer" to address the issues. "NSCN’s stand is loud and clear that it would not follow the forbidden route to the Naga solution that is linked to forgoing the Naga national flag and Constitution which is the face of the Naga political struggle and identity. That would be no better than making comical entity out of the Naga solution. The Naga flag with divine origin cannot be traded or bargained to make the Nagas as infidel people," the NSCN-IM said in a statement emailed to DH on Friday evening. The talks with Naga groups including the NSCN-IM, the rebel group in ceasefire since 1997, resumed recently after nearly two years. The talks resumed after the Centre appointed former Intelligence Bureau special director, AK Mishra as the new interlocutor and removed R N Ravi as Nagaland Governor, who was the interlocutor earlier. NSCN-IM demanded Ravi's removal after the latter said the government would not accept the rebel group's demand for recognition to the separate flag and Constitution for the Nagas.  Mishra held talks with leaders of both NSCN-IM and Naga National Political Groups (NNPG), a forum of seven other Naga rebel groups separately in Dimapur and in New Delhi recently. Sources in the government said Mishra had offered that the Centre would discuss the issues regarding the flag and Constitution after the signing of the final agreement.  The NNPG issued a statement on October 13 hinting that it had no objection to the Centre's offer to allow use of the Naga flag in cultural events and adherence of the Naga constitution in the Naga institutions.  The NSCN-IM, however, refused to sign the final agreement without a decision regarding its demand for recognition to Naga flag and Constitution.  Many Naga groups including the NSCN-IM claims that Nagas were never part of India and had even declared "Independence" on August 14, 1947. The state has witnessed insurgency since then till the NSCN-IM entered ceasefire in 1997.  Final agreement The NSCN-IM signed a "framework agreement" in August 2015 and the NNPG also signed another agreement in November 2017. A "final and comprehensive agreement" was supposed to be signed to end the country's oldest insurgency. The Centre wants to sign one and final agreement with the Naga groups before 2024 Lok Sabha polls but the NSCN-IM's insistence on the flag and the Constitution issue continuous to remain a stumbling block.  The Opposition parties also joined the government in Nagaland giving the state an opposition-less government to bring all on board before the final agreement is signed.  "The chequered history of the Indo-Naga political issue is clear enough before us, with accords and agreements that were never meant to be implemented in letter and spirit. Naturally, the Nagas are still haunted by this flamboyant show of dealing on the Naga issue. The demonic mask of the Government of India with ‘post solution’ offer is being brought back to life again as it is desperate to manoeuvre its way to trap the Naga people again to accept whatever is being offered to hurry up the Naga talk.  Significantly, the bitter lesson of the past is driving away the NSCN from giving any face value after seeing through the crafty wickedness of the offer," said the NSCN-IM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nscn-im-firm-on-separate-flag-constitution-nnpg-holds-talk-with-goi-pointsman-on-naga-issue-1041142.html
16-10-2021||South||Rain wreaks havoc in Kerala; 5 killed, many missing||Five persons died and around 15 reported missing in a series of landslides and floods in parts of central Kerala on Saturday following incessant rains from the early hours of the day. Several vehicles, including transport buses, were stranded in the hilly terrains of Kottayam and Idukki districts as roads were blocked by land slips and landslides. Several houses and shops in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts were flooded and people have taken shelters in first floors of many houses.  At Koottickal in Kottayam district three persons, including women and children, reportedly died in landslides at Plappally and Kavali areas. Eight more were still missing. There were reports that three bodies were spotted by the local people. In the adjacent Idukki district, eight persons, including five children, were reported missing at Kokkayar near Peerumedu following land slide. Rescue operation were only progressing. With landslides blocking most of the roads in the hilly terrain, rescue teams were also finding it difficult to reach the spot. Local people managed to rescue many, while severalhad miraculous escape by holding on to tree branches. At Thodupuzha in the district, two persons died after their car was washed away over a canal at Kanjar. Both the bodies were recovered. Many house and shops in major towns in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts like Kanjirapally, Poonjar, Ranni and Konni were flooded. Vehicles were washed away at some places.  Passengers in a transport bus had a narrow escape after the bus was caught up in flood at Poonjar. Local people rescued the passengers.    Army and Air Force were also joining the rescue operations apart from NDRF, Fire and Rescue Services and police. Bad weather affected attempts by rescue teams to reach the landslide-hit spots by air. Low pressure formation over the Arabian sea has led to the heavy rains. While many parts of south and central Kerala were witnessing continuous rainfall with winds and thunders right from the early hours of Saturday, many parts of north Kerala were receiving heavy rains by evening. Water level in some parts of Alappuzha in the south was also reported to be rising by night. Indian Meteorological Department sounded red alert in six districts in central and south Kerala, while orange alert was issued in four districts, including three in north Kerala. Water level in dams and reservoirs were being continuously monitored over the last few days in view of heavy rains. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan convened a high level meeting to  review the situations. Directions were given to shift people from all calamity prone areas. As per later forecast the intensity of the rains may decline by Sunday. Kerala had witnessed major natural calamities during the last three years beginning with a major flood in 2018 that claimed around 400 lives. In 2019 around 100 lives were lost in the natural calamities at various parts of the state. In 2020 a major landslide occurred at Pettimudi in Idukki district that claimed around 70 lives.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rain-wreaks-havoc-in-kerala-5-killed-many-missing-1041179.html
16-10-2021||South||Kerala women Hindu priests look forward to Tamil Nadu model reforms||Close on the heels of the Tamil Nadu government allowing women priests at temples, a group of women in Kerala are eagerly awaiting similar reforms in Kerala too as they have just completed training in conducting poojas based on Hindu beliefs. A total of 22 women, including non-Hindus, completed over two-year-long training in astrology and performing Hindu rituals and received the 'deeksha' (consecration) from K V Subash Tantri of the Peramangalam Nagaraja temple near Vazhakkulam in the suburbs of Ernakulam district. As many as 13 more women are expected to receive the 'deeksha' soon. The thantri said that though many women turned up for learning astrology, only 35 among them had shown interest in learning about conducting poojas like 'Ganapathi Hommam' and 'Bhagavathy Seva'. Among the 22 who already received the 'deeksha' included two from Christian families and one from Muslim family. Support from their families helped them complete the training successfully, he told DH. Sreeja Shaji, one of the women priests hailing from Kannur district in Kerala, said that she was born in a Roman Catholic family and her close relatives included Christian priests and nuns. She initially turned up to learn astrology owing to certain personal experiences in her life and was thereafter attracted to the Hindu poojas and hence learnt those also. Rekha Deepu, a Bengaluru based Malayali woman from Thirssur district, was also among those who received the 'deeksha'. She said that in most houses it was women who conduct poojas. But an inequality prevailed when it comes to temple priests. Hence women need to first prove their skills in conducting poojas to bring in a change. This attracted her to undergo the training, said Deepu who is a dance teacher by profession. Subash said that society has to first accept women as temple priests. For that, the women priests would be initially conducting poojas like Ganapathi Hommam and Bhagavathi Seva at private premises and prove their skills with the results of the rituals. Once society starts to accept women priests, a demand for allowing women priests in temples would naturally come up, he said. At present, women priests are there only in a few temples including the famed Mannarasala Sree Nagaraja temple at Alappuzha district in Kerala. Women priests are allowed in any of the temples under the state Devaswom Board. How can women be temple priests as women have natural health issues that make it impossible for them to conduct poojas in temples regularly? asked a Devaswom official. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-women-hindu-priests-look-forward-to-tamil-nadu-model-reforms-1041212.html
16-10-2021||South||11 NDRF teams to be deployed in Kerala for rains, flood rescue||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked 11 teams to be deployed in south and central parts of Kerala which are pounded by heavy rains. NDRF director general S N Pradhan said in a tweet that the teams are being sent "in view of red alert for rainfall and possible flooding/water logging in several districts of Kerala." One team each will be deployed in Malappuram, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Pathanamthitta, Palakkad, Kottayam, Kannur and Kollam while two teams will be stationed at Idukki. A single NDRF team usually has a strength of 47 personnel equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and basic medical aid to rescue affected people and to launch relief operations. The state government has already sought the assistance of the Army and the Air Force to launch rescue operations. At least six people died and a dozen were missing as heavy rains pounded south and central Kerala Saturday, causing flash floods and landslides in many parts. Several people have been injured and displaced in rain-related incidents in the southern state where dams in many districts are nearing its full capacity and small towns and villages in the hilly areas are totally cut off from the outside world. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/11-ndrf-teams-to-be-deployed-in-kerala-for-rains-flood-rescue-1041275.html
16-10-2021||State||CM Bommai to decide on easing Covid-19 curbs in Karnataka in 2 days||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said he will take a call on further relaxing the Covid-19-related restrictions in two days after consulting the experts soon, in view of a substantial drop in cases in the state. Speaking to media persons in Honnali taluk on his arrival at the helipad to take part in village stay programme and foundation stone laying ceremony of various development works, he said the government would take a call on reopening of classes 1-5 soon. "Though cases have come down,  there is a need to discuss precautionary measures to be taken across the state and also in border areas to contain the spread of the virus with experts... We will take a call soon. " On by-polls, he said former chief minister B S Yediyurappa would campaign in Hangal and Sindhagi assembly constituencies, two days each and he would take part in the roadshow a few days before the polls so that there is no confusion over his participation in the byelections campaign meetings.  He also exuded confidence that BJP would win both the seats.   Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-bommai-to-decide-on-easing-covid-19-curbs-in-karnataka-in-2-days-1041131.html
16-10-2021||State||Bommai praising RSS to protect his CM chair: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, to protect his CM chair is singing praises of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Speaking to media persons at Hubballi Airport, en-route to Hangal for campaigning for by-polls, Siddaramaiah said neither S R Bommai nor Basavaraj Bommai has their roots in RSS. However, to continue in the CM post, Bommai, under the pressure of RSS bosses, is parsing the organisation. The former chief minister also clarified that there is no question of joining hands with BJP stalwart B S Yediyurappa to start a new political front. “That is a blatant lie being spread by former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy. I will never join hands with Yediyurappa who comes from an RSS background,” he said and reiterated that if anyone can prove ‘the secrete meeting’ with Yediyurappa, he would retire from active politics. “As a Congressman, who upholds secularism and democratic values, I can never be on the RSS and BJP side, which are exactly opposite to my principles,” he said. Modi’s gift Responding to H D Kumaraswamy’s charges that the Anna Bhagya scheme has made people lazy, the Congress leader hit back by saying that he would not take comments from those whose tummy is full. “Has any of the poor said they do not want Anna Bhagya scheme? The scheme was meant for them and it has benefited several families,” he said. Should read Tippu well Responding to Congress MLC C M Ibrahim’s charges that Congress uses Muslim leaders and do not allow them to grow, Siddaramaiah asked which party has made Ibrahim MLC? "The party high command and elected MLAs will decide on who will become the next chief minister from Congress." He also refuted the charges that Congress used Tippu Sultan’s birth anniversary for political gains. “Ibrahim should read more about Tippu before making a comment. I will ask him to get more information about Tippu,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bommai-praising-rss-to-protect-his-cm-chair-siddaramaiah-1041220.html
16-10-2021||State||Siddarmaiah 'terminator' of minority leaders, says H D Kumaraswamy||Former JD(S) chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Saturday dubbed Congress' Siddaramaiah as "terminator" as he accused him of trying to finish off minority leaders in the Congress.  Beginning with the recent incident of KPCC media coordinator MA Saleem being expelled, Siddaramaiah has plotted against several Muslim leaders, Kumaraswamy charged.  "In order to promote his own loyalists in the party, Siddaramaiah has been targeting Muslim leaders. On one hand, he projects himself as if he has taken a patent for minority welfare. On the other, he snubs their growth within his party," Kumaraswamy said in a series of tweets targeting the former Congress chief minister. "In 2012, Congress candidate for Legislative Council Iqbal Ahmed lost against Byrathi Suresh, a then independent candidate. In 2016 bypolls for Hebbal, Congress gave the ticket to CK Jaffer Sharief's grandson Rehman Sharief. A lobby was done against his candidature. Sharief eventually lost the bypolls. Both these defeats were designed by Siddaramaiah," Kumaraswamy said, adding that former ministers Roshan Baig and Tanveer Sait were also insulted by the Congress.  Kumaraswamy pointed out that while Saleem was expelled for his "whispers" about KPCC president DK Shivakumar, former MP VS Ugrappa was just given a show-cause notice. The JD(S) leader said this was a ploy against minority leaders.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddarmaiah-terminator-of-minority-leaders-says-h-d-kumaraswamy-1041227.html
16-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Thousands flout Covid rules as they converge for Jamboo Savari||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai launched a scaled-down version of Jamboo Savari, the grand finale of a simple Mysuru Dasara, in the Mysuru Palace premises, on Friday. The Jamboo Savari was limited to the Palace precincts last year as well, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the Covid shadow was not as tall this year, compared to 2020, when the infection was still at its peak. Around 10,000 people were on the Palace premises to witness the Jamboo Savari even as the District Administration had claimed that not more than 500 persons, including the CM, will be allowed in the premises. In 1994 and 2002, too, the Jamboo Savari was held within the Palace premises, due to a plague in Gujarat and the kidnapping of MLA Nagappa by forest brigand Veerappan, respectively. Simple, virtual Dasara In the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, Dasara celebrations were scaled-down, changing the event into a virtual format. However, besides thousands of people inside the Palace, thousands of people thronged around the Palace, especially at Chamarajendra Circle, despite restrictions by the Police on the movement of people and vehicles in the vicinity. Bommai performed puja to Nandi Dwaja, near Balarama Gate of the Palace at 4.32 pm, during Meena lagna. He performed ‘pushparchane’ to the idol of Chamundeshwari Devi, placed in the golden howdah, carried by elephant Abhimanyu at 5.24 pm, during the same Meena lagna. A 21-gun salute was fired by cannons of the City Armed Reserve personnel. CM’s prayer Bommai said he prayed with devotion for the welfare of the State and its people. “I prayed for timely rains and good crops, for the prosperity of farmers. I prayed for the welfare of all Kannadigas. I prayed for the overall development of Karnataka and prosperity of the people,” he said. The procession form was limited to 25 folk art troupes, two companies of Mounted Police, and six tableaux, with howdah elephant Abhimanyu, Nishane elephant Dhananjaya, Nowfath elephant Gopalaswamy, Saalane Ashwathama (debutant) and kumkis Kaveri and Chaitra. Unlike the usual annual 5 km procession route from the Palace up to Bannimantap, the procession was limited to 600 metres within the Palace precincts. Tableaux Last year, while both tableaux revolved around Covid-19, only one tableau this year was related to pandemic. The remaining were on: 75 years of Independence; group housing in Mysuru; importance of conserving nature; agriculture schemes of both Centre and State governments; and the Aane Gaadi (elephant cart) of Mysuru Palace that used to transport the Police Band during the Jamboo Savari. The Aane Gaadi was a part of last year's procession as well. Nadaswara, Veeragase, chili pili gombe, chande, kamsale and Yakshagana troupes also moved along. Last year, the procession was limited to four folk art troupes, two companies of Mounted Police, and two tableaux, with howdah elephant Abhimanyu, Nishane elephant Vikrama, Nowfath elephant Gopi and kumkis Vijaya and Kaveri. Abhimanyu, 55 years, a Dasara veteran, who has participated 22 times, carried the howdah for the second time. A trouble-shooter, along with earlier howdah elephant Arjuna, of the Forest department, Abhimanyu had participated in many rescue operations of straying animals. The celebrations were inaugurated on October 7, atop the Chamundi Hill by former chief minister S M Krishna. This year, Mysuru Dasara celebrations were limited cultural events at Nanjangud Srikanteshwara temple, from 6.30 pm to 8.30 pm from October 7 to 13; cultural events at Mysuru Palace from 6 pm to 9.30 pm from October 7 to 13; cultural programmes from 10 am to 5 pm at Mysuru Palace on October 10; cultural programmes from 10 am to 6 pm on October 11 and 12; and 100-km stretch illumination, which is extend for an additional nine days. Last year, cultural programmes were held from October 17 to 24 only, on the stage abutting the Mysuru Palace. This year, a new addition is the puja by Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar to the procession deity of Chamundeshwari atop the Chamundi Hill, before it was taken out in a procession, via Tavarekatte, Ittigegud, Jayachamaraja Wadiyar Circle and Jayamarthanda Gate, up to the Mysuru Palace, to be placed in the golden howdah. Member of the erstwhile royal family Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, High Court Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, Cooperation Minister S T Somasekhar, Mayor Sunanda Palanetra, Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham and Police Commissioner Chandragupta were present. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/thousands-flout-covid-rules-as-they-converge-for-jamboo-savari-1040995.html
16-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bt Cotton trial proposal riles farmers, activists||The proposal to conduct field trials of genetically modified cotton and maize seeds has raised the hackles of activists who have urged the government not to allow such exercises to prevent long-term damage to the farming community and the agriculture sector. Karnataka has a long-standing opposition to the genetically modified or ‘Bt’ (Bacillus thuringiensis) crops with the previous BJP government in 2010 announcing a ban on Bt Brinjal. Activists say Bt Cotton had affected lakhs of farmers with many farm suicides in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka linked to the seeds purchased from a private company. The latest alarm comes in the wake of a proposal by Rallis India Ltd, a Bengaluru-based private company, seeking to conduct ‘confined field trials in the state to test Bt Cotton and Maize seeds. The Department of Forests, Ecology and Environment has issued a public notice seeking objections from the public for the trials. Organisations working for farmers and several experts have come together to demand the government not to allow such trials in the state. In a letter to the Principal Secretary of the department, they said that at least seven varieties of cotton seeds were wiped out when Bt Cotton by Monsanto was introduced in 2002. “Eventually, farmers had no choice but to purchase the costly seeds of Monsanto. GM cotton destroyed the diversity besides affecting soil, water, livestock and the environment,” the letter warned. V Gayatri of ‘Nammura Bhoomi Namagirali; Anyarigalla’ said the government should work to bring back crop diversity instead of destroying the remaining semblance of sustainability in the agriculture sector. “Neither the government nor the company has given specific information on the nature of the seeds that are proposed for trial. For cotton, a hybrid variety resistant to bollworm already exists. Statements given by company scientists are leading to confusion,” she told DH. Former chairman of Karnataka Agriculture Price Commission and retired professor from University of Agricultural Sciences Prakash Kammaradi warned that the Bt seeds will only lead to capturing of the entire market by one or two companies. “In fact, a seed is just the component of their design which involves herbicides, pesticides and fertilisers. The companies will rule the roost by destroying the indigenous variety and killing the independence of the farmers,” he warned. The letter signed by former Environment Secretary A N Yellappa Reddy, Nagesh Hegde, women’s and farmer organisations, also opposed the field trials for the herbicide-tolerant maize crop. “The pesticide used for this variety of seeds will destroy the soil and its biodiversity,” it said. Kammaradi said maize has already become a successful ‘go-to’ crop for farmers who are getting never-before-seen yield. “As a result, farmers are abandoning cultivation of other crops. Between 2009-10 and 2019-20, maize cultivation went up by 14%. Jowar, paddy and ragi cultivation declined by 27%, 17% and 15%, respectively, during the same period. Blackgram cultivation dropped by a whopping 42%,” he said, adding that the long-term implications will become more visible in the coming days. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bt-cotton-trial-proposal-riles-farmers-activists-1041004.html
16-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Police quarters building tilts in Bengaluru after heavy rains; evacuation efforts under way||Adding to the list of back-to-back building collapse incidents, yet another multistoried building in Central Bengaluru tilted on Saturday after its foundation developed crack due to seepage following incessant rains spanning more than a week. According to the police and officials of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the latest building is the police quarters near Binny Mills that was inaugurated three years ago and two years ago, the flats were occupied by the police personnel families. "The seven storeyed apartment block has tilted by at least 1 to 1.5 feet due to the wide crack at the basement after heavy rains. A total of 32 families are living in the building and efforts are on to evacuate the residents from the building," explained a BBMP engineer.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/police-quarters-building-tilts-in-bengaluru-after-heavy-rains-evacuation-efforts-under-way-1041109.html
16-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai rides autorickshaw in Davangere||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai rode an autorickshaw at the village stay programme at Surahonne village in Nyamathi taluk of Davangere district on Saturday. Rural Development & Panchayat Minister K S Eshwarappa was also present. Autorickshaws, three-wheelers were distributed to beneficiaries in the event. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-rides-autorickshaw-in-davangere-1041123.html
16-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chamarajendra Wadiyar statue damaged||The statue of Chamarajendra Wadiyar X was defaced on Friday, the day of Vijayadashami.  The sword of the statue has broken as a large number of people gathered near the statue to take a glimpse of Dasara Jamboo Savari on Friday.  Several people were seen standing near the statue. It has to be noted that the statue was damaged in 2014. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chamarajendra-wadiyar-statue-damaged-1041147.html
16-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to bring facilities at doorsteps from January 26||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the government would bring many facilities including ration and pension of various social security schemes at the doorsteps of beneficiaries from January 26, 2022. The government machinery should not be there in Vidhana Soudha and must be brought to villages, he said. Launching Deputy Commissioner's March towards Village at Surahonne village in Nyamathi taluk of the district on Saturday, he said, "We are making necessary arrangements to ensure that people get ration at the doorsteps of their houses. People must get all benefits of social security schemes in their villages. We want people to get all certificates in gram panchayats."   Bommai added that jan sevak programmes would be implemented on a pilot basis in 28 constituencies of Bengaluru on November 1. It would be extended to the state from January 26.  He promised a give clean and corruption-free administration, adding that he is ready to work for 20 hours per day and he has a good team of ministers. "We are committed to bringing changes in your village/town/city and in the lives of people." Chief Minister's Political Secretary MP Renukacharya, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Rural Development & Panchayat  Raj Minister KS Eshwarappa, MP GM Siddeshwara,  MLAs Madal Virupakshappa,  N Linganna, MLC Ayanur Manjunath, former MLA Basavaraj Naik, Mayor ST Veeresh, Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Vijay Mahantesh Danammanavar, Superintendent of Police CB Rishyanth, Assistant Commissioner Mamata Hosagoudar, Gram Panchayat President Halesh and District BJP President Veeresh Hanagawadi and others were present on the occasion.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-bring-facilities-at-doorsteps-from-january-26-1041153.html
16-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bangalore varsity introduces 4-year BA/BSc Honours Course after implementation of NEP||With the implementation of the new National Education Policy (NEP), Bangalore University said it is starting four-year Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science Honours degree courses from the academic year 2021-22. The Vice-Chancellor of the varsity Prof Venugopal said in a statement that the courses would have the provision for multiple entries and multiple exits. The courses are skill-based, choice-based and cross-disciplinary, trans-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary in nature that would provide the students the option of electives across the disciplines as per the objectives of the new NEP, he said. According to him, the four-year courses would have the exit option at the end of every year. "Students who want to exit at first year can avail themselves of a certificate in Arts/Science, exit at the second year will get them a diploma, exit at the third year will get them a degree and the successful completion of four years will get them BA/BSc Honours," the statement read. The students have the provision to continue their education to post-graduation as well as PhD, Prof Venugopal said. He said after the completion of a three-year degree, students may pursue specialisation in particular subject or can study research for one year. The Vice-Chancellor said the BA Honours course is in major subjects such as history, economics, political science, sociology, mass communication and journalism, and in minor subjects such as psychology, performing arts, visual arts, women studies and the electives in science, engineering, commerce and management. For the science degree, students have the option to take the combination of major subjects such as physics, chemistry, mathematics, statistics and computer science and electives from arts, commerce and management disciplines. Students have to study mathematics at 10+2 (pre-university level) to get admission in science discipline. Prof Venugopal said the initial intake of the course is 30 seats each for BA and BSc.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bangalore-varsity-introduces-4-year-ba/bsc-honours-course-after-implementation-of-nep-1041243.html
16-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 300 diploma students in the dock for exam malpractices||More than 300 students pursuing diploma courses in the state lost the opportunity to appear for examinations after they were caught indulging in malpractice during the recently held examinations. In the examinations held in August, 402 students were caught cheating in the examinations. But the expert committee constituted by the department of technical education to conduct an inquiry gave a clean chit to 27 candidates as it was proved that they did not indulge in malpractice. A total of 37 students were barred from writing one-semester examinations and 332 students were barred from appearing for particular subjects. Department sources said that a majority of these students tried to cheat in the examinations, using chits and gadgets like mobile phones. Some students were caught with digital calculators which are banned in the exams.  "During the inquiry, some students said they indulged in malpractice as they were not prepared for the examinations, thinking that the department would promote them," said an official from the department. Despite strict vigilance and conducting examinations under the surveillance of CCTV cameras, the cases of malpractice have not come down. During the previous exams, the total number of malpractice cases registered was 278.  Officials said, based on the severity of the malpractice, there are options to even register criminal cases against the students.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-300-diploma-students-in-the-dock-for-exam-malpractices-1041246.html
16-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Gram Panchayat to municipality: An upgrade these village residents dread||Bhagya and her family, residents of Hosa Malapanagudi, Hosapete, face the threat of losing their livelihood once the government upgrades their gram panchayat (GP) into a town municipality.  Her family of five is entirely dependent on Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for livelihood.  The government has proposed to include their village under urban limits, which means they will no longer qualify for the rural employment scheme. Many like them are now appealing to the government to let them remain as a village. “Under MGNREGS, we are guaranteed nine months’ employment. We do not have lands to fall back on. We will find it difficult to find alternative employment,” Bhagya told DH.  Lakshmi and Jainashree, resources persons at Sakhi Trust, a nonprofit based in Hosapete, explain that at least 45% of the people in this taluk are dependent on MGNREGS for employment. MGNREGS is not merely about employment, but also about the conservation of local resources. Under MGNREGS, they take up tree planting, the building of agri ponds, and other such activities. The repercussions of urbanising these villages are also that parents will stop sending children to school and child marriages will increase.  According to data available with the Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Department, the government has upgraded 126 GPs into municipalities over the last six years.  Government officials acknowledge that the threat to livelihood is a reality in these cases. Requesting anonymity, one official gave the example of Belagavi, “In this district, seven GPs were upgraded into municipalities. Many residents are still looking for jobs. With a majority of them being illiterate and lacking other skills, they cannot find work even in the garment sector.” In some districts of North Karnataka, while the men migrate to neighbouring states for labour, MGNREGS provides convenience for women to find employment near their homes, the official says, underlining the significance of the employment scheme.  RDPR principal secretary L K Atheeq says programmes such as MGNREGS and Jal Jeevan Mission are meant only for rural areas and when a GP is upgraded to an urban area, they lose these schemes, causing difficulty to vulnerable families. “If these schemes were insulated from the rural-urban categorisation, there would be an incentive for rural areas with urban character to get upgraded as towns,” he adds.   Officials who spoke to DH also point out how urbanisation does not necessarily guarantee a better lifestyle for citizens as new town panchayats hardly have any funds for infrastructure development. They say that urbanising panchayats is often a politically motivated decision as elected representatives get a larger civic body to control.  Several GPs are agriculture-centric and if such villages are included in municipalities merely based on their population, employment will be a challenge, they say. R Balasubramanian, founder of Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement (GRAAM), concurs.  “Urbanisation does not happen by declaring a panchayat as an urban local body. Urbanisation is a derivative of several factors, including changing economic dependence of people, population density and concentrated delivery of civic services,” he says.  Before declaring a panchayat as an urban local body, the government has to hold consultations with experts, apart from promising civic amenities. Without these amenities, people will have no choice but to migrate to other places, he observes. The clamour for urbanization could drive out people like Rudrappa in search of livelihood. This Hosapete resident fears that even civic amenities’ tariff (electricity and water supply) will go up in a municipality. “Our expenses will go up and our income will come down. We will have to migrate to cities like Bengaluru in search of jobs.”  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gram-panchayat-to-municipality-an-upgrade-these-village-residents-dread-1041250.html
16-10-2021||West||Hunger for power like drug addiction: Maharashtra CM Uddhav targets BJP||Launching a scathing attack on the BJP, Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that hunger for power is like drug addiction. “Hunger for power is nothing but drug addiction,” Thackeray said addressing the annual Dussehra rally at the Shanmukhananda Hall at Kings’ Circle. “If you are into drug addiction, you destroy yourself, your family… but hunger for power destroys families of others,” said Thackeray, who heads the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance government. Lashing out at BJP, he said: “Hindutva is under threat. It is under threat from those who have climbed the ladder of power using Hindutva. These people will now use the Britishers’ strategy to divide and rule. They will create differences in society… we have to be careful against such plans.” According to him, there have been several attempts to “topple and break” the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “Very soon we would be completing two years,” the chief minister said. Thackeray also said that he was committed to the word that he gave to his late father Balasaheb Thackeray that a Shiv Sainik would occupy the post of chief minister of Maharashtra. “I would have kept away had BJP offered the chief minister’s post to a Shiv Sainik…. But now I am on chair discharging duties very firmly,” he said and reaffirmed the Shiv Sena’s commitment towards Hindutva and welfare of the Marathi people. He also asked the BJP not to threaten the MVA by using agencies like CBI, ED and I-T Department.  “Don’t dare to challenge us,” he said. Thackeray also congratulated the West Bengal chief minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee. “I want to congratulate the people of West Bengal,” he said in a reference to the recent polls, in which BJP was defeated. “Are you ready for such a thing in Maharashtra?” he asked amid thunderous applause and cheers. Thackeray also accused the BJP of tarnishing the image of Maharashtra. “Jilted lovers sometimes throw acid on girls who rebuff their advances. This is what seems to be happening to Maharashtra. Rebuffed politicians, who have lost power are engaging in similar things,” he said. “They call the Maharashtra Police as ‘mafia’… officers and men from this same police have laid down their lives during the 26/11 terror attacks,” he said, adding: “Maharashtra is viewed from a different angle. If something happens in Maharashtra they (BJP) say ‘democracy was murdered’ here… this is the case in Maharashtra, then what about Uttar Pradesh… if police is ‘mafia’ (in Maharashtra), the police is ‘Bharat-bhushan’ in Uttar Pradesh,” he said mockingly. Referring to defence minister Rajnath Singh’s statement on Veer Savarkar, he said: “BJP hasn't understood either Veer Savarkar or Mahatma Gandhi”. Further hitting out at the BJP, Thackeray said: “They claim to be the world's biggest party… Maharashtra has seen two bye-elections… in both these elections it needed to borrow candidates from other parties”. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hunger-for-power-like-drug-addiction-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-targets-bjp-1040987.html
16-10-2021||West||Maharashtra BJP leaders hit back at CM Thackeray||State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Friday hit back at Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for his tirade against the former ally and alleged that the Sena had "negotiated" with then prime minister Indira Gandhi when she announced Emergency. Speaking to reporters in Kolhapur, Patil criticised Thackeray over the latter's speech at the Shiv Sena's Dussehra rally. “Thackeray targeted the RSS saying they were never part of the freedom struggle. I want to know where was Shiv Sena when it negotiated with then prime minister Indira Gandhi who imposed an Emergency and sent several leaders, party workers and journalists behind bars. She tried to end the democracy," the BJP leader said. “Thackeray also targeted the Union government but selectively forgot to mention that Maharashtra received lots of aid in the form of PPE kits, masks, vaccines and ventilators (after the coronavirus pandemic began)," Patil added. While Thackeray patted himself on the back for announcing Rs 10,000 crore assistance for farmers hit by natural calamities, the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led government had given the aid of Rs 20,400 per hectare for crops on non-irrigated land, Rs 54,000 per hectare for crops on irrigated land and Rs 75,000 per hectare for multi-year crops, Patil said. Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Council Pravin Darekar said, “I was expecting some development-related announcements from chief minister Thackeray. But he kept on expressing his displeasure about the Union government.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-leaders-hit-back-at-cm-thackeray-1041023.html
16-10-2021||West||At Dussehra rally, Uddhav Thackeray takes aim at several political 'Ravanas'||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday launched a scathing attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party and its brand of Hindutva, called for a national debate on federalism, sympathised with the farmers, and lavished praise on his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee. Addressing the annual Shiv Sena Dussehra Rally, held virtually without break since 1966, Thackeray called for an honest discussion on Centre-State relations as the country marks the 75th anniversary of India's Independence. He said that the Indian Constitution framed by Dr B R Ambedkar has laid down clear guidelines on the rights of the Centre and states, with autonomy to the latter, along with sovereign rights like the Centre. "In the current scenario, the question arises whether the Centre will allow the states to survive... In their thirst for power, they keep harassing the non-BJP-ruled states, try to topple their governments. The Constitution says if the Centre interferes in the state's affairs, it would be unconstitutional," Thackeray declared. Dwelling on BJP's pet theme, Thackeray said that Hindutva is at risk from those who used it as ladder to climb to power - a pointed reference to an exclusive report on this issue by IANS on September 20. "There was a recent RTI reply in which the Centre said there is no threat to Hindutva. But Hindutva faces a threat from the 'neo-Hindus' propped up by the BJP. They will drive a wedge in society and adopt the British strategy of 'divide and rule' to grab power. We must be on our guard always," he stressed. Touching on the recent fracas of Veer Savarkar raised by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, he said people who have no connections or participated in the freedom struggle are talking about Mahatma Gandhi and Savarkar. "The people who are spreading lies about these personalities, are not even worthy of uttering the names of Gandhiji and Savarkar," he said. Referring to 'Lal, Bal, and Pal' (Lala Lajpat Rai of Punjab, Bal Gangadhar Tilak of Maharashtra and Bipin Chandra Pal of Bengal), he said even now these three states are at the forefront of the fight against the BJP. "I compliment Mamata Didi for not bowing before the Delhi rulers and West Bengal fulfilled its duty... Maharashtra is the same, we will not bend before Delhi. They shout 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' and 'Vande Mataram' at the slightest opportunity. Now, we will show them what 'Har Har Mahadev' really means," Thackeray roared. Hammering the BJP for constantly targeting the Maharashtra government after the Sena joined hands with Nationalist Congress Party-Congress in November 2019, he said the Shiv Sainiks and the people of the state will not tolerate it. "They are hounding us and even our families through the probe agencies like IT, ED, CBI. We are not scared They are trying to break and topple our government - I challenge them to bring us down they will not succeed," the CM asserted. He said that he had become the Chief Minister to fulfil a promise made to his father, and the Shiv Sena founder, the late Balasaheb Thackeray, and he was not some 'fakir' to run away with his 'jhola' from responsibilities to the people. Taking strong umbrage at the BJP for comparing the Maharashtra Police with the mafia, he demanded then what is the Uttar Pradesh Police, or the police force of other BJP-ruled states. Patting the Maharashtra Police, Thackeray said the state cops are like the soldiers on the borders - "they fight fiercely without bothering for their lives they proved it during the 1992-1993 riots and bomb blasts, the 26/11 terror strikes and at all other times". At several points in his 40-minute speech, there was applause, cheers and whistles of approval from the audience inside the Shanmukhananda Hall in Matunga. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-dussehra-rally-uddhav-thackeray-takes-aim-at-several-political-ravanas-1041063.html
16-10-2021||West||Why do you want Maharashtra to turn into West Bengal?: Fadnavis asks CM Thackeray||A day after Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray asked Shiv Sainiks to emulate the example of Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal’s resistance to BJP, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis declared that the BJP will never allow it to happen.  “I want to congratulate the people of West Bengal... I want to congratulate Mamata Banerjee... are you ready for such a thing in Maharashtra?,” Thackeray asked Shiv Sainiks amid thunderous applause and cheers during the annual Dussehra rally on Friday.  Speaking to reporters in Nagpur, Fadnavis on Friday lashed out at his successor and former ally.  "Why do you want to turn Maharashtra into that state where no industry could flourish because of union activities and extortion? Where people are beaten up and hanged for speaking against you. Do you want to build such a Maharashtra? But the BJP will never let Maharashtra turn into Bengal, it will remain as Maharashtra,” said Fadnavis.  Referring to 'Lal, Bal, and Pal' (Lala Lajpat Rai of Punjab, Bal Gangadhar Tilak of Maharashtra and Bipin Chandra Pal of Bengal) in his address, Thackeray had said even now these three states are at the forefront of the fight against the BJP.  "I compliment Mamata Didi for not bowing before the Delhi rulers and West Bengal fulfilled its duty... Maharashtra is the same, we will not bend before Delhi. They shout 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' and 'Vande Mataram' at the slightest opportunity. Now, we will show them what 'Har Har Mahadev' really means," Thackeray had said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-do-you-want-maharashtra-to-turn-into-west-bengal-fadnavis-asks-cm-thackeray-1041187.html
16-10-2021||West||Saying Gujarat tribals are descendants of Shabari, govt announces Rs 5,000 aid to tribals for Ram Temple pilgrimage||The Gujarat government has announced financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to each tribal person from the state who undertakes pilgrimage to Ram Janmbhumi in Ayodhya. The government in a release quoting the minister of state for tourism and pilgrimage development Purnesh Modi on Saturday claimed that "Gujarat's tribals are descendants of Shabari Mata" who is believed to have met Ram during his 14-year exile in the jungle of Dangs, a district in south Gujarat. Modi announced the decision of extending financial aid to tribals during state-level Dussehra Mahotsav event at Shabari Dham in Dangs district on Friday. Shabari Dham, located at Subir about 30 km from district headquarters Ahwa, is associated with Shabari Mata who is believed to have fed berries to Lord Ram here. Controversial religious leader Swami Aseemanand is also associated with Shabari Dham who resides here as one of its trustees. During the event on Friday, Modi declared that Rs 5,000 will be given to tribals of the state for undertaking the pilgrimage to Ayodhya at Ram Janmabhoomi, believed to be the birthplace of Ram. He said that the decision has been taken in line with Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, Sindhu Darshan and Shravan Tirth Yatra for which pilgrims are given financial help.  Modi also announced that from next year, state-level Dussehra Mahotsav will be organised at different places which are associated with Lord Ram. He added that the state government is working on developing a tourism circuit between Saputara, Gujarat's only hill station in Dangs, and the "Statue of Unity" at Kevadia in Narmada district, which will connect tribal areas of the eastern part of the state. The minister said that this project will highlight "cultural and historical heritage." The tribal-dominated Dangs district has a history of clashes between Christian missionaries and saffron organizations over allegations of religious conversion. In 2006, the RSS had held the Shabari Kumbah Mela primarily to draw the tribals back into "Hindu fold." This is also the place that witnessed the state's first anti-Christian riots in 1998. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/saying-gujarat-tribals-are-descendants-of-shabari-govt-announces-rs-5000-aid-to-tribals-for-ram-temple-pilgrimage-1041255.html
