17-10-2021||Comment||How safe are our buildings?||A spate of fire accidents and building collapses in the last couple of months has raised serious concerns about the safety of buildings where we live and work in cities. On October 4, an eight-storey apartment in Shimla collapsed like a house of cards before the eyes of the residents who had luckily moved out noticing cracks in the building. In Bengaluru, two three-storey buildings collapsed on successive days in the last week of September; and a week before there was a deadly fire in an apartment complex. A few days earlier, a building in Sabji Mandi area in New Delhi collapsed killing two passersby children. On July 27, an under-construction building in Mumbai collapsed injuring six. Some of the terrible fire tragedies of the past like the Delhi Uphaar Cinema fire which claimed 59 lives, the Kolkata Amri fire which killed 95, the Kumbakonam incident in Tamil Nadu which took away 94 schoolchildren and the Bengaluru Carlton towers blaze that claimed nine lives cannot be easily erased from our minds. Why do such incidents keep happening, not infrequently, across cities in India? Broadly, they can be attributed to three factors. The first relates to improper maintenance of buildings, the second to the quality of construction and the third to constructions in violation of building and safety norms. Maintenance is the responsibility of the owner and it is common knowledge that in India, we pay little attention to this important aspect, be it individuals or organisations. Several old buildings continue to be in dilapidated condition. Government organisations in particular are guilty of poor maintenance as little money is allotted for this purpose under the budget. The quality of a structure depends a lot on the safety aspects to be ensured during the planning and construction stage. The National Building Code of India (NBCI) introduced in 1970 has been updated and a revised code has been brought into effect in 2016. It contains detailed guidelines for construction such as structural design, fire safety requirements, certification of structural safety, and asset and facility management. It is estimated that on average, there are about 2.5 lakh construction sites in India with about 6.5 million people working. Apart from buildings, construction sites would include civil infrastructure works like roads, flyovers, subways, bus stations and metros. These sites are highly prone to risks and exposed to hazards. Potholed roads must also be considered as hazards, as the recent accidents in Bengaluru resulting in the deaths of commuters have shown. This brings us to the question of enforcement of building regulations, and herein lies the crux of the problem. Municipal corporations, who are the enforcement authorities, have consistently exhibited laxity and dereliction of duty in this sphere of work, and the reasons are not far to seek. Shortage of qualified manpower is often cited as a reason. While this may be true, the stark reality is that the construction of illegal buildings in cities has turned into a thriving business, with a well flourishing contractor-politician- engineer/town planner nexus. A glaring example of this phenomenon is the case of the two 40-storey towers in Noida built in contravention of building regulations, including fire and safety norms. In 2014, a local resident welfare association filed a case against the builder, Supertech, in the Allahabad High Court for construction of additional towers in the green area compromising with the safety of residents of other towers and blocking sunlight and air circulation for them. After three years, in 2017, the court ordered the demolition of the towers. Recently, the Supreme Court confirmed the demolition order putting an end to the builder’s efforts to avoid or at least minimise the demolition. We may also recall a similar order passed by the apex court in 2019 for the demolition of two highrise apartment complexes in Kochi in Kerala for violation of coastal zone regulation norms. The demolition was actually carried out in January 2020, much to the chagrin of the builders and residents. While these orders of the apex court may serve as an eye-opener for errant big builders (in Supertech’s case, the court also directed the company to carry out the demolition at its own cost and refund all the home buyers who had booked flats in the towers), there is a larger issue of several illegal buildings across a city in narrow streets and congested areas causing enormous inconvenience to the residents of the locality and to the neighbours in particular. Bengaluru is a prime example of this obnoxious feature, complaints from people hardly receiving any response. How many can afford to approach the courts and wait for years for an uncertain remedy? Another important factor to be considered in the context of fires and building collapses is the cost burden of such incidents, be they accidental or manmade — the loss of productivity, disruption of work schedules in respect of buildings under construction, compensation to be paid to those injured and to the families of the deceased, damage to equipment etc, apart from the mental agony all the affected persons would go through. Here are some suggestions to deal with the problem: 1. Set up a Building Safety Department in municipal corporations with well-qualified engineers who must be trained in the implementation of the NBCI. It must be independent of the engineering department responsible for the sanction of building plans. 2. The construction organisations must set up a unit responsible for monitoring safety management systems and minimising risks and occupational hazards. 3. Use of modern technology will go a long way in managing risks. The Computational Modelling and Simulation Centre in the University of California has developed tools that will use artificial intelligence to identify features of buildings and calculate risks in case of natural calamities like earthquakes and hurricanes. Seoul in South Korea will be using IoT and blockchain to monitor older buildings which will automatically send alerts when risks are detected. India, with its hi-tech talent, can adopt such measures aimed at improving predictability in safety management. 4. In keeping with the Sustainable Development Goals, promote a culture of sustainability in buildings and built environment amongst all those involved in construction activity as well as the citizens, who must learn to respect the law in the interest of their own safety. Creating a good quality of life in cities is as much our responsibility as that of the government. (The writer is a former Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/how-safe-are-our-buildings-1041503.html
17-10-2021||First Edit||Karnataka CM’s remarks embolden vigilantes||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's defence of moral policing in the state, terming it as part of normal "actions and reactions” when ‘’sentiments are hurt’’, is highly irresponsible and could further embolden fringe elements to take the law into their own hands. While his predecessor B S Yediyurappa refused to succumb to divisive politics and took everybody along, it is disheartening that Bommai, who has his moorings in socialist ideology, has thrown his weight behind the hate brigade, instead of denouncing them outright. The Chief Minister’s indirect justification of moral policing during his tour of coastal districts amounts to tacit approval of attempts by some elements with primitive mindsets to divide the state on lines of caste and religion. Far from invoking the might of the law to crush such anti-social elements, Bommai defended moral policing as a “societal Issue” and urged the youth to act in a way that sentiments of others were not hurt. For good measure, he added, “There should be morality. We cannot live without morality,” leaving nobody in doubt about where his sympathies lie.  The coast has always represented the progressive face of Karnataka with its pioneering efforts in the fields of education, healthcare and banking. But some communal elements with a regressive mindset are trying to spoil its image now. While an attack on pub-going girls grabbed national headlines a few years ago, these days even casual socialising between members of different communities is attracting the wrath of rabid Hindutva groups in the form of physical assaults. The seeds of divisiveness sown in the coast are now sprouting in different parts of the state, with a young Muslim man in Belagavi being beheaded recently for pursuing a relationship with a Hindu girl. Such incidents are a blot on the reputation of the state which always had the best personal and social relations among members of different communities. Its dominant culture was multi-religious and tolerant and it has always had institutions in all fields that embodied and supported that culture. But the government, which should ensure that the culture is maintained and strengthened, is actually sending out signals that would weaken it.  Bommai was known to be soft on fringe groups during his earlier stint as home minister. But as a minister and more so as the Chief Minister he is expected to don the role of a statesman and follow ‘rajdharma’, as former Prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee would say, without pandering to communal and other vested interests. Morality is extremely subjective as what is moral to one could be immoral to another. Bommai should be more concerned about upholding the rule of law and the secular spirit of the Constitution, instead of imposing a skewed moral code on the people through vigilante groups, which will bring him no honour. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/karnataka-cm-s-remarks-embolden-vigilantes-1041506.html
17-10-2021||In Perspective||Sita: In search of lost glory||Chandrabati was the first woman poet in Bangla who lived in the 16th century in the Mymensingh district of present-day Bangladesh. She is credited with retelling Ramkatha from Sita’s point of view. The village women of modern-day Bangladesh still sing parts of Ramayan of Chandrabati for its lyrical quality and emotional effectiveness. Sita has returned from Lanka after the war. Ram is the king of Ayodhya now and she is the queen. Sita is sitting in the palace and is requested by her girlfriends of the royal household to narrate her story. She thinks that she has been unlucky since birth and has always been a sufferer in spite of having Ram as her husband and a brother like Lakshman. She reminisces, "About my luck, what shall I say, God created me a sufferer since my birth." She bares her heart before the women audience. It is narrated in Baromasi style — a month-wise depiction of the incidents in her life during the last year of exile. Ram, Lakshman and Sita reach the Panchavati forest on the banks of the river Godavari and decide to make their cottage there. She is abducted by Ravana and taken to Lanka to be kept in the Ashok Kanan. Then she narrates the coming of Hanuman. She is consoled by Hanuman, who shows her the ring of Ram. She is convinced that her whereabouts are known to Raghavendra and she will be saved. She comes to know through the demonesses guarding her that Meghnad, Kumbhakarna and other warriors have been killed. Lanka is devastated, and Ravan and his clan have been destroyed by Ram's arrows. Sita has regained her Raghumani. The voice of Sita should be heard. The deletion of the book ‘Chandrabati’s Ramayana’, translated from Bengali by Nabaneeta Dev Sen, from the syllabus of BA (Hons) English of the Delhi University shows the questionable attitude towards women. Ravana was the embodiment of physical, financial and military power. Indra, the king of Devas, was a prisoner of war, living in a stable in Lanka and cutting grass for the horses. Yama protected Lankapuri as its chief guard. Vishwakarma was the chief architect of golden Lanka. The Ashok Kanan was better than the Nandan Kanan of heavens. Ravana declared that Sita if she pleases, would be his queen consort in place of Mandodari. But Sita rejected Ravana’s advances. She abandoned food, ornaments and lived as an ascetic. She wanted to die but lived because she wished to be back with Ram again. It was the strong will and character of Sita that defeated Ravana. The destruction of golden Lanka results from an insult to the feminine power symbolised by Sita. It gives a message that great civilisations suffer irreparably if women are insulted. And what do we see now? There has been a flurry of messages on WhatsApp in recent times, where Sita is not to be seen along with Ram. What is the rationale behind the deletion of Sita from the heart of Hanuman? Hanuman’s heart only has the idol of Ram as per some WhatsApp messages. This is unacceptable. There can’t be Ram without Sita. Ram orders the exile of a pregnant Sita because her character is doubted by some nasty men of Ayodhya. Sita accepts her fate. She never blames Ram for her distress and her exile in the forest. She has nowhere cursed any male or female for her problems. Of course, she fears the curses of the desolate women of Lanka whose sons and husbands were killed during the war. While in exile, she gives birth to twin sons and waits for the call from Ram. She is invited to be a part of Yajna but here again, she is asked to show her chastity in front of all by a fire ordeal. She is deeply hurt by and makes it clear that she will not return. She enters the burning flames never to come back. Sita is the hero of Chandrabati’s Ramayana and rightly so. Her ability to endure suffering and pain gives the persona of Sita, as a hero in literature. The bards have sung the valour shown in the Ram-Ravana war, whereas the sorrows suffered by Sita are not mentioned appropriately. Why is there a hesitation to give women their due? What about gender equality? The much-avowed concept of Ram Rajya struggles in the face of Sita’s tribulations and there are uncomfortable questions about the treatment meted out to her. Perhaps, there is a chance that people may like Bali Rajya where there was ecstasy for all the people in his kingdom. There were no troubles and exploitation. Bali ensured the equality and dignity of women and men of all castes. King Mahabali (known also as Maveli) is still remembered every year during the Onam festival as an ideal king, who could banish troubles and sorrows. The story of Sita by Chandrabati should be studied by all for its beauty of verses and the human effect that is not overshadowed by emotions. Sita is the soul of India and her name and glory will last forever.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/sita-in-search-of-lost-glory-1041505.html
17-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||How to learn maths effectively while at home||Radhika, Lakshmi (names changed) from Meenakaliya and Kasaba Bengre in Mangaluru were struggling to make division and multiplications -- a simple task for most 10-year olds. With government-run primary schools closed for months due to Covid-19-induced lockdown, children are struggling to recollect what they had learnt in classrooms. In order to refresh the memory of children, the government with help of Akshara Foundation, launched ‘Maneyalle Madona Lekka’ through ‘Makkalige Ganitha Kalike Andolana’. Mathematics is believed to be a foundational subject upon which future learning depends. According to Annual Status of Education Report  (ASER) 2018 report, less than 22.7% of children in fifth standard can do simple division. The Ganitha Kalika Andolana (GKA) was designed to help students, particularly in fourth and fifth standard, to understand Mathematics. “Under ‘Maneyalle Madona Lekka’, we are using DIKSHA app and sending link to the mobile phone of parents every week. Parents, with help from teachers, make children learn maths at home. Parents also receive help in teaching children from volunteers in gram panchayats,” district coordinator of Akshara Foundation Naveen said. There are seven educational blocks in Dakshina Kannada district and 13,000 children with mobile phones. “We are reaching out to a minimum 30% to 40% of children in the district under ‘Maneyalle Madona Lekka’, he said. DDPI Malleswamy, in his circular to government schools, had said that the initiative was taken to ensure that children do not lag behind in studies due to closure of schools. Mangaluru North Block Resource Person Dr Manjula Shetty, during the inauguration of ‘Maneyalli Madona Lekka’ recently, had said: “Under the initiative, a house has been converted into a learning place.” “When Covid-19 cases declined after the first wave, we had initiated a 100-day programme to ensure children from government schools in Mangaluru South and North Block recollected everything they had learnt prior to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. A group of nearly 200 volunteers from different colleges, members of youth organisations had joined hands with the Foundation to teach children in their neighbourhood, the basic concepts. Ganesh Boloor in Meenakaliya, along with his wife Asha, had covered nearly 200 children in their neighbourhood. As a result, at least 10 children wrote and excelled in the entrance examination for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayat, said Naveen. Under the 100 days programme, around 3,000 children were covered, sources added. “With help from DDPI Malleswamy and donors, we had recorded all Samveda classes in DD Chandana onto a pen drive. This pen drive, connected to the TV installed in halls of schools in Meenakaliya and Kasaba Bengre by donors, came in handy to teach children who had missed watching classes on DD Chandana,” he said. Mathematics kit The objective is to ensure that children who had forgotten what they had learnt in their classrooms, are actively engaged in the learning process, so that they do not feel like fish out of water when classes resume in the district,” he said. Once the primary schools begin, teachers will start using Mathematics kit comprising 23 materials given to them by the government under the GKA to make learning mathematics effective. The kit includes beaded rope, tape, blocks, foamed goodies, measuring tools and weighing balance, which makes learning an enjoying and a wholesome experience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/how-to-learn-maths-effectively-while-at-home-1041332.html
17-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||CM Bommai to chair crucial meeting on MySugar factory in Bengaluru today||Political leaders and representatives of various organisations took part in the preliminary meeting organised by Raitha Hitharakshana Samiti, ahead of a meeting to be chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, in Bengaluru on October 18. The CM had invited them to a meeting to discuss the MySugar factory issue in Bengaluru on October 18 and had even assured them of giving them the good news. The District Raitha Hitharakshana Samiti has been staging indefinite stir for more than a month at Sir M Visvesvaraya statue in Mandya. Various political leaders participated in the protest and extended support. The CM too had visited the protest venue on October 15. Former MLA H D Chowdaiah said that this was the last attempt to save the factory. The CM should give a clear message that the factory would be run by the government as urged by the farmers and sugarcane growers of the district. MLA DC Thammanna said that the CM's assurance on MySugar had raised hopes of the farmers of the district. The factory should not be privatised for any reason. MLA C S Puttaraju, MLC KT Srikantegowda, former MLAs G B Shivakumar, Kalpana Siddaraju, Organising Secretary Sunanda Jayaram and other leaders were present. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-bommai-to-chair-crucial-meeting-on-mysugar-factory-in-bengaluru-today-1041464.html
17-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Scientists get first-hand experience of tremors in Kalaburagi village||A team of officials from Hyderabad-based National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) on Sunday had a first-hand experienced of low-intensity tremors during their visit to the tremor-hit Gadikeshwar in Chincholi taluk of the district. A seismometer installed by the NGRI scientists at the gram panchayat office has recorded low-intensity tremors. The magnitude of the Sunday quake was less than a metre. A team of scientists from NGRI Dr Shashidhar and Dr Suresh, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) scientists Dr Ramesh Dikpal, Dr Abhinaya and Sharanasirasagi seismic centre assistant scientist Anaveerappa Biradar, was visiting Gadikeshwar when they heard a sound from the earth’s crust. Gulbarga MP Dr Umesh Jadhav and Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur, who were camping at the village, also felt tremors in the early hours of Sunday. Revenue Minister R Ashoka is visiting the village on Monday to instil confidence among the fear-stricken villagers. The district administration has opened a relief centre in the village. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/scientists-get-first-hand-experience-of-tremors-in-kalaburagi-village-1041518.html
17-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hindu activists, MLA Bellad block Hubballi-Dharwad road over religious conversion||Members of Bajrang Dal, Vishwa Hindu Parishad and BJP MLA Arvind Bellad staged a protest in front of Navanagar police station against the police for not acting against a man accused of forceful conversions here on Sunday. Earlier, a large number of right-wing activists blocked the Hubballi-Dharwad main road and the dedicated corridor of the Hubballi-Dharwad bus rapid transit system at Bairidevarkoppa here for more than an hour and a half, as police failed to arrest ‘Christian missionary’ Somu Avaradhi, who according to an FIR filed by Vishwanath Budur, 33, had forced him to convert to Christianity with the promise of a better life. Vishwanath, a vegetable vendor at APMC yard, told reporters that Somu started interacting with him three months ago. Six days ago, Somu had come to his house and said that if Vishwanath starts following Christianity, his life will change. “Somu had asked me and my family members to attend the Sunday prayer at ‘Prayer for all’ hall in Bairidevarkoppa. However, when I started singing a prayer of Hindu gods, he, along with others at the hall, started abusing me,” he said. Tension prevailed at the APMC-Navanagar police station since 4 pm when the right wing activists brought Somu to the police station and demanded that he be arrested. Police sources told DH that Somu was shifted to a hospital in an ambulance as he had sustained injuries. Sources said the accused was manhandled by nearly 70 right wing activists. However, Somu has not sustained any serious injuries. The right wing activists, along with Bellad, staged a protest at the police station at around 8 pm, as they came to know that the police had let the accused go, without arresting him. Somu told DH over phone that he had seen Vishwanath only on Sunday. “I am a Panchamasali Lingayat. However, it was out of my volition that I started worshipping Jesus. As a pastor, I never forced anyone to convert to Christianity. During the Sunday prayers, we objected to Vishwanath raising Hindu slogans at a Christian prayer hall,” he said. Hubballi-Dharwad police commissioner Labhu Ram and DCP (law and order) Ramarajan K did not respond to repeated calls from DH. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hindu-activists-mla-bellad-block-hubballi-dharwad-road-over-religious-conversion-1041560.html
17-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress high command will decide on CM after 2023 polls, every one will abide by it, says Siddaramaiah||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday said the party high command will decide on its chief minister after winning the 2023 assembly polls in Karnataka, and whomever they name, every one will abide by it. The Leader of Opposition in Karnataka also made it clear that he has no interest in national politics and will remain in the state. "High Command will decide. Congress party is a national party. Who made Basavaraj Bommai the CM? Did MLAs do it? It was the (BJP) high command and RSS which decided. Similarly, we too have the high command," Siddaramaiah said in response to a question on whether he will become CM if Congress wins assembly polls. Speaking to reporters, he said, on the basis of the opinion expressed by the newly elected MLAs, the high command will decide on the new Chief Minister. "Whoever is made (the CM), we will accept it." Reiterating that the high command has not invited him to national politics and the issue was not discussed during his recent meeting with Congress President Sonia Gandhi, the former Chief Minister said that he too was not interested in it and wants to continue in state politics. "I'm now 74 years old, I may be in politics maximum five more years, I am fine with Karnataka, I'm happy with Karnataka politics," he said. It is no secret that Siddaramaiah is nursing his ambition to become chief minister for a second term if the party wins the next assembly polls in 2023. However, with state unit President D K Shivakumar also being seen as a strong contender for the Chief Minister post, and his loyalists too like Siddaramaiah's, already openly pitching for their leader as CM face, according to party sources, there is growing political one-upmanship between the two leaders and the issue may become contentious in the days to come. In response to a question the Congress Legislature Party leader expressed his opinion in favour of Rahul Gandhi taking over the mantle of the Congress party, as its national President. "Several working committee members have expressed their opinion that he (Rahul Gandhi) should become the party president, he has said that he will consider it. My opinion is also that Rahul Gandhi should become AICC president, I have said it a number of times," Siddaramaiah said. The Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Saturday decided that elections for the new Congress president would be held between August 21 and September 20 next year with a majority of party leaders urging Rahul Gandhi to assume the top post, a request he said he would consider. Continuing his attack against the RSS, Siddaramaiah said, it is a communal organisation, which is in favour of 'Manusmṛiti', and anti-minority, hence he is opposed to it, and his opposition to the organisation is not to appease anyone. "Not now, since I joined politics in 1971, I'm opposing (RSS). It is because, it is a communal organisation. RSS began in 1925, their activities since then show that they want to divide the country and the society and not to unite it," he said. Further questioning the claims of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' by BJP which follows RSS ideology, he asked "is there a single Muslim MLA from that party? RSS say they are social organisation, why there are no Muslim or Christian member in RSS?"  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-high-command-will-decide-on-cm-after-2023-polls-every-one-will-abide-by-it-says-siddaramaiah-1041453.html
17-10-2021||National||Scientists fight climate change with an unlikely ally: CO2||India’s air conditioning and cold storage sectors may have recorded over 7% growth in just the last five years but experts find the trend “uncool”. Reason? The high demand for cooling devices has led to an increase in synthetic hydrofluorocarbon refrigerant use, which is, in turn, heating up the atmosphere.  Instead, scientists from four institutes and a think tank in India are now working with their counterparts in Norway in a unique partnership to back the adoption of a natural refrigerant, and the candidate is an unlikely one: carbon dioxide (CO2). Unlikely, because this is a compound that is often seen as the culprit behind climate change. But scientists say nothing can be further from the truth. To corroborate their claims, they are now developing a range of testbed cooling units from air-conditioners to cold storage containers operating on CO2.  The Norwegian government-funded project involves scientists from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), IIT-Madras, BITS, Central Institute of Fisheries Technology and the Council for Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), working with the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. “The idea that CO2 is the contributor to climate change is a misconception,” said Pramod Kumar, Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the IISc. “Its global warming potential (GPW) is just 1. In contrast, synthetic refrigerants such as R134A (which is commonly used) have a global warming potential of 1,430. So, the margins are huge,” said Kumar, who is among those scientists involved in the Indo-Norwegian collaboration which has been dubbed INDEE+.  But why carbon dioxide? “As per international commitments, we have to start phasing out refrigerants with 150 global warming potential or more. Among all the gases we can use as a replacement, carbon dioxide is the best choice because of its extremely low global warming potential,” said Assistant Professor Satyanarayanan Seshadri of the Department of Applied Mechanics, IIT-Madras, who is also involved in the collaborative project. While a laboratory under Professor Prakash M Maiya at IIT-Madras has already developed a CO2-based air conditioning unit, the Norwegian involvement comes in handy in adapting the technology to the Indian climate. Scientists noted two challenges in using CO2: one, it is generated at high pressure, creating engineering problems. Second, because of India’s high general ambient temperature of 31C, there is some difficulty condensing it into liquid form. Having this gas condense into liquid is vitally important to achieving cooling. “We are now using this pilot programme to make viable commercial testbeds. This is where we are working with the Norwegian University of Science and Technology to get these technological issues sorted out,” Dr Seshadri added. The programme will see the deployment of four pre-commercial CO2-using cooling units at five different locations: a supermarket in Bengaluru, an industrial building, a fishery (for cold storage), and an Akshay Patra community kitchen where hot and cold water can be delivered. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-fight-climate-change-with-an-unlikely-ally-co2-1041298.html
17-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Gandhiji asked Savarkar to file mercy petitions?||Did Veer Savarkar write mercy petitions to the British government at the advice of Mahatma Gandhi? Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's remarks that Savarkar did so set off a war of words between the BJP and the Opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-gandhiji-asked-savarkar-to-file-mercy-petitions-1041357.html
17-10-2021||National||Fuel rates hiked again, petrol at Rs 105.84/litre in Delhi||Petrol and diesel prices on Sunday rallied to their highest ever levels across the country, as fuel rates were hiked again by 35 paise a litre. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.84 a litre and Rs 111.77 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of the state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 102.52 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 94.57. This is the fourth straight day of 35 paise per litre increase in petrol and diesel prices. There was no change in rates on October 12 and 13. Diesel prices have now increased 19 out of the last 23 days taking up its retail price by Rs 5.95 per litre in Delhi. With diesel prices rising sharply, the fuel is now available at over Rs 100 a litre in several parts of the country. This dubious distinction was earlier available to petrol that had crossed Rs 100 a litre-mark across the country a few months earlier. Petrol prices had maintained stability since September 5, but oil companies finally raised the pump prices last week. Petrol prices have also risen on 16 of the previous 19 days taking up its pump price by Rs 4.65 per litre. OMCs had preferred to maintain their watch prices on the global oil situation before making any revision in prices. This is the reason why petrol prices were not revised for the last three weeks. But extreme volatility in the global oil price movement has now pushed OMCs to effect the increase. Crude price has been on a surge rising over three year high level of over $ 84.6 a barrel now. Since September 5, when both petrol and diesel prices were revised, the price of petrol and diesel in the international market is higher by around $9-10 per barrel as compared to average prices during August. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-rates-hiked-again-petrol-at-rs-10584/litre-in-delhi-1041361.html
17-10-2021||National||India reports 14,146 new Covid-19 cases, 144 deaths||India recorded 14,146 fresh Covid-19 infections in a day taking the cumulative cases to 3,40,67,719, while the death toll climbed to 4,52,124 with 144 more fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry's data on Sunday. Active cases have declined to 1,95,846 and comprise 0.57 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.10 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. In a day, the active caseload declined by 5,786. A total of  11,00,123 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 59,09,35,381. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,19,749, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent, the ministry said. Over 97.65 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-14146-new-covid-19-cases-144-deaths-1041367.html
17-10-2021||National||Indian economy is bouncing back strongly: MoS for External Affairs V Muraleedharan||The Indian economy is bouncing back strongly, domestic consumption is increasing and industrial production is at pre-Covid level, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan has said, emphasising that the reforms implemented by the government has provided fillip to the business ecosystem in the country. Muraleedharan said the Narendra Modi government has undertaken “far-reaching” structural reforms, making use of the mantra of 'Reform, Perform and Transform’. “These reforms range from digital transactions to banking reforms, to combating corruption, controlling inflation. Now more than 90 per cent of the FDI approvals have been put on the automatic approval route. We are promoting an ecosystem of creativity and innovation in every field,” the minister said here last week. Muraleedharan was in the city for a two-day visit to attend a high-level UN Security Council open debate on ‘Peacebuilding and sustaining peace’ held under the Kenyan Presidency of the Council earlier last week. Speaking at an event organised by Jaipur Foot USA and Gracious Givers Foundation USA in the city, Muraleedharan said the reforms being undertaken by the government provides fillip to the business ecosystem in India and the diaspora could play a significant role in the process by roping in more investments and bringing in technology and skills into the country. “We firmly believe that with the improving ecosystem and better engagement with the diaspora, new ideas will germinate in the country,” he said. “It is evidently clear that the economy is bouncing back strongly. Domestic consumption is increasing and industrial production is at pre-Covid levels,” he said. Muraleedharan told the gathering of eminent members of the Indian-American community and diaspora that India is now in the process of moving towards ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India). “When we say 'Atmanirbhar Bharat', it does not mean an inward-looking policy. It's a strategy that would enable and lead us towards a stronger self-reliant India, linking the global supply chains," he said. He noted that to provide further fillip to the manufacturing sector, the government has approved production linked incentive schemes in 10 key sectors to give a boost to the economy affected by the Covid19 pandemic. Muraleedharan also lauded the work being done by Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti (BMVSS) and Jaipur Foot USA. "The organisation's transformative service to the underprivileged free of cost deserves special mention,” he said. The minister added that Jaipur Foot camps have helped change lives of many people not only in India but across the globe from Asia to Africa to Latin America. “It is a matter of satisfaction and pride" that under the India for Humanity initiative launched as part of Mahatma Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary celebration, numerous artificial limbs fitness camps fully sponsored by the Ministry of External Affairs and operationalised by BMVSS have been held in 13 countries and more 7000 artificial limbs have been fitted. He added that it is heartening to see the younger generation in the United States has also join the social campaign. He congratulated Nikhil Mehta and Ajay Tadinada for their efforts in launching ‘Oxygen on Wheels’ initiative reaching out to the door steps of differently-abled people in remote places amid the pandemic. On the occasion, Muraleedharan presented leadership awards to Mehta and Tadinada. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Jaipur Foot USA continued its efforts to provide free artificial limb fitments to differently-abled people through specially-designed mobile van. Jaipur Foot USA Chairman Prem Bhandari said the fully-equipped mobile van has technicians and experts who will be able to carry out 8-10 artificial limb fitments each day. New York-based youngster Nikhil Mehta had come up with the idea of the mobile vans. Tadinada, who is part of the Jaipur Foot youth wing, had met BMVSS founder Padma Bhushan D R Mehta for the first time when he was in 9th grade, and was inspired by his work. As part of the Jaipur Foot USA youth initiative, he has launched an internship programme for youth to work with Jaipur Foot USA’s initiatives to help differently-abled people in India. Muraleedharan further added that the unprecedented Covid 19 pandemic has taught the world that in an interdependent and inter-connected world, no country, rich or poor, is immune to the effects of global disasters. The Modi government has taken all necessary steps to fight the pandemic, he said. Modi’s “mantra of ‘Test, Track, Treat and Tikka’, implementing various schemes for the benefit of the poor, providing foodgrains to over 80 crore people till Diwali this year, all are in line with the government’s efforts to minimise the impact of the pandemic,” he said. A Jan Ashirwaad Abhar Meeting was also organised on the occasion. Jaipur Foot USA Chairman Prem Bhandari said India, with a population of over 1.3 billion people, had a greater need for vaccines and other medicines required to deal with Covid and stop the spread of the virus. Still, India helped neighbouring countries, Africa and South America, with an open heart in providing millions of vaccines and other Covid-related medicines. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-economy-is-bouncing-back-strongly-mos-for-external-affairs-v-muraleedharan-1041373.html
17-10-2021||National||With current reset in global supply chain, opportunities galore in India for investors: Sitharaman||Opportunities are galore in India for all investors and industry stakeholders with the current reset in the global supply chain and clear headed and committed leadership in the country, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said. Sitharaman arrived here late Friday after her visit to Washington DC where she participated in the annual meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. "With the current reset in the global supply chain and clear headed and committed leadership in India, I see opportunities galore in India for all investors and industry stakeholders,” Sitharaman said during her address to global business leaders and investors at a roundtable organised here by industry chamber FICCI and the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum here on Saturday. Startups in India have grown tremendously and many are now raising money through capital markets. This year itself, more than 16 of them will qualify as unicorns, she said. India has fully leveraged the potential of digitisation even during the most challenging times, the finance minister said. The role of technology in the financial sector is enabling pushing the frontier of financial inclusion and fintechs are playing a key role in this area, she said at the roundtable, the Finance Ministry tweeted. Sitharaman also met Mastercard Executive Chairman Ajay Banga and Mastercard CEO Michael Miebach, FedEx Corporation President and Chief Operating Officer Raj Subramaniam, Citi CEO Jane Fraser and IBM Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Arvind Krishna, Executive vice president and head of Prudential Financial, Inc’s International Businesses Scott Sleyster and Legatum Chief Investment Officer Philip Vassiliou. Following his meeting with Sitharaman, Banga said India is on a “great pathway and trajectory” with its continuing reforms and he can see great momentum. "I'm particularly impressed by the production linked incentives that have been put into place,” he said, adding that they can make a big difference to the way that labour intensive industries in India can develop. “I'm very hopeful that it's not just one reform but the series of reforms that are continuing can keep guiding India on the trajectory. I believe that there is a lot of opportunity for India to participate in supply chains and this can be very helpful over the next period of years to bring good jobs into India,” Banga said, asserting that he is “constructively optimistic” about what India is doing. Miebach said he shares Banga’s optimism. Describing his discussion with Sitharaman as “very constructive”, he said “it further raises the optimism” and said MasterCard will continue to invest in India. Subramaniam said FedEx business in India is growing strong. “We are very bullish on India. The very fact that we have a global air network puts us in a considerable position to be able to help move Covid-19 related material into India when it was needed. “We are looking forward, we are very bullish on where potential for India is, the fastest growing large economy and growing trade environment.” Fraser said Citi has a "very proud and very long history” in India. “We are delighted to see the strength of the recovery that's happening on the ground there. Obviously there's a lot of concerns around supply chain disruption at the moment” but it’s around the world. “We are very positive about the opportunities for the country. We're seeing a real pickup in cross border flows. India is going to be a beneficiary, not just from supply chain movement around the world” and it can be an important destination for many multinationals that will be looking to grow their operations globally. She said the digitisation that India has done is “truly impressive” and "it will be one of the major hubs of digital trade and digital services in the world and a standard-bearer going forward.”  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-current-reset-in-global-supply-chain-opportunities-galore-in-india-for-investors-sitharaman-1041374.html
17-10-2021||National||Why is Centre being extra cautious before starting Covid vaccine drive for children?||Although an expert panel recently recommended emergency use of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on children and adolescents in the age group of 2-18 years, the Centre is exercising full caution before it finally kickstarts the Covid-19 vaccination drive for children in India. The government is reportedly considering scientific advice, global trends and international journals before making the big move.  The top panel of experts, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), have also been asked to take a holistic view before submitting the final plan to start the drive, the sources told the publication. The officers have been advised to study reasons behind the slow pace of rollout of vaccines for children in developed nations, the report added. An official from the NTAGI also told News18, “The message from the top is that there is no rush. We need to make a scientifically strong decision as it is about children, future of our country”.  An Indian drug regulatory panel on October 12 recommended emergency use of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on children and adolescents in the age group of 2-18 years, clearing the deck for large-scale use of the home-grown Covid-19 vaccine on kids, who are not yet eligible for jabs.  However, India’s apex drugs regulator is yet to approve Covaxin for emergency use in children despite a recommendation from the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) earlier in the week. So far, only drugmaker Zydus Cadila's DNA Covid-19 vaccine has received emergency use authorisation (EUA) in India to be used in adults and children aged 12 years and above.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-is-centre-being-extra-cautious-before-starting-covid-vaccine-drive-for-children-1041386.html
17-10-2021||National||India's coal import drops in August despite higher fuel demand from power sector||India's coal import registered a decline of 2.7 per cent to 15.22 million tonnes (MT) in August this year amid the country's power plants grappling with fuel shortages. The country imported 15.64 MT of coal in the corresponding month last year. According to data compiled by mjunction services, "Imports in August 2021 stood at around 15.22 million tonnes...imports in August 2021 were also down by 2.7 percent over August 2020." Vinaya Varma, mjunction CEO and MD, attributed the decline in volumes to the steady increase in seaborne coal prices coupled with the initiatives taken by the domestic miners for import substitution. However, he said, there is a spurt in demand from the power sector. "What impact it will have on imports, given the volatility in international prices, is to be seen," he added. Of the total import during August 2021, non-coking coal was at 9.08 MT, against 10.33 MT imported during August last year. Coking coal imports were at 4.37 MT, up against 3.17 MT imported during August 2020. India's coal imports during August 2021 through the major and non-major ports are estimated to have decreased by 6.71 per cent over July 2021. Imports in July stood at 16.31 MT. During April-August 2021, coal import stood at 92.49 MT, about 21.27 per cent higher than 76.27 MT imported during April-August 2020. During April-August 2021, non-coking coal import was at 60.85 MT as compared to 51.23 MT imported during April-August 2020. Coking coal imports were recorded at 22.19 MT, against 14.38 MT imported during the same period last year. Coal India which accounts for over 80 per cent of domestic coal output had earlier said that due to skyrocketing coal prices in international markets, all the consumers have been vying for domestic coal, hiking up the demand. Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday said closure of some mines, and inundation of a few others due to monsoon led to the crisis but there is no need to panic as the situation is improving.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coal-import-drops-in-august-despite-higher-fuel-demand-from-power-sector-1041388.html
17-10-2021||National||Air India privatisation saga: 'Time we stopped paying Rs 20 cr/day of taxpayers money to keep it flying'||Two aborted missions, three different ministers, multiple rule changes and two decades later, Indian taxpayers will no longer have to pay Rs 20 crore per day to keep the loss-making Air India flying. While opposition Congress expectedly attacked the decision as selling the family silver, DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said what Tata is getting is not a cash cow but an airline which is bleeding where money needs to be pumped in to refurbish obsolete aircraft and dust up strangled ones while being unable to touch any employee for one year and only be able to resize staff after paying a VRS. "It won't be a very easy task there. Only advantage is they (new Air India owner) are paying the price which they think they can manage. They are not taking the excessive debt accumulated to fund years of losses. We are continuing it as an ongoing concern.... This process has also saved huge amount of taxpayers money going forward," Pandey told PTI. Earlier this month, the government had accepted an offer by Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of the holding company of salt-to-software conglomerate Tata group, to pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and takeover Rs 15,300 crore of the airline's debt. As on August 31, Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore. About 75 per cent of this debt or Rs 46,262 crore will be transferred to a special purpose vehicle AIAHL before handing over the loss-making airline to the Tata Group. Tatas would not get to retain non-core assets such as the Vasant Vihar Housing colony of Air India, Air India Building at Nariman Point in Mumbai, and Air India Building in New Delhi. "We have only allowed (Tata group) for use for two years, but within two years we have to work out a monetisation plan for it to be sold so that the money can be used to set off AIAHL liabilities," Pandey said. Of the 141 Air India aircraft that Tatas would get, 42 are leased planes while the remaining 99 are owned. Tata will also take over the capitalised lease liability on account of operating leases of Rs 9,185 crore. Besides, some of these 141 planes are grounded due to lack of engine and other maintenance. Also the obsolescence factor is there are many as not fuel efficient. "We want to finish the handover quickly, because we are paying Rs 20 cr /day to run the airline. The new owner will need to put in a lot of capital because they have to do capital expenditure to improve aircraft, refurbish and give new orders for obsolete aircraft. Only then they may be able to turnaround. Also conditions have been put that you cannot resize employees for 1 year, and thereafter in the second year, you have to give VRS," Pandey said. The government is divesting its 100 per cent ownership of Air India and Air India Express along with its 50 per cent stake in ground-handling company AISATS. The government will, however, transfer about Rs 16,000 crore of unpaid current liabilities, in excess of current and non current assets, such as fuel bills and other pending dues that Air India owes to suppliers, to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL). A Letter of Intent (LoI) has been issued to Tatas on October 11 confirming the government's willingness to sell its 100 per cent stake in the airline. Tatas have now to accept the LoI, post which the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) will be signed. Conditions precedent to the transactions would need to be satisfied by Tatas before they actually can take over the operations. Normally within 14 days of acceptance of LOI, the SPA is signed. While this will be the first privatisation since 2003-04, Air India will be the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable - it holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd. Air India will give it access to a fleet of 117 wide-body and narrow-body aircraft and Air India Express Ltd another 24 narrow-body aircraft besides control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas such as London's Heathrow. Tatas beat the Rs 15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100 per cent stake in the loss-making carrier. Air India was first put on the block under the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government when the newly created disinvestment ministry led by Arun Shourie offered 40 per cent of the government stake in the airline for sale. Foreign airlines, including Lufthansa, Swissair, Air France-Delta, British Airways, Emirates and Singapore Airlines (SIA) expressed interest in buying the airline but they pulled out after the government-mandated taking a local partner. Among the two domestic majors in fray, Hindujas, who were embroiled in the Bofors scam, was disqualified while Tata's partner, SIA, pulled out citing 'adverse climate and opposition to privatisation'. The privatisation plan was revived under Finance Minister Arun Jaitley in 2017 when the government offered for sale 74 per cent in the airline. But the decision of the government to hold 26 per cent in the airline and auction rules saw no bidder turning up. With 4 years of uncertainty over privatisation, Air India struggled with dipping employee morale and rising inefficiencies within the organisation. When Modi took over with a decisive mandate for the second time, Air India privatisation was revived in 2020, under current Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, with an offer to completely sell a 100 per cent stake. A new decision-making mechanism was worked out. The government sweetened the deal for Air India buyers, giving them flexibility to decide on the amount of Air India debt they want to absorb. The bids were invited on the enterprise value of the company, which includes debt as well as cash on the company's balance sheet. Air India started suffering losses every year since its merger with Indian Airlines in 2007-08. A Turnaround Plan (TAP) as well as a Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) were approved for Air India by the previous UPA regime in 2012. However, the TAP did not work out and Air India continued to reel under losses with the government giving Rs 20 crore/day to keep the airline afloat. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-privatisation-saga-time-we-stopped-paying-rs-20-cr/day-of-taxpayers-money-to-keep-it-flying-1041390.html
17-10-2021||National||Sri Lanka seeks $500 mn loan from India for fuel purchase||Sri Lanka has sought a $500 million credit line from India to pay for its crude oil purchases amid a severe foreign exchange crisis in the island nation. The move came few days after energy minister Udaya Gammanpila warned that the current availability of fuel in the island nation can be guaranteed only till next January. The state-run Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) owes nearly $3.3 billion to the two main government banks -- Bank of Ceylon and People’s Bank. The state oil distributors imports crude from the Middle East and refined products from other areas, including Singapore. “We are currently engaged with the Indian High Commission here to obtain the facility ($500 credit line) under the India-Sri Lanka economic partnership arrangement," CPC Chairman Sumith Wijesinghe was quoted as saying by local news website newsfirst.lk. He said the facility would be utilised for purchasing petrol and diesel requirements. The energy secretaries of both India and Lanka are expected to sign an agreement for the loan soon, the report quoted Finance Secretary S R Attygalle as saying. The government has put on hold the expected retail price hike of fuel despite the last week's increase in cooking gas and other essentials. The price hike in the global oil prices has forced Lanka to spend more on oil imports this year. The country's oil bill has jumped 41.5 per cent to $2 billion in the first seven months of this year, compared to last year. Lanka is facing a severe foreign exchange crisis after the pandemic hit the nation's earnings from tourism and remittances, Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa had said last month. The country's GDP contracted by a record 3.6 per cent in 2020 and its foreign exchange reserves plunged by over a half in one year through July to just $2.8 billion. This has led to a 9 per cent depreciation of the Sri Lankan rupee against the dollar over the past year, making imports more expensive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lanka-seeks-500-mn-loan-from-india-for-fuel-purchase-1041397.html
17-10-2021||National||I-T dept detects tax evasion worth crores after raids on two business entities||The Income Tax Department has detected tax evasion worth crores of rupees after it raided a group engaged in digital marketing and another entity engaged in solid waste management, the CBDT said on Sunday. The searches were carried out on October 12 in a number of states. The first group is engaged in digital marketing and campaign management and the raids were carried out at seven premises located in Bengaluru, Surat, Chandigarh, and Mohali, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. "Incriminating evidence found reveals that the group has been engaged in obtaining accommodation entries (bogus business entries) using an entry operator. The entry operator has admitted to having facilitated the transfer of cash and unaccounted income of the group through hawala operators," it alleged. Inflation of expenditure and under-reporting of revenue has also been detected and the group has also been found to be indulging in unaccounted cash payments, the CBDT said. The department found that the personal expenses of the directors have been booked as business expenses in the books of accounts.  "Luxurious vehicles used by the directors and their family members are found to have been purchased in the names of employees and entry provider," it claimed. The second group searched is engaged in solid waste management and deals in solid waste collection, transportation, processing, and disposal services across the country, primarily catering to Indian municipalities.  "Evidence found reveals that this group has indulged in the booking of bogus bills for expenses and sub-contracts and a preliminary estimate of such bogus expenses booked is to the tune of Rs 70 crore," the statement said. Unaccounted investment in property of about Rs 7 crore has been detected and unaccounted cash of Rs 1.95 crore and jewellery of Rs. 65 lakh has been seized, it said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-dept-detects-tax-evasion-worth-crores-after-raids-on-two-business-entities-1041399.html
17-10-2021||National||Centre will provide all help to Kerala; continuously monitoring floods situation: Amit Shah||The Centre will provide all possible assistance to the people of Kerala who have been affected by heavy rains and resulting floods, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. He said in a tweet that the government was "continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding."  We are continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. The central govt will provide all possible support to help people in need. NDRF teams have already been sent to assist the rescue operations. Praying for everyone’s safety. "The Central govt will provide all possible support to help people in need. NDRF teams have already been sent to assist the rescue operations. Praying for everyone's safety," Shah said. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 11 teams for search, rescue and relief operations in the state where the death toll from heavy rains and landslide rose to eight on Sunday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-will-provide-all-help-to-kerala-continuously-monitoring-floods-situation-amit-shah-1041401.html
17-10-2021||National||Jyotiraditya Scindia flags off SpiceJet's Delhi-Tirupati flight||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia virtually flagged off SpiceJet's flight on the Delhi-Tirupati route on Sunday, the airline said. The airline will operate the flight three times a week till October 31, according to its statement.  From October 31, the flight on the Delhi-Tirupati route will be operated four times a week, it mentioned.  The airline already connects Tirupati with Hyderabad and Pune on its network, it stated. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jyotiraditya-scindia-flags-off-spicejets-delhi-tirupati-flight-1041410.html
17-10-2021||National||TN police missive identifies '61 sources' of tainted personnel to demand bribe, orders action||A catalogue, a purported annexure of an official circular, listing '61 specific sources' that are exploited by a section of police personnel to demand bribe has surfaced in the social media with the BJP demanding to know if corruption has increased in police department with the DMK assuming power in Tamil Nadu. The 'annexure' lists bribe money ranging from Rs 100 to as high as Rs 1 lakh and this is believed to be the 'rate per month' in case of lodges and others and for other category of people, this is a 'one time demand' for services like issuance of a 'No Objection Certificate or for providing a copy of FIR.' The bribe is demanded mainly to allow illegal activities like smuggling including sand and for permitting gambling, banned lottery and so on. The circular from the Tamil Nadu state police headquarters here to officials in districts has ordered stern action against such tainted elements. The district level officials and those in the jurisdiction of police ranges have forwarded the missive to others like deputy police superintendents working under them. Police sources, however, neither denied nor confirmed the issuance or receipt of the 'annexure,' that listed specific rates demanded by writers in police stations, sub-inspectors, inspectors, special branch personnel and those deployed in patrol duties including on the highways. An official told PTI, "circulars mandating action against corrupt personnel are nothing new and our tough action against such elements is in the public domain." He declined to comment on the purported annexure that listed the rates. According to the 'annexure,' tainted police inspectors demand anywhere between Rs 10,000 and Rs 1 lakh for civil disputes, up to Rs 5,000 from ganja sellers and about Rs 1 lakh from those involved in sale of banned lottery. They also seek Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000 from godowns storing gunpowder and for enquiry on 'current papers.' From lodges, they collect Rs 2,000, from a spa Rs 5,000, 'dhaba hotels' Rs 3,000-Rs 7,000 and from those running bars without permission Rs 2,000. From granite quarries Rs 10,000 and from sand smugglers Rs 20,000. Corrupt station writers demand Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 for issuing police NOC, Rs 1,000 for enquiry on land/money dispute etc and Rs 100 to issue FIR copy. Tainted sub-inspectors demand Rs 5,000 to Rs 20,000 for civil disputes, take up to Rs 5,000 from those indulging in illegal sale of banned lottery and so on. Errant elements in patrol duty take take anywhere from Rs 100 to Rs 500 for violation of Motor Vehicle Act norms and up to Rs 1,000 for 'drunk driving.' The 'annexure' goes on to list the price tag of tainted personnel in special branch as well and it includes a demand of up to Rs 2,000 for bars, both with and without licences. Tamil Nadu unit president of the BJP, K Annamalai, appreciated the 'transparent effort' to eliminate corruption and tagged the 'annexure' as well. The Saffron party leader, however, wondered what would be the response of Chief Minister M K Stalin, who held the Home portfolio. "Has corruption increased in TN police department ? With the DMK taking over the reins of power?," he tweeted. திமுக ஆட்சி பொறுப்பேற்ற உடன் தமிழக காவல் துறையில் ஊழல் மலிந்து விட்டதா? 2/2 The 'annexure,' initially leaked to some people including journalists in western Tamil Nadu, became available to media personnel in other places and was later shared by some people in the social media. Over the years, such lists of "specific rates for particular services," rendered by tainted police personnel and "most sought after police stations, eyeing big-ticket bribes" have appeared in Tamil Nadu in both the English and the vernacular media.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tn-police-missive-identifies-61-sources-of-tainted-personnel-to-demand-bribe-orders-action-1041414.html
17-10-2021||National||Centre will provide all help to flood-hit Kerala: Amit Shah||The Centre will provide all possible assistance to the people of Kerala who have been affected by heavy rains and resulting floods, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. He said in a tweet that the government was "continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding."  "The Central govt will provide all possible support to help people in need. NDRF teams have already been sent to assist the rescue operations. Praying for everyone's safety," Shah said. We are continuously monitoring the situation in parts of Kerala in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. The central govt will provide all possible support to help people in need. NDRF teams have already been sent to assist the rescue operations. Praying for everyone’s safety. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 11 teams for search, rescue and relief operations in the state where the death toll from heavy rains and landslide rose to eight on Sunday. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-will-provide-all-help-to-flood-hit-kerala-amit-shah-1041419.html
17-10-2021||National||Here's what inside Air India's art collection||With a winning bid of Rs 18,000 crore, the Tata Group has finally got Air India Ltd. back, marking the biggest disinvestment event in the country. But even though the Tata Group has got back what was theirs, the ‘Maharajah’ won’t be returning home entirely. So, what is there in the Air India art collection? Air India’s art collection, also known as the ‘Maharajah collection’, consists of over 4,000 artwork from legendary artists such as  M F Husain, Anjolie Ela Menon, Jatin Das, S H Raza, V S Gaitonde, and K A Ara. The Maharajah collection was put on display across all the Air India offices in the world. They also had calenders, postcards, menu cards, and coasters featuring them. Besides the traditional handicrafts, paintings, textiles, and sculptures, the company also had posters and ads by cartoonist Mario Miranda and The New Yorker cartoonist Peter Arno. It also had stone sculptures dating back to the ninth century and a collection of exquisite clocks. The clock collection includes a mantle clock in an ebonised break-arch wood case which is said to have been made in London in 1845. How much is it worth? There is no official statement that mentions the worth of the entire collection which was built over a time period of more than six decades post-independence.  In 1956, Air India bought its first set of six paintings for Rs 87.50. Most of the other paintings were bought for Rs 50 to Rs 500 over the course of time. Many of the artwork were also commissioned by the airlines and JRD Tata bartered the rest for air tickets. As the artworks were not opened for decades, some of them were lost or damaged. In 2017 it was found that Jatin Das’s 1991 oil painting--  Flying Apsara-- was sold in the open market for Rs 25 lakh by a former employee of the company. What is its uniqueness? Apart from being antique and diverse, JRD Tata’s philosophy of “putting a little bit of India” makes the Air India art collection unique. His collection featured on the walls of Tata’s offices in New York, Washington, Perth, Rome, Tokyo, Paris, and London to showcase the rich Indian culture. (With agency inputs.) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-what-inside-air-indias-art-collection-1041421.html
17-10-2021||National||Priyanka Gandhi will be face of Cong's election campaign in UP: P L Punia||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be the face of the Congress' election campaign in Uttar Pradesh, party's newly-appointed campaign committee chief P L Punia said on Sunday, asserting the AICC general secretary is the most popular political figure in the state at present. Punia, who on Friday was named as the head of the key 20-member election campaign committee of the Congress for the UP polls next year, noted that very rarely has the Congress announced a chief ministerial face and said that not having declared one till now will not hamper the party's chances as it already has a personality like Priyanka Gandhi to lead the charge against the BJP. It is a direct contest between the Congress and the BJP in the UP polls as both the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party have "fallen behind" and were "not in the fight anymore", Punia told PTI in an interview. Punia said Priyanka Gandhi has fought for truth on all issues and when the Lakhimpur Kheri incident happened, she immediately left to meet the family of the victims, and was detained in Sitapur, but remained determined in her quest for justice. He said she was "successful" in her struggle and went to Lakhimpur Kheri and Bahraich to met the families of the victims. Punia said earlier also -- be it Sonbhadra, Unnao or Hathras incidents -- Priyanka Gandhi had fought for justice. "So, the people are impressed by her and currently in the entire state, no politician is more popular than Priyanka Gandhi. As far as around whom the campaign will be centred, we are fortunate that Priyanka Gandhi is available for (campaigning) all the time," he said. There are always demands from other states for Priyanka Gandhi to campaign and hold one or two meetings, but in UP she is available 24X7, Punia said. "Priyanka Gandhi ji hi humara ek chehra hongi jinke ird-gird poora election campaign chalega (the election campaign will be revolve around Priyanka Gandhi)," he said. Punia also said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and justice for farmers would be important issues in the elections, asserting that the way the farmers were "trampled upon", was a condemnable incident. "What was more appalling was that those in power gave protection to the perpetrators (of the crime). Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said no one will be arrested without evidence which was an indication that seeking arrest of the Union minister's son is wrong ," Punia said. Chief Minister Adityanath and Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra were both "guilty" of protecting the accused in the case, he alleged. Punia said "real justice" will be done when the minister is removed and pointed out that a high level delegation under Rahul Gandhi has also met President Ram Nath Kovind to press for this demand. Asked if having not declared a CM face till now would hamper the Congress' chances in the UP polls, Punia said the Congress rarely declares a CM face whether it is Uttar Pradesh or other states. "People talk about a CM face as votes are sought on that face, for us the biggest face is that of Priyanka Gandhi and the affection that people have for her cannot be matched by any person who is declared a CM face. So for us we have such a personality who will be helpful for us in polls in every way," he asserted. Punia also accused the BJP of indulging in communal polarisation to divert attention from real issues such as farmers' "plight", price rise and the state of law and order. "It is always the case with BJP-RSS people that when they see that they are losing on issues such as governance, law and order situation, the state is no. 1 in terms of crime, in terms of crimes against women, in crimes and atrocities against scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, so to save themselves from the anger of the people, they resort to polarisation," he alleged. "They raise mandir construction, create Hindu-Muslim divide, project themselves as the sole well wishers of Hindus. They will try all this but this has become a dated strategy, people are concerned about issues such as price rise and development and will not fall for Yogi Adityanath's polarisation plank," the Congress leader said. On whether votes will get divided with the Opposition unity missing, Punia said the SP and BSP have "fallen behind". "Earlier people thought that they were in fight but it is not so anymore. The Congress is in the fight and only the Congress an upstage the BJP. The Congress and the BJP are in a direct fight," he said. The BJP is feeling "threatened" by the Congress and that is why their leadership attacks the Congress, not the SP and BSP, Punia claimed. The Congress on Friday constituted different panels for the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, with Punia being named head of the crucial campaign committee. Party president Sonia Gandhi approved the proposal of the constitution of election campaign committee, election strategy and planning committee, election coordination committee, charge sheet committee and election manifesto committee of the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC), a party statement said on Friday. Punia will head the 20-member campaign committee with Pradeep Jain Aditya as the convenor. The panel includes the likes of Mohsina Kidwai, Pramod Tewari, Raj Babbar, R P N Singh, Naseemuddin Siddiqui, Imran Masood and Imran Pratapgarhi. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-will-be-face-of-congs-election-campaign-in-up-p-l-punia-1041432.html
17-10-2021||National||Govt will decide on Covid vaccination of children on 'scientific rationale', supply situation, says V K Paul||The government will take a final decision on vaccinating children and adolescents against coronavirus on the basis of overall scientific rationale as well as the supply situation of vaccines available for those below 18 years old, Covid Task Force chief V K Paul said on Sunday. Paul, who has been playing a key role in the government's efforts in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, also cautioned that even though infections are coming down and the second wave is subsiding, it will not be fair now to say that the worst is over since many countries have seen more than two waves. Currently, three vaccines -- Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V -- being administered in the country are only for those above 18 years of age. All of them are two-dose vaccines. Zydus Cadila's indigenously developed needle-free Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D is set to become the first vaccine that will be available in India for those in the age group of 12-18 years. It has received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA). "We do know that several countries have introduced vaccination for adolescents (people) and children. We will take a final decision based on the overall scientific rationale and the supply situation of the child licenced vaccines, going forward," Paul told PTI in an interview. An expert panel of India's central drug authority has recommended granting EUA to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children and adolescents in the 2-18 years age group with certain conditions. If approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), it will be the second vaccine after ZyCoV-D to get EUA for use among those below 18 years. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) is looking at how ZyCov-D should be positioned for most optimum use. According to Paul, Covaxin is a part of the adult vaccination programme and how to provision the vaccine, if at all for children, has to be also examined in the totality of the requirements of the vaccination programme. "A pragmatic decision (on vaccination of children and adolescents) can be taken (only) by balancing the supply and the potential eligibility," he said. While noting it will not be possible now to give a particular timeline on when Covid vaccination will start for children, Paul said, "The preparation for incorporation of Zydus Cadila's vaccine into the vaccination programme is proceeding well, training is already being held. NTAGI advice for the best use of the vaccine is explored. So soon, this will be rolled out". According to Paul, children are part and parcel of the chains of Covid transmission and are infected in large numbers. At the same time, Covid infections in children are very mild or asymptomatic, and that is one side of the story. On the other side, he said that once there is enough vaccine available that can be used in children, "so why not protect them". Schools have reopened in many states, mainly for higher classes. When asked whether the worst of the pandemic is over, Paul said, "It is reassuring that the number of Covid cases are now on the decline and the second wave is now subsiding but to say that the worst is over will not be fair because we have seen in other nations, there have been more than two waves". Cautioning that the country is passing through a phase when there are festivals and potential gatherings, he said this is a critical phase as the virus can spread again. "We have seen that even in other countries where vaccine coverage is good, the escalation in the pandemic can happen and has happened. "Therefore, certainly we should not assume that this situation of the declining trend will continue and definitely we should not think that the worst is over, we have to be ever watchful," he emphasised. While stressing that the vaccination programme has picked up huge speed, Paul also said that states which are for whatever reasons lagging behind must work hard and must push vaccination. "Now, of course, there is no dearth, no inadequacy of vaccine supply. They are as of today 10 crore doses of vaccines with the state governments for the vaccination programme," he said. As the supply situation is excellent, Paul said the states must ensure that they reach out to those who are left out in the vaccination programme. "Given the present generous vaccine supply situation and the performance of the vaccine implementation programme, it is well within our grasp to accomplish universal vaccination of the adult population," he asserted. On some reports that India simply will not have enough syringes for Covid vaccines if every single adult is to be fully vaccinated by the end of the year, Paul said, "there is no problem of syringe availability, we are in a good shape". The country recorded 14,146 fresh Covid infections in a day while active cases declined to 1,95,846, the lowest in 220 days, according to the Union Health Ministry's data released on Sunday.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-will-decide-on-covid-vaccination-of-children-on-scientific-rationale-supply-situation-says-v-k-paul-1041443.html
17-10-2021||National||Jaishankar visits Israel for high-level talks, to invite PM Bennett to India||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will on Monday call on Israeli Prime Minister, Naftali Bennett, and invite him to visit India. Jaishankar commenced his visit to Israel on Sunday. He will call on Israeli President Issac Herzog too, apart from meeting his counterpart Foreign Minister Yair Lapid. A source in New Delhi said that Jaishankar would convey an invitation to Bennett on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Shalom Israel! Arrived on my first visit as External Affairs Minister. Looking forward to a great visit,” the External Affairs Minister posted on Twitter. Bennett took over as Prime Minister of Israel on June 13 this year. He succeeded Benjamin Netanyahu, who had visited New Delhi in January 2018. Modi’s first visit to Israel in July 2017 saw India and the West Asian nation elevating bilateral relations to a strategic partnership. The relationship between the two countries has focused on expanding knowledge-based partnership, which includes collaboration in innovation and research, including boosting the ‘Make in India’ initiative, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. Jaishankar on Sunday laid a wreath at a war cemetery at Talpiot in Jerusalem and paid homage to Indian soldiers, who sacrificed their lives during the World War I while fighting for the British Army to liberate what later became Israel. The External Affairs Minister will interact with the Indian-origin Jewish community in Israel, Indologists, Indian students who are currently pursuing their education in Israeli universities, and business people, including from the hi-tech industries. Jaishankar and Lapid may also join US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and UAE Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan in a virtual meeting. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-visits-israel-for-high-level-talks-to-invite-pm-bennett-to-india-1041445.html
17-10-2021||National||Onion prices being stabilised with buffer stock release; efforts on to soften tomato, potato rates: Govt||Amid a rise in prices of three key vegetables, the Centre on Sunday said onion prices are being stabilised with the release of buffer stock, while efforts are on to soften the rates of tomato and potato. Onion stocks are being released in the market on the first-in-first-out basis in a calibrated manner from the last week of August in a bid to moderate prices and ensure minimum storage loss, it said. As a result of this, the retail onion price was ruling in the range of Rs 42-57 per kg in metros on October 14. The all-India average retail price of onion was ruling at Rs 37.06 per kg, while the average wholesale rate was Rs 30 per kg on October 14, it added. In retail markets, onion was ruling at Rs 42 per kg in Chennai, Rs 44 per kg in Delhi, at Rs 45 per kg in Mumbai and Rs 57 per kg in Kolkata on October 14. In a statement, the food and consumer affairs ministry said buffer stock of onion is being released in states where prices ruled above all-India average and also where prices are rising over the previous month. "Till October 12, a total of 67,357 tonnes have been released in major markets such as Delhi, Kolkata, Lucknow, Patna, Ranchi, Guwahati, Bhubaneshwar, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Kochi and Raipur," it said. In addition, Grade-B onions (stocks which are below the fair average quality- FAQ) are disposed of in local markets in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, it said. Besides releasing onions in the market, the ministry has offered onions from the buffer at Rs 21 per kg to all states and Union territories for lifting from the storage locations. This will enable states to take up, by themselves, for market interventions either through direct supply to retail consumers through retail outlets or release in key markets to bring down prices. The ministry further said the onion stocks are also available for supply to central and state agencies involved in retail marketing either at an ex-storage rate of Rs 21 per kg or landed price after including transportation costs. Mother Dairy's retail chain SAFAL has been offered at a landed price of Rs 26 per kg. The government is maintaining an onion buffer under the price stabilisation fund (PSF) with the objective of effective market intervention to moderate prices. In 2021-22, about 2.08 lakh tonnes of onion buffer has been created from the 2021 rabi crop from April to July 2021, against the target of two lakh tonnes. "Similarly, efforts are being made to soften the prices of potato and tomato," the ministry said. The average all-India retail price of tomato was ruling at 41.73 per kg, while potato at Rs 21.22 per kg. Whereas, in the wholesale markets, potato prices were ruling at Rs 1,606.46 per quintal, while tomato at Rs 3,361.74 per quintal. In Delhi, the retail prices of potato and tomato in Delhi were ruling at Rs 20 per kg and Rs 56 per kg, respectively, the ministry said in the statement. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/onion-prices-being-stabilised-with-buffer-stock-release-efforts-on-to-soften-tomato-potato-rates-govt-1041474.html
17-10-2021||National||Jaishankar lays wreath at cemetery for Indian soldiers in Israel||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Sunday began his five-day visit to Israel by laying wreath at a cemetery for Indian soldiers who laid down their lives in the region during World War I in Talpiot, Jerusalem. About 900 Indian soldiers are interred in cemeteries across Israel in Jerusalem, Ramle and Haifa. Jaishankar, who arrived here earlier in the day on his first visit to the country as the External Affairs Minister, laid a wreath at the Talpiot Cemetery. "Visited the Indian Cemetery at Talpiot as my first engagement in Jerusalem. Paid homage to the brave Indian soldiers who made the supreme sacrifie during World War I," he tweeted. "I am deeply honoured to pay homage to the valiant sons of India who fought with bravery and courage in this land during WWI, bringing glory to themselves, their comrades and their motherland," Jaishankar wrote in the visitors book. "The valour and supreme sacrifice of these bravehearts will forever remain etched in the heart of our nation. Your heroism and selfless service in an inspiration and beacon of light that will forever guide us in the service of our country. I wish to thank you & Commonwealth War Graves Commission for maintaining these memorials for Indian soldiers in Israel," he wrote. The heroics of the Indian soldiers have prominently come to light here during the past two decades and the story of liberation of the northern coastal city of Haifa, in what most war historians consider “the last great cavalry campaign in history”, has become a household tale with its inclusion in the city's local history textbooks. "MEA @DrSJaishankar at Talpiot Cemetery. Paying respect to Indian soldiers who died in WWI while fighting as part of the British Army for liberating what later became #Israel. Another important element connecting India and Israel," Israel's ambassador to India Naor Gilon said in a tweet. The Indian Army commemorates September 23 every year as Haifa Day to pay its respects to the three brave Indian Cavalry Regiments - Mysore, Hyderabad and Jodhpur Lancers - that helped liberate Haifa following a dashing cavalry action by the 15th Imperial Service Cavalry Brigade. Captain Aman Singh Bahadur and Dafadar Jor Singh were awarded the Indian Order of Merit (IOM) and Captain Anop Singh and Second Lieutenant Sagat Singh were awarded the Military Cross (MC) as recognition for their bravery in this battle. Major Dalpat Singh, widely known as the Hero of Haifa, was awarded a military cross for his bravery. Indian cavalry regiments armed with spears and swords had displayed the highest tradition of valour and cleared the enemy from the rocky slopes of Mount Carmel. In a symbolic gesture of friendship with Israel, India renamed the iconic Teen Murti Chowk, a war memorial, during the visit of then Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu to Delhi in January 2018 to Teen Murti Haifa Chowk. Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the Haifa cemetery during his visit to Israel in July 2017 and unveiled a plaque commemorating Major Dalpat Singh for his critical role in the liberation of the city. The 61st Cavalry, the name given to the unit created after the merger of cavalry units after independence, sent a contingent to Israel in 2018 to participate in the centenary celebrations. The Israel Post had issued a commemorative stamp in 2018 in appreciation of Indian soldiers' role in liberating the city. During his visit, Jaishankar would call on President Isaac Herzog, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid during his standalone visit. He will also be holding talks with leading academics from all over Israel, business community leaders and interacting with the Indian Jewish community. Jaishankar will also be visiting places of historical significance to India, demonstrating its long-term presence in the region and constructive role played in shaping the history of the region. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-lays-wreath-at-cemetery-for-indian-soldiers-in-israel-1041501.html
17-10-2021||National||Supply to non-power sector regulated, not stopped: Coal India official||Coal India Limited reduced supply to the non-power sector, but did not stop it altogether as alleged by some quarters, to fulfil emergency requirements for electricity plants amid shortage of the dry fuel, a senior CIL official said on Sunday. Several industrial bodies have alleged that their production has been severely affected owing to the coal crisis. Cement, aluminium and iron and steel sectors are among the major non-power consumers of coal. “We are regulating supply to meet the sudden jump in demand of coal from the power sector but have not stopped it to non-power consumers. Our daily supplies are in excess of 2 lakh tonnes to non-power industries against the normal supply of around 3 lakh tonne,” the official told PTI. The company is meeting the supply target given by the government to power producers. There had been a little dip due to the Dussehra holidays, he said. According to some reports, South Eastern Coalfields Limited, a subsidiary of CIL, has temporality suspended supplies to non-power consumers. However, an official of SECL said the content of a letter asking the Railways to arrange more rakes was misinterpreted by a section of the media. “Supplies are regulated to prioritise the power sector and more railway rakes are needed to take coal there. Non-power sector users are encouraged to take coal through roads,” the SECL official said. Subsidiaries cannot decide on regulating supply consumers on their own. The CIL official said, “Regulating supply to non-power users will stop once the stock level of the critical power plants reaches seven days. The government is taking all measures to ensure that power generation is not affected with a minimum hurdle to other industries.” E-auction of coal had been stopped to meet the crisis. The daily average coal off-take in the month of October was 1.73 million tonne. Till Saturday, the total off-take was 27.75 million tonne. Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi had on Tuesday said the government is making every effort to meet the coal demand of power producers, and stressed that steps are being taken to ramp up the dry-fuel supply to 2 million tonnes per day, from the current overall dispatch of 1.95 million tonnes. The shortage of coal — which makes up around 70 per cent of India's electricity mix — has forced rotational power cuts in several states since early this month. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supply-to-non-power-sector-regulated-not-stopped-coal-india-official-1041549.html
17-10-2021||National||Sand mining in wetlands banned: Government informs NGT||The Ministry of Environment and Forests has informed the NGT that sand mining in wetlands in the guise of dredging and maintenance of lakes is banned. "Depletion and destruction of wetlands is a serious concern for this Ministry. A number of wetlands are threatened by reclamation and degradation through drainage and landfill, pollution (discharge of domestic and industrial effluents, disposal of solid wastes), hydrological alteration (water withdrawal and changes in inflow and outflow), over-exploitation of their natural resources and illegal construction resulting in loss of biodiversity and disruption in ecosystem services provided by wetlands," the Ministry said. In its affidavit, the Ministry said the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017 apply to the wetlands or wetlands complexes categorised as 'wetlands of international importance' under the Ramsar Convention and wetlands as notified by the Central Government, State Government and Union Territory Administration. The Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) was hearing a plea against dredging and maintenance of the lakes in Raichur and Vijayapura districts in Karnataka. The petitioner alleged that authorities in two districts did not follow sustainable mining while allowing dredging of lakes. "Wetlands are a vital part of the hydrological cycle. They are highly productive ecosystems which support rich biodiversity and provide a wide range of ecosystem services such as water storage, water purification, flood mitigation, erosion control, aquifer recharge, micro-climate regulation, aesthetic enhancement of landscapes while simultaneously supporting social and cultural activities which are a part of our cultural heritage," the Ministry said in the affidavit. A centrally sponsored scheme namely, National Plan for Conservation of Aquatic Eco-systems (NPCA) for conservation and management of wetlands in the country is being implemented. The scheme covers various activities such as interception, diversion and treatment of wastewater, shoreline protection, lake front development, in-situ cleaning i.e. de-silting & de-weeding, storm water management, bioremediation, catchment area treatment, lake beautification, survey & demarcation, bio- fencing, fisheries development, weed control, biodiversity conservation, education and awareness creation, community participation, the Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sand-mining-in-wetlands-banned-government-informs-ngt-1041552.html
17-10-2021||National Politics||Must take path shown by Lord Ram to alienate evil from society: CM Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said all must take the path shown by Lord Ram to alienate evil and bring harmony in the society. According to a statement issued by the Chief Minister's office, Kejriwal was participating in the Sampurn Ramlila celebrations organised by Delhi Legislative Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel at the assembly premises. The ceremony was conducted in continuation of a new tradition started by the Speaker to celebrate all the festivals and traditions in the assembly premises. "The initiative to celebrate Ramlila and then Dussehra here is remarkable. This is the victory of good over evil, of justice and righteousness over injustice. Amongst all of us, there is a Raavan in the form of evil. We must all take the Lord's path and bring out the Ram in us. Even in our society, we must alienate the evil and bring out harmony in the society," Kejriwal said. He said that it was a great initiative to increase the feeling of love and peace among the members of the assembly. On Friday, Kejriwal had attended the Dussehra celebration at the Red Fort by burning the effigies of demon king Ravana, his brother Kumbhkarna and son Meghnad.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/must-take-path-shown-by-lord-ram-to-alienate-evil-from-society-cm-kejriwal-1041301.html
17-10-2021||National Politics||BJP, Congress sharpen attacks ahead of Madhya Pradesh bypolls||With less than two weeks left for the bypolls to three Assembly constituencies and one Lok Sabha seat in Madhya Pradesh, both the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress have sharpened their attacks against each other. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, who was campaigning for BJP candidate Gyaneshwar Patil in the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat on Saturday, took a jibe at the Congress, calling it a "party without a president". "The Congress, which is already suffering due to the lack of a president, now has another group called G-23. Rahul Gandhi is not the president of Congress, but he can take a decision to change chief ministers. Here in Madhya Pradesh, they have only one face for every post. If it is the CM's post, they have Kamal Nath and if it is party chief in state, then again Kamal Nath is the only face for Congress," Chauhan said while addressing the gathering in Khandwa on Saturday. He also attacked senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Digvijaya Singh, alleging that all development works were stopped and the state was under the clutch of "goons and mafias" during his tenure. Chauhan alleged that during his 15-month tenure, former Chief Minister Kamal Nath had stopped several development schemes launched by the BJP government and had given a free hand to corruption. "For 15 months, the Congress did nothing," he added. The state Congress on its part accused the BJP of indulging in selling and purchasing MLAs to remain in power. Senior spokesperson of the Congress in Madhya Pradesh, Bhupendra Gupta, told IANS, "BJP claims that it is the largest political party in the world, but in reality, it does not have its own candidates for elections. Every time the BJP purchases candidates from other political parties. It does not have confidence in its own leaders." Gupta also alleged that out of the four candidates contesting the bypolls for BJP, one has been brought from another party. "Shishupal Singh Yadav, who is the BJP candidate in Prithvipur Assembly bypolls, had contested the last election on a Samajwadi Party ticket. There are around 40 per cent votes of the Yadav community in Prithvipur and therefore the BJP did not trust its own party leaders and nominated its candidate from the Yadav community," Gupta said. Bypolls to three Assembly seats -- Prthvipur under Nimar district, Raigaon in Satna district and Jobat in Alirajpur district -- along with one Lok Sabha seat -- Khandwa -- will be held on October 30. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-congress-sharpen-attacks-ahead-of-madhya-pradesh-bypolls-1041356.html
17-10-2021||National Politics||BJP national office-bearers to meet on Monday, may discuss polls, farmers' protest||The BJP's national office-bearers will meet on Monday to discuss a host of issues ranging from the upcoming five state assembly polls to the farmers' agitation and the Covid-19 pandemic. BJP president J P Nadda will chair the meeting which will be attended by all its leaders who hold organisational responsibilities at the national level besides its spokespersons. The meeting assumes significance as it will take place after a considerable gap due to the Covid-19 pandemic and ahead of the party's national executive meeting next month. Official sources said the party's campaign for the assembly elections will come up for extensive discussion in the meeting. The ongoing farmers' agitation against the three central agri laws, the recent violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight persons, including four farmers, died and the murder of a Dalit at Singhu border, one of the protest sites, may also feature in the discussion, they said The opposition has mounted pressure on the ruling BJP over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The ongoing vaccination drive against the coronavirus is also among the matters expected to be discussed. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-national-office-bearers-to-meet-on-monday-may-discuss-polls-farmers-protest-1041471.html
17-10-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi slams government over rising fuel prices||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a dig at the government over the increasing prices of petrol and diesel, alleging that there was "destruction for all" and development of "rising prices". Tagging a media report which claimed that if the government had not hiked taxes, petrol would have been Rs 66 per litre and diesel would have been Rs 55 per litre, Gandhi alleged that the government was indulging in "tax extortion". Petrol and diesel prices on Sunday were hiked again by 35 paise a litre. The fourth straight day of 35 paise per litre hike sent petrol and diesel rates to record highs across the country. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 102.52 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 94.57. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also attacked the government over rising prices, saying the BJP has hiked NPK (fertiliser) price by Rs 275 and NP (fertiliser) price by Rs 20. "With daily hikes, the government has made the diesel prices cross Rs 100. Under the BJP rule, workers and farmers are reeling under the burden of rising prices, while only Modi's friends are getting richer," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-slams-government-over-rising-fuel-prices-1041484.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers burn effigies of MoS Mishra, Centre at Ghazipur||Farmers protesting against the agri laws at the Ghazipur border on Saturday burnt the effigies of Minister of State Home Affairs Ajay Mishra and the central government over the Lakhimpur violence. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) state president Rajbir Singh Jadaun said till the time the Union minister will not resign, the probe into the Lakhimpur violence cannot be carried out impartially. The minister's son Ashish Mishra, facing murder charges over the Lakhimpur incident, is lodged in jail in this case. The farmers burnt the effigies within the periphery of their camps where police were not deployed. As usual, the force was deployed outside the identified protest area, Circle Officer Indira Puram Abhay Kumar Mishra told PTI. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-burn-effigies-of-mos-mishra-centre-at-ghazipur-1041295.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||BJP's Baby Rani Maurya to take on Mayawati in Uttar Pradesh polls||The BJP in Uttar Pradesh is all set to pit former Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya against Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati in the Assembly elections scheduled next year. Baby Rani Maurya, party sources confirmed, would work towards making a dent in BSP's 'Jatav' vote base. Jatavs, till now, have been firmly behind Mayawati and Baby Rani Maurya also claims to be a Jatav. When the former Governor arrived in Lucknow earlier this week, she was greeted with posters and hoardings that prominently showcased her Dalit sub-caste. And the message was certainly not lost in her community. Rakesh Gautam, a Jatav student in Lucknow University, said, "Finally we have a choice. Till now there was no Jatav leadership except Mayawati. "A senior party functionary disclosed that Baby Rani Maurya will be addressing rallies in districts having a sizeable Dalit population." Till now we had focused on non-Jatav Dalits, but we will now target Jatavs because we have a Jatav leader of calibre," the functionary said. Of the 21 per cent Dalit vote bank in Uttar Pradesh, Jatavs form a sizeable chunk -- about 11 per cent -- and this community has been the mainstay of Mayawati's political journey. Any depletion in the Jatav vote base will spell bad news for the BSP. When asked about her Jatav credentials being so prominently displayed, Baby Rani Maurya said, "I was born into this caste. My family was and still is into leather and footwear work. For nearly three decades, I have been with the BJP as a Jatav." The BSP, meanwhile, has not reacted to Baby Rani Maurya's foray into UP politics. However, a party MLA said, "It will take much more than one Baby Rani Maurya to challenge ‘Behenji' (Mayawati). Time will prove that she is the undisputed leader of all Dalits, including Jatavs." Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-baby-rani-maurya-to-take-on-mayawati-in-uttar-pradesh-polls-1041359.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||RJD's Muslim-Yadav equation under challenge in Bihar||While the bypolls for two seats of Bihar are turning out to be a close fight between the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Janata Dal-United (JD-U), the former appears to be the one that is likely to face the bigger test. Congress, which is a part of the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar, has challenged the RJD by launching its candidates from both Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan Assembly constituencies. After that, some RJD leaders left the party. As a result, it is turning out to be a tough affair for the RJD to keep intact its Muslim-Yadav (MY) vote-base. Salim Parvez, a senior leader of the RJD and very close associate of the late Mohammad Shahabuddin, the former MP from Siwan, resigned from the party on Friday. Word is that he will join the JD-U. He alleged that Tejashwi Yadav's manner of running the party was not acceptable and he had chosen to quit the party. "The approach of Tejashwi Yadav towards late Mohammad Shahabuddin was extremely unfortunate. He was behind the formation of Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi governments in 1995 and 2000. When Shahabuddin was ill and he died in Delhi, Tejashwi Yadav, who was just 5 km away from the place, did not come to pay last respects to him," Parvez said. "Shahabuddin was the one who had played a crucial role in keeping the M-Y equation intact in favour of the RJD in Bihar, but Tejashwi Yadav did not give respect to his efforts. It was unfortunate and heartbreaking for me and many other Muslim leaders as Tejashwi Yadav did not even issue a statement on Shahabuddin's death in Delhi," Parvez said. Later, Tejashwi and other senior leaders of the RJD met the family of Shahabuddin in a bid to do some damage control. "RJD's M-Y politics suited them best in the past given their politics of casteism and appeasement of Muslims. This politics was used to defend the family fiefdom of Lalu Prasad. But this politics is exposed now. The NDA government in Bihar and at the Centre has done a lot for the welfare of common masses, including minorities and backwards. The criminal faces of Muslims, which supported the RJD to create a mass psyche, are no longer alive. Also, the Congress has come on a confrontation note with RJD. All these factors will destroy the M-Y politics of RJD in the coming days," Nikhil Anand, chief spokesperson of BJP's Bihar unit and national general secretary of party's OBC wing told IANS. Madan Mohan Jha, state president of the Congress, told IANS: "Claiming the old caste formula is no longer realistic on the ground in Bihar. Those who are claiming that they will take the vote of these two communities are fooling the people. A large number of people of these two communities will vote for the Congress party in the upcoming by-election and it will be proved on the day of result on November 2." Neeraj Kumar, JD(U) MLC said: "By-elections in Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan will shatter RJD's dream. The party hopes to win these two seats on the basis of the M-Y equation." Mritunjay Tiwari, national spokesperson of RJD said: "The party has family relations with the family of Shahabuddin. He had also claimed in his last statement that Lalu Prasad was his leader. Tejashwi Yadav went several times to meet his son Osama Shahab and his mother Heena Shahab. Leaders like Parvez and opposition parties are creating confusion among voters. It has no base on the ground. The M-Y equation is intact with RJD." The M-Y equation of RJD was also challenged during the 2020 Assembly election after the appearance of Assaduddin Owaisi. His party, AIMIM, has dealt a severe blow to RJD in Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region. AIMIM had put up a good performance in Kishanganj, Purnea, Araria and Katihar districts where Muslims have more than 60 per cent of the votes. Apart from victories in Kishanganj and Purnea, the party had caused a split in the votes in other Muslim-dominant constituencies. RJD is facing other challenges like the tough stand of the Congress party and the rebellion by Tej Pratap Yadav who has already said he will support other candidates in the bypolls. Tej Pratap supported an independent candidate -- who later joined the RJD. Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, the president of Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) has pledged support to the Congress party in the bypoll. The Congress leaders have claimed that Pappu Yadav is the second biggest Yadav leader in Bihar after Lalu Prasad. Pappu Yadav was recently released from jail after five months and it is believed that he would get sympathy votes for the Congress party. Pappu Yadav was the one who had wholeheartedly helped patients during the second wave of coronavirus this year. The current political scenario of Bihar suits JD-U as it is getting support from all the alliance partners, including BJP. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rjds-muslim-yadav-equation-under-challenge-in-bihar-1041371.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||‘There is a silence of graveyards in Kashmir’||Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami is a veteran leader of the CP(I)M and four-time MLA from Kulgam constituency in south Kashmir. He is also spokesperson of Gupkar Alliance, an alliance of six mainstream political parties seeking restoration of special status of J&K. In an interview with Zulfikar Majid of DH, he talks about the fallout of recent killings of members of the minority community, New Delhi’s Kashmir policy etc. Excerpts: What led to the sudden flare up in the situation in Kashmir? The Government of India (GoI) is selling forced silence in Kashmir as normalcy. They are not allowing the media to report facts on ground. A fake narrative is being encouraged in the region. The GoI has ensured that there is no voice contrary to its claims. And the extremists on the other side want to take advantage of such a situation. In your opinion, what could be the reason for the killing of minority community members? Creating fear is the motive of those who committed these barbaric acts. The killers want to spread fear. The targeting of members of the minority community has sent shockwaves across Kashmir. Do you see targeting of minorities happening again in Kashmir? I cannot predict. My only appeal to people of Kashmir is that violence is not an instrument which can reduce our miseries and guarantee a better future. Equally, the course adopted by New Delhi is not constitutional and democratic. It is detrimental to the larger interests of the country. I appeal to people across the country to understand the implications of New Delhi’s undemocratic and unconstitutional decisions in J&K. Do you see a 1990 like situation remerging? In 1990, there was no mass condemnation of such killings and no voices emerging to resist such acts of violence. When the exodus of Pandits took place, at that time even thousands of political activists belonging to the majority community too had to leave. This time, the situation has not developed in such a fashion. Where do you see the situation heading in Kashmir? One doesn’t know what happens next. (But) I must say a situation of disappointments, hopelessness and forced silence does provide opportunity for extremism to grow. This is an encouragement for those elements who have been advocating violence. After the killing of the Sikh lady principal, the members of the community expressed disappointment that the majority community didn’t participate in their silent protest. What are your views? Certainly I would have liked that all of us together should have come openly to condemn such acts. But my brethren from Sikh community must understand that the majority community not only condemned the killings in one voice, but also visited the residence of the slain teacher. Everybody in Kashmir is feeling insecure due to the latest round of violence. Nevertheless, the majority community must do more to create confidence among the minorities and that is not a favour to anybody. Do you want to say the majority community is also living under the fear of militants? There is a forced silence and silence of graveyards in Kashmir. Could you elaborate whether the “forced silence” is from the government or militants? We were having forced silence from extremists here and we expected it. But now there is forced silence by those who claim to be well-wishers of Kashmiris and hold positions of responsibility. They should allow the people to express themselves. We must not be treated as a piece of land. Do you want to say that the prevailing violence is the outcome of New Delhi’s policies? I don’t say that. Extremists had been working on these lines earlier as well (killing civilians). Don’t measure it through these acts only. What steps should the government take to restore confidence? The GoI must own the people of Kashmir. They do not own them. We rejected the two-nation theory in 1947 and joined the secular-democratic country. Give us those constitutional rights back. Why are you (GoI) not treating us as citizens of India? What about the elections to the Assembly? I don’t have any expectations from this government, but certainly I have bigger expectations from people of India. Before it is too late, they must rise for the constitutional rights of people of Kashmir, Jammu and Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/there-is-a-silence-of-graveyards-in-kashmir-1041384.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Four hurt as speeding car rams into Durga procession in Bhopal||A speeding car rammed into a Durga procession in the Madhya Pradesh capital, leaving four persons, including a head constable, injured, police said on Sunday. The incident occurred on the road outside the Bhopal railway station on late Saturday night when the procession was moving forward, Bajaria police station in-charge Umesh Yadav told PTI. Three persons were injured and one of them sustained serious injuries and undergoing treatment at a hospital, he said. The car also hit an on-duty police head constable, who sustained minor injuries to his leg, he said. Yadav said the car rammed into the procession and when the people started shouting to catch the car driver, the latter panicked and fled by reversing the car speedily. He said a case was registered and efforts are on to nab the person who was driving the car at the time of the incident. Meanwhile, a video of the incident shows a car is being reversed speedily while the people are seen trying to save themselves by moving away from the path of the vehicle. One of the injured persons, Chaturanan Sahu (26), claimed a grey-colour car crashed into the procession of Chandbarh Durga Utsav when it reached near Gupta tea stall outside the Bhopal railway station. “Two persons were travelling in that car which crashed into the procession and again hit the people while reversing," he said.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-hurt-as-speeding-car-rams-into-durga-procession-in-bhopal-1041389.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||BKU workers in UP's Muzaffarnagar burn effigies of Union government||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) workers burnt effigies of the central government on Saturday evening in protest against the three farm laws and "anti-farmer" policies at several places in the district. The protesters had burnt effigies of the central government at Minakshi Chowk here, also in Morna, Titawi, Charthawal, Shahpur, Purkazi, Khatoli, and Chapar in the district. The protest was organised on the call of Samyukt Kisan Morcha - a consolidated front of several farmers groups. Farmers across parts of north India have been agitating against the three farm laws passed in Parliament in September 2020. The implementation of Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, was stayed by the Supreme Court in January this year with the appointment of a committee to look into grievances of the farmers.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bku-workers-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-burn-effigies-of-union-government-1041404.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||J&K encounter: 3 detained for questioning as search ops enter day 7 in Poonch-Rajouri forests||Three persons, including a mother-son duo, were detained for questioning during an ongoing search operation in the forest belt of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch and Rajouri border districts where nine soldiers were killed in two separate gunfights with terrorists over the past week, officials said on Sunday. Five Army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), laid down their lives in a fierce gunfight during a counter-insurgency operation in Surankote forest on Monday. Four soldiers, including another JCO, died in another encounter in the Mendhar sector on Thursday evening. A man along with a 45-year-old woman and her son, all residents of Bhatta Durrian forest, were taken into custody for questioning on the suspicion of giving logistic support to terrorists, the officials said. It was a matter of investigation whether they provided food and shelter to the terrorists voluntarily or at gunpoint, they said. The officials underlined that the area is mountainous and the forest is dense, which makes the operation difficult and dangerous. So far, contact with hiding terrorists was established thrice -- first on October 11 in Poonch's Surankote which was followed by another exchange of fire between the security forces and the fleeing terrorists in the adjoining Thanamandi forest in Rajouri district the same day but the ultras managed their escape in both the encounters. The third encounter took place in the Nar Khas forest in the Mendhar area of Poonch on Thursday evening. "The presence of terrorists in the forest area connecting Poonch and Rajouri was observed two-and-a-half months ago and accordingly tactical operations were launched to track them down," Deputy Inspector General of Police, Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta said on Saturday. "A joint security grid was tracking different groups of terrorists but sometimes operations take time depending on the topography of the area. Contact with the terrorists was established thrice this week based on intelligence inputs," the officer said. The terrorists are holed up and the joint forces are on the job to take the operation to the logical conclusion, he added. Officials said the entire forest area from Mendhar to Thanamandi remains under a strict cordon and a massive search operation is on to neutralise the terrorists moving from one place to another in an attempt to escape the dragnet. The Army has deployed para-commandos and a helicopter was also seen hovering over the forest area for surveillance on Saturday. Officials said the traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended for the third day on Sunday in the wake of the ongoing operation. Rajouri and Poonch in the Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year. Nine terrorists have been killed in separate encounters. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-encounter-3-detained-for-questioning-as-search-ops-enter-day-7-in-poonch-rajouri-forests-1041412.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Sidhu writes to Sonia Gandhi raising issues concerning Punjab, seeks meeting with her||Congress’s troubles with Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu are not over yet.  A day after Congress President Sonia Gandhi asked party leaders not to speak to her through the media, Sidhu posted a letter addressed to her on Twitter, seeking a meeting to discuss the 13-point agenda for Punjab, flagging in his letter issues which the government "must deliver upon" and saying it is the poll-bound state's "last chance for resurrection and redemption". The letter, dated October 15, was made public two days after Sidhu met Rahul Gandhi to share his concerns regarding the Punjab Congress and claimed that all issues have been “sorted out”.  Sidhu reminded Gandhi of the party's 18-point agenda “given to the last chief minister” of Punjab and said that those were “equally relevant today”. “Today, I write to your esteemed self with priority areas among the 18-point agenda of the 2017 campaign and the manifesto promises which the state government must deliver upon,” said Sidhu in the letter on the Punjab Congress letterhead that did not mention his designation as the state Congress chief. He also pitched for more representation to the Dalits and Backward Classes in the state cabinet. “Even after High Command's progressive decision of appointing a Dalit chief minister to give the under-privileged more voice in the government, it has not been supported in the state in equal measure. We should have at least one Mazhabi Sikh in Cabinet, representation to Dalits from Doaba, at least two representatives from Backward Caste Community in the Cabinet,” he wrote. Sidhu claimed that it might be the “last damage-control exercise or else, mafia-raj ruling the state patronised by the Badals will take the state to the extent of financial emergency, corruption and agrarian crisis from which there will be no return.” Sidhu had posted his resignation as state unit chief on Twitter on September 28 within months of taking over the post. His sudden resignation within days of the ouster of Amarinder Singh as chief minister came as a shock to the Congress leadership, particularly Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra who had backed the cricketer-turned-politician to the hilt over the two-term chief minister. Sidhu was upset that the new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had ignored his suggestions on the appointment of the new Punjab Police chief and the advocate general and some portfolio allocations to ministers after the new cabinet formation. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-writes-to-sonia-gandhi-raising-issues-concerning-punjab-seeks-meeting-with-her-1041428.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Heavy rains lash Delhi, parts of western UP, Haryana||Heavy rains lashed the national capital on Sunday leading to waterlogging and traffic jams at several parts of the city causing inconvenience for commuters. The weather office had forecast a generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain and thundershowers. The maximum temperature on Sunday is likely to settle around 33 degrees Celsius. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) attributed the untimely rains to western disturbance. Besides Delhi, moderate to heavy rains were predicted for almost all adjoining areas in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and many of those falling under the National Capital Region. The IMD predicted moderate to heavy rains at Loni Dehat, Hindon Air Force Station, Bahadurgarh, Ghaziabad, Indirapuram, Chhapraula, Dadri, Greater Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad, Manesar, Ballabhgar, Sohana, Manesar, and Rewari areas of UP and Haryana. Light to moderate rainfall was predicted in Palwal, Aurangabad, Hodal (Haryana) Deoband, Najibabad, Muzaffarnagar, Kandhla, Bijnaur, Khatauli, Sakoti Tanda, Hastinapur, Chandpur, Baraut, Daurala, Meerut, Modinagar, Kithor, Garhmukteshwar, Pilakhua, Gulaoti, Sikandrabad, Bulandshahar, Jalesar, Tundla, and Agra. The minimum temperature on Sunday settled at 23.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. The city received 3 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours and the relative humidity was 90 per cent, the IMD said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-lash-delhi-parts-of-western-up-haryana-1041433.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Pollution increasing in Delhi due to stubble burning in neighbouring states: Kejriwal||As Delhi's air quality plunged into the "very poor" category on Sunday morning, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that increase in pollution was due to stubble burning in neighbouring states as governments were "doing nothing" to help farmers to stop it. He appealed to the governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to understand their responsibilities towards reducing stubble burning and controlling pollution.  "For the past one month, I have been tweeting data of air quality in Delhi. Pollution has increased in the last 3-4 days and it is due to stubble burning in neighbouring states. Farmers in neighbouring states are compelled to burn stubble as their governments are doing nothing for them (towards stopping stubble burning)," Kejriwal said in an event organised to lay the foundation stone of a 1,430 bed new government hospital in Shalimar Bagh.  The chief minister said the national capital has two kinds pollution, one is its internal pollution that emanates from vehicles, dust, while the other one is because of stubble burning in neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.  Kejriwal said the Delhi government is doing every bit from anti-dust campaign to spraying of bio-decomposer liquid in fields to controlling inbound pollution, but the neighbouring states were yet to act. "To stop stubble burning in Delhi, we sprayed bio-decomposer solution in fields. Farmers don't need to burn stubble after spraying it. Why can't state governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh spray this liquid?" Kejriwal asked. "I request governments of neighbouring states to understand their responsibilities (towards stopping stubble burning) and help their farmers responsibly," he said. At 2 pm on Sunday, the AQI in Delhi was 339, which is in the "very poor" category.  An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Earlier in the day, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai also reiterated similar concerns and said that air quality in the city was deteriorating because of increasing incidents of stubble burning in neighbouring states. He also appealed for a responsible approach from governments of these states. Rai said that it was a normal trend that as the incidents of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh increase, the air quality starts deteriorating in the city.  He said that two days back the AQI was 171 but as the incidents of stubble burning increased in neighbouring states, the AQI started getting worse and it was 284 on Sunday. "This has been a normal trend. We have appealed to neighbouring states to control incidents of stubble burning but to no avail. We have started spraying of bio-decomposer in fields as an alternative to stubble burning the similar should be done by neighbouring states. "We need a responsible approach from (neighbouring) states to reduce stubble burning. They should make arrangements to spray bio-decomposer in their states so that pollution can be controlled," Rai said. He said that to control the city's internal pollution, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government was taking a number of measures, including spraying of a bio-decomposer solution in fields and also cracking down on violators. "We have started anti-dust campaign and are taking action against violators. From Monday, we will also launch 'Red Light On, Gadi Off' campaign to reduce vehicular pollution.  "As a long term solution, we are promoting electric vehicle policy and working of tree plantation issues. We have also shut coal operating Badarpur plan to reduce pollution," the environment minister said. He also said that awareness campaigns such as appealing to public to stop use of private vehicle at least for one day are also being started.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pollution-increasing-in-delhi-due-to-stubble-burning-in-neighbouring-states-kejriwal-1041434.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Will hunt down terrorists and their sympathisers: J&K LG Manoj Sinha on civilian killings||Amid a spate of civilian killings, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday vowed to avenge every drop of their blood by hunting down terrorists and their sympathisers. Sinha said attempts are being made to disrupt the peace and socio-economic progress of Jammu and Kashmir and the individual growth of people, and reiterated the commitment to the fast-paced development of the Union territory. "I pay my heartfelt tributes to the martyr civilians and condolences to the bereaved families. We'll hunt down terrorists, their sympathisers and avenge every drop of innocent civilians' blood," Sinha said in his monthly radio programme 'Awaam ki Awaaz'. The LG was referring to the killing of civilians, including members of minorities and non-local workmen, by militants over the past 10 days in the valley. "We remain committed to fast-paced development and will endeavor to build a prosperous and peaceful UT of J&K," he said. The lieutenant governor urged the people to remember the security personnel who have laid down their lives in the line of duty. "When we light the Deepawali lamps next month, let's light one lamp in remembrance of the martyrs among the security forces who were prematurely snatched from us by the enemies of humanity," he added. Nine army personnel have lost their lives in one of the deadliest anti-terror operations in recent times in Poonch district. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-hunt-down-terrorists-and-their-sympathisers-jk-lg-manoj-sinha-on-civilian-killings-1041444.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Four newborn babies die at govt hospital in two days; authorities say nothing unusual||Four newborn babies died at a government medical college and hospital in Chhattisgarh's Surguja district in the last two days, prompting the state government to call an emergency meeting of officials. Hospital authorities, however, said there was nothing “unusual” about these deaths and that these babies died due to birth-related complications. The deaths occurred at the Government Medical College Affiliated Hospital (GMCH), Ambikapur, the district headquarter of the Surguja district, located around 300 km away from Raipur, officials said. “While one death took place on October 15 late night, three other infants died the next morning. All four infants, aged 4 to 28 days, were referred from other hospitals after their birth,” said Dr Lakhan Singh, Superintendent, GMCH. He said one of the babies died at the pediatric ward while three others died at the Special Neonatal Care Unit (SNCU) of the hospital. According to Dr Singh, there was nothing unusual in these deaths. "Two of the babies were suffering from birth asphyxia while as many others were underweight," Dr Singh told PTI. Asphyxia is one of the most common causes of death among neonates, he added. Another doctor at the hospital said that the parents of one of the deceased babies created a ruckus in the hospital accusing the hospital staff of negligence and later other parents joined them. He said the parents were earlier informed about the condition of their children and the complications they were suffering from. In the wake of these deaths, Chhattisgarh Urban Administration and Development Minister Shivkumar Dahariya, who is in-charge minister of the Surguja district, has left for Ambikapur to chair a meeting of officials. State Health Minister TS Singh Deo, who was in Delhi, has left his tour midway and returning to Chhattisgarh, a release said. “On the direction of Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, Dahariya has left for Ambikapur where he has called an emergency meeting of the District Collector, Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) and superintendent of the medical college”, a statement issued by the public relations department said. A release issued by the health minister's staff said that Singh Deo has cancelled all his scheduled programmes in Delhi and will directly reach Ambikapur from there. In view of the seriousness of the issue, the health minister has directed to send a special team of health departments from Raipur and Bilaspur to Ambikapur, it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-four-newborn-babies-die-at-govt-hospital-in-two-days-authorities-say-nothing-unusual-1041449.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||UP needs 'yogya' government not Yogi government: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav Sunday attacked the BJP dispensation, saying the state needs a 'yogya' (competent) government and not a Yogi government. Speaking to reporters at the party's headquarters here, he further alleged the BJP "has no work to do" aside from changing names. "It believes in filling pockets instead of potholes." "Uttar Pradesh needs a 'yogya' (competent) government and not a Yogi government," he said. He was speaking after former Uttar Pradesh chief of Bahujan Samaj Party RS Kushwaha and former MP Kadir Rana joined the SP. Yadav reiterated his party's demand for a caste census, and said that when the Congress was in power at the Centre, Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav), RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and Sharad Yadav had demanded that a caste census was done. The SP chief also attacked the BJP government over rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. "At a number of places, the price of petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre, and the public is forced to buy everything at a higher price. The prices of diesel and LPG cylinders have also increased. Do they have any answer to this?" he said. He also attacked the BJP over Samajwadi Party MLA Nitin Agarwal filing nomination for the deputy speaker's post in the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly with the support of the ruling party. "Which party does the candidate put up by the BJP belong to? What can be expected of a government which inaugurates already inaugurated projects, and lays foundation stone of the projects, for which the foundation stone has already been laid?" he asked. He also rubbished claims of factionalism in the Samajwadi Party and claimed the BJP will not give tickets to 150 MLAs in the 2022 polls. Yadav had earlier said that SP will win 400 out of the 403 seats in the UP Assembly. He termed the BJP government "anti-farmer". "Both the UP government and the Centre have deceived (people). The truth is that no one has got a job," Yadav said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-needs-yogya-government-not-yogi-government-akhilesh-yadav-1041450.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Sun rays to illuminate sanctum sanctorum of Ram temple in Ayodhya: Trust member||The Ram temple in Ayodhya will be built in such a way that the sun rays will fall on the idol of Ram Lalla and illuminate its sanctum sanctorum on every Ram Navami, said a member of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. The design will be inspired by the 13th century Sun temple at Konark in Odisha, he said. Work is underway on a proposal to design the temple in a way that the sun rays beautify Ram Lalla’s idol in the sanctum sanctorum on every Ram Navami and consultation with scientists, astronomers and technologists is going on in this regard, Kameshwar Choupal, member of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust told PTI. Choupal said, "The Sun temple at Konark in Odisha is an example where the sun rays reach inside the temple. In such a situation, all the technical aspects and state-of-the-art technology are being considered regarding how the rays of the sun reach the sanctum (of Ram temple)”. The member said a committee consisting of experts from the National Institute of Building Construction, including Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, IIT Mumbai, and IIT Roorkee, has been formed to focus on the technical aspects related to the construction of the temple. Another senior official of the trust said, “The construction work of Shri Ram temple is going on at a fast pace. Efforts are being made (to ensure) that by December 2023, the construction of the sanctum sanctorum should be completed and people can have darshan.” He informed that the first phase of foundation has been completed, while the second phase will be over by mid-November. During the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, several aspects, including geological, geographical and ecological conditions, are being taken into consideration, he said. Chaupal said according to the geological classification, Uttar Pradesh is prone to earthquakes and there is a river near the temple complex while the entire area comes under the Himalayan region. “From November 15, the work of construction of the plinth (the base part of the pillar) will also start. The construction of pillars and overhead structure on the plinth is expected to start from April 2022,” he said. Some changes have been made in the earlier model regarding the construction of the temple, Chaupal said, adding that three floors would be constructed now instead of the two planned initially. Chaupal informed that the temple will have a museum, archives room, research centre, auditorium, gaushala, tourist centre, administrative building, yoga centre and other facilities.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sun-rays-to-illuminate-sanctum-sanctorum-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-trust-member-1041451.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||AIIMS Student Association apologises after Ramleela skit causes social media outcry||The AIIMS Student Association issued an apology on Sunday after video clips of a Ramleela skit performed by some students of the institute drew widespread social media condemnation for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. The skit, allegedly giving a modern spin to some characters of Ramayana with a comic flavour, was performed on the occasion of Dussehra by some first-year MBBS students near the hostel quadrangle at the AIIMS campus. It caused outrage among netizens with many alleging it was disrespectful of religious sentiments. Responding to the criticism, the AIIMS Student Association issued an apology through a tweet. "A video clip of a Ramleela skit done by some students of AIIMS has been circulating on social media. On behalf of the students, we apologise for the conduct of this skit which was not meant to hurt anyone's sentiments. We will ensure that no such activity takes place in the future," it said. A videoclip of a Ramleela skit done by some students of AIIMS has been circulating on social media. On behalf of the students, we apologise for the conduct of this skit which was not meant to hurt anyone’s sentiments. We will ensure that no such activity takes place in the future Taking note of the matter, the AIIMS administration held a discussion with the students, an official said, adding, "The students, realising the sensitivity of the issue, have apologised and issued a tweet. They have assured that such an incident won't recur." The official further said the skit was not part of any official activity or event and the students had organised it on their own. A first-year student, who was a part of the skit, put out a video seeking apology and saying they had organised it it out of "childishness" and when they saw the video later, they themselves felt ashamed.  "I and all of us want to apologise and assure that something like this will never happen again. It is being said that the AIIMS is Hinduphobic and that here Hindu festivals are not respected which is not true." "We celebrate all Hindu festivals here with grandeur....so it's not true that we are against Hindus. We respect all our gods and goddesses," he says in the video. Check out latest DH's videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-student-association-apologises-after-ramleela-skit-causes-social-media-outcry-1041457.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Educational institutions in Uttarakhand to remain closed on Monday in view of heavy rain alert||Most educational institutions across Uttarakhand will remain closed on Monday while there will be a ban on trekking, mountaineering, and camping activities in the high altitude areas of the state till Tuesday as a precautionary measure in view of the heavy rain alert issued by the Met department. The orders for closure of educational institutions, including schools, colleges and anganwadi centres, were issued on Sunday by the district administrations following a heavy rain alert issued for all the 13 districts of Uttarakhand on Monday. The Chamoli district administration also banned all trekking, mountaineering and camping activities in the Nanda Devi biosphere reserve and the entire forest area of Gopeshwar till October 19. The district-level Khel Mahakumbh events to be held at parade and pavilion grounds in Dehradun on October 18-19 have been cancelled. They have been rescheduled for October 24 and 25. Heavy to very heavy rains, lightning, hail storms and high speed winds (60-70 kmph) have been predicted by the Met department for all the 13 districts of Uttarakhand, including Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Almora, Nainitalk Champawat, Dehradun Tehri  and Pauri. Administrations of Chamoli, Uttarkashi and Rudraprayag districts have been asked to be extra careful as the Chardham yatra is underway in these districts. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/educational-institutions-in-uttarakhand-to-remain-closed-on-monday-in-view-of-heavy-rain-alert-1041465.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Father’s responsibilities wouldn’t end at son attaining 18 years age, says HC||A father cannot be absolved of responsibilities to meet education expenses of his son merely because he has attained the age of maturity, the Delhi High Court has said. The high court said the husband must carry the financial burden of making certain that his children are capable of attaining a position in the society wherein they can sufficiently maintain themselves and the mother cannot be burdened with the entire expenditure on the education of her son just because he has completed 18 years of age. "The father cannot be absolved of all responsibilities to meet the education expenses of his son because the son may have attained the age of majority, but may not be financially independent and could be incapable of sustaining himself. A father is bound to compensate the wife who, after spending on children, may hardly be left with anything to maintain herself,” Justice Subramonium Prasad said. The court’s order came while dismissing a plea by a man seeking a review of an HC order by which he was directed to pay Rs 15,000 monthly interim maintenance to his estranged wife till the son completes his graduation or starts earning, whichever is earlier. Earlier, a Family Court had ordered that the son was entitled to maintenance till he attained the age of majority and the daughter would be entitled to maintenance till she gets employment or gets married, whichever is earlier. The high court said it is true that in a majority of households, women are unable to work due to socio-cultural as well as structural impediments, and, thus, cannot financially support themselves. “However, in households wherein the women are working and are earning sufficiently to maintain themselves, it does not automatically mean that the husband is absolved of his responsibility to provide sustenance for his children. "A father has an equal duty to provide for his children and there cannot be a situation wherein it is only the mother who has to bear the burden of expenses for raising and educating the children,” it said. "The court said it cannot shut its eyes to the reality that simply attaining majority does not translate into the understanding that the major son is earning sufficiently. “At the age of 18, it can be safely assumed that the son is either graduating from 12th standard or is in his first year of college. More often than not, it does not place him in a position wherein he can earn to sustain or maintain himself. "It further places the entire burden on the mother to bear the expenses of educating the children without any contribution from the father, and this court cannot countenance such a situation,” it said. The estranged couple had got married in November 1997 and had two children. They got divorced in November 2011 and the son and daughter are 20 and 18 years old respectively. The high court was told that the woman was working as an Upper Division Clerk in Delhi Municipal Corporation, earning about Rs 60,000 per month, and the records indicate that the man has filed his salary certificate which showed that his gross monthly income, as of November 2020, was Rs 1.67 lakh. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/father-s-responsibilities-wouldn-t-end-at-son-attaining-18-years-age-says-hc-1041467.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Singhu border lynching: 3 accused sent to police remand, 2 SITs conducting probe||Three people allegedly involved in the lynching of a labourer at the farmers’ protest site at Singhu border were remanded to six days in police custody as the Haryana Police set up two Special Investigation Teams to probe the incident. Narain Singh, a member of the Sikh order of Nihang, was arrested on Saturday from near Amritsar. Two more Nihangs, Govindpreet Singh and Bhagwant Singh, from Fatehgarh Sahib had "surrendered" before the Sonipat Police in connection with the lynching. All three were produced before a court in Sonipat, which remanded them to six days in police custody. The police sought remand of the accused on the ground that they have to reconstruct the scene of the crime, recover clothes which the accused wore at the time of incident, besides interrogating them in depth about the entire incident. The SIT headed by IPS officer Mayank Gupta, who is Assistant Superintendent of Police, Kharkhoda, Sonipat, will investigate the videos of the incident which were circulating on various social media platforms. The other led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sonipat, Virender Singh will carry out the overall probe into the incident. The body of Dalit labourer Lakhbir Singh was found on Friday tied to a barricade at the Delhi-Haryana border, where the anti-farm law protesters have been camping, with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons. In a video clip that surfaced on social media, some Nihangs were seen standing around the injured man with his severed left hand close to his head. The group was heard accusing him of desecrating a Sikh holy book. However, the victim's family has questioned the attackers' claim that he committed sacrilege and demanded a high-level probe. The mortal remains of Lakhbir Singh were cremated at his native village in Punjab's Tarn Taran amid tight security in the presence of his family members on Saturday evening. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/singhu-border-lynching-3-accused-sent-to-police-remand-2-sits-conducting-probe-1041470.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Kashmiris not involved in recent civilian killings, says Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said Kashmiris were not involved in the recent civilian killings in the union territory and that these attacks were carried under a conspiracy to defame Kashmiris. He also termed these incidents an attempt to disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in the union territory. "These killings are unfortunate and done under a conspiracy. Kashmiris are not involved in these killings. It is an attempt to defame Kashmiris," Abdullah told reporters. The Lok Sabha member from Srinagar said these killings were an attempt to disturb the peaceful atmosphere in the valley. Two non-locals were shot dead by militants in Srinagar and Pulwama districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. Before that, seven civilians, including four from minority communities, were killed by terrorists in Kashmir, triggering fear among the people in the Valley and criticism of the security apparatus by political parties. Asked about the NSA level talks between India and Pakistan, Abdullah said any initiative that leads to friendship is welcome. "We should pray and hope that there is friendship between the two countries and we can live (in peace)," he added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiris-not-involved-in-recent-civilian-killings-says-farooq-abdullah-1041473.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Two migrant labourers shot dead in Kashmir||Continuing their attacks against non-locals, unidentified militants shot dead two migrant labourers and injured another in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Sunday. Reports said the gunmen entered the house of non-local labourers in Wanpoh, Kulgam, 65 kms from here, and fired indiscriminately upon them. “#Terrorists fired indiscriminately upon #NonLocal labourers at Wanpoh area of #Kulgam. In this #terror incident, 02 non-locals were killed and 01 injured. Police & SFs cordoned off the area. Further details shall follow (sic),” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. The slain labourers were identified as Raja Dev and Chun Chun Dev, residents of Bihar. The injured labourer was identified as Joginer Dev, who has been shifted to Government Medical College (GMC) Anantnag, where his condition is stated to be stable. Earlier on October 5, Virendra Paswan, a street-vendor from Bhagalpur in Bihar, was shot dead by militants near Madina Chowk Lalbazar in Srinagar. An hour before killing Paswan, the militants had shot dead Makhan Lal Bindroo, a famous Kashmir Pandit businessman at his pharmacy near Iqbal Park in Srinagar. A cab driver, Mohammad Shafi Lone, was also shot dead in north Kashmir's Bandipora that evening. On October 7, Supinder Kour, principal of Government Boys Higher Secondary school in Eidgah, Srinagar and a teacher at the same school, Deepak Chand, were shot dead by militants. The attacks have created a sense of general fear and widespread panic in the Valley, particularly among the minority communities. Since last one week, security forces have gone on offensive against the militants, killing 13 ultras in nine encounters across the Valley. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-migrant-labourers-shot-dead-in-kashmir-1041480.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Man accidently shoots self, cooks up fake robbery story to mislead police||An 18-year-old man accidently shot himself and then cooked up a story of allegedly being shot during a robbery to mislead investigators, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Friday night when Shivam along with his three friends, one of whom was a juvenile, were partying inside a room in a guesthouse at Kapashera area. All of them were under the influence of alcohol, police said. One of them -- the juvenile -- had an illegal pistol which he had procured from Uttar Pradesh. Out of excitement, Shivam took it and tried to shoot but accidently ended up shooting himself in his knee leading to serious injuries, a senior police officer said. His friends fled the spot and went into hiding at their native places in Lucknow while Shivam with the help guesthouse staff destroyed all the evidence and cleaned the floors of the room, the officer said. Shivam along with another friend then rushed to the Safdarjung hospital. The police were then informed about the incident, officials said. According to police, when they questioned him about the injuries, Shivam first claimed to be a victim of road rage but later cooked up a story, saying while returning home, he was intercepted by two bike-borne men on the Kapashera road. He told the police that the two men tried to rob him at gunpoint and when he resisted, they shot him and fled the spot, officials said. However, neither the private guards at a facility near the spot, when questioned, were aware of any such incident nor the police could find any other witness to corroborate the victim's version, the senior officer said. "When we verified, we found that Shivam was lying. We got him medically examined and the doctors opined that the injuries were self-inflicted. When the staff at the guesthouse were further questioned, they admitted about the firing incident and confessed to have helped Shivam in tampering with the evidence by cleaning the blood on the floors," the officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Gaurav Sharma said, "A case has been registered under section 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections of 25/27 Arms Act." A team lead by SHO Kapashera, Anil Malik, nabbed the absconding accused, police said. Shivam and Hrishikesh, who was in lucknow, were arrested and the juvenile was apprehended. All the three were school dropouts, he said. Legal action is also being taken against the guesthouse under Delhi Police Act for not informing police about the firing incident and also running the place without a license. They are also being booked for helping the accused in tampering with the evidences, the DCP said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-accidently-shoots-self-cooks-up-fake-robbery-story-to-mislead-police-1041488.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Backed by BJP, Nitin Agarwal all set to be elected UP Assembly Dy Speaker||Nitin Agarwal, who was elected as a legislator on the Samajwadi Party ticket but then cozied up to the ruling BJP, is all set to be the deputy speaker of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly with the support of the saffron party. A miffed Samajwadi Party, which has fielded Narendra Verma as its official candidate for the contest that is taking place just months ahead of the 2022 assembly polls, hit out at the BJP, accusing it of trying to sabotage democracy, and asserted that the post should traditionally go to the opposition party. After the election on Monday, Uttar Pradesh will get its first Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly after a gap of over 14 years. In the 2017 assembly polls, the BJP had won 304 seats in the 403-member UP Legislative Assembly and its majority in the House will ensure Agarwal's victory. According to sources, Samajwadi Party had moved the Speaker of UP Legislative Assembly seeking disqualification of Nitin Agarwal 5-6 months and around 15-20 days back the Speaker rejected the petition. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh were present during the filing of nomination on Sunday by Nitin Agarwal, whose father Naresh Agarawal had quit the SP and joined the BJP in 2018. "The BJP has followed all parliamentary traditions. The post is (generally) reserved for the principal opposition party. You (SP) were not able to give a candidate, and when a candidate came, it was Nitin Agarwal, and we are supporting him. We have come here to give respect to the parliamentary traditions," Adityanath later told reporters. Nitin Agarwal wore a blue 'patka' bearing the 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan at the time of filing his nomination. His father and former UP minister Naresh Agarwal was also present. "I have submitted four sets of nomination papers. Those who have proposed my name are Congress MLA from Harchandpur Rakesh Pratap Singh, BSP MLA from Purva Anil Singh, Cabinet ministers Suresh Khanna, Swami Prasad Maurya and Ashutosh Tandon, minister Chhatrapal Singh, and MLA Rajpal Verma," Nitin Agarwal told PTI. After filing the nomination papers, the MLA told PTI that he has not formally joined the BJP. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav attacked the BJP over Agarwal's nomination. "Which party does the candidate put up by the BJP belong to? What can be expected of a government which inaugurates already inaugurated projects and lays the foundation stone of the projects for which the foundation stone has already been laid?" he asked. SP nominee Narendra Verma also accused the BJP of "twisting" parliamentary traditions and said the post should go to the opposition. "I am the SP candidate and the post of deputy speaker as per traditions goes to the principal opposition party. Hence, it should go to us. "He (Nitin) is my younger brother. He won on a Samajwadi Party ticket and after winning the polls, he started working against the SP... the BJP is breaking and twisting the parliamentary traditions. We do not expect anything from the ruling party," he said. Verma, a Kurmi leader, was accompanied by Leader of Opposition in UP Assembly Ram Gobind Chaudhary and rebel BSP MLAs during the filing of nominations at the UP Vidhan Bhavan on Sunday. Leader of Opposition in UP Assembly Ram Gobind Chaudhary claimed that the Samajwadi Party wanted a Dalit or a backward as the deputy speaker, "but the BJP did not want so, and hence no election was held in four-and-half years ". "No meeting was held in this regard, but with Assembly elections approaching, the BJP suddenly made SP MLA Nitin Agarwal its candidate after four and half years," he said. The last deputy speaker of the UP Legislative Assembly was the BJP's Rajesh Agarwal, who was elected unopposed in 2004. Rajesh Agarwal told PTI that the role of the Deputy Speaker is to conduct the proceedings of the House in the absence of the Speaker. A three-time SP MLA from Hardoi, Nitin Agarwal said if elected as the deputy speaker of the assembly, he will discharge his duties in accordance with the Constitution. "The government's priority is that everything should be transparent. My priority as a deputy speaker will be to ensure the same," he said. UP's law minister Brajesh Pathak, when asked about the reasons for the election, said it is was the demand of the MLAs. Principal Secretary of UP Vidhan Sabha Pradeep Dubey said only the two candidates have filed nomination papers and the voting will take place on Monday. Naresh Agarwal took a swipe at the SP and said that it will follow the "tradition of witnessing defeats". "The preceding governments should have appointed deputy speakers, but they did not do so, as they did not believe in this Constitutional post. I must thank the chief minister and the government that they believe in the Constitution and this Constitutional post," he said after his son filed the nomination. On the timing of the election, he said, "Why should there be any question mark on the intention of the state government? Also, there is no rule that the deputy speaker should be elected along with the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly. Whenever the Speaker feels it appropriate, the deputy speaker can be elected." Dismissing suggestions that the BJP government, with this move, was trying to reach out to a community which was unhappy with the party, Agarwal said, "The government has done a lot for all the sections of the society. This government does not believe in appeasement, and represents everybody, and does not do appeasement politics." Reacting to the opposition's criticism, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Khanna said Nitin Agarwal became an MLA on an SP ticket, and even today is an SP MLA. "All the parliamentary traditions were followed. And, if there are two candidates in the fray, there will be voting," he said. On allegations by the opposition that the BJP is trying to sabotage democracy, Khanna said, "These allegations are being levelled for a long time, and there is no strength in them. What is sabotage? I don't think so. It is within the purview of the rules and regulations of the House."  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/backed-by-bjp-nitin-agarwal-all-set-to-be-elected-up-assembly-dy-speaker-1041500.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand achieves target of 100% first dose Covid vaccination: Chief Minister Dhami||Uttarakhand has administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to its entire eligible population three months ahead of target, Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said on Sunday. He told a press conference here that a total of 74 lakh people or 100 per cent of the eligible population across the state have been administered with the first dose of the vaccine against coronavirus. Claiming that the target has been achieved three months in advance, the chief minister thanked all government, private and voluntary agencies involved in the exercise. He also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for raising the supply of vaccine doses to the state from August onwards. Also, as many as 34.68 lakh people in the state have been administered with the second dose, he said. The chief minister also appealed to people who had taken the first dose to get their second dose on time. He also said the process of inoculating people under 18 years will also begin as soon as permission for this is received. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-achieves-target-of-100-first-dose-covid-vaccination-chief-minister-dhami-1041513.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur incident: SKM to hold 'Rail Roko' on Oct 18 to demand dismissal, arrest of Union Minister||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday said 'Rail Roko' protests will be held across the country on October 18 to demand the dismissal and arrest Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. In a statement, the umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the farmers' agitation against the Centre's three agri laws, said "protests will only be intensified until justice is secured" in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. The SKM said during the 'rail roko' protest, all train traffic will be stopped for six hours from 10 am till 4 pm on Monday. "To press for its demand for MoS Home Ajay Mishra's dismissal and arrest, so that justice can be secured in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, Samyukt Kisan Morcha has announced a nation-wide Rail Roko program tomorrow. "SKM put out a call to its constituents to stop rail traffic for six hours on October 18, between 10 am and 4 pm. The SKM asks for this action to be taken up peacefully, without any destruction and damage of any kind to any railway property," it said. Four of the eight people who died in the violence on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and Ajay Mishra who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9. The SKM also claimed that at effigy-burning events across Uttar Pradesh, several farmer leaders were put under house arrested while some were detained. SKM condemns this and asks the UP government not to suppress the right to protest of ordinary citizens, it added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-incident-skm-to-hold-rail-roko-on-oct-18-to-demand-dismissal-arrest-of-union-minister-1041531.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Migrant labourers in Jammu and Kashmir to be moved to security camps||Faced with killings of two more non-locals, the Jammu and Kashmir Police has asked all its district chiefs in the valley to gather non-resident labourers and bring them to the nearest security camps "immediately", officials said on Sunday. The move comes after terrorists gunned down two labourers and critically wounded another one in Kulgam in South Kashmir on Sunday evening. In a message flashed to all district police, Inspector General of Police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said, "All non-local labourers in your respective jurisdiction should be brought to the nearest police or central paramilitary force or army establishment just now." "The matter is most urgent," the message said. There are 10 districts in Kashmir Valley.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-labourers-in-jammu-and-kashmir-to-be-moved-to-security-camps-1041551.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||Army chopper crash: Co-pilot's body found after two months from dam in Jammu and Kashmir||The body of a co-pilot of an Army helicopter that crashed and sank into Ranjit Sagar Dam in August was recovered from the water body in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, ending nearly two-and-a-half-month-long search for him, officials said. The mortal remains of Captain Jayant Joshi were fished out from the dam around 2 pm in one of the longest search operations in recent history and were later taken to Pathankot military station, a police official said. The Army aviation squadron's Rudra helicopter had taken off from Mamun military station near Pathankot and crashed into the lake during a routine sortie on August 3. After a hectic rescue and search operation, the body of Lt Col Abheet Singh Baath — pilot of the helicopter — was retrieved from the dam on August 15. The longest search operation saw the deployment of experts and all types of equipment belonging to the Army, Navy, Air Force, NDRF, SDRF, J-K Police, dam authority and private firms from across the country to locate the wreckage of the crashed helicopter and retrieve the bodies, the officials said. Heavy machinery and submarine rescue units were also flown in, while specialised divers from the Navy and the Army Special Forces worked in tandem during the prolonged operation which was challenging due to the near-zero visibility in the reservoir because of the colloidal nature of its water. The agencies concerned also employed specialised machines, including multibeam sonars, side scanners, remotely operated vehicles and underwater manipulators flown in from Chandigarh, Delhi, Mumbai and Kochi during the operation, the officials said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-chopper-crash-co-pilots-body-found-after-two-months-from-dam-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1041554.html
17-10-2021||North and Central||No terrorist will be spared: J&K BJP chief after latest civilian killings in Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Sunday condemned the killing of four non-local labourers in the valley and said none of the terrorists would be spared and the region would be cleared of terrorism. Four labourers, three from Bihar and one from Uttar Pradesh, were shot dead and another injured by terrorists in three separate attacks in Srinagar, Pulwama and Kulgam districts in the past 24 hours. "Cowardly Pakistani terrorists have once again committed a grave crime by killing labourers who come to Kashmir to earn their livelihood. The conspiracy to target poor labourers was hatched by Pakistan to create a fear among the people," Raina said. He said such conspiracies will be defeated and Jammu and Kashmir cleared of terrorists as was done in the past week when police and paramilitary forces eliminated over a dozen terrorists responsible for killing of innocent civilians, including a pharmacist and two teachers in Srinagar early this month. "None of the terrorists will be spared. The BJP-led government has carried out strong action against Pakistan-sponsored terrorism, breaking its backbone in the valley with back-to-back successful operations by security forces," he said. The BJP leader said Pakistan-sponsored terrorists are desperate and they're targeting innocent and unarmed civilians in frustration. "They will have to pay a heavy price for their crimes against humanity. The accounts will be settled with interest," Raina said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-terrorist-will-be-spared-jk-bjp-chief-after-latest-civilian-killings-in-kashmir-1041559.html
17-10-2021||Oasis||Human psychology unravelled||While expounding on the second ‘Karma Yoga’ chapter of the Bhagavad Geeta, Lord Krishna makes some fascinating observations on human psychology. In his commentary, revered preceptor Swami Chinmayananda explains it thus. “The one distinguishing factor between humans and animals is the faculty of thinking, the ability to think before acting and to differentiate between the right and the wrong. This power of the intellect, when used in the right manner becomes a powerful tool for man’s mental and spiritual evolution. Then why do humans, knowing all this, still act as if driven more by instinct, greed, arrogance and egotism, rather than being guided by a principled approach?" This is because, the Lord says, “every living being acts as per its innate nature, which is to run behind sensual pleasures. Even learned scholars who know this, still, succumb to these temptations. When this is so, what can mere self-control do?" Worldly and material comforts attract a man. These lead to desires, which manifest themselves as actions to realize these desires. These actions create a tendency to aspire for more pleasures, leading to further wants and actions. Thus there is a layered accumulation of inner desires and wants which in turn lead to more wants, creating a perpetual vicious cycle.  As Swami Chinmayananda says, when the Lord asks “what can mere self-control do,” it is not a fatalistic acceptance of man’s inability to control his thoughts. Rather, it is a frank admission of the fact that in human society, there will always be men who are at various rungs of the ladder of spiritual evolution and therefore, it will not be possible for men at the lower rungs of this ladder to lead morally upright lives. Barring those at the top, those realized souls, the majority in the middle rungs lead  ‘in-between lives’, neither totally bad nor fully pure. Does this mean that we should just accept this and refrain from even trying to grow inwardly? “No, the three vehicles for your growth and evolution are the body, mind and intellect. They are constantly being exposed to the attractions of the world. It is not that you should totally desist from worldly pleasures. But, remember, these cause both attraction and repulsion, your real enemies. Be aware of them and safeguard yourselves by controlling your desires, your thoughts and your actions. Enjoy life, but in a controlled manner” is the Lord’s advice. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/human-psychology-unravelled-1041502.html
17-10-2021||Opinion||What happens to your life stories if you delete your Facebook account?||By Michael Humphrey for The Conversation If the latest deluge of Facebook controversies has you ready to kick the app to the digital curb, you are not alone. There are plenty of good guides out there on how to do it right. Even Facebook makes it pretty easy to understand the nuances of saying “see ya later” (deactivating) or “never speak to me again” (deleting). But before you go, you might want to consider this: What happens to your life stories? For many people, a decade or more of updates, comments, photos, messages, tags, pokes, groups and reactions reside inside that particular digital sphere. And Facebook wants you to remember that. As one writer put it: “Facebook is obsessed with memories. It likes to make you nostalgic, and remind you of just how long you’ve used social media.” As a researcher who studies life stories on social media, I know that’s an accurate assessment. This strategy drove Facebook to build a powerful and unique life narrative tool. Millions of people have invested billions of collective hours building what scholars call a networked life narrative, in which people “co-construct” their social identities through their interactions with one another. Perhaps you’ve never thought about how archiving the small moments of your life would eventually amass into a large narrative of yourself. Or how interactions from your family, friends, colleagues and strangers would create meaningful dimensions of that story. Deactivating versus deleting What happens if you decide to be done with all of that? If you deactivate Facebook, it is like putting that story into suspended animation. Much of what you did and said will either be removed or grayed out. If you reactivate it someday, most of it will be restored and on you go. Delete the account, on the other hand, and “Your profile, photos, posts, videos, and everything else you’ve added will be permanently deleted. You won’t be able to retrieve anything you’ve added,” according to Facebook. If all those memories you have stored mean anything to you, your last chance to keep it before deleting is to download your information. I suggest you do this once in a while anyway, because it reveals a lot about how you are tracked, how you consume media on the app and how you have acted on the site over the years. It’s also a pretty nifty set of files that you can view offline either through the folder system or using a web browser offline by opening the index.html file. You can also look at the data online through Facebook. Losing the connections But to a surprisingly large degree, your downloaded narrative gets “de-networked.” What do I mean by that? Your posts are listed by date and time, but have none of the reactions and comments that followed. This is also true of photos and videos you have posted. The same happens to the comments you made on other people’s posts. There is no reference to what you were commenting on because technically that is not your data. The polls you have voted on do not have the context of the poll itself, only your answers. The invitations you received are listed only by name. There is a section of all the people you have interacted with on the app, but it’s just a list of names, dates and times. There are dates attached to most everything, but none of the context – think personal and social news – in which those posts were made. There are exceptions. For one, your messages are left in context, so you see the conversations you had. Another exception is that events are ordered by how you responded about attending. And I have one caveat: I am gathering this information from my own data, so there might be other exceptions I cannot see. Take a look around before walking out the door Still, what you ultimately download starts to feel like the scaffolding of a life, with the depth of those memories only activated by your own mind. That might be enough for you. If the richness of your networked narrative means something, on the other hand, slow down. Take some time to dive into your account one last time – saving the responses you cherish, capturing the context where you can – before you say goodbye to Facebook for good.  The author is an Assistant Professor of Journalism and Media Communication, Colorado State University Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-happens-to-your-life-stories-if-you-delete-your-facebook-account-1041368.html
17-10-2021||Panorama||Mahiti Kanaja, an endeavour to enhance Right to Information||Nanjamma, a single, elderly widow, has been struggling to get a ration card for years. Officials gave her the incredible reason that she was not entitled to a ration card — “because she lived all alone”. As per a Supreme Court ruling, she would be entitled to an Antyodaya Anna Yojane card for the poorest of the poor, which would give her 35 kg food grain per month.  The Domestic Workers’ Rights Union has documented several such case studies. Some of the women have applied online and offline over 15 times and spent up to Rs 15,000 on middlemen and yet failed to get the coveted card. It would have entitled them to subsidised healthcare, pension and many more benefits. If only there was a system of information disclosure in the government — which would give the status of every application filed under beneficiary schemes of all departments, village and ward-wise, the reason for its rejection, and the name of the official who rejected it — the deliberate misinformation is given by officials with ulterior motives would end. Hopefully, the commendable initiative of the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms-E-governance (DPAR-Egov), Government of Karnataka, to launch an updated web portal, ‘Mahiti Kanaja’, on October 12, the RTI Day, will enable this.  Mahiti Kanaja is a single unified portal for all departments which will disclose information related to the status of implementation of government schemes/public expenditures etc on a real-time basis in a user-friendly format down to the GP/ward level. This is on the lines of the ‘Jan Soochna Portal’ initiated in Rajasthan. The information will be provided to the public free of all “log-ins” and passwords, enabling genuine “freedom of information”. As in Rajasthan, a ‘Digital Dialogue’ has been initiated by DPAR-Egov, facilitated by the Social Accountability Forum for Action & Research (SAFAR), with a host of civil society organisations and across various departments, to revise Mahiti Kanaja from the citizens’ perspective. Activists have stressed the need to focus on achieving social justice and meet the information needs of the most marginalised and not those of just any citizen. A dire need expressed by all CSOs is the provision of information, not only of accepted applications but also as to why ration cards, pension for the elderly, widows and the physically challenged, maternity benefits for pregnant women, NREGA jobs, farmers’ loan waivers, compensation for crop loss, registration of and benefits to unorganised workers and migrants etc have been denied to individual applicants. The details are to be given with suitable masking of private data.  The GP/ward-wise status of social infrastructure, of anganwadis, schools, primary healthcare centres, etc, when compared to what should be there as per norms — as per the RTE Act, the Indian Public Health Standards, etc — is another major demand. Often, knowing where anganwadis, schools or PHCs do not exist also becomes necessary in order to plan for their establishment.  Data about the functioning of the above institutions — how many children are malnourished or are out of school, the infant mortality rate and maternal mortality rate (where possible) at the GP/ward level and status of action taken to resolve these issues are valuable if we are to meet the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  The extent of delivery of benefits such as take-home rations, midday meals, scholarships etc in these institutions are also necessary for making them accountable. Details of the composition and functioning of decentralised, participatory platforms of citizens — such as ward committees in municipalities, vigilance committees of ration shops, Balavikas Samithis of Anganwadis, School Development & Monitoring Committees, Arogya Raksha Samithis of PHCs — the number of meetings held by them, their minutes and action-taken reports would enable monitoring of these institutions by citizens. Activists noted that more than 25% of the population lives in slums, and they would like information from the Slum Development Board on the reason why many slums have not been notified, and land rights and basic amenities like water supply have not been provided to them despite their existence for decades. When evictions of slums are ordered overnight, one would like to know who authorised it under which law. The details of projects/works carried out by various departments, gram panchayats and municipalities, the tenders and contracts issued, budgets allocated and amounts spent on services such as garbage management, construction of houses and toilets, road works etc would provide citizens insight into where their tax money is going. Activists pointed out that 20% of the state’s budget is spent by the irrigation and PWD departments, but none of their work orders are currently available online. Planning authorities such as the BDA do not provide information on objections received by them from the public to their projects and the reasons for not taking the objections into consideration; nor do they provide the cost-benefit analyses or the rationale for their projects mandated under Sections 4(1)(c) and (d) of the RTI Act. As in Rajasthan, the web portal will have to be supplemented with non-web-based (offline) modes such as wall paintings, notice boards etc, in local languages, recognising the challenges faced by the marginalised in accessing information through web-based mediums. Free kiosks will have to be set up in every gram panchayat/ward of the state manned by ‘facilitators’ who will assist any person seeking information and guide them in applying for schemes and services for which they qualify, and in tracking their grievances. Extensive training of all stakeholders will need to be done on the use of the portal and how the information can be used to monitor government programmes and conduct social audits, thereby deepening accountability and democracy. ‘Mahiti Kanaja’ will hopefully provide information from the perspective of a struggling citizen like Nanjamma and end the turmoil she undergoes to get her entitlements. (The writer is a Trustee of CIVIC Bangalore and Karnataka Right to Information Activists’ Forum, KRIA-Katte)  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/mahiti-kanaja-an-endeavour-to-enhance-right-to-information-1041507.html
17-10-2021||Right in the Middle||The variety of guests||It is not easy to convey unpleasant messages to others, more so when one is dealing with VIPs. I have some such experiences from the time when I was the Undersecretary to Government of Karnataka (Protocol), Bangalore, in the nineties. There was a maximum time beyond which a guest could not stay in a Government Guest House. However, a High Court judge who had come to Karnataka High Court on transfer had occupied a couple of suites in the guest house well beyond the stipulated time. There was a shortage of rooms in the guest house, so my boss directed me to ask the High Court judge to vacate the rooms immediately. Mustering all courage, I met the judge, exchanged pleasantries and enquired about his well being. I did not broach the subject of his vacating the guest house in the first meeting.  A few days later, my boss reminded me about the judge again. This time I had decided to discuss the issue with him, come what may. I met him and wished him by bowing before him. I told him that the state government would feel embarrassed if judges over-stayed in the guest house, and indicated that he move to the judge's quarters soon. The judge obliged and vacated the guest house soon. There were also occasions when one got an opportunity to 'say good things to the guests. It was the policy of the government to accommodate state guests in the state guest houses. There were two of them in Bengaluru, Kumara Krupa Guest House and Balaboorie Guest House. When they were full, the guests were accommodated in the star hotels. However, most of the guests 'demanded' accommodation in the star hotels even when accommodation was available in the guest house, due to the 'facilities' in the star hotels. Whether a person belonged to the leftist, rightist or centrist ideology, as far as facilities and comforts were concerned, no one was prepared to make compromises. A minister in the Jyothi Basu cabinet was in Bengaluru on official work as a state guest. As accommodation was not available in the two guest houses, he was accommodated in the Hotel Ashoka. I happened to visit the hotel on some official work and on coming to know that the minister was staying in the hotel, I decided to meet him, just for fun. He appeared to be angry because he preferred to stay in the guest house rather than in a star hotel. He wanted to know why he was put up in a star hotel. I told him the reason and also informed him that usually, it was the other way round — guests wanted to stay in star hotels even when accommodation was available in the guest house. I commended him for his stance which showed he was a true Communist, leaving him extremely elated and flattered. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-variety-of-guests-1041509.html
17-10-2021||Second Edit||Fight against Malaria gets boost||The World Health Organisation’s (WHO) recommendation for use of a vaccine against malaria has raised hopes of success in the long fight against this mass killer. The recommendation is based on the results of a pilot project conducted in three sub-Saharan countries — Ghana, Kenya and Malawi. Over eight lakh children and infants were vaccinated in the pilot project which started in 2019 and it has recorded 30% success. The success rate may be seen to be on the lower side but considering that malaria affects millions of children worldwide, some of them more than once, and takes lakhs of lives, the efficacy rate means much more than the percentage. It is capable of saving many lakhs of lives in the years to come. The vaccine, Mosquirix, was developed after decades of research by the British pharmaceutical firm GlaxoSmithKline. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom has termed the decision to use the vaccine as historic because it marks a breakthrough not only for malaria control but also for child health and science itself. WHO has said that nearly half of the world's population is vulnerable to malaria while its incidence is most widespread and acute in sub-Saharan Africa. Children are affected more than adults. About 229 million cases and over four lakh deaths were reported in 2019, and 94% of the deaths were from Africa. Children under five years of age accounted for two-thirds of the deaths. The importance of vaccination and the need to prioritise African countries for vaccination is clear from the figures. India has made considerable progress in reducing its malaria burden and deaths caused by the disease between 2000 and 2019. It has maintained that there were only 77 malarial deaths in 2019, though the WHO estimate is higher than that.  WHO has expressed the hope that its approval will encourage the development of more vaccines against malaria. Researchers from Oxford University have announced that they have a vaccine candidate which may attain 75% efficacy. Germany’s BioNTech has said that it plans to start trials of a malaria vaccine that uses mRNA technology. While these may be in the pipeline, the immediate task is to manufacture the vaccine on an industrial scale and to distribute it at an affordable price among the countries that most need it. The Gavi vaccine alliance, which has tried to make an equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, has taken a welcome initiative to finance the malaria vaccine programme for the most needy countries. While the vaccine route may have been opened in the fight against malaria, success is still far away. So WHO has done well to emphasise that there should not be any laxity in routine malaria prevention activities. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/fight-against-malaria-gets-boost-1041504.html
17-10-2021||South||Heart-wrenching sight as bodies of mother, child hugging recovered beneath landslide debris in Kerala||Rescue operations at landslide-hit regions -- Kottayam and Idukki -- in Kerala on Sunday witnessed heart-wrenching scenes with bodies of a mother and children found huddled together. A child in its cradle was found beneath the debris, another life lost to the devastating rain.  The death toll due to the calamities in the state was 21 while several were reported missing. At Koottickal in Kottayam district, 12 bodies, including those of a six-member of family, were recovered from the debris of the two landslide-affected areas. At Kokkayar in Idukki district, six bodies, including those of a mother and her two kids along with two other children were recovered. A child and a woman, were also reported missing. Sniffer dogs were used for search, however, rescue operations had to be stopped by evening. Even as the intensity of rains declined in central and southern parts of the state on Sunday, the state continues to be on high alert as heavy rains are forecast from Wednesday.  Heavy rains were also reported from parts of Palakkad district in central Kerala. Though flood waters receded in parts of Kottayam and Pathanamthitta district, many parts were still inundated. Rescue teams shifted families to safe locations. Several parts of adjacent Alappuzha district were also flooded. Isolated incidents of drowning were reported from other parts of the state. A one-year-old child drowned in Kozhikode while a migrant worker was missing in a canal in Thiruvananthapuram. Search for missing persons at the landslide-hit spots of Koottickal and Kokkayar was in full swing from early hours of Sunday as rescue teams of NDRF and Army could reach the spot only by late Saturday night as roads leading to the spots were also damaged due to landslides and land slips. In Koottickal, six members of a family of one Martin, comprising his wife, three children and mother were among the dead. At Kokkayar, a mother, identified as Fousia, and one of her kids were found hugging one another when their dead bodies were recovered, two other children were also found huddled together. Fousia's husband Siyad had a narrow escape. Rescue workers found it difficult to console him as he was seen watching the video footage of his family members taken in recent days.  Meanwhile, the back-to-back natural calamities in Kerala  again triggered a campaign for protection of the Western Ghats and strict curbs on illegal activities that affect its ecology. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heart-wrenching-sight-as-bodies-of-mother-child-hugging-recovered-beneath-landslide-debris-in-kerala-1041383.html
17-10-2021||South||Kerala's Sabarimala temple gets new 'main priest'||N Parameswaran Namboothiri has been selected as the new 'Melsanthi' (main priest) of the Sabarimala Ayyappa Temple in Kerala. A native of Mavelikara in Alappuzha district, Parameswaran Namboothiri was selected through the draw of lots at the temple premises on Sunday. Shambhu Namboothiri from Kozhikode was selected as 'melsanthi' (main priest) of the Malikapuram Devi temple. The temple opened for the monthly poojas on Saturday evening. Restrictions were imposed in the movement of pilgrims in view of the rough weather. Pilgrims are only allowed with either a negative Covid-19 report or their vaccination certificate. Owing to the Covid scenario there was a decline in the number of applicants for the Sabarimala chief priest post. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-sabarimala-temple-gets-new-main-priest-1041398.html
17-10-2021||South||A day after torrential rains, heart-wrenching scenes in Kerala's high ranges||An elderly woman could be seen running from one person to another screaming through the rain swept roads in this high range hamlet, located at the foothills of Western Ghats mountain ranges, on Sunday morning. "I have lost everything...everything in my life...where should I go?...who will give me a shelter?" the woman, clad in a tattered saree, asked aloud crying and running here and there. The unexpected torrential rain, which pounded the village on Saturday, washed away every penny of her life time earnings and made her homeless all of a sudden. "I begged our Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sir to give me two cents of land to construct a 'koora' (hut). I have nowhere to go. My daughters' houses are also submerged. Now I am going to the church to see whether I will get a place there," she told the journalists gathered at the place. It was the story of many hapless families in Koottickal, located in Kottayam district of Kerala which suffered severe destruction and human casualty due to a series of landslips triggered by heavy rains yesterday. When the extreme rains showed a slight dip this morning, a large number of people in this village could be seen as displaced and became the inmates of the rehabilitation campus. Many elderly villagers said it was for the first time in their decades-old life that they were seeing and experiencing such severe rainfall. A local shop owner here pointed to his new car, which can be seen as destroyed and partially hanging with its back wheels stuck on a broken wall in his house compound. "It was my new car parked in front of the house. I was not at home when the flood water suddenly gushed inside the house compound Saturday afternoon. My wife and children somehow managed to run to the neighbour's house," the middle-aged man said. He turned a bit emotional showing the 'mundu' (dhoti) which he was wearing, saying that it was borrowed from the neighbour. Only life was saved and everything else was lost, he said adding that not even in the 2018 floods had he faced such a terrible situation. The situation was not different in Kokkayar, a hilly hamlet in Idukki district as well, which also witnessed a series of landslips and human casualties on Saturday in incessant rains. A shocked Rajamma, a woman villager, was yet to believe that a four-member family including children, who were seen engaged in some construction activities near her home on the foothills of the hill, swept away by floodwaters in front of her eyes. The elderly woman said she advised the family to move away from the place when water was seen coming down from the hilltops on a small scale. "But, they continued their work. Suddenly a portion of the hill, where they were standing, caved in... huge boulders started rolling down accompanied by a massive flood of water... I do not remember anything else," the teary-eyed woman said. George, a middle-aged man engaged in rescue operations, said it was everything fine and calm in the village till 11 PM on Saturday. "But, the situation worsened after that. Around 10 big bridges and the same number of wooden bridges were washed away and the village became isolated soon," he added. The Army, NDRF, police and the Fire Force along with the locals began rescue operations on Sunday morning at Koottickal and Kokkayar panchayats where over a dozen people are listed to be missing due to numerous landslides accompanied by heavy downpour since Saturday. Officials said rescue operators on Sunday morning recovered four more bodies from Koottickal panchayat taking the toll to eight. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-day-after-torrential-rains-heart-wrenching-scenes-in-keralas-high-ranges-1041402.html
17-10-2021||South||'Hindus only' job advertisement creates uproar in Tamil Nadu||An advertisement issued by the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) department inviting “only Hindus” to apply for teaching posts in a newly-established college in Chief Minister M K Stalin’s Kolathur constituency has sparked a row.  The advertisement issued in all major local dailies for the post of assistant professors in various departments for the Arulmigu Kapaleeswarar Arts and Science College for a walk-in interview on October 18 said only Hindus can apply for the vacancies.  The college, which will function from a school campus in Kolathur till a new building is constructed, is one of the 10 colleges that the HR & CE department has promised to establish in the next year. The advertisement issued by the department is now being opposed by many, including supporters of DMK, who seek to know why only Hindus are allowed to apply for teaching positions.  Dravidar Kazhagam president K Veeramani, who shares an excellent rapport with DMK and Stalin, termed the advertisement as “unconstitutional” and asked the state government to rectify the “mistake”. While welcoming the move by the HR & CE department to launch colleges, Veeramani said since the advertisement is for professors for an institution, it should be open for all. “Only Hindus may be applicable for the posts of priests and other positions in temples. But it will not apply for teaching positions. Even if one goes to court tomorrow, this condition will be struck down. We are bringing this to the attention of the Chief Minister,” Veeramani said.  Efforts to reach HR & CE minister P K Sekarbabu and Commissioner J Kumaragurubaran failed. However, officials justified the condition citing Section 10 of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959. “The Commissioner, every Deputy or Assistant Commissioner and every other officer or servant appointed to carry out the purposes of this Act, by whomsoever appointed, shall be a person professing the Hindu religion, and shall cease to hold office as such when he ceases to profess that religion,” the Section 10 of the Act says.  A former HR & CE official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told DH that the advertisement mentioning only Hindus was right and there was nothing wrong. “If one goes by the HR & CE Act, revenue from temples should be spent only on Hindus. Since the college is run by a temple and salaries for the staff will be paid from the temple revenue, the condition of Hindus only cannot be criticised. This will not affect students as they don’t get paid,” he said. Villupuram MP and general secretary of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, a DMK ally, D Ravikumar said the government should continue to open more such colleges under the aegis of the HR & CE department. “As far as the appointments are concerned, they should be made strictly under the law. The HR & CE department should launch medical colleges and hospitals as well to serve the poor,” Ravikumar told DH.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hindus-only-job-advertisement-creates-uproar-in-tamil-nadu-1041411.html
17-10-2021||South||Kerala rains: PM Modi speaks with CM Vijayan to discuss situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rains and landslides in the state.  The toll from disastrous flooding caused by heavy rains and landslides in hilly areas of two central Kerala districts rose to 21 as rescue workers recovered more bodies from the rubbles on Sunday. "Spoke to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Authorities are working on the ground to assist the injured and affected," Modi tweeted. "I pray for everyone's safety and well-being," he said. "It is saddening that some people have lost their lives due to heavy rains and landslides in Kerala. Condolences to the bereaved families," Modi said in another tweet. State Revenue Minister K Rajan said the rescue workers have recovered 15 bodies from the debris and slush of the landslides that had hit various places of Idukki and Kottayam districts on Saturday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-rains-pm-modi-speaks-with-cm-vijayan-to-discuss-situation-1041468.html
17-10-2021||South||Kerala bus crew earns plaudits for rescuing people from landslide||A day after nature unleashed its fury on Kerala, a series of heart-wrenching incidents and narrow escapes during the series of landslides on Saturday have begun to come out. A family from Gujarat, who were on a vacation in Kerala, had a narrow escape after being washed away in a landslide at Pullpara near Peerumedu in the high range district of Idukki. As vehicles were held up in the hilly terrain owing to landslides and landslips along the roads, a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation's bus conductor spotted two people, including a child, being carried away in the gushing water. The conductor, Jaison Joseph, immediately pulled them out and took them inside the bus. Later, the same conductor and the bus driver Thomas, resuced a woman who was found stuck on the wheels of a nearby car. Video footage of the act went viral on social media. Vipin Patel, along with his wife and son managed to narrowly escape getting swept away by the landslide. The family was heading towards Kumaly at Thekkady, a popular tourist spot in Idukki. Joseph and Thomas also helped many caught up in the landslide to take shelter in the bus and later dropped them to a safe location. The brave act of the KSRTC conductor and driver came close on the heels of another KSRTC bus driver being widely criticised and even suspended from service for driving a bus into a flood and risking the lives of many. The incident took place near Poojnar in the Kottayam-Idukki border areas on Saturday. While the driver Jayadeep maintained that he only tried to rescue the passengers, local people said that the driver ignored their warning about the risk and drove the vehicle into the flooded water. The bus eventually got stuck in the flood and the passengers were rescued by local people. At nearby Mundakayam, a concrete house was entirely washed away in the water that came gushing along with debris following a landslide. Many houses in the landslide-hit areas suffered serious damage. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bus-crew-earns-plaudits-for-rescuing-people-from-landslide-1041489.html
17-10-2021||South||Kerala flash floods, landslides caused by mini cloudburst, claims expert||The brief, intense rain spells in a couple of regions in Kerala indicated mini cloudbursts, a factor that also led to casualties, damage and loss of properties, a scientist at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (CUSAT) claimed on Sunday. Citing more than 5 cm rain received in two hours in worst affected areas of Idukki and Kottayam districts, S Abhilash of the Department of Atmospheric Sciences, CUSAT said it was a "mesoscale mini-cloudburst type of event". Mini cloud bursts are marked by intense short spells which may not exceed 10cm in one hour — a classical definition by India Meteorological Department, he noted. Abhilash told PTI that the high range areas of the Western Ghats region in Kerala is very susceptible to landslides. The starting point of the catastrophe in Idukki and Kottayam are the cloud bursts in the high ranges and the sudden, heavy rainfall continued leading to landslides and flash floods resulting in loss of lives and destruction properties, he said. The damage potential of less intense rain spells (about 5 cm in 2 hours) may cause flash floods and landslides along the slopes of Western Ghats mountains and Himalayan regions, Abhilash has said in an article published in the latest issue of a state government publication. Heavy rainfall for a short duration especially from mesoscale mini cloudburst events also brings runoff water beyond the carrying capacity of the streams and flushes off rainwater faster and rivers and midland regions of the west coast often may experience the frequent occurrence of flash floods, he said. The combined effects of cloudburst, landslides and flash floods may get aggravated by degradation of land due to human activities such as the conversion of forests to plantation and crop fields, Abhilash opined. Changes in Kerala's climate received more attention during recent times as evident from back-to-back drought conditions during 2015 and 2016. In 2017 Kerala was hit by the cyclonic storm "Ockhi" and catastrophic flood and landslide episodes followed during 2018, 2019 and 2020, he has claimed. At least 18 people have died and several displaced in the extreme weather events that occurred in Kerala on Saturday.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-flash-floods-landslides-caused-by-mini-cloudburst-claims-expert-1041490.html
17-10-2021||South||AIADMK's jubilee fete begins, Sasikala makes strong pitch for comeback||The year long (2021-22) golden jubilee celebrations of the AIADMK's founding began on Sunday, and it was marked by a renewed and an open attempt by V K Sasikala, confidante of late party supremo J Jayalalithaa, to get back control of the party by harping on 'unity' mantra. Sasikala's strong pitch for joining forces for the sake of the 'party and people' was, however, rejected by the AIADMK, which reiterated that there is no place for her in the party. She unfurled the AIADMK flag at the T Nagar memorial of party founder and late Chief Minister M G Ramachandran here and a plaque unveiled on the occasion addressed her as party 'general secretary,' which was strongly opposed by the main opposition party. Recalling a didactic Tamil film song 'Kanpona Pokkiley' in a MGR flick, which cautions against choosing a path based on whims and fancies rather than wisdom and reason, Sasikala said, "you decide to whom this is applicable today." Apparently, the message was to the AIADMK brass, steered by O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami, both former Chief Ministers. Addressing supporters at MGR's Ramapuram Garden residence here, Sasikala said had the party been in power in the golden jubilee year, it would have been a proud moment, in honour of both MGR and 'Amma.' Ahead of the start of her prison term in 2017, she ensured that the AIADMK was in the saddle of power in Tamil Nadu, she said. Recalling her announcement of staying away from politics ahead of the Assembly poll in April this year, she said she took that stand as she wanted the party to be not affected in any manner whatsoever. "It is the responsibility of all of us to guard the party. The need of the hour is unity," she said adding the divisions among them facilitated 'our enemies,' seen as a pointer to arch rival DMK, which captured power in Tamil Nadu after a gap of 10 years. Sasikala said that if attention was not paid to the welfare of the people, the party and cadres, "we will be thrown away, whatever top positions one may hold and all of us should realise this truth." "For the sake of the party, the people and workers, this is the time to stand together." In a symbolic gesture to press for what she termed "unity," she said she was addressing them at the Ramapuram house, which witnessed the unification of factions led by Jayalalithaa and MGR's wife Janaki Ammal, decades ago and later the AIADMK went on to capture power again in 1991. Similarly, the followers of MGR and Jayalalithaa should join forces to usher in the AIADMK government again in Tamil Nadu with people's support, she said. "We should come together and the party has to win, long live the AIADMK, let Tamil Nadu grow," Sasikala said as her supporters clapped and cheered. Reacting to Sasikala's overtures, AIADMK senior leader D Jayakumar said she would not be taken back into the party. "No one can touch the AIADMK," he asserted. Mocking at Sasikala, Jayakumar, referring to her supporters hailing her as 'revolutionary mother' wanted to know the kind of revolution she ushered in. "What revolution has she done?" he asked adding all that she did was only for the sake of her family. Be it cadres or the people, no one would ever accept her back into the AIADMK, he said. Accusing Sasikala-led camp as "looters" he said she did no sacrifices for the party's sake and the AIADMK and people would never accept her or her relatives. The party is united against her and she was eased out of the AIADMK years ago, he said. Following that, the party came with a new organisational structure, comprising top posts of coordinator (O Panneerselvam) and co-coordinator (K Palaniswami) and decided that no one would be elevated to the position of general secretary, the numero uno post held by Amma. "Amma is our permanent general secretary. Though she is not alive, she is guiding us." Jayakumar sought to know why Sasikala did not visit the memorials of leaders MGR and Jayalalithaa though she returned in February from Bengaluru after serving a four year prison sentence. She could not tolerate the golden jubilee celebrations of the party and the AIADMK suffered defeat in 1996 only because of her camp, he claimed. On a plaque, declaring her as party chief, Jayakumar, also a former Minister said that she has no moral or legal right to use the AIADMK's name or flag or to claim that she is the party's general secretary. "How can she become the general secretary merely by embossing her name in a plaque ?" he wondered adding the party would consider taking legal action. The Election Commission and a court ruling made it amply clear that "we are the AIADMK and the party's two leaves symbol and the flag belongs to us," Jayakumar said. Hence, Sasikala unilaterally claiming to be the party's chief went against the court verdict and EC's directives, he pointed out. AIADMK top leaders Panneerselvam and Palaniswami presided over the inaugural of the year long golden jubilee celebrations at the party headquarters here. They garlanded the statues of MGR and Jayalalithaa, distributed sweets and food to cadres and gave away Rs 15 lakh financial assistance to the kin (Rs 3 lakh to each of the five families) of five party workers who passed away recently. A book of poems on late Jayalalithaa, authored by party office-bearer Sa Kalaipunithan and a compact disc of party's jubilee song were released by the top two leaders. The AIADMK headquarters wore a festive look and cultural programmes were also held. The AIADMK, which held the reins of power for 30-plus years in Tamil Nadu was founded on October 17, 1972.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmks-jubilee-fete-begins-sasikala-makes-strong-pitch-for-comeback-1041491.html
17-10-2021||South||Interaction of two low-pressure weather systems, not cloudburst, led to heavy rains in Kerala: IMD||A tango by two low-pressure weather systems over peninsular India brought copious amounts of rain to Kerala, leaving parts of the coastal state submerged. The interaction between the two weather systems which originated over the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea strengthened the south-west monsoon westerly winds resulting in downpour over Idukki, Kollam and Ernakulam. “This interaction of low pressure systems led to strengthening of southwest monsoon westerly winds near Kerala coast. The strong south-westerly winds interacted with the ghat areas resulting in heavy to very heavy rainfall over different parts of Kerala, especially over Idukki, Kollam and Ernakulam districts,” Mohapatra said. The heavy rains left several rivers in spate with many west-flowing rivers in Kerala still flowing above the danger mark. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), river Achankovil in Pathanamthita district was flowing above the danger mark with waters still rising at 7:00 p.m. on Sunday. Rivers Manimala in Pathanamthitta district, Kallada (Kollam), Karamana and Neyyar in Thiruvananthapuram district were in severe situation. Mohapatra said that there were two low-pressure systems, one over the Bay of Bengal and another over the Arabian Sea, and there was some kind of interaction between these two. “While the Bay of Bengal low-pressure system moved west-north-westwards across north coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south Odisha coast, the Arabian Sea system moved east-south-eastwards. And finally, the Bay of Bengal's low-pressure system moved towards Telangana and the Arabian Sea system reached Kerala coast on Saturday. As a result, there was maximum rainfall activity over Kerala under the influence of this low-pressure system,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/interaction-of-two-low-pressure-weather-systems-not-cloudburst-led-to-heavy-rains-in-kerala-imd-1041532.html
17-10-2021||South||11-year-old recounts harrowing escape from Idukki landslide||An eleven-year-old boy had a narrow escape from the landslide at Kokkayar in Idukki district as he managed to hold on to the branch of a coffee tree The boy is yet to come out of the shock of witnessing huge rocks falling over his father. Recollecting the incident to a television channel, the boy, Jibin, said that it all began with a thunder-like sound and what he subsequently witnessed was rocks falling over his father from the high ranges near their house. Jibin was washed away in the water that gushed in. He caught hold of the branch of a coffee shrub and managed to stay there until the water flow reduced. His legs were stuck in the mud. But he managed to save himself and took shelter in a nearby house. Though the people tried to move away from the location, there were subsequent landslides and land slips. Jibin, who suffered minor injuries, was admitted to a private hospital. Authorities were yet to confirm the status of his father and other family members. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/11-year-old-recounts-harrowing-escape-from-idukki-landslide-1041557.html
17-10-2021||South||Kerala floods: Jairam Ramesh flays non implementation of Gadgil panel report||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Sunday blamed the non-implementation of the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel report authored by eminent ecologist Madhav Gadgil in 2011, as the major reason for frequent occurrences of devastating floods and landslides in hilly areas of Kerala. "Whenever there is a natural disaster in Kerala, the Madhav Gadgil's Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel report of 2011 is recalled. A decade later it remains unimplemented—despite devastating floods in 2018 and 2020", Ramesh wrote on twitter, a day after flash floods and landslides wreaked havoc killing people and damaging properties in hilly areas of Kerala's Kottayam and Idukki districts. Whenever there is a natural disaster in Kerala, the Madhav Gadgil's Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel report of 2011 is recalled. A decade later it remains unimplemented—despite devastating floods in 2018 and 2020. The former Union Environment Minister told PTI that the report has continuing relevance for the entire Western Ghats extending over six states but sadly it has been mothballed while ecological destruction continues unabated. His statement comes as many social media users raised the need of implementing Gadgil committee report in protecting the ecology of Western Ghats, one of the world's largest biodiversity hotspots, in the light of recent floods. The Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel, also known as Gadgil Commission headed by ecologist Madhav Gadgil, was an environmental research commission appointed in 2010 by Ramesh, when he was union environment minister in the Manamohan Singh-led UPA government. The commission submitted its report to the government on August 31, 2011 in which it had recommended 64 per cent of the Western Ghats area be declared as an ecologically sensitive area. However, later in 2012, the ministry formed a working group on Western Ghats under Indian space scientist K Kasturirangan to examine the Gadgil Committee report. He said the Kasturirangan report drastically reduced the area to be protected from 64 per cent to 37 per cent and also denied any role to democratically elected local bodies in protecting the hills. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-floods-jairam-ramesh-flays-non-implementation-of-gadgil-panel-report-1041558.html
17-10-2021||State||JD(S) fielding Muslim candidates to help BJP during bypolls: Congress||Senior Muslim leaders from Congress questioned the Janata Dal-Secular (JD-S) poll strategy of fielding Muslim candidates only during the bypolls. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday former minister U T Khader, MLA Rizwan Arshad and MLC Naseer Ahmed charged the JD(S) had been fielding ‘minority candidates’ only during the bypolls to ensure a cut in vote share of the Congress and help the BJP win elections. “Even during the Basavakalyana bypolls, the JD(S) had fielded a Muslim candidate. This resulted in the defeat of the Congress candidate by just 10,000 votes, the same number of votes that JD(S) candidate had secured. The JD(S) would never field a Muslim candidate from Hassan, Ramanagara and Channapatna, though there is a sizeable number of Muslim voters in these constituencies,” said Naseer. Responding to charges of former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy against Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah that the Congress leader has been ‘terminating’ Muslim leaders in the Congress, they said, Kumaraswamy should think twice before making such baseless allegations. “Siddaramaiah has helped several Muslim leaders become ministers, MLAs and MLCs. What has Kumaraswamy done for Muslims? During his coalition government he did not give minister post to even a single Muslim candidate,” they said and added the JD(S) leader should not use minorities sentiments to settle his scores with Siddaramaiah. “This must be happening only in Karnataka that a leader of an opposition party criticising leader from another opposition party while maintaining silence on the ruling party,” said Khader and questioned Kumaraswamy’s silence on farmers’ ‘murder’ in Uttar Pradesh. The JD(S) claims itself to be a party of farmers; yet, the party leaders have not expressed their anguish against the killing of farmers in UP. the JD(S) is also not questioning the state government on fuel prices or the hike in prices of essential commodities, he said. Rizwan asked the JD(S) to make it clear if they are in alliance with BJP in the state, as the party has been secretly protecting the BJP government on all controversial issues including Cow Slaughter Bill and Chanakya University land row. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-fielding-muslim-candidates-to-help-bjp-during-bypolls-congress-1041521.html
17-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fuel price cuts to be decided during post-bypoll economic review, says CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he would review the economy after the bypolls and take a call on reduction of fuel prices. Speaking to media persons at Hubballi airport here on Sunday, he said the reduction of fuel prices will depend on the economic condition. Bommai had earlier ruled out any cut in taxes to reduce the burden on common people after the fuel prices, especially diesel prices crossed Rs 100 a litre in parts of Karnataka.  Reacting to the charges made by former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on the closure of Sangur Factory in Hangal, Bommai said that the Congress had a great role to play in the sugar factory's closure and if there was any revival of the factory it was during the BJP's earlier tenure.  Countering Siddaramaiah on the claim that he had given Rs 24,00 crores for the development of Hangal, Bommai asked him to give details of the funds allotted. "As a son-in-law of Haveri I will explain to people what my contribution to the district is", he said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fuel-price-cuts-to-be-decided-during-post-bypoll-economic-review-says-cm-bommai-1041372.html
17-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Bommai hints at reducing taxes on fuel||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday hinted at reducing cess and sales tax on petrol and diesel in the state to ease the fuel prices which have touched an all-time high. Speaking to the media, Bommai said it all depends on the economy. "I have called an economic review meeting. If the economic situation seems to be good, there is possibility for the consideration," he added. Earlier, the Chief Minister had rejected any tax deduction on fuel in the state. The petrol price has reached Rs 109.16 per litre and diesel price has touched Rs 100 in Karnataka. The Opposition Congress has demanded a reduction of taxes on fuel on similar lines of the Tamil Nadu government which has reduced the taxes on petrol by Rs 3 per litre. The Congress has blamed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party governments for the hike in fuel prices. Bommai had defended that during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, fuel prices had increased by 60 per cent between 2004 and 2014 while fuel prices have risen by 30 per cent in seven years of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah targeted the present BJP government, saying that inflation under its tenure is nothing but criminal loot. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bommai-hints-at-reducing-taxes-on-fuel-1041379.html
17-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||326 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka has clocked 326 fresh Covid-19 cases and 4 deaths, taking the total infection count to 29,83,459 and toll to 37,941, the health department said on Sunday. The day also saw 380 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,36,039. Out of 326 new cases reported on Sunday, 173 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 87 discharges and 1 death. Total number of active cases in the state is at 9,450. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.41 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.22 per cent. Out of 4 deaths reported on Sunday 2 are from Mysuru; and one each from Bengaluru Urban and Dharwad. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 173, Mysuru 42, Dakshina Kannada 22, Tumakuru 17, Hassan and Udupi 12, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,49,418, followed by Mysuru 1,78,738 and Tumakuru 1,20,546. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,26,390, followed by Mysuru 1,75,946 and Tumakuru 1,19,156. Cumulatively a total of 4.94 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 78,742 were tested on Sunday alone.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/326-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-in-karnataka-1041483.html
17-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka makes strong pitch for more foreign investments at Dubai Expo 2020||Highlighting Karnataka's "dominant position" in the Aerospace and Defence sector, the state government on Sunday made a strong pitch for more foreign investments in these sectors, at the Dubai Expo 2020. Delivering a keynote address during the session on “Opportunities in Aerospace, Defence and Space Sector of Karnataka” at Dubai Expo 2020, Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani pointed out that the state has great potential in these sectors, his office said in a statement. “Karnataka, apart from being India’s largest Aerospace cluster, is also the 2nd largest producer of Heavy Electrical machinery in India. Bengaluru alone produces around 60 per cent of machine tools in India. Our state is also the 2nd largest chip design hub in the country. We have set up a Center of Excellence in partnership with Dassault Systems to provide industry-ready manpower,” he said. Highlighting the thriving small scale industries many of which are auxiliary to the Aerospace and Defence sector, the minister said the state is providing a support system to push these sectors. “Karnataka has a strong base of around 2,000 SMEs that carry out niche sub-contracting work in the Aerospace & Defence sector. Therefore, the well-developed support system for the sector has further facilitated the expansion of this industry while also attracting the global players to set up their base in our state,” he added. The Minister, earlier in the day held a series of Business to Government (B2G) meetings with the business delegations of top companies at Karnataka Pavilion in Dubai Expo 2020, the release said. The minister held a Business to Government (B2G) meeting with a delegation from United Parcel Service (UPS), which is one of the world’s largest package delivery companies and a premier provider of global supply chain solutions. He also held talks with Dawood Al Shezawi, President, Annual Investment Meeting (AIM), which is an initiative of the UAE Ministry of Economy. B2G meetings were also held with a delegation of Lulu Group – which responded positively to Nirani’s suggestions to set up Lulu markets across Karnataka, the Export Bahrain delegation, and Taghleef Industries – one of the largest global manufacturers of BoPP films, the release added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-makes-strong-pitch-for-more-foreign-investments-at-dubai-expo-2020-1041510.html
17-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Four killed on spot in tempo-bus collision||Four persons including a woman and her son died on the spot in a collision between the goods vehicle (tempo) they were travelling and a private bus near Siddarthnagar on the outskirts of Tumakuru city on Sunday.  The deceased have been identified as Kavitha (38), her son and goods vehicle driver Darshan (20) both from Chikkanayakanahalli, Krishnamurthy (45) and Diwakar (25) from Turuvekere. All the victims were flower and vegetable vendors.  Kavitha had brought vegetables from Chikkanayakanahalli in the goods vehicle driven by her son and they were returning to their village. They picked up Krishnamurthy and Diwakar on the way - who were headed to KB Cross, the police said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/four-killed-on-spot-in-tempo-bus-collision-1041519.html
17-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pack-up time for pachyderms: Dasara jumbos leave Mysuru palace for forest||It’s pack-up time for the gentle giants, the heartthrob of millions every Dasara. The jumbos which took part in Jamboo Savari, the finale of the nine-day festival, led by howdah elephant Abhimanyu left for their abode, the respective forest camps, from the Mysuru palace on Sunday.  The elephants: Chaitra, Kaveri, Gopalaswamy, Vikrama, Ashwathama, Dhananjaya, Lakshmi and Gopalaswamy were camping on the palace premises from September 16, to participate in the Vijayadashami procession held on October 15. However, only six elephants participated in Jamboo Savari. While Chaitra and Lakshmi returned to Ramapura camp, Dhananjaya, Kaveri and Vikrama returned to the Dubare elephant camp. First-time participant, Ashwathama, was sent to the Dodda Harave camp. The forest department, district administration and the Mysuru Palace Board gave the elephants a grand farewell. This time, the mahouts and kavadis were given a honorarium of Rs 10,000 by the Palace Board. Deputy conservator of forests Karikalan, who gave away Rs 10,000 each to the mahouts and kavadis, said the jumbo caretakers conducted the event successfully and the cash reward as a token of appreciation. The elephants were offered a special puja and special food was given to them. However, Ashwathama and Lakshmi resisted boarding the trucks. Abhimanyu, Gopalaswamy and Dhananjaya managed to push Ashwathama into the truck. A large number of people, including tourists, took a glimpse of the home-bound elephants. It has to be noted that the first leg of Gajapayana, the traditional jumbo march, started from Veeranahosahalli, the entry point of Nagarahole tiger reserve in Hunsur taluk of the district on September 13. The elephants were brought to Aranya Bhavan the same day and were shifted to the palace on September 16. The elephants were given special care during their stay in Mysuru. They were put under a nutritious diet and the pachyderms gained weight. The jumbos underwent rigorous training for Jamboo Savari. Abhimanyu, Gopalaswamy and Dhananjaya were subjected to a weight-carrying test and all the elephants were familiarised with the sound of cannon firing.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pack-up-time-for-pachyderms-dasara-jumbos-leave-mysuru-palace-for-forest-1041520.html
17-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||17-year-old girl detained for poisoning 4 family members to death||Police have detained a 17-year-old girl on charges of poisoning four members of her family to death as her parents 'discriminated among their children in showing affection'.  The incident took place three months ago but came to light only now. She has been sent to the girls' remand home as she is a minor.  The deceased are the girl's father Tippanaika, 45, mother Sudhabai, 40,  grandmother Gundibai, 80, and sister Ramya, 16, of Lambanihatti village of Isamudra. Her brother Rahul, 19, who had taken ill, has survived.  On the night of July 12, the girl had prepared ragi mudde and it was served to the family members along with rice and rasam cooked by her sister. It is said that the accused had added insecticide to the ragi mudde.  Soon, the five persons started vomiting and breathed their last before being admitted to the hospital. The accused girl had consumed only rice and sambar, but did not eat ragi mudde.  The food, ingredients and utensils used for cooking were sent to the forensics laboratory for examination and the report showed that insecticide had been added to ragi mudde.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/17-year-old-girl-detained-for-poisoning-4-family-members-to-death-1041524.html
17-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hindu man assaulted for being with Muslim woman; 25 booked||As many as 25 people have been booked and a key accused, an auto driver, was arrested on charges of assaulting a Hindu man for being with a Muslim woman. The woman, a native of Sankeshwar, in her complaint with Malamaruti police, has alleged that the incident occurred when she had come to the city to borrow money from a friend from Chinchali in Raibag. “We hired an autorickshaw to reach a park to discuss the loan. The auto driver objected to her being with a man from a different faith. He drove us to a secluded place at Amannagar. On the way, four others boarded the auto. A while later 10 to 15 people arrived on bikes. They assaulted my friend with wooden logs and sharp weapons. They also snatched his mobile phone, Rs 50,000 cash, Aadhaar and ATM cards,” she alleged in the complaint. According to sources, most of the accused are auto drivers. The police have initiated an investigation into the case. All those involved in the crime will be arrested soon, DCP Vikram Amte told DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hindu-man-assaulted-for-being-with-muslim-woman-25-booked-1041526.html
17-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid numbers fall, so do tests and vaccination rates||The state's Covid-19 case numbers, its testing rates and vaccination figures are converging onto a new low, the latest data shows. According to a 30-day analysis of the data from the daily Covid-19 bulletins, not only has testing hit a new unprecedented low since the start of the second wave, but resulting discoveries of new cases have also come down. The number of doses being administered statewide has also come down dramatically. Only 1.75 million doses were administered this past week (from 11 to 17 October), which is 20.17 per cent lower than the vaccinations achieved three weeks ago (between 27 September and 3 October). Officials told DH that this is due to increasing pockets of vaccine hesitancy being found across the state. They added that the vaccine rate is expected to pick up as more people become eligible for their second dose. The state’s second dose coverage hit 40.33 per cent on Sunday.  When it comes to testing, the state conducted only 6.2 lakh tests last week, which is 18.9 per cent lower than the 7.68 lakh tests conducted a fortnight ago.  New case numbers have also come down. The state found 2,342 new cases this past week (it had found 3,139 cases the week before that). Out of these, 326 new cases were recorded on Sunday, of which 173 (or 53 per cent) were found in Bengaluru Urban. The numbers, coupled with 380 new discharges on Sunday, leave the state’s active caseload at 9,450. The next highest cases on Sunday were recorded in Mysuru district (42 cases), Dakshina Kannada (22 cases), and Tumakuru district (17 cases). Death after longest bout Four new fatalities were also disclosed in Sunday’s bulletin. Among them was an 80-year-old man who succumbed to the disease after the longest bout - a record 280 days. The patient who is from Mysuru was first diagnosed with the disease on January 6. He died on October 13 at a government hospital. He had symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and also suffered from diabetes and hypertension. Child cases update Last week, the state recorded 105 cases of pre-teens (0-9) infected with the novel coronavirus, which is higher than the 98 cases recorded a fortnight ago. In comparison, while the state recorded 379 cases of teens (10-19) this week, this is lower than the 594 cases found two weeks ago. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-numbers-fall-so-do-tests-and-vaccination-rates-1041530.html
17-10-2021||West||Godrej & Boyce, WWF India to spread awareness about mangrove conservation||A Godrej group company is collaborating with the World Wildlife Fund for Nature-India (WWF-India) to spread awareness about mangrove conservation in coastal states with over 100 volunteers.  Godrej & Boyce will conduct the campaign in Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Odisha, West Bengal and Karnataka. The volunteers, referred to as mangrove ambassadors, will inform people in their respective states about the significance of preserving these vital coastal ecosystems with presentations, videos, story books, mangroves app and more. This five-month-long campaign will conduct programs with subject matter experts and citizens. Under its Magical Mangroves campaign, the company has interacted with close to 10,000 citizens in India’s coastal states with over 140 seminars about a wide range of species from all three habitats — terrestrial, intertidal and aquatic. Dr Pheroza Godrej said, “In the second leg of the initiative (Magical Mangroves), we look forward to educating and spreading awareness to thousands of Indians by empowering these mangrove ambassadors. Together, we hope to build a generation of people who will rally for this extremely important element of the blue carbon ecosystem, thus ensuring a greener and brighter planet for our future generations to live in.” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/godrej-boyce-wwf-india-to-spread-awareness-about-mangrove-conservation-1041395.html
17-10-2021||West||Gandhian organisations kick off march against redevelopment of Sabarmati Ashram||Days after meeting with the trustees of Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), which runs Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram, a group of Gandhian organisations on Sunday embarked on "Sevagram-Sabarmati Sandesh Yatra" in protest against the government's plan for the redevelopment of Sabarmati Ashram and its precinct. The march started from Sevagram Ashram in Wardha will reach Ahmedabad on October 23. About 50 people are participating in the yatra by bus, kicked off from Bapu Kuti at Sevagram early in the morning. In a press note, the organisers said that the organisations are taking out the yatra "against state and central governments' attempt to change the face of world-famous Sabarmati Ashram" with a resolve that the legacy of freedom movement and Gandhi's heritage would not be tampered.  Among the organisations participating in the yatra are Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, Gandhi Shanti Pratishthan, Sarva Sewa Sangh, Sevagram Ashram Pratishthan, Sarvodaya Samaj, Rashtriya Gandhi Sangrahalaya, Nai Talim Samiti, National Youth Organization, Jal Biradari and Maharashtra Sarvodaya Mandal.  Names of leading public figures associated with Gandhian organisations in Gujarat are missing from the list of participants. Sanjay Singh, secretary, Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, who is also coordinating the march, said that activist Uttam Parmar will be joining at the Gujarat border.  On October 5, Rahi, Chairman of Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, Kumar Prashant, president of Gandhi Peace Foundation, Delhi and Sanjay Singh had a held meeting with SAPMT chairperson Ela Bhatt, trustees Sudarshan Iyenger, Kartikeya Sarabhai and Ashoke Chatterjee, among others. SAPMT has already given its in-principle approval for the project.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gandhian-organisations-kick-off-march-against-redevelopment-of-sabarmati-ashram-1041405.html
17-10-2021||West||'Government killings' have replaced 'contract killings' with help of Central agencies: Sanjay Raut||Launching a stinging attack on the BJP and the Centre over the alleged misuse of investigative agencies, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday alleged that "contract killings" are now replaced by "government killings" to finish off political rivals in Maharashtra. With some ministers in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government under the scanner of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Income Tax, and at least one of them facing a CBI inquiry, Raut said that Central investigating agencies are working as "contract killers for the party in power in Delhi". "Is there a rule of law or (a rule of) raids in Maharashtra? This is the question which comes to one's mind considering the record-break raids being conducted through Central investigating agencies," Raut wrote in the weekly column 'Rokhthok' in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' of which he is the executive editor. Earlier, Delhi rulers used to lie but now (ordering) frequent raids have become a new business without any capital investment, he stated. "Use people's money, government machinery to remove political opponents. In the past, contract killings were the order of the day in Mumbai (when Underworld was active). Hitmen were hired on contract to kill rivals (by gangs). This is now replaced by 'government killing'. Central investigating agencies are working as contract killers for the party in power in Delhi," Raut said. Finishing off the unwanted political rivals through these agencies seems to have become a new policy, Raut stated. Referring to the arrest of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Raut said Khan had been arrested under the pretext of his involvement in a drug racket and was put in jail for eight months. "Now the court has granted him bail. The court said herbal tobacco was found in the possession of Khan and not drugs. Malik should file cases against NCB officials," Raut said in the write-up. The Sena leader further said the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was raiding homes of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh instead of finding out the whereabouts of Param Bir Singh, the former commissioner of Mumbai police who had accused Deshmukh of corruption with the help of some police officers when he was serving as the home minister of the state. Raut also slammed the raids conducted recently by the Income Tax department on the family members of NCP leader and Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. The details of the PM Cares Fund are not made public. It is said this fund is not a government fund but a private fund. Funds worth crores of rupees are collected in the name of the prime Minister," Raut stated.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/government-killings-have-replaced-contract-killings-with-help-of-central-agencies-sanjay-raut-1041417.html
17-10-2021||West||Goa Forward Party leader compares Mamata Banerjee to 'Durga', BJP govt to 'Bhasmasur'; CM Sawant fumes||An oblique reference by an opposition politician from the Goa Forward party likening West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to Shantadurga, a regional avatar of Goddess Durga has triggered a controversy in Goa, with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant claiming that Goans would teach a lesson to politicians who compare the goddess to a human being. "Devi Shantadurga is our prime deity. We worship Devi Shantdurga. Goans will not like Shantadurga being compared to someone, especially a human. No one will accept it. Goans will not tolerate comparing Devi Shantadurga to a human being," Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told reporters on Sunday. Earlier, Goa Forward working president Kiran Kandolkar had said: "Navaratris are going on, this is the eighth day. I feel that we will have to get Durga to Goa. The Durga in Goa is referred to as Shantadurga. She is calm. We will have to get the real Durga from Kolkata to Goa to destroy this bhasmasur-like government". Kandolkar's comment comes at a time when there is speculation about the Goa Forward party merging with the TMC in Goa. Political parties are aggressively pursuing alliances and other political manouvres ahead of the 2022 state Assembly polls. Sawant also asked Goa Forward president Vijai Sardesai to reign in comments from his leaders which denigrate local deities. "People will condemn this comparison with Devi Shantadurga. Vijai Sardesai will have to restrain people who compare Devi Shantadurga. People will teach them a lesson," Sawant said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-forward-party-leader-compares-mamata-banerjee-to-durga-bjp-govt-to-bhasmasur-cm-sawant-fumes-1041429.html
17-10-2021||West||In a first, Mumbai reports zero Covid-19 deaths||Despite the fear of a looming third wave, the country reported a major positive development on Sunday after its financial capital Mumbai reported no Covid-19-related deaths in the last 24-hour period -- a big win for a city that was one of the worst hit by the coronavirus. According to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Public Health Department of Maharashtra government, no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours while 367 new patients were diagnosed with coronavirus.  The progressive total of deaths and cases in the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban - which fall under the BMC - were 16,180 and 7,50,808, respectively.  During the day, the state recorded 29 deaths and 1,715 new cases taking the progressive total to 1,39,789 and 65,91,697, respectively.  The last time Mumbai recorded zero deaths was on March 26, 2020 when the pandemic was just beginning to break out in the city. Since then, Mumbai has witnessed two waves of coronavirus disrupting normal life. Mumbai's recovery rate has improved to 97 per cent. "Keep the mask on the face and get yourself vaccinated if you haven’t yet!," Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, lauding Mumbai's massive feat against the virus.   The good news:Mumbai today has recorded zero covid deaths, first time since 26th March 2020.Keep the mask on the face and get yourself vaccinated if you haven’t yet! Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-a-first-mumbai-reports-zero-covid-19-deaths-1041469.html
17-10-2021||West||Gujarat tells Sabarmati Ashram trust to prepare 'concept note' on revamp plan||Hours after several Gandhian organisations kicked off Sevagram Sabarmati Sandesh Yatra, a protest march from Wardha against the redevelopment of the Ashram founded by Mahatma Gandhi, the Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT) on Sunday said the state government has asked it to prepare a "concept note" on "interpretation, exhibition and the experience a visitor would have when they visit the Ashram and the larger proposed area." A statement issued on Sunday read, "The SAPMT proposes to develop this concept note through an open process, which is inclusive of various groups, institutions and individuals concerned with the future development of the Ashram. All the six trusts that are in charge of different activities and areas in the Ashram have been meeting time to time to discuss the concepts, express their concerns and give their suggestions." SAPMT is a trust responsible for managing the Sabarmati Ashram. The other five associated trusts are Sabarmati Harijan Ashram Trust, Khadi Gramodyog Prayog Samiti, Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala Trust, Gujarat Harijan Sevak Sangh and Gujarat Khadi Gramodyog Mandal. SAPMT officials said that they received a letter from the state government a week ago from the Executive Council headed by the chief principal secretary to the chief minister, K Kailashnathan. The government has set up this council for the implementation of Rs 1,200 crore Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project, which plans to come up with modern civic amenities and other "world-class" facilities for the tourists. The Gandhian organisations and scholars of the country have opposed the makeover, claiming that it "severely compromises and trivialises the sanctity and importance" of the Ashram. "The redevelopment proposal for the Sabarmati Ashram precinct in Ahmedabad has led to much discussion and several concerns have been expressed by the wider Gandhian fraternity and concerned citizens. Currently, the area visitors know as the Ashram is about 3 acres on which stands Hriday Kunj, which was home to Mahatma Gandhi from 1917 to 1930. It also houses the museum designed by Charles Correa. The memorial is visited by over 3,000 people every day," the press note stated. It said that the area where tourists throng is a "fraction" of the original ashram which was spread over 120 acres of land and had 63 structures standing on it, of which 48 of these structures still exist. "To give visitors a larger experience of the ashram as it was, the restoration plan essentially proposes that a larger area approximately 55 acres be developed in a way similar to the current memorial giving the visitors an opportunity to understand better the variety of activities and the functioning of the ashram in those days," the note said. It also mentions a presentation organised by the chairman, Executive Council, Kailashnathan and Bimal Patel, who leads HCP Design, Planning and Management Private Limited, who are the "architect planners of the restoration project" with trustees. Patel is also revamping a new Parliament building in Delhi. "SAPMT is of the view that through transparency, dialogue and participation the plan itself would develop and be implemented and run in a way that would be a true homage to Mahatma Gandhi and touch each visitor with the right message," the note says. "We are cautiously cooperative with the government on the restoration issue. As a matter of fact, we have been asking for several facilities for the visitors and their overall experience like removal of the road that divides the present precinct, parking lots among others. Now that they are happening, all we have to do is to see that they are in sync with the sanctity of the place. We are alert to see that the plan doesn't compromise with the serenity of the place and mindful of the fact that it should not get associated with any other personality other than Gandhi," one of the trustees said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-tells-sabarmati-ashram-trust-to-prepare-concept-note-on-revamp-plan-1041472.html
