18-10-2021||Comment||Labour rights: Are IT employees ‘workers’?||This seemingly inane question is loaded with great implications for the six million-strong IT industry workforce in terms of their access to labour rights. Therefore, it is a question that deserves the attention of and examination by all concerned. Hitherto, Information Technology companies have held a vocal public position that the employees in the industry are highly qualified, highly paid personnel and therefore by implication are not covered by the labour laws, especially the Industrial Disputes Act which provides a legal mechanism for resolving disputes over employment, non-employment and service conditions of workmen. The IT service industry in India, despite all the tall claims of pushing the frontiers of technology, is unfortunately still stuck in the primitive wage arbitrage model. The bedrock of Indian IT services is the significant wage differential between the wages of a white-collar Indian worker and that of a similar worker in western countries. There is a direct co-relation between revenue growth and the addition of manpower in the outsourcing industry. Furthermore, IT services in India is very much a labour-intensive industry, with employee costs accounting for over 50% of revenues, with very little capital investment. It is a rather crude and constant conflict between wages for employees and profit margins for the companies. The average work experience of IT employees has remained constant at around five years despite the rapid growth in revenues and manpower. Employees with lower experience levels command lower wages and therefore help in maintaining the abnormally high margins of profit (around 18-25%) of the IT services companies. In times of a global demand crunch, it makes eminent sense for the companies to fire the more experienced and “costlier” worker in order to maintain their super profit margins. It is under these circumstances that terms like “involuntary attrition” are used liberally to fire thousands of workers, and companies have long held that these employees are not ‘workmen’ as defined under the Industrial Disputes Act. Doublespeak exposed However, a recent decision of the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court in the Commissioner of Income Tax vs Texas Instruments India Pvt Ltd ( I.T.A No 141 of 2020 c/w I.T.A No 151 of 2020), rendered in April this year, has held that “The software engineer per se would be a workman; a software engineer rendering supervisory work would not be a workman.” This is a welcome verdict for the millions of workers engaged in the IT services industry. The irony behind the verdict is a story worth recounting. The above dispute between an Information Technology company and the Income Tax Department arose on the question of tax concession sought by the company under Section 80JJ-AA of the Income Tax Act, wherein companies seek concession on income tax to the extent of 30% of emoluments paid to newly employed workers. The catch in seeking such a concession is the fact that the newly recruited workers have to satisfy the definition of ‘workmen’ as per Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act. A number of major IT companies have sought income tax concessions on the same grounds. Hence, we witness a farcical situation wherein, on the one hand, IT companies are gleefully and opportunistically claiming concessions from the Income Tax Department for having created fresh employment of ‘workmen’, and on the other hand, they are busy denying labour rights to the very same ‘workmen’ in their workplaces, contending that they do not fall under the definition of ‘workman’ under the Industrial Disputes Act! Implications The verdict unambiguously confers the status of ‘workman’ for software engineers who do not have any supervisory function. The status is accompanied by several rights at the workplace, including the right to freedom of association and the right of access to the conflict resolution mechanism laid down under the Industrial Disputes Act. The industry is notorious for long hours of work and ever-changing shift timings. Workers in the industry are eligible for the payment of overtime wages at the rate of double the usual wage rate under the provisions of the Shops and Commercial Establishments Act. Most importantly, the contention of the IT industry in these dispute resolution forums, including the Labour Department and Industrial Courts, that the employees are not workmen must be laid to rest permanently in the light of the recent verdict. Thousands of workers fired from their jobs without any opportunity to be heard and the victims of “involuntary attrition” have been frustrated for too long by the hypocrisy of this argument in their quest for justice. The regular practice of the industry to fire thousands of people during a crisis of demand is only aimed at trimming the wage cost to augment or to retain their hefty profit margins. The narratives of underperformance are nothing but delayed excuses for such practices. The principles of natural justice are flouted with impunity in the case of disciplinary action against employees. It is imperative that certain corrective measures are initiated to regulate flawed and unfair employment practices of the IT industry. One such measure would be to extend the application of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act to the IT Industry. This verdict rendered by the High Court of Karnataka offers a significant measure of relief and a ray of hope to the workers in the industry. (Sathyanand is Secretary, All India Trade Union Congress, Bengaluru; Muralidhara is a labour rights advocate) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/labour-rights-are-it-employees-workers-1041868.html
18-10-2021||First Edit||Global Hunger Index: Centre's attitude is unhelpful||India’s rank in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) has fallen from 94 out of 107 countries in 2020 to 101 out of 116 in 2021, a steep fall for a crucial indicator of social welfare. Even the 94th rank was a mark of ignominy and should have caused concern in government, but the further slide in position means that the country has joined the ranks of the poorest 15 countries, such as Yemen and Somalia. In South Asia, only war-wracked Afghanistan has a worse ranking than India. The peer-reviewed report, prepared by Irish aid agency Concern Worldwide and German organisation Welthungerhilfe (WHH) calculates the GHI score on four indicators -- undernourishment, child wasting (low weight for height), child stunting (low height for age) and child mortality.  India has the highest child wasting rate among all countries. It increased from 17.1% in 1998-2002 to 17.3% in 2016-2020. There were some improvements in the other three categories. The country’s overall GHI score of 27.5 puts it in the “serious’’ category, and the hunger situation is “alarming.’’ Childhood malnourishment has a serious impact on health in later years. Child and maternal malnutrition contribute to disease burden. GHI reports are annual reminders of failures in the country’s development programmes and social welfare schemes such as the Poshan Abhiyan scheme. The irony of the country with the world’s fifth-largest economy and wishing to be recognised as a superpower having the largest poor, undernourished and hungry population should not be lost on anyone. This, when India is one of the top producers of food in the world. The government’s responses to the report have been entirely negative. As usual, it sees a conspiracy against India and has questioned the methodology of the index and alleged that India’s rank has been deliberately lowered. It also said the ranking was based on an opinion poll. WHH has refuted the criticism and explained the data source and methodology used to arrive at the indicator. The government’s denial of a problem that clearly worsened during the pandemic and lockdowns is unhelpful. Worse, it is the government that has suppressed unfavourable information and fabricated figures in many areas in the past. Even the National Family Health Survey (2019-20) has shown that the percentage of stunted, wasted and underweight children has increased or remained the same in most states. Equity in the distribution of food, nutrition and care of young mothers and children is a serious issue. The country has to face the truth and act on them, instead of seeing a conspiracy behind every unflattering report and index.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/global-hunger-index-centres-attitude-is-unhelpful-1041873.html
18-10-2021||In Perspective||Time to reform pricing, subsidy regimes||From October 1, the price of natural gas (NG) on supplies from fields given to Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Oil India Ltd (OIL) on a nomination basis, as well as those given under the New Exploration and Licensing Policy (NELP), has been increased from the current $1.79 per million British thermal units (mBtu) to $2.9 per mBtu – up by $1.1 per mBtu. Going further, the price will rise to $5.93 per mBtu from April 2022 and $7.65 per mBtu from October 2022.  Under the NG pricing guidelines in vogue since November 2014, this price – known as the administered price mechanism (APM) -- is a weighted average of the price prevailing at four international locations -- the UK, US, Russia and Canada. The price is revised every six months. The projected steep increase in the price is due to the tightening of global demand-supply balance as the Covid impact subsides.  This will have a debilitating effect on the fertiliser industry, which alone consumes 37% of the domestic gas supply at around 77 million standard cubic meters per day (mmscmd).  Almost all of the urea production of about 24 million tons (mt) per year is based on gas. Of its total gas requirement, two-thirds is met from domestic/APM gas and one-third is imported LNG. For every dollar hike in gas price, the production cost of urea increases by Rs 1,800 per ton (24 mBtu for a ton of urea). For an increase of $1.1 per mBtu (from October 2021), the impact will be Rs 2,000 per ton. On two-thirds of the production or 16 million tons, this will be Rs 3,200 crore.  The price of imported LNG in the ‘spot’ market has gone up from around $5.5 per mBtu in April to the current $14 per mBtu – up by $8.5. This will increase urea cost by Rs 15,300 per ton (1800x8.5). On four million tons of urea from imported ‘spot’ gas (nearly 50% of total import; rest comes under long-term agreements at pre-fixed price), the extra outgo would be over Rs 6,000 crore. APM plus imported gas, the extra burden would be over Rs 9,000 crore.  At $7.65 per mBtu from October 2022 or a hike of about $6 per mBtu over the current level, the quantum of cost push would be Rs 17,000 crore (1800x6x16). The price of imported LNG in the spot market is also projected to increase to $20 per mBtu – or $14.5 higher over the current level. The extra outgo on this score would be Rs 10,000 crore. In sum, urea manufacturers will end up spending Rs 27,000 crore more.     Under the present controlled regime, the maximum retail price (MRP) of urea is controlled at a low level unrelated to the cost of production and distribution; the difference is reimbursed to the manufacturer as subsidy on ‘unit-specific and ‘actual’ basis. Thus, whenever, the price of gas goes up, the resulting additional cost is paid as a subsidy to the manufacturer.  During 2020-21, subsidy payments to urea producers were Rs 100,000 crore (including arrears from the previous year). For 2021-22, the budget allocation is Rs 59,000 crore. Thanks to an impending gas price hike, the actual outgo will be much higher; it will rise steeply from the second half of FY2023.  For now, huge relaxation in the fiscal deficit target -- 9.5% of GDP -- has given leeway to the government to continue the high subsidy on fertilisers (besides on food). But, sooner than later, it has to get back to fiscal tightening and rein in subsidies.  What is the way forward? The logical thing to do is to remove control on urea MRP and withdraw subsidies, albeit through manufacturers (the government may give subsidies directly to poor farmers). It will lead to a steep increase in MRP and a drastic fall in its use. In his “Mann ki Baat” (Nov 26, 2017), Modi had called for reducing urea use by 50% by 2022. There can’t be a more potent way of achieving this goal. Besides curbing its excessive use, reducing imbalance in NPK use ratio (currently, it is 6.7:2.4:1 against a benchmark of 4:2:1) and improving soil health, it will also reduce subsidy outgo by at least Rs 30,000 crore.    In this scenario, in view of urea demand plummeting to 15 million tons, domestic production can be slashed by 40%, which means this industry will need less gas by as much as 20 mmscmd – one-fourth of its domestic supply -- thereby easing pressure on the supply. This will force gas suppliers to be more responsible in fixing NG prices.  Concurrently, the government should implement reforms in the gas sector by dismantling APM, de-regulating gas import, and making handling and transportation infrastructure accessible to all suppliers on the ‘common carrier principle. This will create a ‘stable’ and ‘conducive’ policy environment for attracting long-term investment in gas exploration and production, thereby help improve the demand-supply balance with a favourable price effect. (The writer is a Delhi-based policy analyst) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/time-to-reform-pricing-subsidy-regimes-1041871.html
18-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Will not respond to ‘liar’ Kumaraswamy, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah said that former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy has always been doing hit-and-run politics and there is no need to give unnecessary importance to him. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, Siddaramaiah termed Kumaraswamy as a liar. The JD(S) leader on Saturday had accused Siddaramaiah of being a ‘terminator’ of Muslim leaders in Congress. Responding to the charges Siddaramaiah said Congress leaders need not go around stating that we stand with minorities and Muslims. “We don’t need a certificate from anyone to prove our secular credentials. I don’t even have to answer Kumaraswamy, our Muslim leaders will respond to him,” he said. Replying to a query on the absence of MLC C M Ibrahim, who is also sulking against Siddaramaiah had charged that Muslims are being used for political gains by the party and Tipu Jayanthi was part of appeasement politics, during the bypoll campaigning, Siddaramaiah said no one has stopped Ibrahim from the campaign for the party. “This is a party work, not any individual leader’s family work. He may campaign for the candidates in coming days,” he said. Happy with State politics The former chief minister also reiterated that none from the All India Congress Committee had offered him any position at the national level and he was happy with State politics. “I am already 74. I have another five years of political life left and I wish to serve the State in those days,” he said and added that Rahul Gandhi should take over as AICC president. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-not-respond-to-liar-kumaraswamy-says-siddaramaiah-1041605.html
18-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmer couple end life by suicide||An elderly farmer couple ended their life by suicide at Padekarya in Badagannur of Puttur taluk. According to Dakshina Kannada SP Rishikesh Sonawane, the deceased are Subrahmanya Bhat  (84) and Sharada Bhat (78). The couple had slept in a room on the ground floor of the house while their children had slept on the first floor. The suicide came to light when their son entered their room in the morning. It was said that Sharada Bhat was suffering from diabetes and age-related ailments. Both were worried about the same and took the extreme step to end their lives, said P Nagesh Bhat, son of the deceased in his complaint to the police. The Sampya Police have visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmer-couple-end-life-by-suicide-1041698.html
18-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police deny permission to burn posters with images of PM Modi, Amit Shah||The denial of permission to burn the posters with images of PM Modi and Amit Shah during protests led to a verbal duel between the agitating activists of Samyukta Horata Karnataka Samithi and police in the city on Monday. The agitators were protesting against the rising fuel prices as well as the contentious farm laws. Police attempted to detain members of the samithi -- H G Umesh, Sunith Kumar, Avaragere Chandru, Manjunath Kukkuwada and others. The members, however, took out a protest rally from Jayadeva circle to Mahatma Gandhi circle. "Police are acting like agents of the government... give permission to BJP. This is not fair," they alleged. Later, they handed over the posters to the police. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-deny-permission-to-burn-posters-with-images-of-pm-modi-amit-shah-1041882.html
18-10-2021||National||Third Covid-19 wave unlikely: Experts||Amid fear of a possible third wave sweeping India, leading Covid-19 experts now believe that another resurgence of the virus is unlikely due to a high seroprevalence rate, brisk vaccination and dominance of the Delta variant which devastated the country during the second wave. “From the data we’ve seen so far, Delta has taken over from other variants. Because it has a transmissibility factor between 5 and 6, it pretty much drives out everything else that has a lower reproductive ratio,” said Dr Gautam Menon, Professor of Biology and Physics at Ashoka University in Sonipat, Haryana. One of the casualties of a rampant Delta in India has been the Beta variant (B.1.315), which had more immune escape possibilities than others but found itself drowned out by the former. As per official data sources, only eight sequences of Beta have been found in Karnataka so far, out of over 2,900 sequences processed, while country-wide only some 190 Beta sequences have been found. Although Delta has now become an unwitting ally, it is just one equation among others negating the emergence of a third wave, said public health expert and epidemiologist Dr Chandrakant Lahariya. The threat of a new variant of concern emerging remains, he added. “Based on the findings of the nationwide and state-specific serosurveys, it was found that 67.6% of the population had antibodies (as of May), the majority of them due to natural infection,” said Dr Lahariya. “The second set of information we have is the vaccination rate: around 70% of the adult Indian population has received at least one shot. If we put all of this together, epidemiological principles tell us that it is very unlikely that a country like India is going to have a fresh national wave.” This is just as well, he added, because the government’s health system is not any better prepared than it was prepared in March 2021. “Hardly anything has changed except for the focus intervention for testing services,” he pointed out. At the same time, experts cautioned about local outbreaks specific to certain states and districts, although these will likely not be as serious as the second wave. The key takeaway, Dr Menon pointed out, is that there is no way for anyone to avoid getting infected if the virus becomes endemic. “It is very likely that like other coronaviruses that cause the common cold, the novel coronavirus will also become endemic,” he said, adding that it might take “maybe 6 to 8 months for us to determine if it has become endemic in India”. The wildcard, however, is reinfection, said Sundararaman T, former Executive Director, National Health Systems Resource Centre. “Some studies say the Delta variant re-infects people who had contracted an earlier variant of the novel coronavirus, but others have actually said that reinfection is a result of immune escape — different from breakthrough infections — and that makes it an entirely different ball game. If a variant emerges with immune escape capabilities, we will again be in a deep problem all over again,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-covid-19-wave-unlikely-experts-1041568.html
18-10-2021||National||Former cricketer Yuvraj Singh arrested in alleged casteist remarks case, released on bail: Haryana police||The Haryana Police on Sunday said that cricketer Yuvraj Singh was arrested and released on bail in an alleged casteist remarks case in compliance with a high court order. Singh was accused of making casteist remarks against another cricketer during an Instagram chat last year. Superintendent of Police (Hansi) Nitika Gahlaut said over the phone, "We only made a formal arrest and he was released on bail in compliance of the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court." "Yuvraj Singh came to Hansi on Saturday and we made a formal arrest. He was released on bail bond after a few hours," DSP (Hansi) Vinod Shankar said. While noting that the Haryana police is seeking only Singh's "formal arrest" in the case, the high court had last week directed that upon joining the probe with the investigating officer, if the cricketer is arrested, he would be released on interim bail upon furnishing bail and surety bonds. The high court was listening to a plea by the cricketer seeking quashing of an FIR filed against him earlier this year under sections of the IPC and the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act based on a complaint by lawyer Rajat Kalsan at the Hansi Police Station in Hisar. Kalsan had filed the police complaint last year, alleging that Singh's comment had hurt the sentiments of the Dalit community and a large number of people had watched the video on social media. Expressing regret over the comments, Singh had earlier tweeted, "I understand that while I was having a conversation with my friends, I was misunderstood, which was unwarranted. However, as a responsible Indian I want to say that if I have unintentionally hurt anybody's sentiments or feelings, I would like to express regret for the same."  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-cricketer-yuvraj-singh-arrested-in-alleged-casteist-remarks-case-released-on-bail-haryana-police-1041582.html
18-10-2021||National||Indian agri waste recycling project wins Prince William’s Earthshot Prize||A Delhi-based entrepreneur’s agricultural waste recycling project was named among the winners of Prince William’s inaugural Earthshot Prize, dubbed the “Eco Oscars”, at a gala ceremony in London on Sunday evening. Vidyut Mohan led Takachar was named the winner of the GBP 1 million prizes for its cheap technology innovation to convert crop residues into sellable bio-products in the “clean our air” category. It was among five worldwide winners of the prize, created by William, the Duke of Cambridge, to reward people trying to save the planet. "Time is running out. A decade doesn't seem long enough, but humankind has an outstanding record of being able to solve the unsolvable," William said in a recorded message played at the ceremony, which was broadcast on BBC and attended by celebrities and included performances by singers Ed Sheeran and Coldplay. Takachar was named a winner for its technology which reduces smoke emissions by up to 98 per cent, aimed at helping improve the air quality that currently reduces the affected population’s life expectancy by up to five years. If scaled, it could cut a billion tonnes of carbon dioxide a year, described as “a win for India’s farmers will be a win in the fight against climate change”. “Takachar has developed a cheap, small-scale, portable technology that attaches to tractors in remote farms. The machine converts crop residues into sellable bio-products like fuel and fertilizer,” the Earthshot Prize notes in reference to the winning project. It adds, “Globally, we generate USD 120 billion of agricultural waste every year. What farmers cannot sell, they often burn, with catastrophic consequences for human health and the environment. The burning of agricultural waste causes air pollution that in some areas has reduced life expectancy by a decade. “This plays out every year in the fields surrounding New Delhi. Smoke from man-made infernos fills the air, with serious consequences for the health of locals. One of their number is Vidyut Mohan. His social enterprise, Takachar, is putting out the fire.” Takachar went head to head with another Indian finalist in the category – 14-year-old Tamil Nadu schoolgirl Vinisha Umashankar’s solar-powered ironing cart project. The final five winners were connected to the eco-friendly awards ceremony by global broadcast, and no celebrities flew to London for the ceremony, no plastic was used to build the stage. Guests were asked to "consider the environment" when choosing an outfit, with actor Emma Watson walking the green carpet in a dress made from 10 different dresses from Oxfam. The Earthshot Prize's name is a reference to the "Moonshot" ambition of 1960s America, which saw then-President John F Kennedy pledge to get a man on the Moon within a decade. Each year for the next decade, the prize is awarding GBP 1 million each to five projects that are working to find solutions to the planet's environmental problems. The inaugural winners were selected from five different categories and were chosen from a shortlist of 15 by judges including broadcaster Sir David Attenborough, actress Cate Blanchett and singer Shakira. Costa Rica emerged as the winner in the “protect and restore nature” category for a scheme paying local citizens to restore natural ecosystems that has led to a revival of the rainforest. A project run by two best friends who are growing coral in the Bahamas designed to restore the world's dying coral reefs won the prize in the “revive our oceans” category. A waste-busting initiative from Milan, Italy, won in the “build a waste-free world” and a renewable energy project to make hydrogen by splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen from Thailand, Germany and Italy won in the “fix our climate category”. Each winner was awarded a one-of-a-kind prize medal, designed by award-winning Dutch artist Christien Meindertsma, inspired by the iconic ‘Earthrise’ photo taken of the earth from space from the Apollo 8 mission in 1968 and created from recycled materials. All 15 finalists will receive tailored support from the Earthshot Prize Global Alliance, a network of philanthropies, NGOs and private sector businesses around the world who will help scale their solutions. The London awards ceremony concluded by revealing the Earthshot Prize will travel to the US in 2022, with nominations for the 2022 prize to open in January. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-agri-waste-recycling-project-wins-prince-william-s-earthshot-prize-1041596.html
18-10-2021||National||Indian Americans protest against terrorism in Kashmir||Indian Americans from South Florida along with their Jewish friends on Sunday held a demonstration against the growing Islamist terrorism in Kashmir. Organised by the Kashmir Hindu Foundation, the protesters raised slogans like “stop Islamist jihad against minorities in Kashmir" and “fight back Islamist terrorism”. Deepak Ganju, the founding member of the KHF, urged the global community to wake up and understand that what is happening in Kashmir is the “worst violation” of human rights anywhere in the world. Many protesters said that their families were forced to flee in 1990 and they do not feel safe in returning to their homes, a media release said. The protesters called upon the Government of India to take strong measures to safeguard remaining minority members in the Valley and ensure that no more targeted killings take place. Former US Congressman Joe Kaufman spoke on the relevance of exposing the "terrorist sympathising organisations" like the Islamic Society of North America and ICNA. ICNA is the American arm of Jamaat-e-Islami (JI), South Asia’s largest Islamist group. ICNA has spent 30-plus years harbouring Ashrafuz Zaman Khan, a former death squad leader allegedly responsible for the murder of 18 individuals. In July 2014, ICNA co-sponsored a pro-Hamas rally in downtown Miami, the press release said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-americans-protest-against-terrorism-in-kashmir-1041599.html
18-10-2021||National||Lok Adalat can't decide cases on merits: SC||The Supreme Court has said ‘Lok Adalats’, organised across the country to dispose of cases, do not have jurisdiction to go into merits of the matter as it is meant to arrive at a compromise or settlement between the parties in a dispute. The top court further said in case parties failed to arrive at a compromise, the Lok Adalat has to return the file to the court concerned. In a recent judgement, a bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna explained the legal provisions after going through the Legal Services Authority Act, 1987 under which the Lok Adalat is organised. Lok Adalat is organised by State or District Authority or the Supreme Court Legal Services Committee or the High Court Legal Services Committee at regular intervals for expeditious disposal of cases on a reference by the court concerned. The top court quashed an order passed by the Lok Adalat, Madhya Pradesh High Court on an appeal filed by the Estate Officer, contending that the members of Lok Adalat had gone into merits of the matter. It was submitted before the court that the Lok Adalat, going into merits of the matter, was totally impermissible under the law. The other side, on the contrary, claimed once the matter was placed before the Lok Adalat with the consent of the parties, the entire matter would be at large before it. The court, for its part, said, “a fair reading of the provisions of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 makes it clear that the jurisdiction of the Lok Adalat would be to determine and to arrive at a compromise or a settlement between the parties to a dispute.” Once the settlement or compromise fails and it could not be arrived at between the parties, the Lok Adalat has to return the case to the court from which the reference has been received for disposal in accordance with law, it said. “In any case, the Lok Adalat has no jurisdiction at all to decide the matter on merits, once it is found that compromise or settlement could not be arrived at between the parties,” the bench added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-adalat-cant-decide-cases-on-merits-sc-1041603.html
18-10-2021||National||At 13,596, India logs lowest daily Covid-19 cases in nearly eight months; 166 deaths||India added 13,596 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,40,81,315, while the active cases declined to 1,89,694, the lowest in 221 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,52,290 with 166 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 24 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 113 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.56 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.12 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,152 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-13596-india-logs-lowest-daily-covid-19-cases-in-nearly-eight-months-166-deaths-1041617.html
18-10-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccinations slow as dosage gap trumps output jump||India's vaccination campaign has slowed despite amassing record stockpiles of vaccine, health ministry data showed on Monday, as authorities maintain a wider-than-usual gap between doses in a strategy that has boosted coverage. Domestic production of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which accounts for nearly 90 per cent of administered doses, has more than tripled since May, when a supply shortage prompted India to double the period between doses to between 12 and 16 weeks. That gap, exceeding the 8 to 12 weeks recommended by the World Health Organization, has allowed India to give at least one vaccine dose to 74 per cent of its 94.4 crore adults, with just 30 per cent getting the full complement of two. The AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, accounts for 86.1 crore doses of India's total injected figure of 97.76 crore, while its other main vaccine, Covaxin has a dose interval of four to six weeks. Over the last few days, daily stocks of all Covid-19 vaccines have exceeded 10 crore doses, the health ministry figures show, for states and union territories taken together. In contrast, daily vaccinations have dropped to an average of 50 lakh doses this month and even less in the past week, off a daily peak of 2.5 crore last month. The ministry said it followed recommendations from a group of experts in making any changes to dosage, arrived at by weighing up "scientific and empirical" evidence. "NTAGI is actively considering the matter of dose interval between Covishield doses," its spokesperson told Reuters, referring to the ministry's National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI). However, vaccine supply alone should not determine the gap, said Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician and epidemiologist in the capital, New Delhi. "There is no scientific rationale for reducing the gap," he added. "In fact, retaining this gap has the possibility of giving stronger protection and longer-lasting immunity." Government officials have said they are trying to encourage more of those who are still unvaccinated to get inoculated. A 12-week gap was more logical and scientific for vaccinations drives such as those in India, where some studies have shown many people already had antibodies against Covid-19, Lahariya said. In July, the studies estimated that more than two-thirds of Indians already had Covid-fighting antibodies, mainly through natural infection. Monday's 13,596 new cases were India's lowest rise in 230 days, taking its tally of infections past 34 million. Deaths rose by 166 to stand at 452,290. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccinations-slow-as-dosage-gap-trumps-output-jump-1041666.html
18-10-2021||National||India in no hurry to unwind pandemic-era stimulus, says FM||India is in no hurry to withdraw the pandemic-era stimulus and is ready to do more if required to support the nation’s economic recovery, the country’s finance minister said. “They will continue,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in an interview in New York, Sunday, referring to fiscal measures to counter the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak. “The emphasis on building health infrastructure will continue,” and so will government spending on capital expenditure and infrastructure, she said. Sitharaman, who is due to present India’s annual budget on Feb. 1, echoed Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das’s sentiment on the need to keep policy easy as the economy makes its way out of the pandemic. The RBI, as well as the International Monetary Fund, estimate the nation’s gross domestic product to grow 9.5 per cent in the year to March -- the quickest pace among major economies -- after contracting 7.3 per cent last year. That is faster than Bloomberg Economics’ projection for a 7.8 per cent expansion. Challenges to the recovery remain in the form of higher global commodity prices, which could fan inflation and upset the government’s spending plan in a nation, which is the world’s third-largest oil importer. “The challenge I will face, and the teams are also watching in the ministry, is the way the fuel prices are leading to a big crest,” Sitharaman said. “This uncertainty is a big element for me,” she said. For now, Asia’s third-largest economy is on track to divest stakes in state-run entities, as well as measures to boost foreign debt inflows for capital to fund investments. “We are pushing to have it done,” Sitharaman said, when asked if the listing of government-owned Life Insurance Corp. of  India will happen this year. Separately, she said the inclusion of the nation’s bonds into global indexes depends on India fulfilling certain processes, and the government is moving in that direction. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-no-hurry-to-unwind-pandemic-era-stimulus-says-fm-1041667.html
18-10-2021||National||India, Israel share similar challenges from radicalism, terrorism: Jaishankar||India and Israel share similar challenges to their societies from radicalism and terrorism apart from many other emerging developments on the geopolitical landscape, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has told the Indian Jewish community and Indologists here. Jaishankar, on his first visit to Israel as External Affairs Minister, hailed the Indian Jewish community's manifold contributions to the centuries-old ties between the two countries. The minister, who arrived here on Sunday on a five-day official visit, said that he was confident that the Indian Jewish community in Israel will bring the two countries even closer together in the coming years. He said that this is his third visit to Israel in the last four years, but every time he returns, he leaves with the sense of an unfinished journey. “Like India, this too is a place that requires a lifetime to discover and understand. I am, therefore, happy to be back here, in a land with which we have centuries old ties, and amidst you who are the umbilical cord nourishing these ties", he said. Jaishankar pointed out that India's bilateral relations with Israel has been in a qualitatively different trajectory in the last few years. "Our two countries share values of democracy and pluralism. We also share some of our guiding civilizational philosophies: Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam in India, or the world is one family, and Tikun Olam in Israel, or heal the world. "We also share similar challenges to our society from radicalism and terrorism, apart from many other emerging developments on the geopolitical landscape," Jaishankar said without elaborating. India has been facing major threats emanating from across the border from Pakistan and Israel is also surrounded by hostile neighbours. India and Israel have a Joint Working Group on Counter-terrorism and the two countries also share real time intelligence to deal with the menace. A productive meeting with Israeli chambers of commerce &the innovation ecosystem. Appreciate their visible enthusiasm for doing more partnerships with India. Jaishankar said that the “real thrust, however, is to expand the innovation and trade partnership between our two knowledge economies". For example, he noted that the two countries collaborated to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. "Can we take that to the next level? How should we further augment the contact and collaboration between scientists, students and start-ups? I’ll be discussing these issues, and others, in my meetings during my visit," Jaishankar said. Jaishankar said that four years ago, he had the honour to accompany Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his historic visit to Israel during which he had said that India's relationship with its Jewish diaspora community in Israel is one of "mutual trust and friendship". The Jewish diaspora in India remains unique because "like other communities, it coexisted peacefully in India for hundreds of years but maintained its Jewish identity despite a long isolation from other Jewish communities", he said. "You chose to begin a new life here mainly for civilisational reasons. And it is rare in Jewish history that you have had a long, continuous period where you thrived in freedom and equality, as you did in India," he stressed. Citing ancient connections between the two civilisations -- both cultural and religious, Jaishankar applauded the contribution of Indian Jews in the nation building process of India, describing them as "one of us". The central text of Rabbinic Judaism, Talmud, mentions trade with India in ginger and iron. Another foremost religious text, The Book of Esther, mentions India as Hodu. "You have contributed to the building of India. We often go around Mumbai and Pune not realising that many landmarks were your contributions, like the Sassoon Docks in Mumbai and the Sassoon Hospital in Pune. David Sassoon was, in fact, one of the founders of the Bank of India. "Some of you were by the side of Mahatma Gandhi during our freedom struggle. In 1916, one of the lawyers in the team defending one of our major nationalist leaders, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, was a Jew, David Erulkar," he said. Some contributed as educators and some as medical doctors, like Dr Jerusha Jhirad, who was awarded one of India’s highest civilian awards, the Padma Shri, Jaishankar said. “Some of you served as administrators and some distinguished themselves in our judiciary, such as David Reuben who served as the Chief Justice of one of our High Courts. There were three among you who became Mayors of Bombay. “And there were another three who are remembered for their military service; Vice Admiral J R Samson, Maj Gen B A Samson, and Lt Gen J F R Jacob whose uniform hangs at the Latrun Museum here," he said. Jaishankar went on to highlight the community's contributions in enriching India's literature and arts with the likes of Nissim Ezekiel who was honoured with the Sahitya Akademi award. "People of my generation grew up in India waking up to the signature tune of All India Radio that had been composed by a Jewish exile in India, Walter Kauffman. And how can you be in India and remain untouched by Bollywood and cricket! You have been part of our film industry and one of you, Judah Reuben, officiated as cricket umpire in many of India’s test matches," he reminisced. The continuity of age-old Indian practices by the Jewish community received particular appreciation from the minister, which he saw as creating "the organic bond between our two peoples". "What is equally important and interesting is that not only have you, again inevitably, carried some flavours of India with you here, but also that you have retained, or assimilated in some form, some Indian traditions in a manner that is unique to you," Jaishankar said. In culinary, he mentioned the 'Malida thali' made by the Bene Israelis (Indian Jews from the Maharashtra region). He spoke on the influence of the 'mangalsutra' and 'mehendi', the practice of 'baat pukka' for formalising marriages among Baghdadi Jews and symbolic adorning of the Torah arks with jasmine garlands and the use of 'manara' by the Cochini Jews as some such examples. "You also adopted that very Indian tradition of removing shoes before entering the synagogue. You still remember our way of life, our languages, and our festivals. “I am told about the Maiboli journal in Marathi. And I recently saw pictures of many of you celebrating Onam with a 'saadya' meal, not to forget the flower rangoli. You celebrate both Holi and Purim, and both Diwali and Hanukkah," he said. "It is, therefore, not at all surprising that so many of you say (that) Israel is my fatherland and India my motherland,” Jaishankar emphasised. Addressing Indologists, he said that "we owe a debt of gratitude for their love and affection for India" which has helped strengthen ties between the two countries. "You serve to both widen and deepen the discourse between one holy land and another. There are, among you, those who have delved deep into Dravidian languages and literature, translated classical Sanskrit texts into Hebrew, devoted themselves to the study of Hindi literature, and even ventured into comparative studies of the two religions," Jaishankar said. He mentioned India's historic connection with Jerusalem going back to Sufi Saint baba Farid meditating in a cave inside the city walls around 1200 CE, the role of Indian soldiers in the region during World War I and how some of these soldiers also ensured the safety of the spiritual leader of the Baha’i Faith in Israel at that time. "In modern post-Independence times, there's also this relatively less known aspect of how major socialist political leaders and streams in India felt a kinship with the kibbutz movement in Israel, in a quest to build on the Gandhian concept of ashram or village as a self-sustaining unit of development," he noted. Bringing out some of the lesser-known connections between people of the two countries, he shared that "Jayaprakash Narayan, one of our most prominent political leaders and theorists associated with our Independence struggle, visited Israel in 1958, and many followers of Vinoba Bhave, another towering leader of our independence movement, visited Israel in 1960 to understand the kibbutz movement better". The strong connection, he said, also brings the urgent need to tap both the community and the Indologists here to better document the heritage and history of the community, as also the societal crossflows. "How do we preserve the memory and experiences of the community elders? How do we listen to the younger generation of the community, understand their aspirations and make them a part of our living bridge? How do we enhance the reach of the work being done by the Indologists both within the community and outside? “We would be happy to hear from you and support endeavours in this direction. I am told that the Embassy has already offered to devote a corner in its Cultural Center to house the work being done by you so that it is both available and accessible in one place,” he said. Jaishankar noted that next year marks the 30th anniversary of full diplomatic relations between India and Israel. India is celebrating the 75th year of our own independence. In 2023, Israel too would be celebrating the 75th year of its independence. These occasions are significant milestones to start new voyages and to cover new horizons, he said. Jaishankar also launched a book by Professor Shaul Sapir "Bombay/Mumbai: City Heritage Walks". Sapir, an India born scholar, was a professor at the prestigious Hebrew University of Jerusalem. The book outlines the excellent way to discover the city's old Colonial architectural gems and to enjoy a glimpse of the glory of the city in the days of the British Raj. The publication includes 14 city walks, 15 easy to follow maps, 123 historical, architectural heritage landmarks and sites, 850 notes and sources, and more than 1,000 photographs. During his visit here, the minister would call on President Isaac Herzog, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid. He will also be holding talks with leading academics from all over Israel, business community leaders and interacting with the Indian Jewish community. Jaishankar will also be visiting places of historical significance to India, demonstrating its long-term presence in the region and constructive role played in shaping the history of the region.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-israel-share-similar-challenges-from-radicalism-terrorism-jaishankar-1041673.html
18-10-2021||National||Sitharaman highlights need to keep supply chains open for vaccine raw materials to combat Covid-19||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has highlighted the need for an international financial architecture to fight the Covid-19 pandemic across the globe and stressed on the need to keep the supply chains open for vaccine raw materials. Sitharaman, participating in the 36th Annual G30 International Banking Seminar virtually here on Sunday, spoke on the panel about Financing the Commons, Climate and pandemic security, the Finance Ministry tweeted. She “stressed on focused mobilisation and #equitableallocation of finances and #techsolutions to successfully harness the global #commongood of #climate and #pandemic security,” it said. Sitharaman highlighted the need for an international financial architecture to fight the Covid-19 pandemic across the globe and supported the need of new financial instruments to focus and press forward green initiatives. She underlined the need for the World Health Organisation (WHO) to be strengthened for a more effective response to new challenges. She stressed on the need to keep open supply chains for vaccine raw materials, the ministry said. Later in the day, Sitharaman addressed a gathering of women entrepreneurs of Indian-origin in New Jersey, where she spoke on India's robust economic recovery and the road ahead and the opportunities India has to offer to the world. Sitharaman arrived here on Friday after her visit to Washington DC where she participated in the annual meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. She began her week-long US visit with a trip to Boston, where she met CEOs, addressed a roundtable meeting of investors and executives and addressed students and faculty at the Harvard Kennedy School. India, the world's largest producer of vaccines overall, suspended exports of Covid-19 vaccines in April to focus on inoculating its own population following a sudden spike in infections. Last month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced that India will resume the supplies abroad. India said that it will resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the ''Vaccine Maitri'' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool. COVAX is a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines directed by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, and the WHO. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitharaman-highlights-need-to-keep-supply-chains-open-for-vaccine-raw-materials-to-combat-covid-19-1041681.html
18-10-2021||National||Why is Bollywood being targeted: Sena leader in letter to CJI on Aryan Khan's case||In a significant development, a Shiv Sena leader with a minister-rank wrote to the Chief Justice of India demanding a probe into the way the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had been "targeting" the entertainment industry over the last one-and-a-half-years.  The probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput has totally diverted, the e-mail to Chief Justice NV Ramana and other Supreme Court judges states.  Veteran farmers’ leader Kishore Tiwari, who is associated with Shiv Sena and is the president of Maharashtra Government’s Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission (VNSSM), wrote the letter to the Chief Justice in the wake of the arrest of superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan. Tiwari also questioned the role of NCB’s Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede.  "The alleged NCB seizures are miniscule jokes, compared to Mumbai Police achievements or the DRI which last month seized 3000-kg drugs from Mundra Port in Gujarat,” he said.  Tiwari also referred to the series of revelations made by NCP chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik over the last one week. “In the past 15-18 months, what  is the motive for targeting only top film personalities, their families, national and international models, producers-directors?” he asked.  “Innocent 23-year-old boy Aryan Khan has been kept in jail for the past 17 nights, because of failure of the Special NDPS Court in early disposal of their bail applications in a most unfortunate incident… There is utter disregard to the principles of right to life and personal liberty,” he said. “It is most painful that the Special Court has surprisingly postponed the final disposal of bail application and the accused has been subjected to humiliation and kept in jail in a most undemocratic and illegal way,” he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-is-bollywood-being-targeted-sena-leader-in-letter-to-cji-on-aryan-khans-case-1041692.html
18-10-2021||National||Jaishankar unveils plaque at ‘Bhoodan Grove’ in Israel||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday unveiled the “Bhoodan Grove” plaque at the Jerusalem Forest, bringing out lesser-known aspects of Indo-Israel relations before the establishment of full-fledged diplomatic ties between the two countries. With an objective of keeping Mahatma Gandhi’s concept of the village as the basic unit of development, Indian leaders who were exploring ways to implement the socialist ideals of the Sarvodaya movement namely, ‘Bhoodan and Gramdan’, made several visits to Israel to study the social structure of different forms of Israel’s communal and cooperative institutions -- ‘Kibbutzim and Moshavim’. Jayaprakash Narayan, the leader of the Sarvodaya movement, visited Israel in September 1958 on a nine-day visit as the guest of Histadrut, the Israel Federation of Labour. His visit received wide attention in the Israeli media, which warmly welcomed him and carried long biographical articles. He met then Israeli prime minister David Ben Gurion and visited Kfar Saba in central Israel, and Kibbutz Afikim near the Sea of Galilee of northern Israel during his stay. Narayan’s visit was followed by that of a 27-member Sarvodaya team, which during its six-month study tour in Israel from February-August 1960 spent time in Tel Aviv and Kfar Giladi in northern Israel. On their way back to India, they planted the “Bhoodan Grove” in Jerusalem Forest on May 22, 1960. Jaishankar described the visit by Narayan and Bhoodan workers as “an aspect of our shared history which hasn’t received the attention it deserved”. He also called the unveiling of the plaque very “timely” as last year was the 125th birth anniversary of Acharya Vinoba Bhave. “But there is also a larger message in what we are doing today. It is partly a message that our relationship is very human-centric... that of the importance of going green and most of all I think it is a reminder to all of us that between India and Israel we need to keep finding new ways, better ways, more deeper societal connect and that is at the heart of the progress of our ties,” the minister said. Jaishankar was given a certificate by the Jewish National Fund after unveiling the plaque at “Bhoodan Grove”. In his address on Sunday evening, he also shared information about this shared historical connection with the Indian Jewish community. “In modern post-Independence times, there are also the relatively less known aspects of how major socialist political leaders and streams in India felt a kinship with the kibbutz movement in Israel. And, in a quest to build on the Gandhian concept of ashram or village as a self-sustaining unit of development. “Jayaprakash Narayan, one of our most prominent political leaders and theorists associated with our Independence struggle, visited Israel in 1958, and many followers of Vinoba Bhave, another towering leader of our independence movement, visited Israel in 1960 to understand the kibbutz movement here,” Jaishankar added. The details of the intense cooperation between Sarva Seva Sangh, the group charged with carrying on Gandhi’s “constructive programme” of social uplift, and Israeli Moshavim and Kibbutzim was last year also published in an article, “The Kibbutz and the Ashram: Sarvodaya Agriculture, Israeli Aid, and the Global Imaginaries of Indian Development,” by Benjamin Siegel in the American Historical review. Very pleased to meet the Indian Jewish community in Israel. Valued their manifold contribution to India-Israel ties. The Sarva Seva Sangh hosted Benjamin Halevy, a Ukraine-born agriculturalist recruited from the Kfar Yehoshua Moshav (or cooperative agricultural settlement) in Israel’s Jezreel Valley, for two years after reports emerged of the prodigious yields that Halevy was coaxing from basalt soil. “The kibbutz at Gandhi’s ashram would not be merely an Israeli model adapted to Indian contexts. For members of the Sarvodaya movement, India’s hugely popular program dedicated to Gandhian practice after his death, the settlement would serve as a living rebuke to votaries of coercive socialist agriculture and modernization theory alike,” the author writes in the article. “An Israeli-designed collective agricultural settlement in the spiritual home of the late Mahatma would show that a popular programme of cooperative uplift was not unsuited to the economic and social realities of post-colonial India, proof that Gandhian economics was on a par with the age’s most daring political experiments,” he adds. The External Affairs Minister also laid a wreath at Holocaust Museum Yad Vashem to pay respects to six million Jews who perished in the Holocaust. “This memorial is both a testimony to the evil that man is capable of as also the resilience and fortitude of the human spirit. For those who came after it will remain an inspiration of courage and righteousness,” Jaishankar wrote in the visitors' book at the Holocaust Museum after laying a wreath. Later in the day, Jaishankar will be meeting his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid during the day besides visiting the Indian hospice in Jerusalem’s old city.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-unveils-plaque-at-bhoodan-grove-in-israel-1041714.html
18-10-2021||National||Difficult for middle class to travel even by road: Priyanka Gandhi slams govt on rising fuel prices||With petrol and diesel prices soaring much above that of jet fuel, Congress on Monday targeted the Narendra Modi government with Rahul Gandhi calling it "tax extortion" and Priyanka Gandhi mocking the dispensation saying it has now become difficult for the middle class to travel even by road when the 'hawai chappal' class were promised of cheaper air travel. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tagged a media report on auto fuel costing at least 33 per cent more than the rate at which air turbine fuel is sold and said it was a "very serious issue". "Simple needs of the people that are not being fulfilled today come before election-vote-politics. I am with the people who are being cheated for the benefit of Modi's friends and will continue to raise their voices," he tweeted in Hindi with a hashtag "Stop #TaxExtortion". Congress General Secretary Priyanka tweeted in Hindi, "(the government) had promised that those wearing 'Hawai chappals' (slippers) will travel by airplane. But the BJP government has hiked the prices of petrol and diesel so much that now it has become difficult for those wearing 'hawai chappals' and the middle class to travel even by road." She used the hashtag 'BJP lai mehenge din (BJP has brought expensive days)'. From its official handle, Congress tweeted that the truth behind the claim made by Prime Minister Modi to create a 'New India' is now coming to the fore. "The common people have to pay the price for making the much hyped 'New India'," it said. In another tweet, it said, "The living proof of the Modi government's loot is that petrol is costlier than the fuel of the aircraft. The mass loot program of the Modi government is taking a toll on the people of the country, looting the hard earned money.  Now this loot should be stopped." On Sunday, the prices of petrol and diesel were hiked by 35 paise crossing  Rs 100-mark in several cities, which was almost 33 per cent more than the cost of air turbine fuel used for planes. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 105.84 a litre and Rs 111.77 per litre in Mumbai. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 102.52 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 94.57. The ATF in Delhi costs Rs 79,020.16 per kilolitre or Rs 79 per litre.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/difficult-for-middle-class-to-travel-even-by-road-priyanka-gandhi-slams-govt-on-rising-fuel-prices-1041716.html
18-10-2021||National||At least 12 states, UTs saw high unemployment in September against nationwide decline||Eight states in India showed double-digit unemployment in September defying the decline in nationwide joblessness which was under 7 per cent, according to data by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). Delhi's unemployment rate touched a four-month high of 16.8 per cent in September, after rising steadily during this period. Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir, with a 21.6 per cent joblessness rate, touched an eight-month high. The government has come under fire from opposition parties for high unemployment numbers for promoting a growth and development-centric narrative in the UT since the abrogation of its special status.  Other states with high unemployment rates are Bihar (10 per cent), Haryana (20.3 per cent), Jharkhand (13.5 per cent), Rajasthan (17.9 per cent), Puducherry (11.2 per cent) and Tripura (15.3 per cent). The trend revealed in this data can be broadly attributed to the K-shaped recovery which our economy is experiencing after the pandemic, Jyoti Prakash Gadia, MD of investment banking firm Resurgent India, told DH. "Sectors like IT and Pharma have gained because of digitisation and an emphasis on health care to cope up with imperatives of Covid-19, while other sectors suffered heavily," he said. Gadia added that as a part of the revival effort, spending on infrastructure and credit boost to MSME is helping the economy. "All this has to lead to the creation of new jobs and revival of old jobs in these sectors and the eight states having a lesser concentration of such sectors have been left in a backward position on the employment front," he said. Even though Haryana and Jharkhand showed high numbers, they actually saw a fall in unemployment rates from 35.7 per cent and 16 per cent in August respectively. Rajasthan’s tally is also lower than the previous month. Odisha, Meghalaya and Gujarat had unemployment rates under 3 per cent, with Gujarat having the lowest among all states at 1.3 per cent. India’s employment situation, already frail, was further wrecked by the Covid-19 pandemic. After coronavirus hit in March 2020, India’s unemployment rate in April and May was as high as 23 per cent and 21.7 per cent. Moreover, the second wave of the pandemic brought more bad news as nearly 32 lakh salaried Indians lost their jobs in July. Even as it has been contained in September at 6.9 per cent, marginally lower than August, it remains a cause to worry. The rate as of October 17 is slightly higher, at 7.3 per cent. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-12-states-uts-saw-high-unemployment-in-september-against-nationwide-decline-1041724.html
18-10-2021||National||Highest post-pandemic domestic air traffic seen on October 17: Jyotiraditya Scindia||A total of 3.27 lakh people flew on 2,372 flights within India on Sunday, the highest domestic air traffic on a single day after the Covid-19 pandemic set in, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Monday. Scindia said, owing to the constructive policies of the government, domestic air traffic has seen the highest level, post the onset of the pandemic. "The civil aviation sector in India thrives amidst unprecedented challenges, whilst we make every effort to return to normalcy as early as possible," he tweeted.  Before the pandemic, the daily domestic air traffic was around 4.25 lakh fliers. The pandemic had struck the civil aviation sector badly with the Centre suspending all scheduled domestic flights from 25 March, 2020 to May 25, 2020 following the national lockdown. The services resumed on May 25 last year with 33 per cent of pre-Covid flights. Only from this Monday, the airlines have been allowed to operate all its pre-Covid flights. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highest-post-pandemic-domestic-air-traffic-seen-on-october-17-jyotiraditya-scindia-1041726.html
18-10-2021||National||India, Israel agree to resume negotiations on FTA from next month||India and Israel on Monday agreed to resume negotiations on a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) from next month as the two sides are confident to conclude the long pending deal by June next year. "It will be concluded by June of next year," External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar announced after he met Alternate Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid. Israel has also joined the International Solar Alliance, a global initiative that India has spearheaded, with Jaishankar and Israel's Energy Minister Karine Elharrar signing on the agreement. In order to ease travel between the two countries amidst the Covid pandemic, India and Israel have also agreed to mutually recognise vaccination certificates. Jaishankar, who arrived here on Sunday on his maiden visit to the country, would also call on President Isaac Herzog and Prime Minister Naftali Bennett. He will also be holding talks with leading academics from all over Israel, business community leaders and interacting with the Indian Jewish community. Jaishankar will also be visiting places of historical significance to India, demonstrating its long-term presence in the region and constructive role played in shaping the history of the region. India and Israel elevated bilateral relations to a strategic partnership during the historic visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Israel in July 2017. Since then, the relationship between the two countries has focused on expanding knowledge-based partnership, which includes collaboration in innovation and research, including boosting the 'Make in India' initiative, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement ahead of his departure.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-israel-agree-to-resume-negotiations-on-fta-from-next-month-1041732.html
18-10-2021||National||Self-styled godman Ram Rahim gets life imprisonment||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and four others were sentenced to life imprisonment by a special CBI court on Monday for the murder of sect manager Ranjit Singh in 2002. Ram Rahim Singh, who was in 2017 sentenced to 20 years imprisonment for raping two disciples, is currently lodged in Rohtak's Sunaria jail.           The Special Court in Haryana's Panchkula had convicted him and four others - Krishan Lal, Jasbir Singh, Avtar Singh and Sabdil - in the murder case on October 8.           “The court has given the life sentence to five,” CBI special prosecutor H P S Verma said after the hearing was held amid tight security. The CBI had sought capital punishment for them.          Verma said the Dera chief was also fined Rs 31 lakh and half of the amount will go to the victim's family as compensation. Reacting to the verdict, Jagseer Singh, son of Ranjit Singh, said it was a big day for the family as they got justice after a long wait. Jagseer, who was eight years old when his father was murdered, said he was satisfied with the verdict, though his family was seeking death sentence for Ram Rahim Singh. The Dera chief, who enjoyed a large following, had frequently courted controversies and after his conviction in the rape case in 2017, violence had broken out in Panchkula and Sirsa leaving over 40 dead. Police had tightened security in Panchkula and Sirsa, where the sect is headquartered, ahead of the hearing. In Panchkula, prohibitory orders under Section 144 were clamped. Former Dera manager Ranjit Singh, who was also a follower of the sect, was shot dead on July 10, 2002 at Khanpur Kolian village in Haryana's Kurukshetra. According to the CBI charge sheet, the Dera chief believed that Ranjit Singh was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter and hatched a conspiracy to kill him. The letter narrated how women were allegedly being sexually exploited by the sect head at the Dera headquarters.          The five were convicted under relevant sections, including 302 (murder), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Over two years back, the sect head was also awarded life imprisonment for the murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/self-styled-godman-ram-rahim-gets-life-imprisonment-1041747.html
18-10-2021||National||Doctors suggest getting flu shots despite side effects||Taking a flu shot is the need of the hour as it reduces one’s chances of getting sick from flu, the serious complications caused due to it, reduces chances of Covid-19, hospitalisation, and mortality rates.  Anyone above six months can get a flu shot every year as recommended by the expert and should not stop from getting the flu shots due to side effects like fever, body pain, or swelling at the injection site as they go away within a day or two. Dr Mukesh Budhawani, General Physician, Apollo Clinic, Pune Said, "Flu is dangerous to you and your family’s health as high-risk individuals like infants, pregnant women, adults 65 and older, and those with chronic conditions, such as asthma, can become seriously ill. “Getting the flu vaccine will reduce the seriousness and length of illness and even risk for a flu-related hospitalization and death. The flu shot can protect you and your loved ones against serious complications. It can impact a healthy individual’s health leading to pneumonia. In case you already have the flu then it takes a toll on your immune system and makes you prone to Covid infection.” “Taking a flu shot can minimise the risk for a co-infection because it is possible to catch both the flu and Covid-19 simultaneously. Though they are both contagious respiratory illnesses, different viruses cause them, and no matter how healthy you are. "Both the flu and Covid-19, which share similar symptoms like pain and swelling at the injection site, body pain, fever, and chills. Don’t avoid getting a shot owing to the fear of side effects. There are more flu cases this year compared to last year. More than 5,000 flu patients have been seen this year. People of all ages, from young children to the elderly are at a higher risk,” he added. Dr Keerti Kotla, Apollo Diagnostic Pune said, "The flu vaccine has been linked to lower rates of cardiac events in those with heart problems. It also reduces the risk of worsening one’s lung disease like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Thus, anyone six months and older can get a flu shot. "Discuss in length with your doctor about your medical history and then take the vaccine." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-suggest-getting-flu-shots-despite-side-effects-1041751.html
18-10-2021||National||WHO seeks more information from Bharat Biotech for Covaxin||The World Health Organisation’s approval for Covaxin gets further delayed as the world health body on Monday sought more information from the vaccine’s Hyderabad-based manufacturer Bharat Biotech, which is seeking the WHO clearance for the home-grown Covid-19 shot since July. "We are aware that many people are waiting for WHO’s recommendation for Covaxin to be included in the Covid-19 Emergency Use Listing, but we cannot cut corners - before recommending a product for emergency use, we must evaluate it thoroughly to make sure it is safe and effective," the WHO said in a statement. Without the WHO approval, neither the two-dose vaccine can find an international market nor people who received Covaxin shots are recognised by majority of the nations as “vaccinated” for international travel. The WHO said that Bharat Biotech - the manufacturer of Covaxin – was submitting data on a rolling basis for the experts to review and “one additional piece of information” had been sought from the company on Monday. Asked for a response, the company remained silent. But after a previous WHO meeting, the firm on September 28 stated, “As a responsible manufacturer with past approvals for our other vaccines, we do not find it appropriate to speculate or comment on the regulatory approval process and its timelines. We are diligently working with the WHO to obtain the EUL at the earliest.” The UN body on Monday said, “The time-frame for the WHO Emergency Use Listing procedure is dependent on how quickly a company producing the vaccine is able to provide the data required for WHO to evaluate the vaccine’s quality, safety, efficacy and its suitability for low and middle income countries.” The world health body follows two different routes in recognising the drugs and vaccines depending on the standards of national regulatory bodies. For products approved by a stringent regulatory body like the US Food and Drug Administration or the regulatory agencies of Canada, the UK and European Union, the WHO approval is quick because they follow an “abridged assessment” on the basis of the procedures followed by such agencies. But for nations like India, a panel of experts commissioned by the WHO go through the raw data rather than going by the national regulator’s (CDSCO) certification as the Indian regulator is not seen as one among those who are stringent. India has so far administered more than 98.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, of which 11.29 crore are Covaxin shots. The WHO has granted the EUL so far to the vaccines manufactured by Pfizer-BNT, Moderna, AstraZeneca besides the jabs made by two Chinese companies. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-seeks-more-information-from-bharat-biotech-for-covaxin-1041774.html
18-10-2021||National||Maharashtra govt scraps Police Naik post in promotion chain||Police Constables now have the opportunity to directly be promoted to the post of Sub-Inspectors. In a path-breaking decision, the Maharashtra government has given in-principle approval to scrap the post of Police Naik in the promotion chain. The current police promotion chain is Police Constable, Police Naik, Head Constable, Assistant Police Sub-Inspector, Police Sub-Inspector, Assistant Police Inspector and Inspector.  Under the new proposal, after 10 years of service, a Police Constable will stand the chance of becoming a head constable and in 20 years get promoted as Assistant Police Sub Inspector and finally in 30 years as Police Sub Inspector.  The removal of the delay required for promotion is expected to significantly increase their morale and efficiency. As a result, there will be a significant increase in the efficiency of the police force, and there will be greater ease in maintaining law and order, solving crimes, and helping ordinary citizens, which will help to enhance the image of the police force. A high-powered committee chaired by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte made the recommendations following which the proposal was approved by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray last week with instructions that immediate action to be taken and government decision should be issued. With this, 15,150 personnel would be eligible for immediate promotion. Earlier, due to the number of stages in the promotion chain, many police constables were deprived of the position of sub-inspector in their entire tenure. Those who did not get promotion were given higher salary scales as per the assured progress scheme. Due to the long duration required for promotion, most of the officers did not get the opportunity to be promoted to the post of Sub-Inspector of Police. However, with this characteristic decision, the professionalism of the police force will have a positive impact. Hence, there will definitely be a substantial increase in crime detection and prevention. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-scraps-police-naik-post-in-promotion-chain-1041783.html
18-10-2021||National||Rains stoke concern that coal shortages may linger on||By Rajesh Kumar Singh, The possibility of torrential rains and flooding in some of India’s coal-producing states is threatening to stretch out a shortage of the fuel just as supplies to power plants rise.  Heavy rains are expected to lash parts of Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal -- all major coal-producing provinces -- until tomorrow, India Meteorological Department said in a bulletin Monday.  Adverse weather has already hampered coal supplies, worsening the power crisis. The nation has been witnessing shortages of its most dominant fuel since at least August, as demand surges with the economy emerging from the pandemic, while rains have hindered production and supplies. The supply tightness of coal, which helps produce about 70% of India’s electricity, can potentially raise energy costs for some customers, while leaving some others starved of supplies. That can harm the nation’s nascent economic recovery and exacerbate pains inflicted by already high prices of petroleum fuels and other commodities.     The forecast for more rain comes after Coal India Ltd., the nation’s biggest producer of coal, said it planned to accelerate output and shipments from this week to replenish depleted reserves of the fuel at power plants and resume supplies to industrial customers that were temporarily halted last week.  The average spot power price at the Indian Energy Exchange Ltd. fell to 3.76 rupees a kilowatt hour on Monday, down 77% from a week earlier when it touched a 12-year peak, an indication that supply is beginning to match demand. “The situation seems to be improving and one can only hope that rains don’t spoil it,” said Rupesh Sankhe, vice president at Elara Capital India Pvt. in Mumbai. “Coal India will need to start ramping up production wherever it can to be prepared for any prolonged rains.”      While rains pose a risk to coal supplies, it carries some benefits. The cooling weather brings down the demand for power and boosts hydropower generation by filling up the reservoirs.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rains-stoke-concern-that-coal-shortages-may-linger-on-1041785.html
18-10-2021||National||Jaishankar treated with hit Bollywood numbers at Israel's Centre for Persons with Disabilities||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his delegation were in for a surprise on Monday when they were treated to hit popular Bollywood numbers at Centre for Persons with Disabilities here in Israel. A blind Indian Jewish girl from the Bnei Menashe community, Dina Samte, who is a part of the Shalva band, welcomed Jaishankar and sang hits from Bollywood movies 'Kal ho na ho' and 'Kuchh kuchh hota hai', in a moving moment that left the minister and his delegation emotional. Israel's Alternate Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid hosted lunch for Jaishankar at the Shalva Centre, which extends care for individuals with disabilities providing them with tools for social inclusion. Samte, who immigrated to Israel from Manipur in 2007 has the unprecedented honour to have been chosen to light a torch at Israel's Independence Day official state ceremony a few years back. Shalva provides an all-encompassing range of services for thousands of people with disabilities from infancy to adulthood and their families. Its comprehensive life-cycle programming provides leading-edge therapies, inclusive educational frameworks, social and recreational activities, employment training, and independent living, as well as respite and family support. The Shalva National Center’s advanced programs and facilities create new frontiers in disability rehabilitation, research, and inclusion; defining new standards in the field and impacting the world beyond those in Shalva’s direct care. The organisation is known for providing equal access and opportunity to all participants regardless of religion, ethnic background, or financial capability. EAM is to visit the Israel museum where he would be seeing the replica of Kudavumbagam Cochini synagogue, the section on Indian art section and also the Dead Sea scrolls. He will also be interacting with some young members of the Cochini Jewish community. Jaishankar will also unveil a plaque at the Indian hospice in old Jerusalem and interact with think tanks later during the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-treated-with-hit-bollywood-numbers-at-israels-centre-for-persons-with-disabilities-1041788.html
18-10-2021||National||IIT-M researchers develop white light emitter for use in LEDs||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) have successfully developed a white light emitter for use in LEDs which replaced the energy-inefficient incandescent lamps in lighting and display applications.  Conventional LED materials cannot emit white light and specialised techniques such as coating blue LED with yellow phosphor and combining blue, green, and red LEDs, have been used to produce white light.  There has been a worldwide search for materials that can directly emit white light rather than through these indirect techniques that can cause loss of efficiency, the institute said. The innovation has been patented by the researchers and was recently granted the Government of India’s ‘SERB-Technology Translation Award.’  The research was led by Dr Aravind Kumar Chandiran, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Madras, and Prof. Ranjit Kumar Nanda B., Department of Physics, IIT Madras. Apart from the patent, the results of this research work have been published in the prestigious peer-reviewed International journal belonging to the Nature group – Communications Materials. “The indigenously-developed bright white light emitters can potentially replace the conventional high-cost materials and phenomenally save the energy cost per lumens,” Dr Aravind Kumar Chandiran said.  In their paper, the researchers, in addition to reporting the details of the specific perovskite material, have also proposed a clear design strategy that scientists can employ to develop white light emitters. The researchers developed expertise in tuning the material at an atomic level to obtain different properties. Through a recent project that included simulation and experimental work, the team distorted the crystal structure of this material to obtain a natural white light emitter, the IIT-M said. Unlike other recently developed white LED materials, this distorted perovskite showed phenomenal stability under ambient conditions. The emission of intense light and stability make them useful in long-lasting, energy-saving lighting applications.   Apart from general lighting, white LEDs can potentially be used in liquid crystal display backlights, display mobile lighting, and medical and communication equipment, the IIT-M said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-m-researchers-develop-white-light-emitter-for-use-in-leds-1041792.html
18-10-2021||National||Hoarding in Assamese language smeared with black ink in Silchar||A state government hoarding written in Assamese has been found smeared with black ink in the Bengali-majority Barak valley area of Assam triggering criticism from some parties. The incident, which took place at Silchar in Cachar district on Sunday, was allegedly carried out by members of two organisations demanding the use of Bengali in place of Assamese in the Barak valley region. Visuals showed the alleged activists climbing a ladder and defacing the hoarding in front of Silchar Railway station. They also wrote ‘Bangla Likhun’ (write in Bengali) and the names of the two organisations below it. An official in Silchar said no complaint has been registered with the police regarding the incident, though the law enforcers are looking into the matter. The Assam Official Language Act, 1960, adopted Assamese as the official language of the state, though it included provisions for use of Bengali for all administrative and official purposes in the Bengali-majority Barak Valley of the state, comprising Cachar, Karimganj, and Hailakandi districts. The use of the Bengali language for official purposes was authorised following a mass movement by the Bengali-speaking population, especially in Barak valley, which had also led to the death of 11 protestors at Silchar Railway Station on May 16, 1961. The smearing of the government hoarding has led to condemnation from regional organisations of the state, with the All Assam Students Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) criticising the move to denounce the official language of the state. Barak Democratic Yuba Front (BDYF) and All Bengali Students Youth Organisation (ABSYO) had allegedly carried out the protest programme near the hoarding. Kalparnob Gupta, the convener of BDYF, maintained that the advertisement was against the government notification that allowed the use of Bengali as the official language in Barak Valley. “Some circles with vested interests are trying to impose Assamese here. The chief minister was celebrating Durga Puja in Barak Valley and at the same time, his government is indulging in such acts,” he said. ABSYO Cachar district president Raju Deb said the government should refrain from indulging in any activity that could disrupt harmony, and concentrate on developmental projects. Reacting to the incident, AASU general secretary Sankar Jyoti Boruah on Monday said it is unfortunate that the Assamese language has been insulted in Assam itself. “If the Assamese language is disrespected in Assam itself on the pretext of the Language Act, what will be the future of our language?” he questioned, in a written statement, shared through his social media account. “Even after such incidents, the government wants to settle the Hindu Bangladeshis (Bengali speakers) through the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in our state. When that happens, will our language be safe anymore?” Boruah asked. He also demanded strict action against the organisations that had indulged in the act of defacing the hoarding at Silchar. Palash Changmai, general secretary of AJYCP, alleged that a section of Bengali-speaking people was framing a design to make Bengali at par with the Assamese language in Assam. “Assamese speakers are confined to Assam and if the language is not protected here, our language will be in danger,” he said. Changmai also criticised the political leadership for failing to take any action against those who had smeared the hoarding with black ink.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hoarding-in-assamese-language-smeared-with-black-ink-in-silchar-1041803.html
18-10-2021||National||Retail tomato prices skyrocket to Rs 93 per kg in metros as unseasonal rains damage crop||The retail price of tomatoes rose to Rs 93 per kg in metros on Monday on sluggish arrival in mandis amid reports of crop damage, owing to unseasonal rains, according to the government data. Among metro cities, tomatoes were sold at Rs 93 per kg in Kolkata, Rs 60 per kg in Chennai, Rs 59 per kg in Delhi and Rs 53 per kg in Mumbai on Monday, data showed. The retail price of tomatoes was ruling at more than Rs 50 per kg in over 50 cities out of 175-odd cities tracked by the consumer affairs ministry. Even in the wholesale markets, tomatoes were sold at Rs 84 per kg in Kolkata, at Rs 52 per kg in Chennai, Rs 30 per kg in Mumbai and Rs 29.50 per kg in Delhi on Monday, the data showed. Tomato prices are ruling firm due to poor arrival amid the damage of the crop because of the unseasonal rains in key growing states. In Mumbai, tomato arrival was lower at 241 tonnes on October 16 as against 290 tonnes a week ago, while arrival was at 528.9 tonnes in Delhi and 545 tonnes in Kolkata on the same date, according to the government data that did not have a comparable data for three metro cities. "We are not getting good-quality tomatoes from mandi itself because of rains. Consumers pick good ones and the rotten ones are left behind which is a loss to us. So, we keep rates in such a way to recover that loss also," said a vegetable hawker Shiva Lal Yadav who sells in Karol Bagh colony of Delhi. Currently, harvesting is underway in key growing states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Last week,  Azadpur Tomato Association President Ashok Kaushik had said, "Unseasonal rains in producing states like Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have damaged the crop due to which the supply to consuming markets like Delhi has been affected. This has led to a rise in prices both in wholesale and retail markets." The Tomato crop is ready for harvest in about two to three months after planting. Harvesting is done as per the requirement of the market. India, the world's second-largest tomato producer after China, produces around 19.75 million tonnes from an area of 7.89 lakh hectares with an average yield of 25.05 tonnes per hectare, according to the National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retail-tomato-prices-skyrocket-to-rs-93-per-kg-in-metros-as-unseasonal-rains-damage-crop-1041816.html
18-10-2021||National||CBSE issues clarification against fake datesheet for 10th, 12th||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday clarified that it has not released any official notification on the first term exam datesheet for Classes 10 and 12. "It has come to the notice of CBSE that a fake datesheet is being circulated on social media for the forthcoming term 1 exams in Nov 2021, to confuse students of class X and XII. It is clarified that the board has not released any official notification in this regard till now," the board said in a tweet. The CBSE had last week said that the first-term board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 will be conducted offline in November-December and the datesheet for the same will be announced on October 18. However, the exam schedule has not been released yet. The board had said the exams will be objective and the duration of the tests will be 90 minutes. The exams will start from 11.30 am instead of 10.30 am in view of the winter season. Bifurcating the academic session, holding two term-end exams and rationalising the syllabus were part of the special assessment scheme for Classes 10 and 12 board exams in 2021-22 announced by the CBSE in July in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-issues-clarification-against-fake-datesheet-for-10th-12th-1041818.html
18-10-2021||National||CBSE class 10 exams from November 30, class 12 exams from December 1||The first term board exams for class 10 will begin from November 30, while the exams for class 12 is scheduled from December 1, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced on Monday. According to examination controller Sanyam Bhardwaj, the announced date sheet is for major subjects while the schedule for minor subjects will be sent to schools separately. The exams for minor subjects for classes 10 and 12 will begin from November 17 and November 16 respectively. Bifurcating the academic session, holding two term-end exams and rationalising the syllabus were part of the special assessment scheme for class 10 and 12 CBSE board exams for 2021-22, which were announced in July in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The CBSE had last week said that the first-term board examinations for classes 10 and 12 will be conducted offline in November-December. The board had said the exams will be objective and the duration of the tests will be 90 minutes. The exams will start from 11.30 am instead of 10.30 am in view of the winter season.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-10-exams-from-november-30-class-12-exams-from-december-1-1041823.html
18-10-2021||National||Niti Aayog launches energy map of India||Government think tank Niti Aayog on Monday launched the Geospatial Energy Map of India, which provides a holistic picture of all energy resources such as conventional power plants, oil and gas wells, petroleum refineries, coal fields and coal blocks. According to an official statement, the Aayog in collaboration with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has developed a comprehensive Geographic Information System (GIS) Energy Map of India with the support of energy ministries of the Government of India. The GIS map provides a holistic picture of all energy resources of the country which enables visualisation of energy installations such as conventional power plants, oil and gas wells, petroleum refineries, coal fields and coal blocks, district-wise data on renewable energy power plants and renewable energy resource potential, etc through 27 thematic layers, the statement said. It further said that the map attempts to identify and locate all primary and secondary sources of energy and their transportation/transmission networks to provide a comprehensive view of energy production and distribution in a country. While launching the GIS-based Energy Map of India, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said that GIS mapping of energy assets will be useful for ensuring real-time and integrated planning of the energy sector of India, given its large geographical distribution and interdependence. “Energy markets have immense potential to bring in efficiency gains," he said, adding that going forward, GIS-based mapping of energy assets will be advantageous to all concerned stakeholders and will help in accelerating the policy-making process. According to Kumar, fragmented data has been brought together; this will be a great research instrument.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-launches-energy-map-of-india-1041826.html
18-10-2021||National||Alert in Assam over threats from ISI, al-Qaeda||The Assam Police have sounded an alert over possible terror strikes by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and terror outfit al-Qaeda over alleged persecution of Muslims in the state. A circular issued by the Assistant Inspector General of Police (Law and Order) on Saturday said the alert has been issued following reports received from the Special Branch of the state police. The circular said the ISI is planning to target “individuals including Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) cadres and army areas in Assam and other places in India’. There is also a “threat from global terror outfits to indulge in spectacular action by restoring to explosion of bombs/ IEDs in places of mass gathering/ mass transport/ religious places, etc’’. Another input quoted in the circular said the al-Qaeda has called for “jihad in Assam and Kashmir”. The circular further said the general secretariat of Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) has released a statement regarding the Dhalpur eviction drive in Assam’s Darrang district, which had claimed the lives of two persons. Over 20 people were injured, including policemen, in the anti-encroachment drive against “illegal settlers” at Dhalpur in September. In the statement released through Twitter, the OIC has condemned the ‘systematic persecution and violence ramped up against the Muslim community in Assam’. Given the inputs, the state’s entire police machinery has been asked to take preventive and precautionary measures to thwart any evil design by ‘global terror outfits and fundamental/ radical elements’. All ground sources and intelligence gathering machinery have been asked to be geared up in the districts.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alert-in-assam-over-threats-from-isi-al-qaeda-1041837.html
18-10-2021||National||India tops world in unreported tuberculosis cases||India has not only topped the world in missing tuberculosis cases last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic but also is far ahead of the next three countries taken together, according to a new World Health Organization (WHO) report. The countries that contributed most to the global reduction in tuberculosis (TB) notifications between 2019 and 2020 were India (41%), Indonesia (14%), the Philippines (12%) and China (8%). These and 12 other countries accounted for 93% of the total global drop in notifications. In a report published last week, the WHO estimates that more than 41 lakh people currently suffer from TB but have not been diagnosed with the disease or have not officially reported to national authorities. This figure is up from 29 lakh million in 2019. The two countries with the largest absolute reductions in notifications between 2019 and 2020 -- India and Indonesia -- had previously been the main contributors to the large global increase in TB notifications between 2013 and 2019. Their combined annual total number of notifications increased by 12 lakh in that period but then fell by 7,00,000 between 2019 and 2020. Globally, such negative trends meant that TB treatment coverage in 2020 was 59% -- down from 72% in 2019. The world health body estimated that approximately 15 lakh people died from TB in 2020 (including 2,14,000 among HIV positive people) and the increase in the number of TB deaths occurred mainly in the 30 countries with the highest burden of TB including India. India accounted for 38% of global TB deaths among HIV-negative people and for 34% of the combined total number of TB deaths in HIV-negative and HIV-positive people The WHO modelling projections suggest the number of people developing TB and dying from the disease could be much higher in 2021 and 2022. The 30 high TB burden countries accounted for 86% of all estimated incident cases worldwide and eight of them accounted for two-thirds of the global total with India topping the list with 26% cases followed by China (8.5%), Indonesia (8.4%), the Philippines (6%), Pakistan (5.8%), Nigeria (4.6%), Bangladesh (3.6%) and South Africa (3.3%) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tops-world-in-unreported-tuberculosis-cases-1041839.html
18-10-2021||National||Farmers' 'Rail Roko' call garners mixed response across India||Farmers lay on railway tracks and turned them into open-air gymnasiums to stop trains in parts of northern India to demand the ouster of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri killings, which drew a mixed response. Train services were affected at 150 different locations across Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan as farmers squatted on railway tracks to “seek justice” for the victims of the Lakhimpur killing on October 3 when an SUV belonging to Mishra mowed down four farmers. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella organisation spearheading protests against the three farm laws since November last year, had given the call for a nationwide rail roko to demand Mishra's ouster from the Union Council of Ministers. The Delhi Police said there were no reports of any disturbance in the national capital due to SKM's six-hour 'rail roko' protest. Videos and photographs shared by the farmers' organisations showed protestors lying on the tracks, performing push-ups and other exercises on the rails to prevent the movement of trains. Similar protests were reported from Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Moga, Patiala and Ferozepur in Punjab, and Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat, Kurukshetra, Jind, Karnal and Hisar in Haryana. In Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, Bharatiya Kisan Union workers halted the Amritsar-Delhi and the Jalandhar Express trains by staging a dharna on rail tracks. The Northern Railway had to cancel 25 passenger and short-distance trains, while the North-Western Railway had to cancel 18 trains and partially cancel services of 10 trains. In Rajasthan, farmers held a protest on the tracks in the Hanumangarh district and raised slogans against the Central and the Uttar Pradesh governments. In the state capital, members of the SKM staged a protest at the entrance of the Jaipur Junction station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-rail-roko-call-garners-mixed-response-across-india-1041861.html
18-10-2021||National||Coal crisis: Number of thermal power projects with less than 4-day coal stock dips to 61||The coal stock situation at thermal power projects seems to be inching towards normalcy as the number of non-pit head projects having less than four days of coal (supercritical stock) reduced to 61 on Sunday from 70 a week ago, government data showed. According to latest coal stock data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), the number of non-pit head projects having less than four days of coal (supercritical stock) was 61 on October 17 and 70 on October 10, while it was 64 on October 3. The improvement in the coal stock situation assumes significance in view of the ongoing shortage of the dry fuel at thermal power plants in the country. The Central Electricity Authority monitors coal stock situation of 135 thermal power plants with cumulative generation capacity of over 165 GW. The data also showed that the number of power plants with zero days of coal has come down to 16 with cumulative installed generation capacity of 13,495 MW, compared to 17 with 16,430 MW capacity a week back. The number was 17 with 21,325 MW capacity on October 3. The number of the plants with one day of coal stock has also reduced to 25 with 34,080 MW capacity as on October 17, compared to 26 with 34,930 MW capacity on October 10. This number was 20 with 22,550 MW capacity on October 3. Similarly, the number of plants with two days of coal also decreased to 18 (with 25,914 MW capacity) from 22 (27,325 MW) a week ago. This figure was 20 with 29,960 MW capacity on October 3. The number of plants with three days of coal also came down to 15 (with 20,290 MW capacity) from 18 (24,094 MW) a week ago. The number was 19 with 22,000 MW capacity on October 3. The number of plants with four days of coal has increased to 18 with 21,915 MW capacity as of Sunday, from 13 with 15,210 MW capacity a week ago, showing improvement in dry fuel stock. The number was 15 with 16,890 MW capacity in the preceding week. The number of plants with five days of coal has decreased to 10 (12,630 MW capacity) from 11 with 10,775 MW capacity a week ago. This number was six (7,174 MW) on October 3. The power ministry data also showed improvement in the power shortage situation as it came down to 1,456 MW On October 17 from 2,714 MW a week back. Amid the coal shortage at power plants, the peak power shortage had moderated to 986 MW on October 15, in sharp contrast to 11,626 MW on October 7. The 11,626 MW peak power shortage on October 7 was the highest during the first half of this month. Experts are of the view that power demand has moderated with the onset of autumn and heavy rains in many parts of the country this weekend. They opined that with the government's efforts to ramp up coal supplies to power plants, the dry fuel situation would further improve. Earlier last week, the power ministry had stated that the capacity of units under outage due to low coal stocks reduced from 11 GW on October 12 to 5 GW on October 14. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-crisis-number-of-thermal-power-projects-with-less-than-4-day-coal-stock-dips-to-61-1041864.html
18-10-2021||National||Day after Ramleela skit sparks social media fury, AIIMS rings warning bells||A day after the AIIMS Students’ Association apologised for a Ramleela skit that drew social media ire, the premier medical institute here on Monday warned all its unions of students and employees to desist from such acts, failing which disciplinary action will be taken against them. In an advisory, the AIIMS registrar stated that a number of complaints have been received regarding the performance, and uploading on social media, of an "offensive" skit/play performed in the hostel premises of AIIMS Delhi. "This has been viewed seriously. This advisory is issued to all unions/associations of students, staff, employees etc. of AllMS New Delhi to desist from such acts and behaviour and this should not be repeated in future, failing which necessary disciplinary action will be taken. "The office bearers of all unions/associations may kindly bring this to the notice of their members and comply with this advisory fully," it added. The AIIMS Students’ Association had issued apology on Sunday after video clips of the Ramleela skit performed by some students of the institute drew widespread social media condemnation for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. The skit, allegedly giving a modern spin to some characters of Ramayana with a comic flavour, was performed on the occasion of Dussehra by some first-year MBBS students near the hostel quadrangle at the AIIMS campus. It caused outrage among netizens with many alleging it was disrespectful of religious sentiments. Responding to the criticism, the students’ body issued an apology through a tweet. "A video clip of a Ramleela skit done by some students of AIIMS has been circulating on social media. On behalf of the students, we apologise for the conduct of this skit which was not meant to hurt anyone's sentiments. We will ensure that no such activity takes place in the future," it had said. Taking note of the matter, the AIIMS administration had held a discussion with the students, an official said, adding, "The students, realising the sensitivity of the issue, have apologised and issued a tweet. They have assured that such an incident won't recur." The official had also said that the skit was not part of any official activity or event and the students had organised it on their own. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/day-after-ramleela-skit-sparks-social-media-fury-aiims-rings-warning-bells-1041877.html
18-10-2021||National||Tribunal Reforms Act: Independence of judiciary can't be invoked to strike down law passed as policy matter, Centre tells SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that independence of judiciary -- a part of basic structure -- can not be invoked to test the validity of a law that has been passed by Parliament as a matter of policy. It also maintained that striking down a law related to a matter of policy was in fact violation of the principle of separation of power. Defending the validity of the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021, the Union government said, "It is distressed that laws and statutory rules made by Parliament and the Executive in areas of pure policy are being held to be void by invoking independence of the judiciary when such laws and rules do not violate fundamental rights or any provision of the Constitution and are wholly within competency." "Government equally believes that the court striking down these pure matters of policy violates the separation of powers by the judicial wing of the State," it said. The government's assertion came in a response to a batch of petitions, including by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh, against the validity of the 2021 Act. The petitioners claimed the Tribunals Reforms Act, 2021, abrogated the principle of judicial independence in a deliberate attempt to override the previous judgements of the top court. They asked the court to declare the Act, which was passed by both the Houses of Parliament and had received the Presidential assent on August 13, as unconstitutional and ultra vires of Articles 14, 21 and 50 of the Constitution.  In its written response, the government contended the principle of basic structure of the Constitution can be used to strike down a constitutional amendment, but not a statute. "Basic structure in the Constitution can only be used to test the validity of a constitutional amendment but has no relevance when it comes to validity of a statute," it said. The government also pointed out that it has been held in a series of cases, including by two Constitutional Bench decisions and by a seven-judge bench of this court that basic structure in the Constitution can only be used to test the validity of a Constitutional amendment but has no relevance when it comes to validity of a statue. It also contended that the principle of separation of powers itself would stand violated if the judiciary interfered with issues of policy and substituted it by what it believed would be a better policy. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tribunal-reforms-act-independence-of-judiciary-cant-be-invoked-to-strike-down-law-passed-as-policy-matter-centre-tells-sc-1041891.html
18-10-2021||National||India moves to take advantage of Abraham Accords, joins Israel, UAE, US in new Quad||India on Monday joined Israel, United Arab Emirates and the United States to launch a new quadrilateral consultation for expanding economic and political cooperation in West Asia, in addition to step energy and maritime security cooperation. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Israeli Foreign Minister Yair Lapid joined the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, and the UAE Foreign Minister, Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, in a video conference. The virtual meeting took place about a year after the Abraham Accords were signed in Washington D.C. in September 2020 started the process of normalization of relations between Tel Aviv and Abu Dhabi and thus opened up a new opportunity for India to go for deeper engagement with Israel without risking its relations with the UAE and the other Arab states of the Persian Gulf. Jaishankar later called the video conference with his counterparts in Israel, the UAE and the US “a fruitful first meeting”, thus indicating that it was not a one-off consultation and the four nations would continue to remain engaged in the quadrilateral format. He tweeted that the virtual meeting ended with all sides agreeing on “expeditious follow-up” to the discussion they had on “working together more closely on economic growth and global issues”. Ned Price, the spokesperson of the US State Department, said that the four sides had discussed “expanding economic and political cooperation in the Middle East and Asia, including through trade, combating climate change, energy cooperation, and increasing maritime security”. They also discussed people to people ties in technology and science and ways to support global public health in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Blinken reiterated the support of US President Joe Biden’s administration support for the Abraham Accords and normalization agreements and discussed future opportunities for collaboration in the region and globally. The Abraham Accords are the pacts Israel inked with Bahrain and the UAE in September 2020. Biden’s predecessor Donald Trump’s administration played a key role in getting the agreements signed and thus setting in motion the process of normalization of Israel’s relations with the UAE and Bahrain. India welcomed the Abraham Accords, stating that it always supported peace and stability in West Asia – a region, which it considered as its “extended neighbourhood”. India-Israel cooperation in counterterrorism and defence sectors widened over the past few years. Israel has been one of the largest suppliers of military hardware to India. India’s energy and economic ties with the UAE also expanded significantly. The UAE has also been quietly mediating between India and Pakistan and facilitated back-channel talks between the two neighbours last year. With the Taliban’s return to power in Kabul giving Pakistan a strategic edge over India in Afghanistan, New Delhi is now keen to take advantage of the Abraham Accords, which has given India flexibility to expand its strategic partnerships with Israel as well as the UAE and the other nations in the Gulf, like Qatar, Kuwait and Bahrain. A source in New Delhi said that India was confident about balancing its ties with Iran and Israel too. Jaishankar had two back-to-back visits to Tehran in July and August and extended an invitation on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the new Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi for an early visit to India. The virtual meeting Jaishankar had with Blinken, Lapid and Zayed was the second quadrilateral consultation with participation of India and the US, which in 2017 had also re-launched another four-nation coalition with Japan and Australia, primarily to build a coalition of democracies to counter communist China’s expansionist aspirations in the Indo-Pacific region. Modi last month joined Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and then Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga for the first in-person summit of the ‘quad’ in Washington D.C. Jaishankar and Lapid earlier had a bilateral meeting in Jerusalem. They agreed to relaunch the negotiations for the India-Israel Free Trade Agreement from next month. Lapid agreed with Jaishankar to allow travellers inoculated with the Covid-19 Covishield vaccines in India to travel to Israel without any hassle. New Delhi also agreed to recognize the vaccination certificates issued by the Government of Israel while allowing travellers from the West Asian Jewish nation to travel to India. “Our bilateral relations have been on a qualitatively different trajectory in the last few years,” said Jaishankar, who is currently on a visit to Israel. “Our two countries (India and Israel) share values of democracy and pluralism. We also share some of our guiding civilizational philosophies: Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam in India, or the world is one family, and Tikun Olam in Israel, or heal the world,” the External Affairs Minister said during an interaction with Indologists and the representatives of the Indian Jewish community of Israel. “We (India and Israel) also share similar challenges to our society from radicalism and terrorism, apart from many other emerging developments on the geopolitical landscape.” Modi’s visit to Tel Aviv and Jerusalem in July 2017 was the first by a Prime Minister of India to Israel. It de-linked India’s relations with Israel and Palestine. Indian dignitaries visiting Israel in the past had made it a point to visit Palestine too. The then President Pranab Mukherjee had visited both Israel and Palestine in October 2015. The then External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, too had visited Palestine after touring Israel in January 2016, just as one of her predecessors, S M Krishna, had done in October 2012. India was the first non-Arab country to recognise Palestine way back in 1988. But New Delhi's growing ties with Israel after the BJP's ascent to power in May 2014 fuelled speculation about India reviewing its position on Palestine. The Modi government, however, made it clear that while India would continue to support the cause of Palestine, it would also seek to build stronger ties with Israel. New Delhi also played host to the then Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in January 2018. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-moves-to-take-advantage-of-abraham-accords-joins-israel-uae-us-in-new-quad-1041900.html
18-10-2021||National Politics||Worried about Biharis getting killed in Jammu and Kashmir, Nitish dials Manoj Sinha||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday called up Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and expressed concern over the recent killings of people from the eastern state in terrorist strikes. Kumar spoke to Sinha over the telephone upon learning about the death of Raja Rishidev and Yogendra Rishidev in Anantnag, which came a day after Arvind Kumar Sah was gunned down in Srinagar. The chief minister has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of all the three deceased and issued instructions to the departments of labour and social welfare to ensure that benefits under relevant schemes reach the bereaved families. Meanwhile, the BJP has requested a hike in the quantum of ex-gratia, stating that the amount was “far lower than even what is being given to victims of accidents and natural disasters in the state”. The party’s OBC Morcha national general secretary and state spokesman Nikhil Anand said in a statement, “The Jihadis are fighting their last battle and carrying out dastardly attacks out of desperation. They will be taught a lesson by our armed forces and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre”. “It is, however, requested that the Bihar government consider raising the ex-gratia. The sum of Rs two lakh is just half of Rs four lakh paid to victims of accidents and natural disasters. We must help members of the bereaved families, which belong to the backward classes and have lost their breadwinners,” he said. The deceased men from Bihar were a symbol of the resilience characteristic of the land and its people, Anand added. The BJP is the senior partner in the ruling NDA in the state.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/worried-about-biharis-getting-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-nitish-dials-manoj-sinha-1041587.html
18-10-2021||National Politics||Centre against workers' interest, shouldn't be in power, says Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday accused the BJP-led central government of acting against the interests of workers and claimed that it was making changes in the law so that employees can be removed from service at any time. He said that those who are against the interests of workers should not be in power. Pawar also alleged that the Centre was trying to pose financial hurdles before Maharashtra by not releasing the GST dues. Addressing the workers of his party in Pimpri Chinchwad, an industrial township near Pune city, he also told them how Hindustan Antibiotics (HA), as well as several automobile companies, were set up there. "The present Union government is against the interests of workers. Now anyone can be thrown out of a job at any time. The BJP government at the Centre is bringing changes in the law so that workers can be removed from service at any time. This move is 100 per cent not in the interests of workers," he said. "Those who are against the interest of workers should not be in power…we all have to tell this to them, and for that Pimpri Chinchwad can be one of the cities which will give this strong message," he added. But the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state is going to work for industries and employment generation, he asserted. The NCP shares power with the Shiv Sena and the Congress in the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government. Sharing an anecdote about how the Hindustan Antibiotics started functioning in Pimpri Chinchwad and how manufacturing of penicillin began, he said when Mahatma Gandhi was living with his wife Kasturba Gandhi in a bungalow on Ahmednagar Road in Pune, Kasturba Gandhi was battling a disease that needed a specific type of medicine which was not being produced in India at that time. Later she died due to the illness. "When the then prime minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru visited Gandhi after that, the latter told Nehru about the non-availability of medicine in India. It was then that Nehru took a decision and the HA was formed," he said. Pawar also shared how Tata’s vehicle manufacturing company was retained in Maharashtra and set up in Pimpri Chinchwad. "When we were in power, we tried to keep the industry afloat. We worked towards the decentralization of industries. The then chief minister Yashwantrao Chavan decided to go for the decentralization of industries. Then industries started functioning in Thane and Pimpri Chinchwad," Pawar said. "Chavan also met JRD Tata and requested him to set up the company in Pimpri Chinchwad instead of Jamshedpur. He personally met Tata and promised to extend all help to set up the company in Pimpri Chinchwad. The same happened with Bajaj, Telco and others…special efforts were taken by the government,” he said. Pawar said that as a Union agriculture minister for 10 years between 2004 and 2014, he and the UPA government worked to change the situation and India became an exporter of wheat. Earlier, India used to import rice, but now it is one of the topmost countries that export it, he said. "We worked towards using our power for the betterment of the farmers who can solve the hunger issues, but now the BJP is doing exactly the opposite," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-against-workers-interest-shouldnt-be-in-power-says-sharad-pawar-1041591.html
18-10-2021||National Politics||Speak Out: October 18, 2021||A day after Congress President Sonia Gandhi asked party leaders not to speak to her through the media, Sidhu posted a letter addressed to her on Twitter, seeking a meeting to discuss the 13-point agenda for Punjab, flagging in his letter issues which the government "must deliver upon" and saying it is the poll-bound state's "last chance for resurrection and redemption".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speak-out-october-18-2021-1041606.html
18-10-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Congress fighting G23 leaders or BJP?||Sonia Gandhi on Saturday sought to blunt the G-23 leaders' campaign for immediate change in party leadership and send a clear message to the rebels by asserting in a Congress Working Committee meeting that she is a "full-time and hands-on" party president and there is no need to speak to her through the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-congress-fighting-g23-leaders-or-bjp-1041608.html
18-10-2021||National Politics||Forging an alliance? Amarinder Singh likely to meet Amit Shah on Monday||Amid rumours of him forming a new political outfit, former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh will likely meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Monday. Reports suggest that the Captain will not only discuss the farmers' protest but may also forge a seat sharing or alliance formula with the BJP leader. This will be Amarinder Singh’s third visit to Delhi after resigning as Chief Minister. Singh had met Amit Shah after quitting the Congress and accusing it of 'humiliation' sparking speculations. Charanjit Channi became the chief minister after the unceremonious exit of the Congress veteran, who had been at loggerheads with Sidhu. BJP national general secretary and Punjab in-charge, Dushyant Gautam told IANS that the BJP has its plan and strategy for Punjab assembly polls and is working accordingly with the developing situation. "No doubt, Singh is a big name and has had an impact on state politics but first of all the former chief minister must clarify his position about the next political move. We have our plans and the BJP is moving ahead with it. We cannot say about Singh's plan and currently we can't say what will happen in future," Gautam said. After quitting the Congress, Amarinder had called Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra ‘inexperienced’. He had also threatened to pit a strong candidate against state party chief and his arch nemesis Navjot Singh Sidhu in the coming assembly polls.  Captain also took a dig at Navjot Singh Sidhu and called him a drama master. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/forging-an-alliance-amarinder-singh-likely-to-meet-amit-shah-on-monday-1041647.html
18-10-2021||National Politics||Opposition putting hurdles in development agenda: Nadda||Accusing opposition parties of trying to put hurdles in the government's agenda of development, BJP president JP Nadda said on Monday that his party members have worked for the nation keeping in mind not only "political indicators" but also "social indicators".  In his address at the BJP's national office bearers meeting, Nadda cited its welfare measures during the Covid-19 pandemic coupled with the Modi government's agenda of development and pro-poor programmes like free grains and asserted that the ruling party has worked to change the definition of politics, official sources said.  Briefing reporters, party vice president and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh said the meeting of the office bearers will put in place the party's agenda for the next few months, and noted that it comes against the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi engaging in extensive deliberations with BJP's organisational leaders over the last few months.  The BJP has shown as to how party members can be relevant and helpful to the society while working for the organisation, Singh said.  "BJP members have worked for the nation keeping in mind not only political indicators but also social indicators," he said.  He said the Congress has seen a dip as it has ceased to be active on grassroots issues.  Nadda, he added, also lauded the Modi government for free distribution of grains to the poor during the pandemic and the ongoing vaccination drive, which is set to cross 100 crore doses.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-putting-hurdles-in-development-agenda-nadda-1041688.html
18-10-2021||National Politics||BJP slams Congress for 'vilification' of Patel at CWC meeting||The BJP on Monday accused the Congress of committing a "sin" over reports that a leader at the recent CWC meeting made critical remarks about Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and asked if the party leadership will take action against him. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited reports that Tariq Hameed Karra, a Kashmiri leader and a permanent invitee to the Congress Working Committee, had credited Jawaharlal Nehru for Jammu and Kashmir's integration with India and had alleged that Patel wanted to keep the Valley out. Patra asked whether Congress president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi objected when Karra "vilified" Patel and presented India's first home minister as a "villain" while praising Nehru. "Was Karra reprimanded? Will he be axed from the CWC," Patra asked, accusing the Congress of constantly insulting leaders like Subhas Chandra Bose, Patel and Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar. The Congress, he alleged, is reduced to being a party of a family and works to advance the family's rule. "What sort of mindset is this that one family has done everything and others have done nothing. What the CWC has done is a sin," he said. He noted that Karra also batted for Rahul Gandhi to take over as the Congress chief while lauding the contribution of the Nehru-Gandhi family and criticising Patel. "This is the height of sycophancy," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-slams-congress-for-vilification-of-patel-at-cwc-meeting-1041750.html
18-10-2021||National Politics||Bhupesh Baghel is India's best performing Chief Minister: Governance Index||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel is the best performing Chief Minister in the country, facing the least anger of the electorate, as per the IANS-CVoter Governance Index. Only six per cent of the respondents are angry with Baghel and want a change. Conversely, Baghel enjoys highest popularity ratings among all Chief Ministers, as per the tracker. In case of Chhattisgarh, anger is directed against the Central government and even state MLAs, but there is hardly any anger towards Baghel. As many as 44.7 per cent respondents in Chhattisgarh are angry with the Central government, while 36.6 per cent are angry with the state government. Baghel has introduced a slew of welfare schemes in Chhattisgarh, including providing free education to children studying in private schools, who have lost parents/guardians to Covid-19. Under the Mahtari Dular Yojana, the Chhattisgarh government would bear the expenses of education of such children. Chhattisgarh was the top-performing state in India on the gender equality parameter of the Sustainable Development Goals, according to the NITI Aayog's SDG India Index report 2020-21. The index tracks the progress of all states and Union Territories on 115 indicators. Last year, Chhattisgarh scored 43 points on the gender quality parameter and was ranked seventh in India. This year, it scored 61 and topped the chart. Yashwant Deshmukh, Founder, CVoter, said, "The CEO working style of CMs is popular. People are liking CMs with centralised decision making." "These are leaders who are not afraid of taking the blame. It is risky when things go wrong as in the case of former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. But there is a better rating for the CEO style. We are living in a Parliamentary democracy, but a Presidential system is becoming popular with the public," Deshmukh said. The CVoter Tracker is India's only daily opinion tracking exercise mapping more than a hundred thousand randomly selected respondents in a calendar year. The tracker run in 11 Indian languages has interviewed more than a million respondents in person and CATI over the last 10 years. The quarterly report cards on CMs cover more than 30,000 across all the 543 Lok Sabha seats and has margin of error of +/-3 per cent at the national level and +/-5 per cent at the state level. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami ranks second in minimum anger of the electorate with 10.1 per cent, but since he is a new CM, he is getting the benefit of doubt even as a massive 61 per cent are angry with the state government. The earlier Chief Minister was drawing negative ratings, but now that has diffused though the anger against the state government remains high. Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik ranks third with 10.4 per cent anger against him, and 37.6 per cent against the state government. Also, the changing of CMs in some states has worked. With Punjab and Karnataka getting new CMs, the states have moved to respectable positions as they were languishing near the bottom earlier. The maximum anger has been garnered by Telangana CM Chandrashekar Rao or KCR. As many as 30.3 per cent respondents are angry with him and want a change. With a high degree of anger against the incumbent and the Central government having good ratings in the state, the BJP is set to make inroads there, said Deshmukh. He added that it is high time KCR's son, K.T. Rama Rao, replaces him or else things could go out of hand. Also in the bottom are the northeastern states collectively with an anger quotent of 29.2 per cent. There is 28.1 per cent anger against UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, but that is accounted for by the fact that Uttar Pradesh is a polarised state. "Yogi being a polarising figure, the number is not surprising," said Deshmukh. He added that the arithmetic of 40 per cent support base ensures that BJP is in a strong position in Uttar Pradesh. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhupesh-baghel-is-indias-best-performing-chief-minister-governance-index-1041791.html
18-10-2021||National Politics||Development, public outreach campaigns — BJP's twin planks for upcoming elections||BJP has pinned its hopes on the numerous public service campaigns that it carried out during the Covid-19 pandemic and efforts to raise relevant issues to be the road to success in the five upcoming Assembly elections. BJP President J P Nadda held a day-long brainstorming session with the party's national office bearers on the elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur. “Parivartan (change) is constant and an ongoing process. And I always say, only those succeed in politics who stay relevant,” Nadda said in his remarks at the meeting. Briefing reporters about the deliberations, BJP Vice President Baijayant Panda said the BJP will contest the assembly elections on the leadership provided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the leadership in the respective states and the development works carried out by the government. Panda said India's achievements in combating the Covid-19 pandemic have been applauded the world over and the country was emerging as the fastest growing economy in the world as per the assessment of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). “Global organisations have said India will be among the fastest-growing economies in the world. Our exports are rising. These are indicators of development and progress,” Panda said. He said the success on the economic front was a result of the double engine government provided by the BJP. Panda said the BJP does not work from one election to the other but believes in politics as a means of service to contribute to the progress of the nation. “We carry on with our public service campaigns every week and every month,” he said. BJP Yuva Morcha President Tejasvi Surya said Nadda stressed the importance of strengthening the party at the grassroots and empowering every karyakarta in all aspects. This was the first in-person meeting of the party's office-bearers under the leadership of Nadda since he assumed charge of BJP President in January last year. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/development-public-outreach-campaigns-bjps-twin-planks-for-upcoming-elections-1041879.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||BJP prepares a mix of development and youth-appeal for Uttarakhand||BJP’s campaign pitch for the upcoming elections in Uttarakhand is a mix of development and youth appeal, with 45-year-old Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami leading from the front. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already sounded the poll bugle in the hill state with his visit to Rishikesh earlier this month to launch pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants in every district of the country and is set to do an encore next month with a pilgrimage to Kedarnath. The BJP state executive committee has already declared that it will contest the elections under the leadership of Chief Minister Dhami, who assumed office in July, amid an intense power struggle within the party. In March, the then chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who had become unpopular with the party cadre, was shunted out by the BJP and Tirath Singh Rawat was brought in as his successor. The gaffe-prone Tirath had to make way for Dhami within a span of four months. The BJP has planned door-to-door campaigns, reaching out to specific sections of the society through dedicated programmes, people who have benefited from various government schemes and outreach to the new voters with the youthful face of the chief minister. Modi is expected to visit the shrine dedicated to Lord Shiva just before it closes for winter on November 6. The prime minister is likely to inaugurate the Rs 250 crore Kedarpuri reconstruction project and lay the foundation stone of Phase II of the development works. He is also set to inaugurate the redeveloped shrine of Adi Shankaracharya at Kedarnath and unveil a 12-feet high statue of the spiritual guru. The statue of Shankaracharya in a sitting posture has been chiselled from Krishnashila stone by Mysuru-based sculptor Arun Yogiraj and weighs 35 tonnes. The statue was flown on-board a Chinook helicopter to Kedarnath earlier this month. The government is also extending railway links into the hills both in the Garhwal and Kumaon regions of the state. Work is in full swing on building the rail link from Rishikesh to Karnaprayag, while the Centre recently approved Rs 28 crore for the survey of the Tanakpur-Bageshwar railway line in the Kumaon region. BJP is also banking on the Rs 12,000 crore Chardham all-weather highway, likely to be completed next year, to earn some goodwill among the voters. Home Minister Amit Shah is visiting Uttarakhand on October 30, days ahead of the prime minister’s tour to fine tune the party’s campaign for the Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-prepares-a-mix-of-development-and-youth-appeal-for-uttarakhand-1041604.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||'No jobs in state': Tejashwi hits out at Nitish over J&K killings||In wake of two more labourers from Bihar being killed in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav blamed the Nitish Kumar government, saying it was unable to provide jobs in the state. "Nitish Kumar, who has been ruling the state for the last 16 years, is unable to provide jobs in Bihar. A large number of poor Bihari labourers migrate to other states to earn their livelihood. It is really unfortunate that innocent Bihari labourers were brutally killed in Jammu and Kashmir," he said. On Sunday, militants killed two labourers named Raja Rishidev and Yogendra Rishidev in Kulgam district while another, Chunchun Rishidev, was grievously injured "The Narendra Modi government had claimed that the terrorism would be end after removal of Section 370. I want to ask PM Narendra Modi and BJP to give a statement on the gruesome attack of militants," Tejashwi Yadav said. Meanwhile, Nitish Kumar has announced Rs 2 lakh each as ex-gratia to the labourers' family members, who live in Banka district, and expressed his grief. "We have talked to Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha and expressed deep concern over the attack on Bihari labourers," he said in a statement. Earlier, terrorists killed hawker Arvind Kumar Shah of Bihar in Srinagar and a carpenter named Saghir Ahmed of Uttar Pradesh in Pulwama. Shah was also a native of Banka district and worked as a street food vendor in Srinagar. His brother had died due to Covid three months ago. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-jobs-in-state-tejashwi-hits-out-at-nitish-over-jk-killings-1041615.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||J&K Police deny advisory on shifting migrant labourers to security camps||Less than an hour after media picked up an emergency advisory on Sunday seeking non-locals be taken to the nearest security forces camps in the Kashmir Valley, in wake of killing of two more labourers from Bihar, authorities said they did not issue any such advisory. Although there were reports of non-locals being asked to come to the police stations, Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said: "No such order has been issued, it is fake."There have been series of civilian killings, especially of those from outside the state, across the Valley since October 6. So far, nine civilians have been killed during the last 11 days. Terrorists killed reputed pharmacy owner, M.L. Bindroo, a non-local street vendor, and a taxi driver on October 6. Two days after this, terrorists shot dead school principal, Supinder Kour and teacher, Deepak Sharma in Eidgah area of Srinagar city. Check out DH's latest videos:  On Saturday, another non-local street vendor was shot dead in Srinagar and a non-local carpenter were killed by the terrorists in Pulwama. On Sunday, terrorists killed two non-local labourers and critically injured a third in Kulgam district. All three hail from Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-deny-advisory-on-shifting-migrant-labourers-to-security-camps-1041623.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Fire at seminar room of LNJP Hospital in Delhi||Fire broke out in a seminar room on the ground floor of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital here in the early hours of Monday but no casualty was reported, Delhi Fire Service officials said. Charging equipment, batteries, mattress and other items in the seminar room located in the emergency ward on the hospital's ground floor caught fire, said Atul Garg, the director of Delhi Fire Service. "We got a call about the fire in the emergency ward of LNJP hospital around 12.20 am. Six fire tender rushed to the spot," he said, adding the cause of the blaze is being ascertained. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-at-seminar-room-of-lnjp-hospital-in-delhi-1041641.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers block train traffic in Punjab as part of 'rail roko' stir over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Farmers in Punjab squatted on rail tracks on Monday morning as part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha's six-hour 'rail roko' protest demanding the dismissal and arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. A railway official said four sections of the Ferozepur division were blocked by the protesters. The Ferozepur-Fazilka section in Ferozepur city and the Ferozepur-Ludhiana section at Ajitwal in Moga were affected, the official said. Demanding the arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher on Monday demanded said the KMSC will hold protests at 20 places in 11 districts of the state. In a statement, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three agri laws, had said "protests will be intensified until justice is secured" in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. During the 'rail roko' protest, all train traffic will be stopped from 10 am till 4 pm on Monday, the SKM had said. "To press for its demand for MoS Home Ajay Mishra's dismissal and arrest, so that justice can be secured in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre, Samyukt Kisan Morcha has announced a nation-wide Rail Roko programme. "SKM put out a call to its constituents to stop rail traffic for six hours on October 18 between 10 am and 4 pm. The SKM asks for this action to be taken up peacefully, without any destruction and damage of any kind to any railway property," it had said. Four of the eight people who died in the violence on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and Ajay Mishra who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-block-train-traffic-in-punjab-as-part-of-rail-roko-stir-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-1041650.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Pakistan commandos suspected behind J&K encounters: Report||Since the start of the encounters, nine soldiers, including two Junior Commissioned Officers (JCOs) were killed in the line of duty. It is believed to be one of the most deadly encounters in J&K in the recent years. Since no bodies of terrorists were found, it is unclear if any of them have been killed.  Given that the terrorists inflicted casualties and evaded security forces suggests that they were trained by commandos of Pakistani military, the report said. Five Army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), laid down their lives in a fierce gunfight during a counter-insurgency operation in Surankote forest last week. Four soldiers, including another JCO, died in another encounter in the Mendhar sector. So far, contact with hiding terrorists was established thrice -- first on October 11 in Poonch's Surankote which was followed by another exchange of fire between the security forces and the fleeing terrorists in the adjoining Thanamandi forest in Rajouri district the same day but the ultras managed their escape in both the encounters. The third encounter took place in the Nar Khas forest in the Mendhar area of Poonch on Thursday evening last week. (With agency inputs) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-commandos-suspected-behind-jk-encounters-report-1041657.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||'Seems death is chasing me': Migrant workers in Kashmir in dilemma||Amid fear in the wake of continuous attacks, thousands of migrant workers in Kashmir are in a dilemma as they are unsure what to do next. While some of them have decided to leave Kashmir immediately, many others want to finish their pending work and settle the accounts before they leave. Since the beginning of October five non-local workers, four of them non-Muslims and one Muslim, have been killed by militants in separate attacks in Srinagar and south Kashmir. Besides, three members of the minority community, including a renowned Kashmiri Pandit businessman, were also been shot dead by militants this month. The spate of killings have not only sent shockwaves among members of minority communities in Kashmir, but non-local workers, majority of whom are Muslims, are also worried about their safety and security. “We are in utter shock as we had never imagined that such a tragedy would befall us,” a group of migrant workers told DH, near Hawal, a four-way road stretch which is also called ‘Bihari Chowk’ in old city Srinagar. Huddled together in groups, these workers were discussing the situation in Kashmir in the aftermath of civilian killings. “We are in a dilemma whether to leave the Valley immediately or stay back. There is no communication from the government as well. If we go back, we will have to face losses, if we stay back, there is every possibility we may be the next targets,” they rued. Rajesh Kumar, from Bihar, who sells gol-gappas here for the past 15 years said that he had never seen such fear among migrant workers. “Even during the unrest of 2008, 2010, 2016 and post abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019, I continued to stay in Kashmir without any fear or problems. But since the last 10 days, every moment, it seems death is chasing me,” Kumar said amid palpable fear. The worried families of these migrant workers have been constantly calling them and urging them to return. “We travel hundreds of miles and come here to earn our livelihood so that we can feed our families and educate our children. But this cannot be at the cost of our lives,” Jameel, a mason from Uttar Pradesh, said. A taxi stand office bearer in Srinagar said that a large number of non-local workers were boarding cabs in recent days to Jammu. “At the beginning of the month, 10-12 cabs were leaving for Jammu from Srinagar, but today all the cabs in our stand are plying and still there is more demand,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seems-death-is-chasing-me-migrant-workers-in-kashmir-in-dilemma-1041675.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||MP government to hold quiz competition on 'Ramayana' with air travel to Ayodhya as prize||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh will hold a general knowledge competition based on the Hindu epic 'Ramayana' and winners will get a chance to travel by air to Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya city, where a grand Ram temple is being constructed, MP's Tourism, Culture and Spirituality Minister Usha Thakur has said. A general knowledge competition based on the 'Ramayana' will be organised at national and international levels, an official statement on Sunday said quoting the minister. "The winners of the competition will get an opportunity to travel by air to Ayodhya,” the statement said, without divulging when the competition would be held and how many winners would be selected. Thakur made the announcement while inaugurating another general knowledge competition based on instances of value creation depicted in 'Ayodhya Kand', one of the chapters of the epic 'Ramcharitmanas', at Dr B R Ambedkar University of Social Science in Mhow town of Indore district on Sunday evening. A total of eight people, including four students, will be selected from each district of the state on the basis of the competition which the minister inaugurated on Sunday. It is being organised by Madhya Pradesh's culture department. On the occasion, Thakur also inaugurated a picture exhibition on Shabri, a character from 'Ramayana' who was an ardent devotee of Lord Ram. Mandakini Ramkinkar, a scholar who delivers discourse on 'Ramayana' and other prominent citizens were also present at the event. Last month, MP's Higher Education Minister Mohan Yadav had announced that the first-year students of graduation courses in state colleges and universities will be offered the epic 'Ramcharitmanas' as an elective subject under philosophy discipline in the art stream. The MP government has in this year's state budget also earmarked a sum of Rs one crore for the preparation of feasibility and detailed project reports of the 'Ram Van Gaman Path' project, which seeks to retrace the route taken by Lord Ram on his way to exile. The project will be undertaken by the Madhya Pradesh Spirituality Department and MP Road Development Corporation and constructed from Chitrakoot to Amarkantak through Satna, Panna, Amanganj, Katni, Jabalpur, Mandla, Dindori and Shahdol districts. During the last MP Assembly elections, the Congress in its poll manifesto had also announced the implementation of the Ram Van Gaman Path project in the state.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-government-to-hold-quiz-competition-on-ramayana-with-air-travel-to-ayodhya-as-prize-1041677.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Incessant rains lash Uttarakhand; Chardham yatra halted temporarily||Incessant rains lashed Uttarakhand for the second consecutive day on Monday, prompting the authorities to advise Chardham pilgrims not to proceed to the Himalayan temples till the weather improves. Pilgrims headed for Yamunotri have been asked to stay in Badkot and Jankichatti, whereas those en route to Gangotri have been asked to stay in Harsil, Bhatwari and Maneri, Uttarkashi District Magistrate Mayur Dikshit told PTI. Kedarnath and Badrinath-bound pilgrims have also been requested not to proceed on their journey till the weather clears. Most of the pilgrims on way to Badrinath are staying in Joshimath and Chamoli, Chamoli district disaster management officer N K Joshi said. Around 4,000 yatris headed for Kedarnath have been stopped in Linchauli and Bhimbali as a precautionary measure, Rudraprayag disaster management officer N S Singh said. The Chardham Devasthanam Board said the yatra has been temporarily halted for the sake of safety of pilgrims in view of the heavy rain alert issued by the Uttarakhand meteorological department for October 17-19. The peaks beyond Badrinath and Kedarnath received light snowfall, whereas the lower areas in Chamoli district were lashed by continuous showers. Rain continued in Uttarkashi and Dehradun as well. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, meanwhile, spoke to Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on the phone to get an update on precautionary steps being taken by the state government in view of the heavy rain alert and assured him of all possible help. Dhami has asked the district administrations to provide hourly updates on the weather and the condition of roads. He also asked them to keep a minimum response time in case of a disaster. Most educational institutions across Uttarakhand remained closed on Monday, while a ban was imposed on trekking, mountaineering and camping activities in the high altitude areas of the state, including the Nanda Devi biosphere reserve and various forest divisions, till Tuesday as a precautionary measure. The district level Khel Mahakumbh events to be held at parade and pavilion grounds in Dehradun on October 18-19 have been cancelled. They have now been rescheduled for October 24 and 25. Heavy to very heavy rains, lightning, hail storms and high speed winds (60-70 kmph) have been predicted by the Met department for all 13 districts of Uttarakhand between October 17 and 19.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/incessant-rains-lash-uttarakhand-chardham-yatra-halted-temporarily-1041678.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports first death due to dengue, 723 cases||A woman from south Delhi has succumbed to dengue, the first fatality due to the vector-borne disease reported in the national capital this year, as the number of cases mounted to over 720, according to civic authorities.  The deceased has been identified as Mamta Kashyap, aged about 35, and was a resident of Sarita Vihar in south Delhi, officials said on Monday, adding that she died of dengue late September at a private hospital here. According to a civic report on vector-borne diseases released on Monday, one death due to dengue, and 723 dengue cases have been recorded this season till October 16, which is the highest case count since 2018 for the same period. The total number of cases this year till October 9 had stood at 480. So, 243 fresh cases have been logged in one week. Of the total count of dengue cases recorded in Delhi this year, 382 have been reported this month till October 16, which amount to nearly 52 per cent of the cumulative cases. Cases of dengue have been rising in the city in the last two weeks, and the first death due to it has been reported, a senior official said, adding that the deceased was a woman who lived in Metro Colony in Sarita Vihar area. "She was admitted to Holy Family Hospital on September 20 in late stage of the disease (dengue), with a lowered SpO2 level. Few days later, her condition deteriorated and she was shifted to an ICU. Despite best attempts by the hospital, she could not be saved, and was declared dead on September 26 at 8:05 pm," according to her death summary shared by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. The public health department of the SDMC has taken vector-control measures in the Metro Colony area, and the locality has been kept "under surveillance by field staff". A total of 1,072 cases and one death was logged in the entire year in 2020, according to the report released by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, the nodal agency for tabulating data on vector-borne diseases in the city. The number of cases reported for the January 1 to October 16 period in the previous three years were --  395 (2020), 644 (2019) and 1020 (2018), the report said. The number of deaths due to dengue in years preceding 2020 had stood at two (2019); four (2018); 10 (2017); and 10 (2016), according to the official tally maintained by the SDMC. The 382 cases reported in October till date are by far the highest number of cases recorded in a month this year. The month-wise distribution of dengue cases in 2021 stands as January (0), February (two), March (five), April (10) and May (12), June (seven), July (16) and August (72), according to the report. In September this season, 217 cases were logged, the highest count for the month in the last three years. Last year, 188 dengue cases were reported in the entire month of September, and 190 in 2019. In preceding years, the corresponding figures had stood at 374 (2018), 1103 (2017), 1,362 (2016) and 6,775 (2015), according to data shared by Delhi health department on September 22. Dengue mosquito larvae breed in clear, standing water, while those of malaria thrive even in dirty water. Cases of vector-borne diseases are usually reported between July and November but the period may stretch till mid-December. According to the civic report, 142 cases of malaria and 69 cases of chikungunya have also been reported till October 16 this year in Delhi. In the previous years, the total dengue cases reported were 4431 (2016), 4726 (2017), 2798 (2018), 2036 (2019) and 1072 (2020). Malaria, dengue and chikungunya are accompanied with high fever and therefore, doctors feel that people might suspect that they have contracted Covid-19.  Civic bodies in Delhi have intensified measures to prevent outbreak of vector-borne diseases.  The East Delhi Municipal Corporation on Sunday had said that a new anti-dengue awareness campaign via radio stations will be set in motion from Monday. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation had run an intensive week-long campaign from October 2 to 7 to keep vector-borne diseases under control. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-first-death-due-to-dengue-723-cases-1041684.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Dubai inks pact with government to invest in Jammu and Kashmir||In a major boost to infrastructure development, the Jammu and Kashmir government has entered into an agreement with the government of Dubai for real estate development in the Union Territory (UT). “Government of Dubai and the Government of Jammu Kashmir have entered into an agreement, which will help the Union Territory to scale new heights in Industrialisation sustainable growth. Today is an important day for the developmental journey of the UT of Jammu Kashmir,” the Office of Lieutenant Governor of J&K tweeted. Another tweet said, “We are committed to develop a new industrial culture in Jammu Kashmir. This MoU is about Jammu Kashmir's prospects and I am confident it will set the pace in the business sector of the future that are key to the prosperity of the people.” Union Minister for Commerce and Industries Piyush Goyal, who is in the valley as part of the Centre’s outreach programme, said that investors from Dubai will throng to Jammu and Kashmir after the agreement. “During my recent visit to Dubai, the King expressed his interest to visit India, especially Jammu and Kashmir, to invest in the real estate business. I invited him and now the results are clear,” he told reporters at Raj Bhawan. According to the agreement, investors can invest in building industrial parks, IT towers, medical colleges, super speciality hospitals and other sectors in the UT. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dubai-inks-pact-with-government-to-invest-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1041693.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||SP workers hold protest against rising prices of cooking gas||Samajwadi Party workers on Monday staged a protest against rising prices of cooking gas outside the Uttar Pradesh Assembly building here. Carrying cut-outs of LPG cylinders and black balloons, Samajwadi Party MLAs, MLCs and other leaders took to the streets and raised anti-government slogans. The protest was held ahead of the one-day special session of the state assembly. In a tweet, party president, Akhilesh Yadav posted a picture of his party's protest, and stated “Cylinder worth Rs. 1000 is proving to be costly to the public, it will prove to be costly for the BJP in the 2022 election. End of BJP.” The Congress, SP and various other opposition parties have been criticising the Central government over the issue of rising prices of fuel. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-workers-hold-protest-against-rising-prices-of-cooking-gas-1041701.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt launches online registration for e-auto permits with 33% reservation for women||The Delhi government launched online registration for e-auto permits with 33 per cent reservation for women on Monday, Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said. In the first phase, 4,261 e-auto permits, including 1,406 for women applicants, will be issued. Those eligible can apply through the website of the Delhi government's transport department, he said. In a tweet, Gahlot said the e-auto permits are an effective step by the Arvind Kejriwal government towards making Delhi an electric vehicle capital. The Delhi government is committed to providing a pollution-free, world-class transport service to the city, he tweeted. The Delhi government, under its EV policy, provides financial assistance of Rs 30,000 on the purchase of e-auto. Any person having an Aadhaar number with Delhi address, valid driving licence of a light motor vehicle or a TSR driving license can apply for an e-auto permit.  A public service vehicle badge will not be required at the time of application. However, successful applicants will have to obtain the badge within 45 days of the draw of permit allotment, the transport department said. The last date for applying for permits is November 1. Loans with a five per cent interest rebate will be provided through agencies empanelled by the Delhi government, it said. The government will also organise 'E-Auto Mela' at IDTR Sarai Kale Khan and Loni, on October 25-31, where people will be able to explore e-auto models, drive them and get information about loans, the department said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-launches-online-registration-for-e-auto-permits-with-33-reservation-for-women-1041707.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||'Rail roko' affects 130 locations in Northern Railway zone, hinders running of 50 trains||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha's six-hour 'rail roko' protest on Monday over the Lakhimpur violence affected 130 locations in the Northern Railway zone and hindered the running of 50 trains, said its chief public relation officer (CPRO). In the North Western Railway (NWR), rail traffic was affected in some sections in Rajasthan and Haryana with two trains cancelled, 13 partially cancelled and one diverted due to the protest. The trains that have been affected in the Northern Railway zone include the Chandigarh-Ferozepur Express. Its scheduled departure from Ludhiana was 7 am, but has been stranded there due to a blockade in the Ferozpur-Ludhiana section, the official said. The New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express was halted near Shambu station as protesters blocked railway tracks near Sahnewal and Rajpura. "So far, 130 locations in the Northern Railway zone have been affected and operations of 50 trains hindered," the Northern Railway CPRO said. In Rajasthan, the agitation affected train movement in Hanumangarh and Sriganganagar of the Bikaner division. An NWR spokesperson said rail traffic on Bhiwani-Rewari, Sirsa-Rewari, Loharu-Hisar, Suratgarh-Bathinda, Sirsa-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Bathinda, Rohtak-Bhiwani, Rewari-Sadulpur, Hisar-Bathinda, Hanumangarh-Sadulpur and Sri Ganganagar-Rewari sections was affected due to the agitation. The Bathinda-Rewari Special train and the Sirsa-Ludhiana Special train will remain cancelled on Monday, he said, adding the route of Ahmedabad-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Special train has also been changed. The train which departed from Ahmedabad on Saturday will run on the changed route via Rewari-Delhi-Pathankot to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra, he said. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three agri laws, had said "protests will be intensified until justice is secured" in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. All train traffic will be stopped from 10 am till 4 pm on Monday during the 'rail roko' protest over the demand of the dismissal and arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri case, the SKM had said. Four of the eight people who died in the violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. Farmers have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and Ajay Mishra who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rail-roko-affects-130-locations-in-northern-railway-zone-hinders-running-of-50-trains-1041710.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||One dead after police inspector rams speeding car into two women in Punjab||The car sped off the accident scene soon after hitting the women in Jalandhar. The driver, alleged to be a police inspector, has been arrested in the hit-and-run case. In the CCTV footage that captured the fatal accident, seen by the publication, the two women are reportedly standing on the divider trying to cross the road. They spot a car rushing towards them and try to slip away from the tracks of the speeding vehicle but fail to do so in time. The incident took place around 8:30 in the morning at Jalandhar's Cantonment area. Soon after the accident, locals rushed to the spot and blocked the highway demanding that the inspector, Amrit Pal Singh, be charged with murder. Traffic was affected in several parts of the city.  The deceased, identified as Navjot Kaur, worked in a car showroom. Kaur's mother has also reportedly called for charging the driver with murder.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-dead-after-police-inspector-rams-speeding-car-into-two-women-in-punjab-1041723.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||BJP leaders demand increase in wages of ASHA workers, hold protest near Delhi CM's residence||Delhi BJP leaders and workers accompanied by Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) staged a protest near Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence here on Monday to demand an increase in wages of the health workers. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said his party is solidly behind the ASHA  workers. It is "shameful" that the Kejriwal government has not implemented the Modi government's decision to double the honorarium of ASHA workers in 2018, he said. "The government should be ashamed of itself if it cannot provide for ASHA workers who participate in such important campaigns as vaccination and cleanliness, giving it priority over their own domestic responsibilities," Gupta said. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said Kejriwal has announced unemployment allowances during his visit to many poll-bound states but paid no attention to ASHA workers. ASHA workers are associated with various government related campaigns of health, vaccination, child care and sanitation among others. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leaders-demand-increase-in-wages-of-asha-workers-hold-protest-near-delhi-cms-residence-1041729.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Assembly pays tribute, recalls services of former CM Kalyan Singh||The Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Monday paid glowing tributes to former state chief minister Kalyan Singh and recalled his services. Singh, who had also served as Governor of Rajasthan, passed away on August 21 at a hospital here. With the start of the one-day special session of the Assembly, the House led by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath paid tributes to Singh. Passing obituary references, the House also extended condolence to Singh's family. Leader of Opposition and SP leader Ram Govind Chaudhary and BSP leader Shah Alam alias Guddu Jamali were among others also paid tributes to Singh. The House also paid tributes to former members of the House Anil Kumar, Kamlesh Kumar Singh and Rajinikanth. Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit condoled the death of Singh and other former members and the House observed two-minute silence as a mark of respect to the late leaders. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-assembly-pays-tribute-recalls-services-of-former-cm-kalyan-singh-1041736.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Punjab Cabinet decides to waive pending water bills||The Punjab Cabinet on Monday decided to waive water bill arrears of consumers in urban and rural areas, a relief announced keeping an eye on the assembly polls beginning next year. The decision will put an additional burden of about Rs 1,800 crore on the state. In addition, the Cabinet has decided to fix the water tariff at Rs 50 per month. "We are waiving water bill arrears of Rs 700 crore of all cities," Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said at a press conference after chairing a Cabinet meeting here. Channi said the Cabinet has decided that the state government would pay the electricity bills of water supply tubewells. "In villages, the panchayats' pending water bills will also be waived," he said, pointing out that these would amount to nearly Rs 1,168 crore. The Cabinet has also decided to conduct appointments on a regular basis for group-D posts which comprises peons, drivers etc. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cabinet-decides-to-waive-pending-water-bills-1041737.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Punjab Cabinet opposes Centre's decision to extend BSF jurisdiction||Opposing the Centre's move to extend the BSF's area of jurisdiction in the state, the Punjab Cabinet on Monday said law and order is a state subject and the police force is capable of dealing with any situation. The Union government has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50 km stretch, up from the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. "We are completely against it. Law and order is a state subject. The state police, which can end terrorism from the state, is capable of preventing any incident," Channi said here after chairing a Cabinet meeting. "We oppose it," the chief minister said, adding that the move is not justified. Such decisions should not be taken without consulting the state government, he added. A special Cabinet meeting will be called on this issue, Channi said. "If the need arises, an all-party meeting will be called. We will take other (political) parties along (over this issue)," he said. A special assembly session will be convened if needed, he added. On Sunday, the Shiromani Akali Dal targeted the Punjab government over the extension of the BSF's jurisdiction, saying the chief minister should answer "why he had acquiesced" to the Centre's move. Last week, the state government had taken a strong exception to the Centre's decision, dubbing it an “attack on federalism”. It had also asked the Centre to withdraw the decision. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cabinet-opposes-centres-decision-to-extend-bsf-jurisdiction-1041754.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Lawyer shot dead in Shahjahanpur district court||A lawyer died of a gunshot wound to the head at the Shahjahanpur district court in Shahjahanpur on Monday afternoon and police are trying to ascertain if it is a case of suicide or murder. Superintendent of Police (SP) S Anand said advocate Bhupendra Singh (38) of Jalalabad tehsil had gone to the third-floor office of ACJM-I of the district court to meet a clerk in connection with some case when a gunshot was heard and he was found dead. Quoting the clerk Singh had gone to meet, the SP said an illegal 315 bore pistol was also found lying near the body. Since no one else was present on the spot, it is not immediately known if it was a murder or suicide, SP Anand said, adding that senior officials and investigating teams are on the spot. Advocates in the district, meanwhile, launched an indefinite strike, demanding the killer's immediate arrest. Political parties like the Congress, Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) attacked the state government over the incident. BSP president Mayawati said it exposed the BJP government's tall claims over law and order in the state. "The murder of a lawyer on the court premises of Shahjahanpur district of UP in broad daylight is very sad and shameful. It exposes the law and order situation under the BJP government and its claims in this regard. The question arises as to who is safe in UP. The government should pay proper attention to this," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Central Bar Association president Anant Kumar Singh told PTI that the advocates have stopped all work and started a 'dharna' at the Khirni Bagh intersection of Shahjahanpur. "District Magistrate Inder Vikram Singh and SP Anand came to the protest site and we expressed our surprise as to how an illegal firearm reached the court premises even though there is police force deployed at each gate of the complex," he said. Until the killers are arrested, all advocates will remain on strike, the bar association president said. Protesting lawyers have also demanded a compensation of Rs 1 crore to the family of the deceased, and an investigation of the case by a senior official, he said. The SP said a panel of doctors has been formed to conduct the post-mortem examination.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lawyer-shot-dead-in-shahjahanpur-district-court-1041756.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||BJP-backed SP rebel wins UP assembly deputy speaker's election||Samajwadi Party (SP) rebel MLA Nitin Agarwal on Monday emerged victorious in the election for the post of deputy speaker of the Uttar Pradesh assembly with the support of the BJP. Agarwal, son of former UP minister Naresh Agarwal, defeated the official SP nominee Narendra Singh Verma by 244 votes, according to the official sources. Agarwal has not yet formally joined the BJP. He polled 304 votes while the SP candidate could secure only 60 votes in a house of 403 members.  Though the term of the assembly would be expiring in the next few months, getting Agarwal elected as the deputy speaker was said to be part of BJP's election strategy and an attempt to woo the 'vaisya' community in the forthcoming assembly polls, which are barely five months away. Although Congress and the BSP had boycotted the election, two Congress MLAs, Aditi Singh and Rakesh Pratap Singh and as many as eight rebel BSP legislators voted for Agarwal, sources said, adding that at least one BJP MLA and an Apna Dal (AD), an alliance partner in the UP government, voted for the official SP nominee. SP member and leader of the Opposition in the assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary accused the BJP of breaking traditions by fielding its nominee for the post of deputy speaker, a charge refuted by the saffron party. ''The post of the deputy speaker traditionally goes to the main opposition party... but the BJP does not believe in traditions,'' Chaudhary said. BJP leaders however dismissed the charges and said that Agarwal was 'technically' still an SP member. SP had moved a petition before the UP assembly speaker Hriday Narain Dixit seeking disqualification of Agarwal under the Anti-defection Act but it was rejected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-backed-sp-rebel-wins-up-assembly-deputy-speakers-election-1041780.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Civilian killings: For first time in 30 years, women frisked at Srinagar’s Lal Chowk||Women were frisked by female CRPF constables in the Lal Chowk area of the city, a first of its kind exercise in the last 30 years, in the wake of civilian killings in Kashmir. The CRPF women checked the bags of female folk passing through the city centre Lal Chowk. While there was no resistance, some women expressed resentment, saying the exercise could have been done away from the public glare. "Women carry many things which they keep private... The CRPF women should have erected a makeshift cubicle so that privacy was maintained," Fareeda, a woman from Soura, said. She said she had no issues with the frisking but the manner in which it was done. The frisking of women folk has not been done before in Kashmir and is being undertaken following a spate of civilian killings in which non-local labourers have been targeted over the last few days.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civilian-killings-for-first-time-in-30-years-women-frisked-at-srinagar-s-lal-chowk-1041796.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Fatima Banoo becomes first person in Kargil to receive 'Ladakh resident' certificate||Fatima Banoo, a resident of Choskore village, became the first person in Kargil to receive the 'Ladakh resident' certificate as local authorities held special camps for issuance of the document across the district on Monday, officials said. Kargil Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Tsering Motup issued the first resident certificate at the tehsildar office, they said. Nearly three months after reserving all subordinate services for the local residents, the Ladakh administration on September 4 issued an order to temporarily define 'residents of Union territory' for the purpose of appointment to all the non-gazetted posts borne on the establishment of any department or service. According to the Ladakh Resident Certificate Order 2021, any person who possesses a Permanent Resident Certificate (PRC) issued by the competent authority in Leh and Kargil or belongs to a category of persons who would have been eligible to be issued PRC by the competent authority would be eligible to receive the 'Resident Certificate'. Ladakh was made a separate UT on August 5, 2019 when the central government divided the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into two UTs and revoked its special status under Article 370. PRC or state subject was the proof of residence of a citizen of Jammu and Kashmir prior to August 5, 2019 development. Congratulating the people of Kargil for getting the resident certificates, the ADC said special camps have been held in all tehsildar offices in the district for issuance of the resident certificates on Monday. According to a recent order, he said the Ladakh administration has authorised the tehsildars concerned as the competent authority to issue the resident certificate. "The process of issuance of certificates will continue at all tehsildar offices in the district during the coming days," the ADC said. On the directions of the Kargil deputy commissioner, Motup said special camps would also be organised by the tehsildars in different parts of the district in close coordination with the Panchayati Raj Institution members and village heads, especially in the remote and far off areas to impart awareness to the locals and to facilitate them in issuance of the resident certificates. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fatima-banoo-becomes-first-person-in-kargil-to-receive-ladakh-resident-certificate-1041805.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Heavy rains trigger flash floods in Himachal; link road blocked in Kinnaur||A link road was blocked in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district due to flash floods triggered by heavy rains on Monday, a disaster management official said.  According to information received from Kinnaur district, the link road from National Highway-05 to Moorang has been blocked due to flash floods at Khogpa Nullah in Moorang Tehsil. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-trigger-flash-floods-in-himachal-link-road-blocked-in-kinnaur-1041828.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||BJP MLA from Ayodhya's Gosaiganj gets 5 years in jail in 28-year-old fake marksheet case||Indra Pratap Tiwari, BJP MLA from Gosaiganj in Ayodhya, was on Monday sentenced to five years imprisonment by a special court in a 28-year-old case of using a fake marksheet to get admission in college. Special judge Puja Singh delivered the verdict and Tiwari, who was present in the MP/MLA court, was taken into custody and sent to jail. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 8,000 on him. Indra Pratap Tiwari alias Khabbu Tiwari was elected from the Gosaiganj assembly constituency. The case was lodged against Tiwari in 1992 by the then Principal of Saket Degree College in Ayodhya Yaduvansh Ram Tripathi at the Ram Janmabhoomi police station. According to the FIR, Tiwari, who failed in the second year of graduation, took admission in the next class by submitting a fake marksheet in 1990. The charge sheet was filed after 13 years in the case. Several original documents disappeared from the records and the trial continued with the preparation of secondary copies of all the court documents. The plaintiff, Tripathi, also died during the trial. Mahendra Kumar Agrawal, the then Dean of Saket College, and other witnesses testified against Tiwari. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-from-ayodhyas-gosaiganj-gets-5-years-in-jail-in-28-year-old-fake-marksheet-case-1041878.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Central Vista: L&T lowest bidder for construction of 3 buildings of Common Central Secretariat||Infrastructure firm Larsen & Toubro Limited on Monday emerged as the lowest bidder for the construction and maintenance of the first three buildings of the Common Central Secretariat under the Central Vista redevelopment project. According to the Central Public Works Department's bid documents, Larsen & Toubro Limited quoted around Rs 3,141 crore, which is 3.47 per cent less than the estimated cost. The firm submitted a total bid amount of Rs 31,41,99,87,657. NCC Ltd quoted the second lowest bid amount of around Rs 3,318 crore for the project, which was 1.94 per cent more than the estimated cost. The bid documents show that Tata Projects Limited quoted around Rs 3,546 crore, which is 8.96 per cent more than the estimated cost. These new buildings will come up on the plot where the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts is located. An official said that the the Board of Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which has been executing the Modi government's ambitious Central Vista Redevelopment Project, will decide on the tender work award in the next few days. The official added that usually, the lowest bidder (L-1) is awarded the contract. Four infrastructure firms, Tata Projects, Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Ltd, Larsen & Toubro Limited and NCC Limited had submitted technical bids for the construction of the three buildings of the Common Central Secretariat. Last month, the CPWD had revised the estimated cost of construction and maintenance of the three buildings of the Common Central Secretariat. The estimated cost of construction and maintenance of these three buildings had been revised to around Rs 3,254 crore from Rs 3,408 crore. Tata Projects Limited is constructing a new parliament building while Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Limited is executing the redevelopment work of the Central Vista Avenue stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. The redevelopment of the Central Vista, the nation's power corridor, envisages a new parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the 3 km Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new office and residence of the prime minister, and a new vice-president enclave. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-lt-lowest-bidder-for-construction-of-3-buildings-of-common-central-secretariat-1041893.html
18-10-2021||North and Central||Independence of judiciary can't be invoked to strike down law passed as policy matter, Centre tells SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that independence of the judiciary can not be invoked to test the validity of a law passed by the Parliament as a matter of policy. It also maintained that striking down a law related to a matter of policy was in fact violation of the principle of separation of power. Defending the validity of the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021, the Union government said, "it is distressed that laws and statutory rules made by Parliament and the Executive in areas of pure policy are being held to be void by invoking independence of the judiciary when such laws and rules do not violate fundamental rights or any provision of the Constitution and is wholly within competency". "Government equally believes that the court striking down these pure matters of policy violates the separation of powers by the judicial wing of the state," it said. The government's assertion came in a response to a batch of petitions, including by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh, against the validity of the 2021 Act. The petitioners claimed the Tribunals Reforms Act, 2021, abrogated the principle of judicial independence in a deliberate attempt to override the previous judgments of the top court. They asked the court to declare the Act, which was passed by both the Houses of Parliament and had received the Presidential assent on August 13, as unconstitutional and ultra vires of Articles 14, 21 and 50 of the Constitution.  "Basic structure in the Constitution can only be used to test the validity of a constitutional amendment but has no relevance when it comes to validity of a statute," the Centre said. The government also pointed out that it has been held in a series of cases, including by two Constitutional Bench decisions and by a seven-judge bench of this court about the same. It also contended that the principle of separation of powers itself would stand violated if the judiciary interfered with issues of policy and substituted it by what it believed would be a better policy. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/independence-of-judiciary-cant-be-invoked-to-strike-down-law-passed-as-policy-matter-centre-tells-sc-1041899.html
18-10-2021||Oasis||Knowing and realising||None is capable of transforming the other. Yet, the transcendental potentiality of transformation is transmitted from one to another via the presence of the aforesaid transformative capability of transmission resting in one or the other only. Self-transformation or real change has been happening since the very beginning in the afore-mentioned manner alone and continues in the present. Some would find this piece an acknowledgement or corroboration of their own experience while others would see one more instance of assertion of self-contradicting truth. Truth is part of divinity, while reality is more mysteriously divine or divinely mysterious than the truth. I recall it vividly and graphically when we were present in close proximity with such truth. In that moment silence communicated in a most innocent, clear, correct and pure manner than words do. No, it was purity itself which was being communicated and transmitted disguising as silence. And what/who can be more divine, correct and clear than purity! One didn’t feel the ‘need’ to speak yet the ‘temptation’ to listen stirred one to speak. As a reader, you may try naming it. Whatever be the appropriate expression for this kind of transcendental experience in your own life, you will find yourself in agreement with me that in failing to describe it, you become evidence of your undeniable success. When failure transforms into the transcendental experience of real success and temptation appears purer a virtue than a virtuous need, what happens to the truth in that moment of proximity? That is the key indicatable and verifiable difference between the company of knowers of the truth and the ones who realised that. The presence is beyond all names and frames including truth. However, truth has a name and may occupy a frame too in your or anyone else’s guise or disguise.  Knowing the truth may or may not lead us towards transformation? But choosing the truth definitely does. That’s why the proximity with eternity in human consciousness is the most fulfilling experience for a human frame. Attaining union with an eternally conscious one results in the disappearance of the chasm that exists in consciousness between knowing and realising. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/knowing-and-realising-1041870.html
18-10-2021||Opinion||Bangladesh PM Hasina's assurance to Hindus has lessons for India's leaders||The violence against Hindus in Bangladesh shows no signs of abating, but Sheikh Hasina, the prime minister of Bangladesh, seems to have her heart in the right place. With reports of Hindu temples and Durga Puja pandals being vandalised, people being killed and injured, she deployed paramilitary forces in 22 districts to contain the spread of violence. She sent out a clear message that the religious freedom of Hindus would be protected in Bangladesh under her leadership. Bangladesh is a Muslim-majority country. The violence began in response to the circulation of doctored images on social media showing the Holy Quran at the feet of Hanuman at a Durga Puja pandal. Anyone who has been to a Durga Puja knows that Hanuman is not worshipped there. Only Durga, Lakshmi, Saraswati, Ganesh, Kartikeya and Shiva are present at the pandal. Hasina went on record to say that the people who incited violence against Hindus would be hunted down and given appropriate punishments to prevent any recurrence of such incidents. Instead of plunging into a state of denial about what was happening in her country, she chose to address the problem and speak of justice. Leaders of other South Asian countries need to learn from this. While exchanging greetings with the Hindu community in Bangladesh, she said, "This land belongs to you; you have your rights. Don't consider yourselves as minorities; you should have this confidence." Though Hasina's statement might be seen as an empty gesture without any real-world implications for the ones being persecuted, this acknowledgement of minorities as equal citizens is significant. It is worth remembering that unlike Pakistan, created along religious lines, Bangladesh was created along linguistic lines. A Bengali linguistic and cultural identity is what binds the citizens of Bangladesh to each other. Islamist extremists in Bangladesh have been trying hard to undermine this, and Hasina's government has not had the easiest time dealing with their attempts to provoke violence. Dousing the fire that is burning now is crucial, but a long-term strategy is also needed, and Hasina is doing the groundwork. At a media briefing, her junior information minister Murad Hassan announced that the Bangladesh government has decided to revert to its 1972 secular constitution. When this development comes into effect, Islam will cease to be the official state religion of Bangladesh. Hasina is a leader whose father, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the first president of Bangladesh, was assassinated, and she has also survived several assassination attempts. She knows what it means to live with fear. Yet, she is standing up to the Islamist extremists in her country, conveying to the citizens of Bangladesh that they cannot afford to cower in terror and let themselves be divided along religious lines. Hasina announced, "People of all religions shall live together in Bangladesh." As India is putting pressure on Bangladesh to address violence against Hindus, it is also time for our leaders to take a cue from Hasina and publicly address the harm that communalism and sectarianism are causing in India. Violence against Muslims in India has triggered violence against Hindus in Bangladesh and Pakistan. We already have a secular constitution in India. But appreciation for that is diminishing, especially as the word "secular" itself has been politicised and associated with narratives of minority appeasement rather than seeing it as a recipe for how to coexist with differences. The South Asian brand of secularism does not expect individuals to give up their faith, and it requires us to respect the faiths of others. Even as we hope for Hasina to back her words with swift action, we must remember that Bangladesh has not had the most glowing human rights record recently, thanks to enforced disappearances and attacks on press freedom. Hasina's characterisation of Rohingya refugees as a security threat to Bangladesh has also been heavily criticised as an attempt to escape responsibility. That said, her decision to revert to a secular constitution is indeed a courageous one. She may already be anticipating a backlash from the Islamist extremists in her country, but that has not kept her from doing what needs to be done. Giving up the official state religion in favour of secularism is a highly unusual step for South Asia, where religious extremism is on the rise everywhere, be it in India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka or the Maldives. (Chintan Girish Modi is a Mumbai-based writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bangladesh-pm-hasinas-assurance-to-hindus-has-lessons-for-indias-leaders-1041687.html
18-10-2021||Panorama||Tuesday Interview | 'Congress-mukt Bharat' not going to happen, says Bhupesh Baghel||Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel is credited with steering Congress to power in Chhattisgarh after its top-rung leaders were killed by Naxals in 2013. Under his leadership, Congress overthrew the BJP, which was in power for 15 years. Congress has now drafted Baghel, a man with an eye for detail, to assist Priyanka Gandhi in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. The OBC strongman, who appears to have thwarted an attempt by a party colleague to unseat him, knows the pulse of the voter, and the Congress hopes to cash it. Baghel spoke to DH’s Shemin Joy. You have been made senior party observer for UP polls, where Congress is fighting under Priyanka Gandhi’s leadership. How do you see the party’s situation in UP? After Priyanka Gandhi was appointed the party’s general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, Congress’ strength has improved. Party workers are very enthusiastic. She has made an impact on the cadre. She is hands-on and catches the bull by its horns. Till the time Priyanka was appointed, the party was not very active and the leaders restricted themselves to issuing statements. However, with her entry, the situation has changed. She has been on the ground and fighting for those who are denied justice. She went to Sonbhadra when 10 people were killed in July and were detained. How she was stopped while on the way to Hathras was seen by everybody. After the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, she was detained for four days. She is leading us from the front and has prepared a roadmap for us. Thanks to her, people are more receptive to Congress. What are the plans to change the perception that the party is not a major player in UP? Across the state, we are conducting training programmes for party leaders and workers. These programmes are conducted at panchayat and district levels, among others. Through these programmes, we have attracted a large number of people and cadre. Earlier, people used to say that Congress does not have workers on the ground. After Priyanka’s appointment, the party has managed to set up committees from the panchayat level up. The work is on.  How do you rate the Yogi Adityanath government’s performance? What will be Congress’ campaign plank? Promises were made by the BJP in the 2017 Assembly elections but nothing has been delivered. They promised to double the income of farmers but nothing happened. Instead, the farmers are protesting and have even been mowed down, allegedly by a BJP Union minister’s son. Some action was taken only after Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi put pressure. The farmers in the state are not getting justice. The employment scene in UP is pathetic. Unemployment is high. The government has also failed to contain price rises. We will raise all those issues that have an impact on people’s lives and that the Adityanath government has failed to address. There is an impression among people that Congress is in a big crisis, that it cannot win elections or counter the BJP effectively. Even some Opposition parties and your allies share this view… When a party is out of power, people make such comments. It’s natural. It’s nothing new. Almost all parties have faced this. But you will have to agree with me that Congress has been at the forefront of people’s struggles when it is out of power. We used to hear the slogan ‘Congress-mukt Bharat’, but that is not going to happen. You saw that we won Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, etc. In Maharashtra and Jharkhand, we are allies in the government. In the last Assembly elections in Gujarat, Congress almost won the state. The BJP just scraped through in Gujarat. Now, will you say that we will have Congress-mukt Bharat? It is not just the BJP, but Congress’ own allies and other Opposition parties do not shy away from targeting it. The Trinamool Congress directed its attack on Rahul Gandhi after your response to election strategist Prashant Kishor’s tweet targeting the Congress. A statement has already been made and there is no need to add to it. A serious effort should be made as far as alliance and leadership are concerned and it cannot be decided superficially. Rahul Gandhi’s leadership is questioned by a section of people. What is your view? Rahul Gandhi is our unquestionable leader. He is raising issues of the people with vigour. He has put the Narendra Modi government on its toes. The whole country has faith in him. In Chhattisgarh, we have recently seen one of the senior leaders, T S Singh Deo, raising the demand for change in chief ministership. He has spoken about rotational chief ministership. The issue was discussed with Rahul Gandhi. Is the leadership question in Chhattisgarh settled? The Congress in charge of Chhattisgarh, P L Punia, has already made a statement on this. He has made a very clear statement. I don’t think there is any need for me to add to that. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tuesday-interview-congress-mukt-bharat-not-going-to-happen-says-bhupesh-baghel-1041865.html
18-10-2021||Panorama||Running with the hare and hunting with hounds?||The US media is littered with gazillions of essays and editorials excoriating Pakistan and its deep state for their double game, duplicity and recommending some forms of sanctions against it. Dr Christine Fair, a leading South Asia security expert from Georgetown University has famously coined the phrase “arsonist turned firefighter” to describe Pakistan who is largely responsible for sinking the most advanced armed forces in Afghanistan and for being a toxic and disruptive neighbour setting various fires in South Asia for decades. Now Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan is even doubling down by audaciously calling President Biden and Secretary Blinken clueless, accusing the world of being ungrateful, employing double standards and demanding the international community to recognise and incentivise the Taliban. This is a classic case of cognitive dissonance, wherein Pakistan’s perception of itself as a valued geostrategic player on the world stage is at serious odds with its well-documented practise of sheltering extremists and allowing its territory to become an epicentre of cross border terrorism. So, how and why has Pakistan been able to hoodwink and bamboozle the West, especially the US, and be able to monetise its firefighter role while being an arsonist openly? Barring the scathing President Trump tweets of 2018, the US remains engaged with Pakistan, viewing it as a necessary evil, hoping and praying that Pakistan will abandon its policy of state-sponsored terrorism and become a genuine and practical security partner in post-American Afghanistan. The following factors play a significant role in US ambivalence and subdued criticism towards Pakistan: Stability of nuclear weapons: The US and West are worried about the Pakistani government’s stability and nukes falling into the wrong hands. They also want to keep a lid on Pakistan’s clandestine nuclear proliferation activities. Afghanistan: Now a hot opportunity for Pakistan. The West has largely bought into the Pakistani narrative that only it is an effective advocate, conduit and broker all in one, with the Taliban. After the US departure from Afghanistan, Pakistan has gone on a diplomatic offensive through its NSA Moeed Yusuf urging the world to support the Taliban to avoid a revival of terrorism and extremism in the near future. Gullible thinktanks: Pakistan has cultivated an excellent relationship with analysts at the various US think tanks who receive access and hospitality from jihadi generals and who in return inadvertently become Pindi parrots peddling Pakistani narratives and talking points. Strong lobbying: Pakistan is very effective in doling out lucrative lobbying contracts to well-connected DC insiders. Since assuming power, Imran Khan has increased their lobbying budget to advance the Pakistani agenda with US lawmakers.   Russia ties: Russia is losing momentum with India and has made inroads into Pakistan peddling weapons and energy projects. Pakistan views Russia as a good backup geostrategic option in case relations sour with the US. Both view their newfound relations as a countermeasure to deepening India US relations. China card: China is a super reliable ally and military partner of Pakistan. With the QUAD gaining steam to counter China, Pakistan is becoming a cornerstone of China’s geopolitical games. However, the Taliban is back to their old tricks of oppressing the Afghan people, and will soon start accommodating the reconstituted Al Qaeda elements due to ba’ayah. On the other side of the Durand line, Pakistan is unlikely to change its geostrategic calculation of giving succour and sanctuary to extremists and thereby retaining its toxic role to stay relevant. Therefore interests will diverge soon and US relations with Pakistan will worsen in the future. It is time to recognize that the new mantra of “relentless diplomacy” will neither help contain this rogue nor bargain with this devil. To use President Biden’s favourite words, it is time to stop the malarkey and end the shenanigans emanating from the Rawalpindi jihadi military complex — once for all. (The writer is a US-based commentator.) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/running-with-the-hare-and-hunting-with-hounds-1041874.html
18-10-2021||Right in the Middle||'Log cabin to White House' stories||I know of three splendid examples in Karnataka, similar to the fabled 'from log cabins to White House' cases. In Nehru's time, the local Congress leaders in Belgaum were searching for a reserved category candidate for an Assembly seat. They approached someone working at a restaurant as a hewer who agreed to contest. He won the election as Nehru's shoeshine boy. The newly-elected MLA used to visit me in the office of the Deputy Commissioner with great dignity and with humility. He spent hours in order to learn the administrative nuances. As an MLA, he projected peoples' problems systematically and received appropriate relief. He was even reelected. Karnataka should be proud of this classic story of 'log cabin to White House'. I am not sure if he is alive now. Jaffer Sharief was the second. He belonged to a lower-middle-class family in Challakere and did not study beyond primary classes. He started his career as a low-level employee of the DCC office in Chitradurga. Finally, he became a Cabinet minister in the Government of India. When the split occurred in the party he joined Indira Congress and continued to be a supporter of the Nehru family, though he was bold enough to express his differing views freely. When he was made Railway minister he waded through sharks of Delhi with commendable ease, took bold decisions and implemented them. His knowledge of Hindi and Urdu compensated for his poor English. Sharief never became Karnataka CM or the president of the KPCC. He even threatened to join the RSS but never left the party. His funeral was a quiet affair devoid of public attention. Azeez Sait was a much-loved leader of Mysuru. He belonged to a well-known Kutchy Muslim family. He was not much educated and had a unique style of English. His service to the poor beedi workers of Mysore is a model to other states. Sait joined the Congress during the Indira wave and was made the labour minister under Urs. I had the privilege to work with him as Labour Secretary. When his eyesight turned bad, his staff took advantage of it. They made him sign papers and send them to me and sent them to me as his orders. Once I asked him about it. He just smiled and said, "Yes Philipose, I will not do it again." And he never did. He was a broad-minded and affectionate person and a fine parliamentarian. He is one of the three glorious chapters of the political history of Karnataka. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/log-cabin-to-white-house-stories-1041867.html
18-10-2021||Second Edit||Tackle teacher shortage on priority||The latest UNESCO report on the state of education in India, which mainly deals with the facilities and infrastructure in schools, has painted a picture of inadequacy in many respects, especially in the case of teachers. The country is short of 11 lakh skilled teachers, with the rural areas accounting for the larger share of the deficit. Vacancies in schools in rural areas go up to 69%. The impact of this on the working of schools can be imagined when it is realised that a very large number of rural schools are single-teacher schools. One reason for the poor state of education in the country is the lack of skilled teachers. A total of 94 lakh teachers were employed in 16 lakh schools in the year 2018-19. This is an improvement from 89 lakh in 2013-14 but is still inadequate. The report also cites some reasons for the shortage of teachers. Salaries are low and benefits are few, and there is no job security for most teachers. About 43% of all teachers have no job contract at all. Of those without a contract, 69% are private school teachers, who earn only about half what government school teachers earn. Only about 41% of the latter and 11% of the former have access to a pension, health care and gratuity. There are a large number of underpaid and under-skilled contractual teachers. At least 41% of private school teachers are under-qualified. Qualifications and rules of recruitment are changed frequently in some states like Uttar Pradesh to suit political interests. But some states like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have “a systematic, technology-based, transparent system of recruitment, employment and transfer”. The report has made some recommendations to improve the situation, and they include giving teachers better pay and job security.  The pandemic has underlined the need for the use of new technology in schools. But the report says that the availability of computing equipment in schools is only 22% and only 19% of them have an internet facility. The report also deals with other aspects of school education, like the gross enrolment ratio, which has improved considerably in the last two decades. The overall retention rate has also improved but needs to improve further. The report sums up the challenges thus: “Quality of education is the core challenge of the next decade when it comes to improving overall educational standards, retention, transition, and equity in academic achievement. Hence the focus of this decade on teachers and teaching.” These need to be given due consideration at a time when the New Education Policy is being implemented, and special efforts should be made to tackle the problems created by the pandemic. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/tackle-teacher-shortage-on-priority-1041872.html
18-10-2021||South||DVAC conducts raids at locations of former Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabaskar||Former Tamil Nadu Health Minister C Vijayabaskar on Monday came under the Directorate of Vigilance and anti-Corruption (DVAC) net with sleuths from the agency swooping down on 43 premises across the state in connection with a disproportionate assets (DA) case filed against him and his wife. Vijayabaskar is the fourth minister in the erstwhile Edappadi K Palaniswami cabinet to be raided by the DVAC after the DMK government stormed to power in May this year. M R Vijayabhaskar, S P Velumani, and K C Veeramani were earlier raided by the DVAC. In the First Information Report (FIR) filed by the DVAC in Pudukkottai district on October 17, Vijayabaskar has been added as accused no. 1 (A1) and his wife Ramya (A2). Vijayabaskar was one of the most controversial ministers in the previous AIADMK government as he was raided by the CBI in connection with the multi-crore gutka scam in 2018. He also came under the Income Tax (I-T) radar in 2017 days before bye-elections were to be held in R K Nagar constituency in Chennai – the elections were rescinded due to rampant use of money to buy votes. In the FIR, the DVAC said Vijayabaskar has “accumulated maximum assets by intentionally enriched himself during the period of his office from 01.04.2016 to 31.03.2021 and hence, the same was taken as check period.” The FIR said Vijayabaskar had in 2016 declared that his assets were worth Rs 6,41,91,310 but his assets grew to Rs 57,77,11,404 as on 31.03.2021, at the end of the said check period. “The accused A-1 C Vijayabaskar and A-2  Ramya had received lawful sources of income as revealed in his income tax returns and election affidavits to the tune of Rs.58,64,25,887 during the said check period. They incurred expenses to the tune of Rs.34,51,62,529 during the said check period,” the FIR said. It added that Vijayabaskar and his wife Ramya have assets worth Rs 27.22 crore which is disproportionate to the known sources of their income. The DVAC also said the family members of Vijayabaskar created a trust in the name of “Mother Terasa Educational and Charitable Trust” and established several institutes where the “ill-gotten” money could have been invested. The DMK, while in opposition, had submitted a huge list of corruption charges against half a dozen ministers. The party also promised to constitute a special court to try all such cases. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dvac-conducts-raids-at-locations-of-former-tamil-nadu-health-minister-c-vijayabaskar-1041618.html
18-10-2021||South||Kerala rains: House swept away by overflowing river in Kottayam's Mundakayam||An entire house in Kottayam district's Mundakayam was washed away by strong currents of an overflowing river on Sunday during the heavy rains that triggered landslides in two districts and left 22 people dead. The video of the incident, published by news agency ANI was one of many gut-wrenching moments that took place in Idukki and Kottayam districts in Kerala. Of the 22 casualties so far, 13 were from Kottayam district, while 9 were from Idukki. The casualties occurred on Saturday due to landslides and flash floods in the hilly areas of Kottayam and Idukki districts following heavy rains, officials said. In the high range Idukki district, where a travel ban is in place due to inclement weather, District Collector Sheeba George said two persons are still missing. "Till now, we have recovered nine bodies. Two people are missing," she said. PM Modi called Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and discussed the situation arising out of the rains. In its forecast, India Meteorological Department said Saturday’s Low pressure area over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Kerala has become less Marked and now seen as a trough from south Interior Karnataka to south Tamil Nadu at lower levels. "Under its influence, isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Kerala and Mahe on 17th October 2021 and significant reduction thereafter," it said. Thereafter, a fresh spell of easterly wave is likely to affect south Peninsular India from October 20 and cause fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls likely over Kerala from October 20 and likely to continue for subsequent 3-4 days, it added. The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) informed that it has incurred an estimated loss of Rs 13.67 crore due to the downpour in the state. "The most damage happened in Pathanamthitta, Pala and Thodupuzha circles. A total of 3,074 distribution transformers stopped functioning out of which 60 were totally destroyed. 339 hi-tension posts were destroyed, 1398 low-tension posts damaged and 4.18 lakh electricity connections got snapped," KSEB said in a release. The higher education department in the state informed that all the exams scheduled to be held tomorrow have been postponed while the classes that were scheduled to begin from October 18 have been postponed to October 20. Culture Minister Saji Cheriyan said families residing in the low-lying areas of Chengannur and Kuttanad areas have been shifted to relief camps as water from Pamba and Achankovil rivers began rising due to heavy rains in the eastern part of the state. The Central Water Commission has issued an Orange alert for Manimala, Kallada, Achankovil, Neyyar and Karamana rivers of the state. The IMD has withdrawn the red alert and currently, there is a Yellow alert sounded for the south-central districts of the state. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said incessant rains are continuing at Thrissur, Palakkad, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam districts. "NDRF teams have been deployed to Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Malappuram districts. Directions have been issued to deploy five additional teams to Idukki, Kottayam, Kollam, Kannur and Palakkad districts," he said. (With inputs from PTI) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-rains-house-swept-away-by-overflowing-river-in-kottayams-mundakayam-1041620.html
18-10-2021||South||Kerala rains: Death toll reaches 35; political blame game begins||As the death toll in Kerala floods and heavy rainfall reached 35, the Congress-led opposition on Monday accused the Pinarayi Vijayan government of not acting on time. However, the government quickly denied the charges. Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan, who on Sunday visited the worst-affected areas in Idukki and Kottayam districts, raised questions as to why, despite the IMD warning, the state government failed to act. "Wish to know why and what happened and it has now proved that the State government failed to act on warnings. We are told it took several hours for the team of government officials to reach certain spots with men and material to do the rescue act. Something has gone wrong and we want answers," said Satheesan. State Revenue Minister K. Rajan, however, said there has been no wrong on the part of the State government. "We rely on the reports and act on the basis of the Centre and we have done just that. Strict action will be taken against those who misuse social media when the state is passing through tough times," said Rajan. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is chairing a meeting to discuss the floods and the strategy to be adopted to open dams in the state which are full. The one decision that was taken is that dam shutters will only be opened during the daytime. On Wednesday, when the Assembly session resumes, the opposition is going to raise the issue in the House. Meanwhile, around 4,000 people are now lodged at various camps that have been opened in Idukki, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts of the state. The latest weather forecast, which has now come out predicts heavy rains to lash the state starting Wednesday. It all started with the century's biggest floods in 2018 and since then every year, Kerala has seen heavy rains and flash floods. This time the worst-affected have been the Kottayam and Idukki districts and though the rains have slowed down since Saturday evening and on Monday morning, authorities have issued an alert in eight of the 14 districts of the state. However, on Monday in Pathanamthitta district in Central Kerala, things appear not very encouraging. Meanwhile, social media has also termed the recurring natural disasters as nothing but man-made and numerous trolls have highlighted the statement of noted environmentalist Madhav Gadgil, who headed the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel and in 2013 warned that if Kerala does not stop tampering with the Western Ghats, a huge disaster would be round the corner. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-rains-death-toll-reaches-35-political-blame-game-begins-1041658.html
18-10-2021||South||Red alert for 10 dams in Kerala; orange alert sounded for Idukki reservoir||Even as it was a sunny day in Kerala generally on Monday, the state continues to be on high alert as dams had to be opened leading to water levels slightly rising in many areas including Pamba at Sabarimala. A red alert was issued in respect of 10 dams in Kerala, two shutters of Kakki dam in Pathanamthitta were opened and pilgrimage to Lord Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala has been put on hold for now, state Revenue Minister K Rajan said. The India Meteorological Department had forecast isolated heavy to very heavy rains across the state, except for Kasargod, from Wednesday to Friday and issued a yellow alert. A heavy wind alert was also issued. Hence the disaster management systems continue to be on high alert. With the water level in the Idukki reservoir, one of the highest arch dams in Asia, having risen to 2,396.96 feet Monday, an Orange alert has been sounded and it would be opened by Tuesday. The lifting of shutters of the Idukki dam, allegedly without sufficient alerts, had led to flooding in many parts of central Kerala in 2018. The Kakki dam in Pathanamthitta district was partially opened on Monday morning. By afternoon the water level in Pamba river at Sabarimala and other nearby parts started rising slightly. After the shutters of Sholayar dam in Thrissur district was partially raised, many parts of the district were under the fear of floods. The authorities informed that since the shutters were lifted only partially, there was no need for concern. People staying near the banks were being shifted to safe places.  A red alert was issued at Idukki dam by Monday evening as the water level increased to 2397.34 feet. As per the current water flow into the dam, it was expected to touch 2397.86 feet by Tuesday. Hence the red alert was issued. Two shutters at Cheruthoni will be partially lifted and families living nearby would be shifted.  Meanwhile, many parts of Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Alappuzha and Palakkad districts in south and central Kerala were also remaining flooded as the water level was receding gradually only. Many families were still stranded on the first floor of houses. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/red-alert-for-10-dams-in-kerala-orange-alert-sounded-for-idukki-reservoir-1041661.html
18-10-2021||South||Kerala couple sails in a cooking vessel to get hitched||With many parts of Alappuzha district in Kerala being flooded, a couple had to depend on a large cooking vessel to reach the temple premises to solemnise their wedding on Monday. Akash and Aishwarya hailing from Alappuzha district had to sail on the cooking vessel to the temple at Thalavady due to the flood. The two got on to the vessel from a nearby house and their friends and relatives helped them sail to the temple for around 500 metres. Only close relatives could attend the wedding. Many parts of Alappuzha district, especially Kuttanad areas, are under water. The region suffers floods even when it rains in the nearby districts as around 10 rivers connect with the Vembanad lake that lies close to Kuttanad. The region is also below the sea level. During the 2018 floods, such cooking vessels had seen extensive use as a mode of rescuing and transporting those stuck in their homes. Entering wedlock in a flooded hall adjacent to the temple, the couple were joined by a small group of relatives. The couple told reporters -- who were covering the rising water levels in the district and had arrived at the hall after hearing about the nuptials -- that due to Covid-19 they had kept the invitees to the minimum. They said since they had scheduled the wedding for Monday, they decided to go ahead with it as it was an auspicious event and did not want to delay it any further. When they arrived at the temple a few days ago, there was no water, but it was flooded following the heavy rains in the last two days. Akash and Aishwarya are working at a hospital in Chengannur. (WITH PTI inputs) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-couple-sails-in-a-cooking-vessel-to-get-hitched-1041672.html
18-10-2021||South||Pothole filling on Bengaluru roads on a war footing after respite from rains: Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the work on filling the potholes on the city roads will be taken up on a "war footing" once there is some respite from rains. "I'm gathering all the information regarding potholes, I will have a special meeting and inspection for it. As there have been continuous rains we have not been able to take up the work (to fill them) everywhere," Bommai said in response to a question on pothole menace in the city that have endangered lives of motorists. Speaking to reporters here, he said, as soon as we get some respite from rains, we will take up the work to fill potholes in a war footing. The Chief Minister who also holds Bengaluru Development portfolio, on Monday inspected parts of the city that have been affected by rains. Bommai said that the government was preparing a "Master Plan" for drainage and sewage water separation in the city, in coordination with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB). Speaking on sewage water entering houses due to rains in some parts of the city, he said, there is need to repair and increase the capacity and height of the main drains, so that the water can be let out in a large quantity, and also capacity of lakes will be increased by deepening them. "Necessary directions have been given in this regard. Bottleneck along the main drains across the city should be cleared and level needs to be maintained at the layouts along with increasing the capacity," he said, adding that he will call a meeting of BBMP, BWSSB and Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (BESCOM) officials for proper coordination. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pothole-filling-on-bengaluru-roads-on-a-war-footing-after-respite-from-rains-karnataka-cm-1041727.html
18-10-2021||South||Gadgil recommendations, flaws in disaster management back in focus as Kerala weathers landslides||Need to implement the Madhav Gadgil committee report on protecting the Western Ghats and flaws in Kerala's disaster management plans have once again become a hot topic of discussion as major landslides wreck the state for the fourth year in a row. Gadgil told a section of the media that the government had failed in protecting the Western Ghats by succumbing to vested interests and was now paying the price for it. The Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel headed by Gadgil had prescribed stringent restrictions in activities at the ecologically fragile areas in 2011. After his report was diluted by the government, Gadgil had alerted in 2013 that Kerala would soon witness disasters owing to the massive exploitation of the Ghats. S Sreekumar, former member of the Kerala State Environment Impact Assessment Authority, told DH that as per the available official data, the number of lives lost in landslides in Kerala till 2018 was 293, and from 2018 to 2021, 170 landslide-related deaths were reported in the state so far. Hundreds of landslides occurred in the state over the last few years but only those which cost human lives were getting projected. According to environmentalist K Sahadevan, 67 per cent of the landslides in the state were caused by changes in land use patterns. Serious flaws with the state's disaster management plan were exposed as it took up to 12 hours for the rescue team to reach the landslide hot spots. According to experts, the absence of a micro-level hazard map was the basic lacuna. The state was still depending on an over ten-year-old hazard zone map prepared by the National Centre for Earth Science Studies. Even the Koottickal village in Kottayam and Kokkayar in Idukki, where the recent landslides occurred, were marked as high hazard zones for landslides. Only if micro-level hazard zone identification and mapping were done, people from landslide-prone areas could be shifted. K G Thara, former head of Kerala Disaster Management Centre, said that lack of coordination at the grass-root level was one reason for the delay in rescue operations. Proper auditing of the disaster management systems from top to bottom had to be done regularly. The focus should be on mitigation and preparedness, she said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gadgil-recommendations-flaws-in-disaster-management-back-in-focus-as-kerala-weathers-landslides-1041784.html
18-10-2021||South||Body part from Kerala landslide spot remains unidentified||While one more body of a child was recovered from the landslide-hit Kokkayar in Idukki on Monday, the body of a woman who went missing was yet to be traced. Meanwhile, parts of a leg recovered from the debris at the landslide in Kottayam district did not match any of the 12 other bodies recovered from the spot. It was found to be that of an adult. The body parts of a 12-year-old boy who died in the landslide at the spot were still missing. The authorities are planning to conduct DNA tests to clear the air over the leg as no more persons were reported missing in the locality. Rescue workers said that many bodies were found in parts among the debris and hence initially it was suspected that the leg that was found near the body of the 12-year-old boy could be that of the boy. But doctors said that it was that of an adult. Heart-rending scenes prevailed in the landslide-hit spots that claimed around 20 lives on Monday as those who lost family members in the landslide were left roaming around recollecting the terrifying moments. The district authorities are planning to provide counselling services to the people to come out of the shock. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/body-part-from-kerala-landslide-spot-remains-unidentified-1041811.html
18-10-2021||South||DVAC raids former TN Health Minister C Vijayabaskar||Former Tamil Nadu Health Minister C Vijayabaskar on Monday came under the Directorate of Vigilance and anti-Corruption (DVAC) net with sleuths from the agency swooping down on 48 premises across the state in connection with a disproportionate assets (DA) case filed against him and his wife. Educational institutions run by Vijayabaskar’s family under the name of Mother Teresa Educational and Charitable Trust also came under the DVAC’s radar. At the end of the day-long searches, DVAC said it found Rs 23.85 lakh in cash, 4.87 kg of gold, and registration certificates (RC) of over 100 commercial vehicles.  Vijayabaskar is the fourth minister in the erstwhile Edappadi K Palaniswami cabinet to be raided by the DVAC after the DMK government stormed to power in May this year. M R Vijayabhaskar, S P Velumani, and K C Veeramani were earlier raided by the DVAC. In the First Information Report (FIR) filed by the DVAC in Pudukkottai district on October 17, Vijayabaskar has been added as accused no. 1 (A1) and his wife Ramya (A2). As expected, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami condemned the raids on Vijayabaskar. Vijayabaskar was one of the most controversial ministers in the previous AIADMK government as he was raided by the CBI in connection with the multi-crore gutka scam in 2018. He also came under the Income Tax (I-T) radar in 2017 days before by-elections were to be held in R K Nagar constituency in Chennai, the elections were rescinded due to rampant use of money to buy votes.  In the FIR, the DVAC said Vijayabaskar has “accumulated maximum assets by intentionally enriched himself during the period of his office from 01.04.2016 to 31.03.2021 and hence, the same was taken as check period.”  The FIR said Vijayabaskar had in 2016 declared that his assets were worth Rs 6,41,91,310 but his assets grew to Rs 57,77,11,404 as on 31.03.2021, at the end of the said check period.  “The accused A-l  C Vijayabaskar and A-2  Ramya had received lawful sources of income as revealed in his income tax returns and election affidavits to the tune of Rs.58,64,25,887 during the said check period. They incurred expenses to the tune of Rs.34,51,62,529 during the said check period,” the FIR said.   It added that Vijayabaskar and his wife Ramya have assets worth Rs 27.22 crore which is disproportionate to the known sources of their income. The DVAC also said the family members of Vijayabaskar created a trust in the name of Mother Teresa Educational and Charitable Trust and established several institutes where the “ill-gotten” money could have been invested.  The DMK, while in opposition, had submitted a huge list of corruption charges against half a dozen ministers. The party had also promised to constitute a special court to try all such cases. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dvac-raids-former-tn-health-minister-c-vijayabaskar-1041833.html
18-10-2021||South||Covid-19: Kin of deceased Andhra Pradesh govt employees to get job||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has decided to provide jobs to the kin of the state government employees who died due to the Covid-19 infection. On Monday, Reddy directed officials to immediately provide a job to one family member of the deceased employee and complete the process on compassionate grounds by November 30. Several government employees, including some of those working in the AP secretariat, have died in the past one-and-half years due to Covid-19 and related health complications. “The information on all such employees is being collected from various departments,” a CMO official told DH. Overall, Andhra Pradesh has, till Monday, reported 14,313 deaths due to the virus. The total confirmed positive cases in the state since the first case was reported on March 12 last year stood at 20,60,804. While the recovery rate is around 99 per cent, there are 5,709 active cases at present in the state. The daily new cases have fallen lately, with 332 cases reported on Monday morning, when 30,219 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Vizianagaram district has reported zero new cases, while only two cases were confirmed in Kurnool. Anantapuram, Srikakulam and West Godavari too reported cases in single digits. The Reddy government, however, is ramping up the health care infrastructure in the state, in preparation for a possible Covid-19 third wave. During a review on the pandemic, vaccination status, and recruitment of health staff on Monday, CM Reddy instructed the authorities to focus on the construction of 176 PHCs. While 27,311 oxygen concentrators and 27,311 D type oxygen cylinders were made available to various hospitals, new oxygen generation plants in 140 hospitals are expected to come into use by October-end. Over three crore people in AP were administered Covid-19 vaccines till now out of which about 1.66 crore have received both doses. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kin-of-deceased-andhra-pradesh-govt-employees-to-get-job-1041844.html
18-10-2021||South||Coal shortage: Jagan bats for longterm power generation strategies for Andhra Pradesh||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has instructed officials to ensure an uninterrupted coal supply for operating the thermal power plants in the state. Reviewing the power production and supply situation on Monday, Reddy directed the energy department to be in coordination with Coal India and other coal supply organisations including the Telangana-based Singareni Collieries to procure the required quantities continually. Earlier this month, Reddy shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi submitting that the thermal power plants in the state were running out of coal stocks. “AP has been meeting a grid demand of about 190 million units daily. Power generation stations operated by AP Generation Corporation, which supply about 45 per cent of the state's energy needs, hardly have coal stocks for one or two days. APGENCO coal-based plants are operating at less than 50 per cent of their 90 MU per day capacity because of coal shortage,” said Reddy in his missive on October 8, adding that the situation could impact power generation further. “The central power generation stations have also not been able to supply more than 75 per cent of their 40 MU per day capacity. It has become increasingly difficult for us to meet the grid demand and the circumstances are pushing us towards load shedding,” the CM said while requesting the PM's intervention for the supply of 20 coal rakes to AP thermal stations besides suggesting other measures to overcome the crisis. On Monday, Reddy directed the officials to focus on long-term power generation strategies, apart from the immediate measures. Officials informed that two additional rakes of coal were procured from the Mahanadi Coalfields and that the APGENCO's thermal power generation has now improved to 69 million units from 50 million units. 170 MW power is being made available from the Power Trading Corporation, they said. The CM also asked the officials to devise “alternatives like using freight ships for coal transportation and to coordinate with the relevant ministries at the Centre” for the purpose. The Chief Minister further directed for measures to set up a 6300 MW reverse pumping power generation project at the earliest, while focusing on the proposed 1350 MW reverse pumping project at Sileru. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coal-shortage-jagan-bats-for-longterm-power-generation-strategies-for-andhra-pradesh-1041848.html
18-10-2021||State||Schools to reopen for students of classes 1 to 5 in Karnataka, announcement soon: CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said schools will reopen for students of classes 1 to 5 in the state and the government will soon make an announcement in this regard. "Already the experts committee has given the report, we will issue the order. Regarding, from when (to start the classes) and all those details, the Chief Secretary will hold a meeting with the education department," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said after the discussions, a decision on reopening schools for students from classes one to five will be taken. With Covid-19 cases declining, the government had reopened schools for students of classes 6 to 8 from September 6, and for students of classes 9 to 12 from August 23. Earlier in the day, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said that the schools will be reopened for students of class 1 to 5 on the basis of the recommendation of the state's Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19. "If they say from October 21, we will start; if they say a week later, we will start a week later." Noting that the government wants to start classes from one to five in one go, he said, "but our plan is to have half-a-day classes during the initial one week or so, and thereafter full day classes, once students get used to it," he said. The Minister, however, said no decision has been taken regarding reopening schools for LKG (Lower Kindergarten) and UKG (Upper Kindergarten) children. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/schools-to-reopen-for-students-of-classes-1-to-5-in-karnataka-announcement-soon-cm-1041743.html
18-10-2021||State||Clash breaks out among rival groups at Kolar hospital||A clash broke out between two groups over an old rivalry at the SNR district hospital here on Monday.  One group, owing allegiance to Narayanaswamy of Kadamba wine store in the city and his children, and the other, owing allegiance to Amar and Balu of Kataripalya, had clashed in the morning. Police intervened to stop the fight and had admitted those injured in the incident to the SNR hospital and the RL Jalappa hospital in the city.  In the afternoon, the injured belonging to the two groups engaged in fisticuffs in the ward where they were admitted at the SNR hospital.    A tense situation prevailed at the ward, causing disturbance to other patients there.    Doctors at the hospital and the police intervened and stopped the fight from escalating. The incident is recorded on the CCTV camera of the ward.  The city police have registered complaints filed by both the groups. They have tightened security in the hospital as a precautionary measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/clash-breaks-out-among-rival-groups-at-kolar-hospital-1041842.html
18-10-2021||State||Bengaluru Urban sees less than 100 Covid cases||The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru Urban district fell below 100 as Karnataka on Monday reported 214 new Covid infections and 12 deaths, taking the caseload to 29,83,673 and death toll to 37,953. The day also saw 488 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,36,527. Bengaluru Urban logged 83 new cases. The district also saw 151 discharges and four deaths. Active cases in the state stood at 9,164. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.27 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 5.61 per cent. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru recorded two deaths and one each from Chikkaballapur, Hassan, Kodagu, Mandya, Tumakuru and Udupi. After Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru logged the highest number of fresh cases with 27, Dakshina Kannada 22, Tumakuru 14, Hassan and Shivamogga 13. Cumulatively, 4,94,89,011 samples have been tested, of which 77,901 were tested on Monday alone. As many as 2,82,350 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Monday taking the total vaccination doses to 6,11,78,671.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-urban-sees-less-than-100-covid-cases-1041843.html
18-10-2021||State||Financially weak young lawyers need support, says Karnataka HC outgoing Justice Bajanthri||The Karnataka High Court on Monday bid farewell to Justice P B Bajanthri, who has been transferred to Patna High Court. Speaking on the occasion, Justice Bajanthri said that younger lawyers with poor backgrounds and downtrodden families entering the legal profession must be supported financially by senior members. “Younger lawyers with poor backgrounds and downtrodden families entering into the legal profession must be supported financially by the senior members. I take this opportunity to request all senior members of the bar to encourage the young and aspiring advocates to do well in order to maintain the traditions set by our elders in this noble profession,” he said. Justice Bajanthri also called upon fresh law graduates to devote themselves to the profession once they decide to take it up. “As far as fresh law graduates are concerned they must first decide as to whether they should enter into the profession or not. Once they decide to enter into the profession they should devote themselves fully to the profession without a second thought.  Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi said that though Justice Bajanthri’s stint as a judge of the Karnataka High Court was short, he had disposed of more than 20,000 cases. Justice Bajanthri was transferred to Punjab and Haryana high court on March 16, 2015, just two-and-a-half months after his appointment as additional judge of Karnataka High Court on January 2, 2015. He was again transferred to the Karnataka high court and took oath on November 17, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/financially-weak-young-lawyers-need-support-says-karnataka-hc-outgoing-justice-bajanthri-1041845.html
18-10-2021||State||Two Hyderabad techies drown in Gangavati's Sanapur lake||Two youths from Rangareddy district in Telangana drowned while swimming in Sanapur lake in the taluk on Monday. The deceased have been identified as Madhukiran (25) and Rajesh Kumar (26), both the employees of a software company in Hyderabad. They were part of four-member group, who were on a trip to Hampi and surrounding areas. They were camping at a resort near Sangapur in the taluk. On Monday morning all four ventured into the lake for swimming. While Madhukiran and Rajesh Kumar drowned, Narasimha and Alok Kumar managed to swim to safety, according to the police. Both the bodies have been recovered by the police and Fire personnel with the help of local divers. The Gangavati Rural police have registered a case of unnatural deaths. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-hyderabad-techies-drown-in-gangavatis-sanapur-lake-1041846.html
18-10-2021||State||VTU introduces 'Biology for Engineers’ in semester 4||Students pursuing engineering courses in colleges affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) will learn biology from the current academic year. Considering the importance of the knowledge of biology for engineering graduates, the VTU has decided to introduce the ‘Biology for Engineers’ subject in the fourth semester of engineering education from the current academic year. University officials said they realised the need for biology during the pandemic. Speaking to DH, Prof Karisiddappa, vice chancellor of VTU said, “During the pandemic, we have learned many things where doctors and engineers worked very closely. Even in the invention of the vaccination for Covid-19, the role of engineers is remarkable because data analytics played a major role in the invention of the vaccination.” “Not just this, designing medical equipment, health monitoring systems, certain medicines requires engineers’ assistance. Computation power is also important in the field of health industry. If you look at recent trends in surgery, artificial intelligence is very much used. Keeping all these in mind, we are introducing biology for engineers,” he explained. However, this is not just the basics or introduction to the biology subject. Here, engineering students will be taught about the nervous system, blood flow to the arteries, bone density, etc. The curriculum for Biology for Engineers’ is being prepared with assistance from industry experts. To teach the subject, colleges have to invite/hire subject experts from outside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vtu-introduces-biology-for-engineers-in-semester-4-1041847.html
18-10-2021||State||Government teachers oppose weekend classes||The teachers working in government schools have raised objections to the plan to conduct classes on weekends. In a request to Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh, the Karnataka State High School Assistant Masters’ Association has said that attending classes for the entire week will be stressful for the students. However, Nagesh said no such decision had been taken. “During my visit to schools across the state, several teachers said that they were ready to conduct classes on Saturdays and Sundays to cover the portions on time and requested not to trim the syllabus.” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/government-teachers-oppose-weekend-classes-1041849.html
18-10-2021||State||Yogeeshgouda murder: HC bins petitions challenging CBI investigation||The Karnataka High Court has dismissed the petitions filed by former minister Vinay Kulkarni and three other accused challenging the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the Yogeeshgouda murder case. Yogeeshgouda, a member of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat and BJP leader, was murdered in 2016 and the case was handed over to CBI in September 2019. A division bench, comprising Justices B Veerappa and N S Sanjay Gowda, said truth will prevail once the trial is completed and there is no case for interference. The petitions were filed by Vinay Kulkarni, Basavaraj Shivappa Muttagi, Vinayak, Chandrashekar Indi and Somashekar, the accused who are facing trial in the case. The petitioners challenged the September 6, 2019 order of the state government granting sanction to the CBI to probe the case and the subsequent FIR registered by the agency. The bench noted that charge sheets have been filed by impleading the new accused persons in the case, cognizance of the offences already taken, the trial is half way and presently, the matter is posted for further trial.  “Therefore, this court cannot quash the impugned order passed by the state government as well as the FIR culminating into filing of supplementary charge sheets, taking of cognizance by the competent court and that too when the matter is now being posted for further trial in exercise of powers under the provisions of Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India read with Section 482 of the CrPC,” the bench said. The bench said the local investigating officers did not conduct the investigation in a fair and proper manner. Those very investigating officers were arrayed as accused by the CBI for diluting the investigation by accepting gratification, the court observed. The bench has directed the trial court to proceed with the trial without being influenced by any observations made in the order. The murder had taken place on June 15, 2016, in Dharwad. Vinay Kulkarni was arrayed as an accused and arrested in November 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yogeeshgouda-murder-hc-bins-petitions-challenging-cbi-investigation-1041850.html
18-10-2021||State||Government shelves plan to privatise iconic MySugar factory||The state government has decided to temporarily suspend its plan to privatise the iconic MySugar factory in Mandya following backlash from farmers and elected representatives. After Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai held a three-hour-long meeting on reviving the ailing factory, he said on Monday that the plan will be put on hold.  Bommai said the government will constitute an expert committee on restarting the factory and then take a final call in the Cabinet. The expert committee will submit its report within three months. “The Cabinet had earlier decided to lease out the factory. This decision saw opposition. After consultation with all the stakeholders, we have decided not to pursue the privatisation plan as of now. Once the expert committee report is given, we will take a final call in the Cabinet,” he said. Farmers’ representatives, ministers, MLAs and MPs took part in Monday’s meeting.  According to Bommai, the expert committee will look into technical details of the machinery required, finance and working capital. A discussion will also be held with bankers. Further, the committee will look into value addition to the factory’s production. “Merely producing sugar is not profitable. We will look into how we can make use of molasses for other value-added products,” Bommai added. Meanwhile, the government will appoint a managing director to supervise the factory. The state’s Accountant General will also appoint an accountant. The factory will commence operations soon. “For next season, we will definitely process sugarcane in this factory,” Bommai assured.  Speaking after the meeting, Mandya MP Sumalatha said the government’s decision was a progressive step. “Until now, there was no movement. I am looking at this from the perspective of farmers. The factory must recommence operations soon. Whether it will operate in government or private mode is immaterial,” she said.  In 2020, a Cabinet sub-committee led b,y Revenue Minister R Ashoka, had recommended that the government restart the factory under Operations and Maintenance (O&M) model instead of leasing it out. Several farmer groups and elected representatives have protested the government’s proposal to privatise the factory, warning that it will be against the farmers’ interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/government-shelves-plan-to-privatise-iconic-mysugar-factory-1041851.html
18-10-2021||State||Netizens decry ‘Modi illiterate’ tweet by Congress||A tweet by the D K Shivakumar-led Congress dubbing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as an ‘illiterate’ went viral on Monday and was decried by netizens and BJP sympathisers for being in bad taste. “Congress built schools, but Modi didn’t study. There was an adult education programme and still Modi didn’t study. Despite the prohibition of beggary, those who chose the lazy life of begging have pushed citizens of this country towards poverty. The country is suffering because of #HebbettuGiraakiModi,” the Congress tweeted. This was just one of the many tweets the Congress posted with that hashtag referring to Modi as an illiterate or ‘angootha chhaap’, a belittling Hindi expression. The BJP shot back thus: “Yes, our PM is different from your leaders. As PM, he didn’t light a woman’s cigarette, didn’t dance in a bar and hasn’t been caught transporting drugs. His is a life dedicated to the nation, not his family,” the BJP said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/netizens-decry-modi-illiterate-tweet-by-congress-1041852.html
18-10-2021||State||Karnataka’s e-government projects can go national: Rajeev Chandrasekhar||At least two of Karnataka’s technology-based governance initiatives have an all-India potential, Union Minister of State for Electronics & IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on Monday. Chandrasekhar was in Bengaluru where he held talks with officials from the state government’s e-governance department. “Many of their solutions have all-India potential,” Chandrasekhar told DH, citing FRUITS and Kutumba projects as examples. The Farmer Registration & Unified Beneficiary Information System (FRUITS) database contains information on 72.48 lakh farmers, including their land details that banks can access. This is being used by banks to disburse loans. Kutumba is the family ID project, a comprehensive database that the government wants to use for automatic disbursal of benefits to eligible citizens without them having to even apply. “There are some very good initiatives that I believe should be used by other governments, including in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY),” Chandrasekhar said. The minister said he asked the e-governance department to migrate fully to the cloud and “evolve to provide e-governance as a service”. “I also gave ideas on how to have tier-2/3 city-based companies play a bigger role in e-governance development,” he said. During the day, Chandrasekhar visited the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) office and launched the innovation development upskilling (INDUS) IoT kit. The kit is the size of a credit card fitted with six sensors, actuators, connectivity and debugger interfaces. “The compact and easily portable IoT kit shall facilitate development of local and smart solutions in a range of applications including drones. It is modestly priced at Rs 2,500 per unit and shall soon be available over GeM portal. C-DAC is also willing to transfer this technology to startups for commercial production,” a release said. Chandresekhar also interacted with top industry executives. “The way we launched the PLI scheme, the government is working on a DLI scheme. The government is ready to walk the extra mile. I encourage you to engage with me. I am just a phone call away,” he told them, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-s-e-government-projects-can-go-national-rajeev-chandrasekhar-1041853.html
18-10-2021||State||GII Group to open office in Bengaluru: Murugesh Nirani||Karnataka signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Gulf Islamic Investment Group (GII) at the Dubai Expo 2020 on Monday. The MoU was signed in the presence of Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani and IT/BT Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan who are taking part in the expo. The GII is a UAE-based Sharia-compliant financial services firm with over $2 billion of assets under management. The company plans to invest Rs 3,500 crore in India over the next 3 years and will open its office in Bengaluru, according to a release from Nirani's office. Nirani said the company's decision to foray into Karnataka and open its office in Bengaluru would strengthen ties between India and UAE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gii-group-to-open-office-in-bengaluru-murugesh-nirani-1041854.html
18-10-2021||State||Veteran Kannada actor Shankar Rao passes away||Veteran Kannada actor Shankar Rao passed away due to age-related issues, here on Monday. He was 84. Popular for playing the character Boss Balaraju in the super hit Kannada serial Paapa Pandu, Rao had a long stint in television and cinema. Hailing from Tumakuru, Rao began his acting career in theatre and even started his own theatre group called "Kalakshetra." After entering cinema in the 1970s, he was regularly cast in comic and supporting roles. Some of his major projects include Appu (2002), Milana (2007) and Sidlingu (2012). The Kannada film and television industries condoled his death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/veteran-kannada-actor-shankar-rao-passes-away-1041858.html
18-10-2021||State||Chitradurga will get industrial township soon: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday that an industrial township hasd been planned in the district in a bid to spur economic growth and create employment opportunities in the region. Bommai added that a blueprint on the township will be prepared after identifying 1,500 acres of land for the said project. He was speaking after receiving Basavabhushana award at the Murugha Mutt here. Chitradurga district comes under Mumbai-Chennai industrial corridor. Several townships have been planned along the corridor in the state. One such township will come up in Chitradurga, Bommai said and instructed Deputy Commissioner Kavitha Mannikeri to identify the land required for the project. On Upper Bhadra project, Bommai said, "The project was languishing since the times of S Nijalingappa. It was B S Yediyurappa who gave approval for the project when he was the chief minister. He (BSY) is indeed a Bhagiratha for the parched Chitradurga district," Bommai said adding that the project, once implemented, will help the people of the region a lot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chitradurga-will-get-industrial-township-soon-bommai-1041859.html
18-10-2021||State||JD(S) leader dares Congress to declare Muslim CM candidate||If the Congress is committed to promoting minority leaders, it should declare a Muslim candidate for the post of the chief minister or deputy CM or even as the Leader of the Opposition, JD(S) leader T A Sharavana said Monday.  Lashing out at Congress legislator Zameer Ahmed Khan, who had earlier dared the JD(S) to declare a Muslim CM candidate, Sharavana said perhaps the Congress should first follow its own leader's suggestion. "Let the Congress also tell us how many Muslims have been given an opportunity to contest the Assembly polls," he charged. Alleging that Zameer, who started his political career from JD(S), had forgotten his roots, Sharavana reminded that it was former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy who discovered Zameer and gave him an opportunity.  Meanwhile, Zameer continued his attack on Kumaraswamy. "Kumaraswamy's recent rants against RSS is only in the interest of garnering Muslim votes in the upcoming bypolls," he said. "Kumaraswamy has alleged that Siddaramaiah is thwarting Muslim leaders. It's to the contrary. When I was in the JD(S), I was given only Haj and Wakf as a minister, whereas Congress gave me four portfolios including Haj and Wakf, minority affairs, food and civil supplies and consumer affairs," he said.  "Forget Muslims, Kumaraswamy has snubbed his own brother's (H D Revanna) prospects. The only reason he didn't hand over power to BJP as promised during the 2006 JD(S)-BJP coalition was because he was afraid that Revanna will become the deputy CM," Zameer charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-leader-dares-congress-to-declare-muslim-cm-candidate-1041860.html
18-10-2021||State||Tough global test for skeletal cycling lane network||Slippery, disconnected and patchy with vanishing colours and signages... Drawing attention to the perils of climate change, as over 100 Indian, German, French, Dutch and Swiss cyclists pedalled across the city centre on Sunday, Bengaluru’s skeletal cycling lane stretch came out shaky from a grinding global test. A few cyclists skidded off the smooth surface. But the Dutch Consul General Gert Heijkoop was forgiving, ready to give the city more time to boost its nascent cycling lane network. “It takes time, like in Amsterdam. They didn’t create their beautiful bike lanes in a few months. It took years,” he told DH. If Bengaluru was ahead of even many European Union (EU) countries in Information Technology, he felt there is no reason why it cannot excel as a cycling city, too. “They just need to make the effort. Bengaluru should lead the way for other cities like Kolkata and Delhi.” Arranged by the consulates of the four EU countries and coordinated by the Council for Active Mobility, the short rally made a statement as the cyclists wound their way through Ambedkar Veedhi, Vidhana Soudha, Cubbon Park and Raj Bhavan Road. Gert articulated the need for more such events to promote cycling in the city: “Bengaluru, with 13 million people and eight million vehicles, needs to get people out of their cars and onto bicycles. It is better for them. It is healthy and it is better for the city.” The rally was part of the EU Climate Diplomacy Week, as Frederick, Deputy Consul General for Germany, explained. “Two weeks every year, the EU and its member states try to make people aware about climate change and the need for urgent climate action. This ride is to remind everybody about a sustainable lifestyle, taking the bike out once in a while.” Frederick, too, had a taste of the city’s cycling path. “It looked good, but could be improved upon. I see it as a great way to make the city more accessible to everyone.” For Viju Cherian, a bicycle councillor and one of the many female cyclists who had turned up, the need was for more women to take to the pedal. “It is such a good exercise, but women are scared. The cycling lanes are a good beginning. Safety is a state of mind,” she said. The four consulates had approached Bengaluru’s Bicycle Mayor Sathya Sankaran to coordinate the event. “There were relief riders, bicycle councillors from the Council for Active Mobility, and people working for the different consulates, Directorate of Urban Land Transport and Smart City project,” said Arvind Dwarakanath, bicycle councillor for Malleswaram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tough-global-test-for-skeletal-cycling-lane-network-1041863.html
18-10-2021||State||No more 'celebrity birthday parties' at child care centres||Celebrities, politicians, officers and their children have been banned from celebrating their birthdays at Child Care Institutions (CCI). Child Rights Directorate, Bengaluru, issued a circular to this effect, citing a psychological impact the birthday celebrations of other children may have on children sheltered at CCIs. Child rights activists said it had become common for the elite and their children to celebrate their birthdays at CCIs and there was a need to curb it. Nagasimha G Rao, director of Child Rights Trust, said a ban on such celebrations has been one of their long-pending demands. “We welcome the circular banning outsiders celebrating at the CCIs,” he said. “We were stressing on this because the feelings and rights of these children should be respected,” Nagasimha added. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-more-celebrity-birthday-parties-at-child-care-centres-1041866.html
18-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bishops Council opposes Karnataka's anti-conversion bill||The Karnataka Region Catholic Bishops Council has opposed the state government's proposal to introduce an 'Anti-Conversion Bill', cautioning that the move could precipitate "uncontrolled communal conflagrations" in the state. "Since independence, there has been hardly any increase in the number of Christians and it (the Bill) is all made out to suit the political agenda of some political parties," the Council said in a memorandum to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The Council also expressed its reservations over a survey of official and non-official Christian missionaries ordered by the Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Department. "If a survey is to be conducted, we demand that all communities be surveyed as well," the Council said. The memorandum comes close on the heels of announcements made by Bommai and other ministers on the state government mulling an anti-conversion Bill after Hosadurga MLA Goolihatti Shekar's allegations about religious conversions. Recently, the legislature panel asked for a survey on churches in the state and an order to this effect was issued. "If the bill is passed in the Assembly and translated into a law, we fear that it will give way for large-scale uncontrolled communal conflagrations," the Council said, adding such a bill will only cause "more harm than good". "Fringe elements and communal forces will be let loose and take law into their own hands..... We once again reiterate that the Christian community does not encourage forced conversions and bring to your notice that we continue to register our firm opposition to the proposed bill." On the survey ordered to assess official and non-official Christian missionaries, the Council argued that the Christian community was accused of being guilty of a serious crime. "Sporadic and insignificant incidents of conversion should not form the basis of maligning the entire community in a bad light," the memorandum stated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bishops-council-opposes-karnatakas-anti-conversion-bill-1041565.html
18-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only 30% of Karnataka lakes free from encroachment||Only 30% of the nearly 40,000 lakes and tanks in Karnataka have been classified as “free from encroachment” as per documents obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. As more than half of them are yet to be surveyed, it might lead to further encroachment of the water bodies. The latest data from the Karnataka Tank Conservation and Development Authority (KTCDA) shows that officials have identified 39,179 lakes across the state with a total extent of 6.8 lakh acres. A total of 30,507 acres of encroachment have been identified, of which 20,092 acres have been recovered in the last few years. However, as many as 22,170 lakes with an estimated extent of 3.85 lakh acres are yet to be surveyed by the Revenue Department. Officials in the KTCDA said that the delay in the identification of boundaries and stormwater drains will lead to the death of these water bodies. “Lakes and tanks were treated as an alternative source of water for drinking and agriculture in many districts, but only 12,000 of them are currently free from encroachment. Encroachments have been identified in 7,136 lakes and the custodians have been alerted. A majority of the lakes are yet to be surveyed and that’s a challenge,” an official said. Leo Saldanha of the Environment Support Group (ESG) said officials are yet to take up the basic task of identifying and recovering stormwater drains. “There is an urgent need to decentralise the process of lake protection and development work in which civil society has to be involved. Officials at the municipal and district level should be given training in this regard,” he said. The Karnataka High Court on June 15 ordered the setting up of district-level committees and made local authorities like the deputy commissioner, city corporation and respective urban development commissioners responsible for maintenance and development. Saldanha said a few districts have formed committees but no information was available on their functioning. U V Singh, a retired IFS officer who headed the former Lake Development Authority, said the court has to directly monitor the matter. “A committee led by a sitting or retired judge of the high court has to directly supervise the activities if lakes have to get any chance of survival. Until then, we will hear one excuse or another for non-implementation of orders,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-30-of-karnataka-lakes-free-from-encroachment-1041566.html
18-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to reopen schools for classes 1-5 from October 25||The Karnataka state government has allowed primary school children from grade 1 to 5 to return to schools from October 25 after a gap of nearly 20 months. However, children will be given the choice of attending the classes online. Following the permission from the Technical  Advisory Committee on Covid-19, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has decided to reopen physical classes for grades 1 to 5. For the first one week, the classes will be conducted for half a day and full-fledged classes will begin from November 1. For these students, midday meal will be served from November 1, and for students of grade 6 and above, midday meal will be served from October 21.  Speaking to reporters in Bengaluru on Monday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said, "We will follow all the terms and conditions given by the Technical Advisory Committee and a detailed SoP will be issued to schools soon." However, attending offline class is not mandatory. Both online and offline options will be available, the minister added. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-1-5-from-october-25-1041761.html
18-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka allows swimming pools to reopen, eases Covid rules at airports||Karnataka on Monday permitted swimming pools to reopen at 50 per cent capacity in each batch for only asymptomatic people.  Swimming pools have been closed for everyone except for athletes to train.  In an order issued by Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, the government stated that swimming pools can open at 50 per cent capacity of each batch “with a display of the number allowable at entrance”. Only fully vaccinated persons will be allowed. All persons should be screened for fever and respiratory symptoms and “only asymptomatics shall be allowed”, the order states.  “After every batch, the restrooms, walkways and other common areas used by the swimmers shall be disinfected using 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution,” the government said.  Ease at airports The state government has also decided to ease some Covid-19 requirements at airports.  It has been decided to discontinue SPO2 routine checks (except in cases of fever, cough, cold, difficulty in breathing and so on).  The government has also decided to “discontinue RT-PCR test report checking on arrival, except for those from selected countries notified by the Government of India, to be conducted at the airport”. “Instead, there will be mandatory uploading of the RT-PCR report in the Air Suvidha portal by the passenger and checking of the same by the concerned airlines before the boarding of the passenger,” the order states, adding that automated thermal cameras should be used to reorganise the monitoring of passengers.  The relaxations have been ordered based on recommendations of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) “after considering consistent decline in the number of daily Covid-19 cases, test positivity rate and overall decline in active cases,” the order states.   Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-allows-swimming-pools-to-reopen-eases-covid-rules-at-airports-1041773.html
18-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lawyers body threatens legal action against CM Bommai over comments on moral policing||The All India Lawyers’ Association for Justice (AILAJ) has issued notice to Chief Minister Basavaraja Bommai over his statements on 'moral policing' and threatened to take him to court if he fails to make a public apology. AILAJ, a group comprising lawyers, legal professionals and law students across India, cited a newspaper report where the chief minister was quoted as describing incidents of 'moral policing' as "natural" reactions to hurt sentiments and that "people have to behave appropriately to avoid incidents". The notice said the statements were shocking at a time when communal violence has gone up in Karnataka. It cited the murder of a Muslim man over inter-faith relationship in Belagavi and the killing of a man in Koppal over an inter-caste relationship. It also noted the assault on a Hindu man dropping off a Muslim woman on his bike and the abuse of a woman in Dakshina Kannada for travelling in a Muslim man's car. Reminding Bommai of his oath while being sworn in as CM to bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution, the notice signed by AILAJ co-convener Maitreyi Krishnan said he has acted in "complete violation of Article 188" of the Constitution. "You have used the power of your office to condemn the victims of religious hatred and violence for having provoked the violence against them, thereby not only denying them legal recourse and protection but also, in effect, abandoning them entirely to illegal and extra-legal forces," it said. The notice invoked Supreme Court judgment holding the right to marry a person of one's choice as integral to Article 21 as well as the verdict in Shakti Vahini Vs Union of India where comprehensive directions were issued to prevent and combat honour killings. The court had described hate crimes as a "product of intolerance and ideological dominance", the notice said. "Moral policing" incidents were essentially violent crimes and atrocities committed in the name of religion and caste. Quoting another judgment by the apex court, it said the authorities with the responsibility to maintain law and order have the "principal obligation to see that vigilantism does not take place". The notice said that the chief minister has failed to comply with the judgments of the court and demanded that he immediately withdraw statements and issue a public apology, action to prevent crimes in the name of religion and caste and protect inter-caste and inter-faith marriages. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lawyers-body-threatens-legal-action-against-cm-bommai-over-comments-on-moral-policing-1041802.html
18-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt withholds decision to lease Mysore Sugars||Karnataka government on Monday decided to withhold its decision to lease the Mandya-based The Mysore Sugars Company Ltd (MySugar) temporarily, and would constitute an expert committee to recommend to it about the company's future. Also, it said the factory would commence crushing of sugarcane from the next season. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai today chaired a nearly three-hour-long high-level meeting with senior Ministers, public representatives and farmers’ representatives from Mandya district here to discuss about MySugar following opposition against leasing it. "An expert committee will be set up to study the condition of the machinery and other technical aspects, finances needed to restart the factory and the working capital needed to make payment to farmers for sugarcane in consultation with bankers," he said. Speaking to reporters here after the meeting, he said the committee would also study the aspects of value addition of converting molasses and also whether the molasses would be used in distillery or for ethanol with an aim to make the factory financially viable. To supervise the factory, an efficient officer would be appointed as the managing director with industrial expertise, and an accountant recommended by the Auditor General would be appointed, Bommai said. "The report submitted by the expert committee will be placed before the Cabinet to take a final decision," he said Pointing out that an earlier Cabinet had decided to hand over the factory on lease, he further said, "If it has to be changed, it has to be decided by the Cabinet itself, we will take a decision based on the committee report...till then it has been decided to withhold the earlier decision to privatise (to lease) for now." The move to lease the State-owned sugar factory, which was established in 1934, has come under opposition from various sections, including farmers, who are staging protests in Mandya. Opposition parties JD(S) and Congress have also opposed the move. Recently, the Chief Minister met the farmers and assured them of an amicable solution. Stating that the government is firm in its decision to restart crushing of cane from the next season, Bommai today said he would immediately release funds required for updating or overhauling the machinery required for the purpose.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-withholds-decision-to-lease-mysore-sugars-1041810.html
18-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||​Lawyers’ body warns legal action against CM over ‘moral policing’ comments||The All India Lawyers’ Association for Justice (AILAJ) has issued notice to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai over his statements on ‘moral policing’, and threatened to take him to court if he failed to tender a public apology. AILAJ, a group comprising lawyers, legal professionals and law students across India, cited a newspaper report in which the chief minister was quoted as describing the incidents of ‘moral policing’ as ‘natural’ reactions to hurt sentiments and that “people have to behave appropriately to avoid such incidents.” The notice said the statements were shocking at a time when communal violence has gone up in Karnataka. It cited the murder of a Muslim man over interfaith relationship in Belagavi and killing of a man in Koppal over inter-caste relationship. It also noted the assault on a Hindu man for dropping a Muslim woman on his bike. Reminding Bommai of the oath he took, while being sworn in as the chief minister, to bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution, the notice signed by AILAJ co-convener Maitreyi Krishnan said he has acted in “complete violation of Article 188” of the Constitution. “You have used the power of your office to condemn the victims of religious hatred and violence for having provoked the violence against them, thereby not only denying them legal recourse and protection, but also, in effect, abandoning them entirely to illegal and extra-legal forces,” it said. The notice invoked Supreme Court judgment holding the right to marry a person of one’s choice was integral to Article 21 as well as the verdict in Shakti Vahini Vs Union of India in which comprehensive directions were issued to prevent honour killings. The court had described hate crimes as a “product of intolerance and ideological dominance,” the notice said.  Quoting another judgment of the apex court, it said the authorities have the responsibility to maintain law and order and have the “principal obligation to see that vigilantism...does not take place.” The notice said that the chief minister has failed to comply with the judgments of the court and demanded that he immediately withdraw statements and issue a public apology. “We urge you to take immediate action in this regard, failing which we would be constrained to initiate appropriate action in accordance with law,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lawyers-body-warns-legal-action-against-cm-over-moral-policing-comments-1041856.html
18-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy rainfall triggering rise in dengue cases in Karnataka||As Covid-19 dies down, the state is facing the rise of another epidemic - dengue - which has come with a reckoning for a state beset by abnormal amounts of rainfall this year.  According to the official data, the state has already recorded 3,681 cases of dengue among 51,151 people tested this year. In comparison, last year, from January to December 2020, the state had recorded 3,685 cases.  Experts noted that the increasing numbers are a direct consequence of the larger amounts of rainfall the state has received this year, resulting in more pools of stagnant freshwater - an ideal breeding ground for the larvae of the Aedes aegypti mosquito. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the state has been witness to a 60 per cent increase in rainfall in the last week alone. State Health Commissioner D Randeep said that heavy rainfall usually has the end result of disrupting the life cycle of the aedes by displacing stagnant water. However, the copious water collection could herald more cases in November. The dengue season normally transpires between August to October, he said. Data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the Department of Health and Family Welfare shows that while the city recorded 941 positive cases among 6,837 people tested in September, that October’s numbers are a fraction of this: 260 positive cases up to October 17, with 1,832 people having been tested. “Dengue cases usually come down amid heavy rains, such as the situation we are currently in. But they will increase once the rains stop,” added Special Commissioner (Health), Dr Thrilok Chandra of BBMP. He and Randeep added that larval surveillance teams are at work mitigating stagnant water sources. Nevertheless, an increase has been already noted at one city hospital. “There have been day-by-day increases of people turning up with the severity of the disease,” said Dr Dinesh V Kamath, an internal medicine specialist at Manipal Hospital (Malleswaram). “Four to five out of every 10 dengue cases that we see, have the moderate disease. While we cannot predict what the dengue incidence rate will be like in future, evidence shows that the numbers will increase over the course of the next two weeks. It is headed towards a peak.” Experts fear that the annual totals could exceed 2020’s figures by a margin of 15 to 25 per cent, commensurate with increased rain. “Our weather prediction shows that the heavy rains will not let up for the next five days at least. Furthermore, historically, the northeast monsoon onset date is October 20 - which means a further bout of heavy rain,” explained Dr Geeta Aghnihotri of IMD’s Bengaluru office. “We are predicting a further bout of heavy rain on October 21 and 22 along with south belt districts of the state,” she added. According to the IMD, Bengaluru, for example, receives an average of 98 cm of rain a year (between January and December). This year, the city has already received 115 cm. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-rainfall-triggering-rise-in-dengue-cases-in-karnataka-1041876.html
18-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka e-governance projects can go national: Union Minister||At least two of Karnataka’s technology-based governance initiatives have an all-India potential, Union Minister of State for Electronics & IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on Monday. Chandrasekhar was in Bengaluru where he held talks with officials from the state government’s e-Governance department.  “Many of their solutions have all-India potential,” Chandrasekhar told DH, citing FRUITS and Kutumba projects as examples.  The Farmer Registration & Unified Beneficiary Information System (FRUITS) database contains information on 72.48 lakh farmers, including their land details that banks can access. This is being used by banks to disburse loans. Kutumba is the Family ID project, a comprehensive database that the government wants to use for automatic disbursal of benefits to eligible citizens without them having to even apply. “There are some very good initiatives that I believe should be used by other governments, including in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY),” Chandrasekhar said.  The minister said he asked the e-Governance department to migrate fully to the cloud and “evolve to provide e-Governance as a service”. “I also gave ideas on how to have Tier-2/3 city-based companies play a bigger role in e-Governance development,” he said.  During the day, Chandrasekhar visited the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) office and launched the Innovation Development Upskilling (INDUS) IoT kit.  The kit is the size of a credit card fitted with six sensors, actuators, connectivity and debugger interfaces. “The compact and easily portable IoT kit shall facilitate development of local and smart solutions in a range of applications including drones. It is modestly priced at Rs 2,500 per unit and shall soon be available over GeM portal. C-DAC is also willing to transfer this technology to startups for commercial production,” a release said.  Chandresekhar also interacted with top industry executives. “The way we launched the PLI scheme, the government is working on a DLI scheme. The government is ready to walk the extra mile. I encourage you to engage with me. I am just a phone call away,” he told them, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-e-governance-projects-can-go-national-union-minister-1041897.html
18-10-2021||West||Two dead, over 70 rescued after fire in factory in Surat||Two workers were killed after a massive fire broke out in a five-storey packaging unit in Gujarat's Surat district on Monday morning, police said. More than 70 others were rescued from the unit, located in Kadodara industrial area, they said, adding that some workers were also injured in the incident. However, news agency ANI put that figure at 125. Surat | Rescue operation has concluded at the packaging factory where a fire broke out early morning today in Vareli, Kadodara A rescue operation was still underway, officials said. The blaze erupted in the Viva Packaging Company at around 4.30 am, Kadodara police inspector Hemant Patel said. The fire started on the unit's first floor and soon spread to other floors, he said. Hydraulic cranes were used to rescue workers trapped inside the building, he said. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, officials said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-dead-over-70-rescued-after-fire-in-factory-in-surat-1041628.html
18-10-2021||West||Environmentalists call to declare Panje Wetland as Biodiversity Park||Hailing Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for his pro-wildlife and nature stand, environmentalists have requested him to protect and conserve the Panje Wetland in Uran in Raigad district as a biodiversity park and order the opening of the flap gates and the five choke points. In a letter to Thackeray, NatConnect Foundation director B N Kumar expressed the hope that the statements would go beyond media headlines and that the government protects the wildlife, nature and biodiversity in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). BNHS director Dr Bivash Pandav has also supported the idea of conserving Panje wetland as the biodiversity park of the MMR. The ambassadors of the environment, the migratory birds, have started arriving via the Central Asian Flyway, and Panje alone is the destination for 1,50,000 birds. Panje wetland, however, faces destruction due to the plans by CIDCO and now de-notified NMSEZ to create concrete jungles, the green groups pointed out and appreciated Thackeray for saying that "we should not be crazy about development". The CM has also said in his wildlife week address that "we have already encroached forest land and areas. We need to keep checking our developmental model as it should not ultimately lead us all to destruction." In a press statement, Kumar said that Panje’s sluice gates across the creek closed during the Monsoon, must be reopened now to allow free flow of tidal water to the mangroves and the wetland. The High Court had already ruled that mangroves must be protected and the State Environment Director Narendra Toke has asked CIDCO and NMSEZ to restore the free flow of water to the wetland. Moreover, the five separate inlets which have been choked by vested interests must be cleared now as per the orders from the National Green Tribunal, said Nandkumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan. CIDCO is bound by the government and court orders, he said. The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has also declared that Panje falls under CRZ-1, Pawar pointed out. Several studies by BNHS speak of the need to conserve Panje and other wetlands such as the ones at Belpada, Bhendkhal, NRI and TS Chanakya in Navi Mumbai and Bhandup in Mumbai as satellite bird sanctuaries to the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary. Thousands of birds also take refuge in these wetlands during high tides, says BNHS. At a recent online discussion organised by NatConnect for the World Migratory Bird Day, BNHS scientist Mrugank Prabhu has also stressed the need to maintain the wetlands to prevent bird-hits to aircraft at the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport. The birds might land at the airport’s grounds if their traditional destinations are destroyed under the garb of development. NatConnect appreciated the bold statement by the Chief Minister that politicians break or bend the laws for their convenience. "The bureaucrats also need to be sensitised about the environment and not buckle under political pressure," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/environmentalists-call-to-declare-panje-wetland-as-biodiversity-park-1041700.html
18-10-2021||West||Use of central agencies against kin of MVA leaders shows BJP's 'inhuman face': Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday said it can understand the use of central agencies for targeting leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, but claimed the "harassment" of their family members shows the "inhuman face of the BJP". People normally say they have lost faith in a government. But in Maharashtra, it is the opposite. The BJP has become a "butt of jokes" in the state, an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said. "The BJP uses the CBI, Enforcement Directorate, I-T (Income Tax department) and the NCB (Narcotics Control Bureau) for its own agenda. Thackeray exposed these attacks being made through the ED and CBI…the attacks are like using Shikhandi as a shield," it said. Bhishma, the patriarch of the Kauravas and Pandavas in the epic 'Mahabharata', was eliminated with the help of Shikhandi. The Shiv Sena further hit out at the BJP and the Centre, claiming they don't face questions and "finish" those who question them. "The BJP and its government at the Centre do not believe in democracy, Constitution, law and order. They don't accept chief ministers of opposition parties. This new phenomenon in politics speaks volumes (about the mindset). Such things come to their mind only due to smoking up of low quality weed," the edit said. After the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls, the Sena parted ways with long-term ally BJP over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. The Shiv Sena subsequently tied-up with the NCP and Congress to form MVA government led by Uddhav Thackeray. The Marathi daily said NCP president Sharad Pawar had clarified the circumstances under which Shiv Sena head Uddhav Thackeray became the chief minister. Targeting former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, the Sena said by attacking Thackeray on becoming the CM of the state, they were only venting out their frustration. In his annual Dussehra rally last week, Thackeray launched a scathing attack against the BJP, saying hunger for power was like "drug addiction", and challenged it to topple his coalition government, which will soon complete two years. The editorial in the Marathi publication said the BJP should show the guts to accept the challenge thrown by Thackeray. "Attacks on the Maha Vikas Aghadi government leaders can be well-understood. But, the harassment of their family members shows the inhuman face of the BJP," the editorial claimed. After Thackeray's Dussehra rally last week, Fadnavis had hit back, claiming the Shiv Sena-led MVA government was the most corrupt in the history of the state with extortion being its "only agenda". "This is a government formed through dishonesty and I feel that respected Uddhavji should now accept that he had ambitions of becoming a chief minister which he fulfilled. In politics, having ambitions is not wrong. But if you wanted to keep the word, you could have made senior Sena leaders Diwakar Raote, Subhash Desai or Eknath Shinde a CM," Fadnavis had said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/use-of-central-agencies-against-kin-of-mva-leaders-shows-bjps-inhuman-face-shiv-sena-1041708.html
18-10-2021||West||Rise in Mumbai's average temperature due to increase in built-up area: Study||The hustling-bustling financial capital of Mumbai has witnessed a 2 degrees Celsius rise in average temperature across 27 years, leading to multiple environmental problems and an increase in heat. Mumbai has lost 81 per cent of its open land (barren spaces without any vegetation), 40 per cent green cover (forests and scrublands), and approximately 30 per cent of its water bodies (lakes, ponds, floodplains) between 1991 and 2018, while the built-up area (areas developed upon) has risen by 66 per cent during the same period, according to a recent study. Researchers from Faculty of Natural Sciences, Jamia Millia Islamia University in New Delhi, Osmania University in Hyderabad and Aligarh Muslim University, Uttar Pradesh through their study – “Urban Heat Island Dynamics in Response to Land-Use/Land-Cover Change in the Coastal City of Mumbai” - published in the peer-reviewed Springer Journal of the Indian Society of Remote Sensing found that with this pace of urbanisation and landscape transformation, it is expected that the Urban Heat Island intensity will further increase in the city. “The extreme heat that one experiences when strolling through any urban landscape is caused by the Urban Heat Island Effect, a micro-climatic phenomenon. This is due to a number of causes, the most prominent of which being the usage of materials such as concrete,” explained Prof. Atiqur Rahman from the Department of Geography, Faculty of Natural Sciences, Jamia Millia Islamia. Using satellite imagery (USA-NASA Landsat datasets freely available), the authors studied an area of 603 square kilometres of Mumbai region (both city and suburbs) to understand the land-use and land-cover changes, difference in maximum, minimum and average temperatures (for Urban Heat Island intensity), land surface temperatures, changes in vegetation cover versus urban built-up density between 1991 and 2018. The findings were represented in the form of high-resolution maps and attempted to enhance urban planning and policy decisions by mitigating the Urban Heat Island effect. Shahfahad, Senior Research Fellow at Department of Geography, Jamia Millia Islamia University and lead author of the study said, “We found that rapid uncontrolled urbanisation over the past 5-6 decades attracted a large population by providing better economic opportunities. As a result, natural land use patterns such as vegetation cover, scrublands, wetlands, and open lands have all been transformed on a large scale into the city’s built-up surfaces.” The study noted that during the perios between 1991-2018, Mumbai city lost nearly 40 per cent of its green cover including forests (dense vegetation) and scrubland (sparse vegetation) that fell from 287.76 sq. km in 1991 to 193.35 sq. km in 2018. The area of open land fell by more than half from 80.57 sq. km in 1991 to 33.7 sq. km in 2018. Mumbai also saw reduction in water bodies from 27.19 sq. km to 20.31 sq. km during the same period. Meanwhile the conversion of open lands, green cover and water bodies to buildable land showed an increase from 173.09 sq. Km in 1991, which almost doubled and reached 346.02 sq. km in 2018. Transformation of these areas significantly altered the dynamics of land surface temperature and urban heat island intensity. “We observed that the average temperature in 1991 was 34.08 degrees Celsius. It rose to 36.28 degree Celsius in 2018 (a 2.2-degree Celsius increase) under the heat island zones (vulnerable areas) thus exposing people to higher heat risk,” said Shahfahad. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rise-in-mumbais-average-temperature-due-to-increase-in-built-up-area-study-1041742.html
18-10-2021||West||Report slams hospital for oxygen shortage; Goa Oppn protests in Assembly, demands CM Sawant's resignation||The opposition in Goa staged a walkout demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, after a government-appointed committee blamed the state's top government medical facility for mismanagement of oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic in which nearly 88 persons are reported to have died of oxygen shortage. The three-member committee, headed by the Director of the Indian Institute of Technology, Goa Dr BK Mishra, has also blamed the hospital administration for facilitating a private company to monopolise oxygen supply in the coastal state.   "In June 2018, the decision of the public health department to extend the scope of work awarded to M/s Scoop to all across the state of Goa resulted in the creation of a single supplier for all the public health infrastructure. After this extension, health institutions had no alternative source of oxygen, in case of emergency," the government committee report said. "GMC did not timely raise any issue of lack of oxygen or sought augmentation of the oxygen, except putting their demand in affidavit before the High Court... GMC did not take much action on the letter written by the Goa Association of Resident Doctors dated May 1, 2021. A prompt action on this letter would have enabled better management of the situation," the report further said. In May this year, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane had initially sought a High Court probe into the series of deaths at the Goa Medical College reiterating that the fatalities among Covid patients were caused due to oxygen shortage. "I request the High Court to check if there is mismanagement or shortage and bring out a white paper using experts... High Court should take over Covid management of GMC," Rane had said. But months later, the Goa government in a written submission to the High Court said that deaths at the hospital were not caused due to oxygen shortage. Earlier today, the Opposition quoting the contents of the committee report, demanded Chief Minister Sawant and Rane's resignation, while also staging a walkout during the first day of the two-day session of the state assembly which convened on Monday. All India Congress Committee senior observer for the Goa polls and former Union Home Minister P Chidambaram also slammed the Goa government for the fatal oxygen shortage. "Why does the Goa government have a Department of Health and a Minister of Health, if they are not responsible? After the report, the CM and the Minister of Health should resign," Chidambaram tweeted. "The so-called expert committee report on Oxygen-shortage and related deaths in Goa is a desperate attempt to give a clean chit to the BJP government in Goa. The Hospital is blamed but the government is not to be blamed! Strange logic in respect of a government-OWNED hospital!" he added. The so-called expert committee report on Oxygen-shortage and related deaths in Goa is a desperate attempt to give a clean chit to the BJP government in Goa The Hospital is blamed but the government is not to be blamed! Strange logic in respect of a government-OWNED hospital! Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/report-slams-hospital-for-oxygen-shortage-goa-oppn-protests-in-assembly-demands-cm-sawants-resignation-1041778.html
18-10-2021||West||Amusement parks to reopen from October 22 in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Monday decided to reopen all amusement parks from October 22. However, the decision to restart water rides in the parks or exclusive water parks has been deferred for the time being.  The decision came after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a high-level meeting with top officials and members of the Covid-19 task force to discuss various modalities.  The state government has taken a call to gradually open up the state ahead of the Diwali festivities. Cinema halls and theatres in the state will also reopen on October 22, a decision that had been announced last month. Meanwhile, colleges in the state are expected to start from Wednesday. The development comes a day after the financial capital of Mumbai reported zero Covid-19-related death. Earlier in the day, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar had met CM Thackeray, during which deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and senior ministers of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government were present.  “We are gradually easing the restrictions as the number of  Covid-19 patients seems to be on the decline. However, at the same time, the numbers of dengue and chikungunya victims are on the increase and adequate attention must be paid to them,” Thackeray said.  On increasing the working hours for shops and establishments besides restaurants and eateries, he directed the concerned departments to prepare suitable guidelines keeping in view the current pandemic situation. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amusement-parks-to-reopen-from-october-22-in-maharashtra-1041824.html
18-10-2021||West||Central Railway turns discarded coach into a fine dining outlet in Mumbai||The Central Railway has turned an old discarded railway coach into a fine dining restaurant for all rail paraphernalia enthusiasts at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus in Mumbai under Innovative Ideas of catering policy.  The restaurant coach is located at the Heritage Gully, opposite platform no 18 at CSMT. The renowned Gully is adorned with rail artifacts including narrow gauge locomotives, parts of old printing press etc. Railway plans to explore the possibility of opening similar restaurants at Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Kalyan, Neral, Lonavala and Igatpuri on Mumbai division. Tenders have been awarded at five other locations i.e. Nagpur, Akurdi, Baramati, Chinchwad and Miraj stations on CR. The license period of the outlet is for a year, extendable based on its performance. The restaurant is responsible for its maintenance and has to adhere to all statutory laws for food outlets and now, Covid-19 guidelines Rates and menu of the restaurant will be as per market standards and approved by Railways.  Anil Kumar Lahoti, General Manager Central Railway inspected the "Restaurant on Wheels" at Chhatrpati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/central-railway-turns-discarded-coach-into-a-fine-dining-outlet-in-mumbai-1041896.html
