19-10-2021||Comment||Advancing livelihoods or promoting corporate interests?||“As a human family, a world free from hunger is our imperative. Food systems hold the power to realise our shared vision for a better world.” - UN Secretary-General António Guterres The term ‘Food System’ refers to the constellation of activities involved in producing, processing, transporting and consuming food. Food systems touch every aspect of human existence. The health of our food systems profoundly affects the health of our bodies, as well as the health of our environment, our economies and our cultures. When they function well, food systems have the power to bring us together as families, communities and nations. But too many of the world’s food systems are fragile and vulnerable to collapse, as millions of people around the globe have experienced during the Covid-19 crisis. The failure of food systems threatens our education, health and economy, as well as human rights, peace and security. And those who are already poor or marginalised are the most vulnerable. The UN Food Systems Summit last month discussed these challenges, under the leadership of UN Secretary-General António Guterres. It was a completely virtual event during the UN General Assembly High-Level Week. It served as a historic opportunity to leverage the power of food systems to drive recovery from the pandemic and get the world back on track to achieve all 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. The summit brought together all UN member-states and constituencies around the world – including youth, food producers, indigenous peoples, civil society, researchers, private sector, and the UN system – to bring about tangible, positive changes to the world’s food systems. As a people’s summit and a solutions summit, it recognised that everyone, everywhere must work together to transform the way the world produces, consumes, and thinks about food. Judging by the pre-summit confabulations that involved a variety of stakeholders, the policy briefs that were prepared and the deliberations that took place, the summit’s objectives may seem to have been realised, particularly in terms of raising public awareness about the need to reform the existing food systems around the world, and the principles that should guide governments and other stakeholders to ensure that food systems play a central role in building a fairer, more sustainable world. But movements and civil society organizations like La Vía Campesina were not impressed with the summit and its outcomes. La Via Campesina is an international farmers’ organisation founded in 1993 by 182 organisations based in 81 countries. It is an international movement that coordinates peasant organisations of small and middle-scale producers, agricultural workers, rural women, and indigenous communities from Asia, Africa, America, and Europe. It advocates sustainable agriculture, and was the group that coined the term ‘food sovereignty’. It carries out campaigns to defend farmers’ right to seeds, to stop violence against women, for agrarian reform, and generally for the recognition of the rights of peasants. La Via Campesina was among scores of other social movements of organised small-scale food producers, workers and indigenous people that called for boycotting the United Nations Food Systems Summit and to denounce the attempt by transnational corporations to usurp the institutional spaces within the United Nations. According to critics, the summit followed a ‘multi-stakeholder’ approach as against a ‘multilateral’ arrangement. Multilateral summits -- based on human rights, with transparent decision-making processes and accountability mechanisms -- are meant to prioritise the voices of rights-holders and hold governments responsible for upholding those rights. But the UN summit was based on the idea of ‘multi-stakeholder’ – treating all stakeholders as equal, without considering power imbalances or their position in the system. This fiction of equality leaves the powerful both unchallenged and unaccountable, hiding or ignoring any conflicts of interest. By conflating private corporate interests with the public interest, it overrides and erases the latter. Despite the use of progressive language, critics point out that the summit remained firmly rooted in corporate interests. It highlighted a narrow range of partisan scientific data, while ignoring the traditional and experiential knowledge of small-scale farmers, indigenous, peasants and rural peoples. Digitalisation, genetic modification, precision agriculture, and other chemical-, capital-, and fossil fuel-heavy approaches took centrestage, because these so-called solutions are the most profitable to corporations. It was also pointed out that the summit undermined existing global policymaking spaces and institutions like FAO and the Committee on World Food Security (CFS). The summit encouraged stakeholders to form “coalitions of action” to implement “solutions”. Governments are encouraged to develop “national pathways” with stakeholder coalitions, many of which will inevitably be dominated by those who can afford to fund them. There is a clear intention to erect a parallel architecture to suit agri-business interests. Middle and low-income countries are being coerced into entering into “coalitions” with investors, philanthro-capitalists, and multinational agri-businesses to carve out “national pathways” profitable for their coalition partners. Need for transformation The development of sustainable food systems requires significant structural changes, guided by the conviction that a more radical transformation of agriculture cannot be promoted without comparable changes in the social, political, cultural and economic eco-systems surrounding agriculture. Only by changing the export-led, free trade-based, industrial agriculture model of large farms can the downward spiral of poverty, low wages, rural-urban migration, hunger and environmental degradation be halted. Rural social movements embrace the concept of ‘food sovereignty’ as an alternative to the neo-liberal approach that puts its faith in inequitable international trade to solve the world’s food problem. Food sovereignty focuses on local autonomy, local markets, local production-consumption cycles, renewable energy and technological sovereignty and farmer-to-farmer networks. It is indeed worrying that the UN Food Systems Summit chose to ignore these fundamental and critical issues. (The writer taught Political Science at Bangalore University. He is currently Hon. Professor at Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University, Gadag).||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/advancing-livelihoods-or-promoting-corporate-interests-1042225.html
19-10-2021||First Edit||Warning to Western Ghats states||The third visitation of devastating floods in four years in Kerala has made it clear that the natural catastrophe has become the rule rather than the exception in the state. Errant rains, landslides and resulting floods have taken a large toll of lives and caused much damage to property. Houses, roads and other constructions have been washed away, crops have been damaged, and there is threat to more areas. While the major flood of 2018 affected most areas of the state, much of the present catastrophe has occurred in the high ranges of the central districts. Landslides have washed away houses, rivers have drowned villages, and towns and lives have been completely turned upside down. Though there is a pause in the past two days, the rains are expected to resume later this week. It is wrong to look at the spurt in rains as the parting kick of a retreating monsoon. There are several explanations for the aggravated rain conditions. There are meteorological explanations like the occurrence of cloudbursts, cyclonic conditions in the Arabian Sea and simply the waywardness of weather. While there may be truth in these, the bigger truth is that the disaster is more man-made than natural. Extreme weather events are caused by climate change, their impact is magnified by human interventions in environment. It is the higher altitudes of the state in the Western Ghats where large-scale destruction of nature took place in the last many decades that are bearing the brunt of the disaster. The clearing of forests for habitation, building of villages and towns, operation of quarries and other similar activities have put severe pressure on nature all over the high ranges. There have been ample warnings about the catastrophe. The Madhav Gadgil Commission of 2011, which studied the ecology of the Ghats, noted their perilous condition and made several recommendations to stop or contain the damage. The Western Ghats have a fragile ecosystem that is under threat in all the states they straddle, including Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra. No state has taken the recommendations seriously and the rampage on nature has continued. The Gadgil Commission recommendations were diluted by the Kasturirangan Commission, and still later by yet another commission. It is all the water that has gone into diluting the Gadgil Commission report that has now come back with a vengeance to drown large parts of the state. If the right lessons are not learnt from the disaster and remedial action taken, it can only get worse in the coming years. The remedy may be painful now but avoiding it will cause more pain later. All other states on the Ghats should also heed the warning from Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/warning-to-western-ghats-states-1042219.html
19-10-2021||In Perspective||CoP26: Climate has changed, the hypocrisy hasn’t||The world’s activists and delegates on their way to Glasgow have reason to be anxious. They are gathering for a climate summit with exceptionally high stakes. Known as COP26 and running from October 31 to November 12, the conference is perhaps one of the world’s last chances to keep the average global temperature from rising less than 1.5 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels — and to avert planetary heating on a terrifying scale. This apprehensive mood seems not to affect Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain, the host nation. With bombastic optimism, Johnson appears confident that countries will step up climate action: The conference, he said in September, will be “a turning point for humanity.” And he has positioned Britain as boldly leading the way. Johnson points to how Britain has decarbonised more than any other developed country, 1.8 times the average among EU nations, and was the first major economy to enshrine in law a net-zero target for carbon emissions. Yet, Britain is far from a climate hero. It is committed to fossil fuels and private corporations, opposed to stringent regulation and unwilling to recognise its historical responsibility to the Global South. Even the lauded net zero by 2050 target relies on unreliable carbon offsets and is too distant to bring about decarbonisation soon enough. Johnson may claim the country leads the world on climate action, but we shouldn’t fall for the trick. A glance behind the rhetoric reveals hypocrisy everywhere. For COP26, the government has set out four top goals — global net zero by 2050, protection of communities and natural habitats, increased climate finance and strengthened international collaboration. In practice, it is pursuing policies at home and abroad that violate every single goal. To seal a free-trade pact with Australia, which recently ranked last in the world for tackling greenhouse gas emissions, Johnson dropped from the text references to temperature goals established by the 2015 Paris Agreement. As well as a bad example, it’s an insult to nations especially vulnerable to climate change, which argue a 1.5-degree Celsius limit is critical to their survival. For Johnson, international collaboration is good — until it gets in the way of national self-interest. In September, Johnson was cajoling countries to cough up more cash at the UN General Assembly in New York — part of an attempt to help developing countries mitigate and adapt to climate breakdown. It was an audacious gambit, not least because Britain is far behind in its contribution to climate finance. Its efforts have been rated “highly insufficient” by the Climate Action Tracker, which provides independent scientific analysis of climate policy. But the most blatant double standards are closer to home. Against the warnings of the Scottish government, the national government in Westminster is poised to approve 18 new oil and gas projects in the North Sea. One of the most significant oil fields, known as Cambo, would drill for a total of 150 to 170 million barrels of oil up to 2050. Cambo is the most egregious example of a political and economic approach that knocks Britain off its moral high ground. The list of sins is long. It includes airport expansions, missed biodiversity targets, a botched attempt to insulate homes, not ruling out a new coal mine in Cumbria and, of course, failing to regulate the world’s biggest financiers of fossil fuels in the City of London. At every juncture the government has made clear where its priorities really lie. Most maddeningly of all, these actions lie beneath a smokescreen of good words. The government may be world leading in setting targets (there are 78 commitments in a new plan to decarbonise transport alone), but it can’t promise its way out of escalating heat waves, fires and floods. One of the government’s own climate advisers rated it nine out of 10 on targets but said it was “somewhere below” four out of 10 in efforts to meet them. Its long-awaited strategy to reach net-zero emissions, expected to be published this week, is unlikely to alter the picture. Warm words won’t stop a warming world. You could charitably call this cognitive dissonance, the result of an inability to reconcile climate targets with an economy forged by fossil fuels. But the bald truth is harsher. Countries across the world, Britain foremost among them, are willfully pursuing an economic strategy that is heating up the planet, to the devastation of communities everywhere. They prefer private profit to a liveable planet. The timeframe in which we can avert the worst shrinks with every passing day. The two weeks of COP26, when governments have a chance to close the gap between rhetoric and reality, will prove pivotal for the planet. Either we continue along the path of a rapidly heating world or we alter the course of human civilisation. But whatever happens in Glasgow, the storm is no longer gathering. It is overhead. (The writer is a researcher and activist on climate change and politics)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/cop26-climate-has-changed-the-hypocrisy-hasn-t-1042220.html
19-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rains in Dakshina Kannada could destroy paddy crop||The low-pressure weather systems over peninsular India, leading to copious rainfall for the last one week, have made paddy growers jittery over their standing crops in Dakshina Kannada district. The farmers fear that water-logging of paddy fields will affect the crop as well as the paddy straw. “The rain plays spoilsport in the district. The rain has come at a time when we were preparing for harvest. Now, the paddy fields and the crops are both drenched and thus we cannot plan the harvest immediately. If the rain continues to lash the district, then we will have to suffer a huge loss,” said farmer Sadashiv with anxiety writ large on his face. Manohar Shetty N, organising secretary of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Hasiru Sene, said the rainfall had resulted in the water-logging of paddy fields. Even harvester machine cannot approach the paddy fields for harvesting the standing crops due to the flooding of the fields. Due to acute shortage of farm labourers, farmers in the region have been depending on the harvester for harvesting the crop. Srinivas, another paddy grower, said that he would wait for a couple of days before proceeding with the harvesting of the crop. But if it rains continuously, then grains will start withering, he added. Farmers in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts transplant paddy seedlings on the field in the last week of June or first week of July and the crop will be ready for harvest by October first week. This year, paddy is cultivated on 10,073 hectares of land during the kharif season in Dakshina Kannada. About 836 acres of paddy fields that were left fallow all these years were brought under cultivation in the district. Even the elected representatives had initiated a movement to bring more fallow land under cultivation as well. Without the minimum support price, the middlemen are purchasing paddy from farmers at Rs 1,400 to Rs 1,500 per quintal. Farmer leader Manohar Shetty said Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary had promised to purchase parboiled rice from the farmers and distribute it through public distribution system. However, the promise is yet to be fulfilled. Further, Karavali package, a long-pending demand of the farmers in coastal districts have not been materialised so far, he added. Normally, the Central government announces support price for paddy in November-December. “By the time support price is announced, the small and marginal farmers in the region would have already sent the paddy to mills for processing. Even if the paddy procurement centre is set up, it is not much beneficial to farmers as they end up spending money for transportation. I have to travel 32 km from Kuppepadavu to paddy procurement centre to sell the paddy at minimum support price. Instead of opening procurement centre, the APMC staff should visit the farmers and purchase the paddy at the support price,” he said. Dakshina Kannada district has received an average of 31.8 mm rainfall on October 17 and the region received a total of 3,480.5 mm rainfall since January this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rains-in-dakshina-kannada-could-destroy-paddy-crop-1041923.html
19-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Issue guidelines to implement NEP: AMUCT to MU||The managing council meeting of Association of Mangalore University College Teachers (AMUCT) has resolved to urge Mangalore University to issue peer guidelines and structure to be followed by affiliated and autonomous colleges to implement National Education Policy 2020 from November. In a meeting held recently, it has resolved to urge the University to finalise the issues regarding major, minor, open electives, skill enhancement courses and credits to be fixed without much delay and to consider the open elective and skill enhancement courses for the workload of the teachers. Dr N M Joseph said the meeting had decided to urge the government to appoint grant-in-aid staff to the aided colleges and guest lecturers in the aided colleges. It was also decided to ask the government and University to include ‘functional Kannada’ only to those who have not learnt Kannada at lower levels of their education and other students should be given the freedom to choose any two languages. The AMUCT has also resolved to urge the government and the university to protect the interest of teachers, in aided and unaided institutions, who are working tirelessly for the betterment of students in their colleges and create and fill the posts of Professors in undergraduate aided colleges, Joseph added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/issue-guidelines-to-implement-nep-amuct-to-mu-1042074.html
19-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||BSY to campaign in Hanagal, Sindhagi ahead of bypolls||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa said he will campaign in Sindhagi on October 20 and 21 and in Hanagal on 22 and 23 ahead of the bypolls on October 30. Speaking to media persons on Tuesday, Yediyurappa exuded confidence that BJP would win both seats adding that if necessary, he would campaign in Hanagal for some more days. He also reiterated that he stepped down from the top post on his own and did not weep while resigning. There was no pressure from anyone in the party, he said. He also made it clear that the Centre had not ignored minorities under any circumstance.  Referring to Congress leader Siddaramaiah's remark against RSS, he said the Congress leader must mind his words before making any remark against RSS.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bsy-to-campaign-in-hanagal-sindhagi-ahead-of-bypolls-1042088.html
19-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Order issued to shift Article 371(J) Cell to Kalaburagi: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said order has been issued to shift Article 371(J) Cell to Kalaburagi from Bengaluru to supervise the developmental works and appointments in the Kalyana Karnataka region and the cell will soon start functioning in Kalaburagi. Speaking to media persons at Kalaburagi airport, he said as assured in the legislative session, a permanent secretary has been appointed to Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB). The Article 371(J) cell will soon be shifted. "I will speak about the recruitment of vacant posts in this region after the bypolls are over," the CM told. The government is ready to pay an additional of Rs 1,500 crore along with an annual budgetory allocation of Rs 1,500 crore to the KKRDB. Before which, the board must spend the funds being released by the government. The officials have been directed to prepare a Detailed Project Report for the additional funds only after spending the total allotted funds, Bommai explained. Revenue minister R Ashoka visited the tremor-hit villages and has spoken to the residents and the scientists on the frequent tremors in Gadikeshwar and its surrounding villages. The government will take a call on constructing personal sheds for the residents after scientists and earthquake experts submit their report, he told. The CM exuded confidence that the BJP will win in the bypolls to Hanagal and Assembly assembly segments. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/order-issued-to-shift-article-371j-cell-to-kalaburagi-cm-bommai-1042122.html
19-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||'Rahul Gandhi a drug addict and peddler': Nalin Kateel stokes controversy; Congress demands apology||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar, who retracted an "uncivil" tweet made by his party on Monday, has demanded an apology from his BJP counterpart Nalin Kumar Kateel for calling former AICC chief Rahul Gandhi a "drug addict and peddler".  While speaking at an event in Hubballi, Kateel claimed his remarks on Rahul were based on media reports. Congress leaders, however, condemned the statement, asking the BJP to sack Kateel.  "Yesterday I said I believe we should be civil and respectful in politics, even to our opponents. I hope the BJP agrees with me and will apologise for their state president’s abusive and unparliamentary remarks against Shri Rahul Gandhi," Shivakumar said in a tweet.  Kateel's remarks came as an apparent strike against Congress for calling Prime Minister Narendra Modi "#HebbettuGiraakiModi" which translates into the belittling Hindi expression ‘angootha chhaap’ for an illiterate person.  Shivakumar regretted the tweet and said it was posted by a "novice social media manager". Shivakumar added that he always believed that civil and parliamentary language was non-negotiable in political discourse and that the tweet was "regretted and withdrawn." Meanwhile, condemning Kateel's statement, AICC general secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao demanded that BJP remove Kateel from the post. "Being a party president, he should not make such baseless statements and stoop to this level. It is shameful that a person with such a mentality is the state president of a national party," Rao said, calling Kateel "senseless" and as someone who had lost his "mental balance".  Lashing out at the ruling party, Rao further alleged that BJP was a corrupt party both financially and morally. "They have no principles. They take God's name for ulterior political motives," he said.  He urged Chief Minister Bommai to take control of what his party leaders were speaking.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rahul-gandhi-a-drug-addict-and-peddler-nalin-kateel-stokes-controversy-congress-demands-apology-1042106.html
19-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||I have nothing to learn from RSS 'Shakha', says Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said he has nothing to learn from RSS 'Shakha' as he alleged that people who were trained there have indulged in watching "blue film" at the legislative Assembly, when the session was on. The former Chief Minister was responding to state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel's recent invitation to him to come to RSS Shakha and learn about the activities of the Sangh. "...I don't want their (RSS) companionship. Haven't we seen what was taught in RSS Shakha? How to behave in the Vidhana Soudha....watching blue film while the assembly session is on. Isn't such a thing taught to them (BJP) at RSS Shakha? Do I have to go there (to RSS shakha) to learn this?" Kumaraswamy asked. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the bypoll campaign, he said, "I don't want their Shakha. Whatever I have learnt from the Shakha here, the Shakha of the poor is enough. I have nothing to learn from theirs (RSS Shakha)." Kumaraswamy was referring to an incident in 2012, when the then three ministers were caught on camera allegedly watching porn clipping on mobile phones in the state assembly during its proceedings, causing an embarrassment to the then BJP government. The three ministers had resigned following the incident. Recently, referring to a book, Kumaraswamy had said that the RSS, as part of its "hidden agenda", has created a team of bureaucrats in this country, who are now placed at various institutions. He had also said the BJP governments at both the Centre and in Karnataka were functioning on the directions of the RSS, and PM Narendra Modi was its "puppet". Following this, Kateel had invited him to come to RSS Shakha and learn about the Sangh's activities.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-have-nothing-to-learn-from-rss-shakha-says-kumaraswamy-1042154.html
19-10-2021||National||US court rejects plea filed by Nirav Modi, associates seeking dismissal of fraud allegations against them||In a major blow to Nirav Modi, a bankruptcy court in the US has rejected a petition of the fugitive diamond merchant and two of his associates, seeking dismissal of fraud allegations against them by the trustee of three companies they previously owned indirectly. The allegations were made in a New York court by Richard Levin, the court-appointed trustee of three US corporations--Firestar Diamond, Fantasy Inc and A Jaffe--indirectly owned by 50-year-old Modi previously. Levin had also sought a minimum compensation of $15 million for the “harm” suffered by the debtors of Nirav Modi and his associates Mihir Bhansali and Ajay Gandhi. Southern District of New York Bankruptcy Court Judge Sean H Lane issued the order last Friday, in a major blow to the Indian fugitive and his accomplices. Nirav Modi, who is currently lodged in a jail in the UK, is challenging India's attempts to extradite him to face charges of fraud and money laundering in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. “SDNY Bankruptcy Court Judge Lane in a clear decision denied defendants Modi, Bansali and Gandhi’s motions to dismiss US Trustee Richard Levin’s amended complaint in the adversary proceeding arising out of Modi’s initial chapter 11 bankruptcy petition, alleging fraud, breach of fiduciary duties, RICO and related state law claims,” Indian American attorney Ravi Batra told PTI. Explaining the 60-page order, Batra said Modi outdid Crazy Eddie (Eddie Antar), the founder of an American electronics retail chain, who ploughed his profits back into his own company as additional sales to falsely raise the stock price/company valuation, by setting up a scheme to defraud PNB and other banks of over $1 billion by a “shell game,” where the ball gets bigger with each sleight of hand, and then issue Letters of Undertaking (sort of a guarantee) to PNB and get loans based upon the inflated ball’s value. “But to get the ill-gotten funds by bank fraud out of his companies, he engaged in a separate fraud to hide those withdrawals for personal benefit as if they were ordinary business transactions,” Batra said based on the court papers. According to the court order, Levin’s petition sought to recover damages for harm inflicted by Modi and his two accomplices on the debtors and their estates as a result of his six-year extensive international fraud, money laundering and embezzlement scheme. The scheme resulted in accrual of claims against the debtors of over $1 billion in favour of Punjab National Bank, the diversion of millions of dollars of the debtors’ assets for the benefit of the family of Modi and Bhansali, and the collapse of the debtors and the resulting loss of value of their businesses. “The court’s refusal to dismiss RICO (Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act) count is legally satisfying, but there is a hole in this celebration by law abiding banks and people: once the appeals are taken, and Modi remains charged with the US Trustee’s amended complaint, in whole or in part, and the case goes to a jury and wins a judgment, it’s only the assets Modi and his cohorts then have can they be compelled to disgorge,” Batra said. “Here, as in every type of “pump and dump” cases, it’s not what was fraudulently taken from Banks' remains, but the size of the original ball’s value in the shell game, less high living expenses, waste, defence fees, etc. Today is a great day for the rule of law, thanks to Judge Lane, as now Modi’s US companies, run by the US Trustee, are going after Modi and his co-defendants so Punjab National Bank can get 10-25 cents on the dollar,” Batra told PTI in response to a question. According to the court ruling, from early 2011 to early 2018, Modi and his associates orchestrated and carried out a scheme to “obtain loans, credits, or other funds under false pretences and without collateral” from numerous banks, including the PNB. The bank fraud involved the use of letters of undertaking (LoUs), a financial instrument unique to India, designed to facilitate efficient import transactions. Modi and the co-conspirators sought to artificially inflate the import volumes of Modi’s India-based companies with sham transactions so as to obtain more LoU funding, it alleged. To carry out this scheme, Modi and his co-conspirators used a web of shell companies known as “shadow entities” based in Hong Kong and Dubai that posed as legitimate businesses to create fake import transactions and launder the proceeds, it said. The PNB and the other defrauded banks are reported to have lost in excess of $1 billion as a result of the fraud, the judge wrote in his order. In his petition, Levin listed examples of how Modi, Bhansali and Gandhi directly benefited from fraudulently issued LoUs and were involved in circular transactions until early 2013, when the debtors no longer directly participated in import and export transactions underlying LoU issuances and instead received proceeds indirectly through the “shadow entities”. Meanwhile, the UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said in August that it is reviewing the London High Court ruling to grant Modi permission to appeal against his extradition order with the Indian government for the next stage in the legal process. The CPS, which represents the Indian authorities in court, highlighted that the appeal can be heard at a full hearing on two grounds related to the mental health of the diamantaire, who is lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London as he fights his extradition to face charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon the PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added to the CBI case.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-court-rejects-plea-filed-by-nirav-modi-associates-seeking-dismissal-of-fraud-allegations-against-them-1041971.html
19-10-2021||National||Kerala accounts for more than half of India's new Covid-19 cases||With 6,676 new Covid-19 cases, Kerala accounts for over half of India's 13,058 new coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours. This is India's lowest single-day rise in cases in 231 days, Union Health Ministry data showed. The death toll climbed to 4,52,454 with 164 fresh fatalities, while the active cases have declined to 1,83,118, the lowest in 227 days, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise  in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 25 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 114 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.54 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.14 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 6,576 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.     Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-accounts-for-more-than-half-of-indias-new-covid-19-cases-1041973.html
19-10-2021||National||PM Modi greets people on Milad-un-Nabi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday greeted people on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad. Modi said, may the virtues of kindness and brotherhood always prevail.  "Milad-un-Nabi greetings. Let there be peace and prosperity all around. May the virtues of kindness and brotherhood always prevail. Eid Mubarak!" the prime minister tweeted. Milad-un-Nabi greetings. Let there be peace and prosperity all around. May the virtues of kindness and brotherhood always prevail. Eid Mubarak! Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-people-on-milad-un-nabi-1041981.html
19-10-2021||National||CBSE announces dates for Central Teacher Eligibility Test||CBSE to conduct the 15th edition of Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) between December 16 this year and January 13, 2022. It will be in CBT (Computer Based Test) mode. The online application process for CTET examination began from September 20. One more examination city has been created at Leh for the convenience of aspirants. Candidates who've already applied for CTET- Dec 2021 & wish to change their city or make any correction in their particulars in online application form can do so from 28.10.2021 to 3.11.2021: CBSE   More to follow...   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-announces-dates-for-central-teacher-eligibility-test-1041991.html
19-10-2021||National||NIA to take over cases of civilian killings in J&K||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will likely hand over the probe of recent civilian killings in Kashmir to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), sources in the security set up said here on Tuesday. According to sources, the investigation in these killings indicate a definite pattern leading to the terror angle, therefore, the investigation may be assigned to the national anti-terror probe agency. They also said that this issue was discussed threadbare in the National Security Strategy Conference held on Monday wherein Union Home Minister Amit Shah discussed it with all stakeholders in detail. Another source in the government set up said that civilian killings in Kashmir have given a wrong signal and most of the migrant labourers and non-Kashmiris are leaving Kashmir leading to a sense of fear among the local residents too. These gruesome incidents have also spread fear among the Kashmiris Pandits who were willing to go back to the valley on behest of the government initiatives. The local NIA team has already been assisting the J&K Police in the killings probe and trying to identify the masterminds behind these killings. The sources also said that the central agencies have been scanning the old cases of stone pelters as targeted killings revealed that these killers are not from the regular terrorists' cadre. "The probe agency will take over the cases of Kashmiri Pandit Pharmaceutical dealer Makhan Lal Bindroo; Virendra Paswan, a non-Kashmiri street vendor from Bihar and the other labourers," the senior officials added. The NIA Director General Kuldeep Singh visited Srinagar on Monday and reportedly discussed the situation with other security stakeholders. Singh, who is also the DG of the CRPF which is playing a major counter terror operation in the valley, has also directed the force to re-strategise the operation against the terror groups in the valley. So far, 11 civilians have been killed in the last 16 days. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-to-take-over-cases-of-civilian-killings-in-jk-1041996.html
19-10-2021||National||FabIndia withdraws advertisement after social media row||Ethnic garment retailer FabIndia courted a controversy over advertisement of its festive collection titled ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’, suggesting that the latest offering was linked to Diwali. The retailer was forced to withdraw the advertisement as also a feature on the collection in a fashion magazine after facing a massive online backlash for “defacing” and “abrahamisation” of Hindu festivals. Founded in 1960 by John Bissell, an American national who had travelled to India to advise the Handicraft Board to create a market for handloom fabrics, FabIndia had posted advertisements on Twitter on October 9, to promote the ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’ collection. FabIndia was trolled on social media for what some said was unnecessarily uplifting secularism and Muslim ideologies in a Hindu festival, saying it hurt their religious sentiments. After pulling down the advertisement and the feature, FabIndia claimed that the ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’ collection was not a part of its Diwali Collection. “Our current capsule of products under the name Jashn-e-Riwaaz is a celebration of Indian traditions. The phrase means that, literally. The capsule is not our Diwali Collection of products. Our Diwali collection is called ‘Jhilmil si Diwali’. It is yet to be launched,” a FabIndia spokesperson said. Several users of social media claimed that there was no need for the retailer to “deconstruct the Hindu festival and infuse it with secularism”. BJP Yuva Morcha President Tejasvi Surya took to Twitter to slam the advertisement and asked his followers to impose “economic cost” on FabIndia for such “deliberate misadventures”. Deepavali is not Jash-e-Riwaaz. This deliberate attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals, depicting models without traditional Hindu attires, must be called out. “Deepavali is not Jashn-e-Riwaaz. This deliberate attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals, depicting models without traditional Hindu attires, must be called out. And brands like @fabindiaNews must face economic cost for such deliberate misadventures,” Surya, a Lok Sabha member from Bengaluru South said on Monday. “Wow @FabindiaNews great job at de-Hinduising Deepawali! Call it a ‘festival of love and light’, title the collection ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’, take Bindis off foreheads of models but expect Hindus to buy your overpriced, mass-produced products in the name of ‘homage to Indian culture’,” author Shefali Vaidya said. “Boycott Fabindia is trending because they’ve poetically named their Diwali collection - Jashn-e-Riwaaz. This is beyond ridiculous. How does naming a collection in Urdu lessen your Diwali for you,” author Shunali Khullar Shroff said. Earlier, Tata Group’s jewellery brand Tanishq was forced to withdraw an advertisement that showed an interfaith couple at a baby shower organised for the Hindu bride by her Muslim in-laws. Clothing brand Manyavar too was at the receiving end when its advertisement featuring Bollywood actor Alia Bhatt in wedding attire, appeared to question an old tradition. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fabindia-withdraws-advertisement-after-social-media-row-1041997.html
19-10-2021||National||No new Covid variant of concern in last 6 months: NTAGI chief Dr NK Arora||National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) chairman NK Arora said that that there has been no sign of emergence of a new coronavirus variant in the last six months, however, 'constant vigil' was the need of the hour. “However, there should be strict Covid discipline ahead of and during festivals,” he said, adding that the way forward was to effectively follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get every adult vaccinated Arora ruled out any shortage of vaccines. He said the country would have about 90 crore doses available in the coming three months. “Covid vaccines are very effective in preventing serious disease for the current variants. They are likely to be effective on future variants as well,” Arora added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-new-covid-variant-of-concern-in-last-6-months-ntagi-chief-dr-nk-arora-1041998.html
19-10-2021||National||Railway Board shuts down IRSDC||In continuation with its efforts to rightsize the Railways, the Railway Board has issued an order closing down the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) that was set up for the redevelopment of stations across the country. This is the second organisation under the Railway Ministry to be shut down after the closure of the Indian Railways Organisation for Alternative Fuel (IROAF) on September 7, 2021. The step is a move to accept the recommendation of the Finance Ministry, which in a report has recommended rationalisation of government bodies either by closing them down or through merging multiple organisations under different ministries. The order issued by the Railway Board late on Monday said the stations managed by the IRSDC will now be handed over to the respective zonal railways and the corporation will pass on all project related documents to them for further development.  Among several other projects, IRSDC, which was set up in March 2012, was involved in the bidding process for the redevelopment of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus in Mumbai. The IRSDC recently invited bids for setting up of "Rail Arcade" at Chandigarh and KSR Bengaluru Railway Stations. It had also announced plans to undertake facility management of 90 railway stations across South India. The report prepared by Principal Economic Advisor, Sanjeev Sanyal, has also recommended the merger of the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), which implements projects relating to creation and augmentation of railway infrastructure, with the Indian Railway Construction Limited (IRCON), a specialised infrastructure construction organisation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-board-shuts-down-irsdc-1042005.html
19-10-2021||National||Increasing activities by China in depth areas of eastern sector: Eastern Army Commander||China has increased the intensity of carrying out military drills and deployment in its depth areas opposite the Arunachal Pradesh sector and India has correspondingly readied contingency plans to deal with any security challenges in the region, Eastern Army Commander Lt Gen Manoj Pande said on Tuesday. Giving an account of India's overall military modernisation, Lt Gen Pande also said that an in-principle approval has been given to new combat formations called the Integrated Battle Groups (IBGs) which can mobilise fast with a more effective approach. The IBGs will comprise a mix of infantry, artillery, air defence, tanks and logistics units and the new set up is expected to revamp the Army's war fighting capabilities, particularly along the borders with China and Pakistan. Lt Gen Pande added that the plan to operationalise the 17 Mountain Corp has been implemented in sync with a plan finalised in 2014. "The annual training exercise that the PLA carries out there has seen some increase in the level of activities in the depth areas. Some of the reserve formations which the PLA mobilised continue to remain in their training areas that are in the operational depth areas," he said. "Both sides are attempting to develop infrastructure closer to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that create certain issues at times," he said, adding there has been an increase in deployment of troops following the development of new infrastructure. The commander said India has taken a number of steps and the foremost among them is enhancing surveillance both close to the LAC and the depth areas by synergising all surveillance resources right from the strategic level to the tactical level. "We have adequate forces that are available in each sector to deal with any contingency that may arise. We are practising and rehearsing various contingencies that may arise," he said. Asked about the recent agreement between China and Bhutan to resolve their decades-old boundary dispute and whether it will impact India's strategic interests in the areas around Doklam tri-junction, the Army Commander did not give a direct reply but said authorities concerned in the government must have taken note of the pact. On China violating various border agreements and protocols, Lt Gen Pande indicated that the issue is being discussed at a higher level. "In terms of our larger guidance, strategic guidance in terms of dealing with situation on the LAC is to respect the mutually agreed protocols and agreements, and that has been our effort, notwithstanding what has been the action or response from the other side," he said. "Consequent to what happened and what we need to do in the future, is something I reckon is being looked into at the larger level," he said. A fourth hotline between the two sides has been activated recently, he added. As tensions increased following the eastern Ladakh row last year, India ramped up overall deployment of troops along the nearly 3,400 km LAC besides speeding up infrastructure development to gain tactical advantage. The Army is also cranking up its day and night surveillance over the LAC in the region using a fleet of remotely piloted aircraft A sizeable fleet of Israeli-made Heron medium-altitude long endurance drone is carrying out round-the-clock surveillance over the LAC in the mountainous terrain and sending crucial data and images to command and control centres. Along with the drones, the Indian Army's aviation wing has also been deploying the Weapon System Integrated (WSI) variant of the Advanced Light Helicopter Rudra in the region adding more teeth to its tactical missions in the region, they said. The government is also working on connecting Tawang with a railway network as part of the decision to enhance infrastructure in the region. The eastern Ladakh border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. The tension escalated following a deadly clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in Gogra area in August and in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February. The last round of military talks on October 10 ended in stalemate following which both sides blamed each other for the impasse. In a strong statement after the 13th round of talks, the Indian Army said the "constructive suggestions" made by it at the negotiations were neither agreeable to the Chinese side nor Beijing could provide any "forward-looking" proposals. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/increasing-activities-by-china-in-depth-areas-of-eastern-sector-eastern-army-commander-1042014.html
19-10-2021||National||States, UTs asked to focus on second Covid vaccine dose coverage||Highlighting that the nation is close to administering a billion Covid vaccine doses, the Centre has urged states and Union Territories to focus on increasing the coverage of the second dose in light of adequate availability of shots. The cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 inoculation drive has exceeded 99 crore. The countrywide Covid-19 vaccination programme was launched on January 16 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Union government has also sought from the states suggestions in formulating new guidelines for international travel. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan reviewed the progress of vaccination with Health Secretaries and mission directors of national health missions in states and UTs, through a video conference on Monday, according to a ministry statement. Bhushan highlighted that the nation is close to administering a billion doses and congratulated the states and UTs for their effort to vaccinate all citizens. It was highlighted that a sizeable number of beneficiaries have not received their second dose of the Covid vaccine. The states and UTs were urged to focus on the second vaccination dose, the statement said. At the virtual conference, it was pointed out that many states have adequate doses to vaccinate those people who are awaiting their second jab. The Government of India is in a position to provide additional vaccine doses to the states and UTs so that they can complete the task, it said. They were also exhorted to accelerate the vaccination drive. The states and Union Territories were advised to identify and prioritize districts having low coverage for focused action and explore requirements for mobilization efforts, addressing local challenges, need for additional Covid Vaccination Centres and improving access in rural areas, the statement said. The Health Ministry has issued standard operating procedures over the last one year for international travel. It is reviewing the guidelines in consultation with all stakeholders, including the Ministry of Home Affairs, Bureau of Immigration, Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of External Affairs. The states and UTs were also requested to share their suggestion or feedback, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-uts-asked-to-focus-on-second-covid-vaccine-dose-coverage-1042021.html
19-10-2021||National||India’s 100 crore Covid-19 vaccination milestone hides a worrying divide||By Chris Kay, India will soon have administered 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, but the milestone masks a yawning gap between the number of people who have been fully inoculated and those that have had just one shot.  While it is likely to hit the billion-doses mark this week, the country has only given two shots to nearly 21% of its population of about 1.4 billion, according Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker. By comparison, 51% have had a single dose, making it one of the highest disparities in the world, the tracker shows. Neighbouring China, the only nation to dish out more vaccine doses than India, has fully inoculated some 1.05 billion, or 75% of its citizens, as of late September. Health experts pin the lopsided statistic on a mix of factors. Home to the world’s most devastating Covid outbreak earlier this year, India has seen cases ebb the past few months, dimming the urgency to get vaccinated. The country had administered almost 987 million doses as of Tuesday. In rural areas, government welfare is tied to having just one shot, with some having to travel long distances to return for the second dose. The large number of children yet to be covered by the vaccine program also contributes, as does the comparatively long three-month gap health authorities advise between two doses of AstraZeneca Plc’s shot, the predominant vaccine deployed in India.    “Adherence was noted to be an issue in all two-dose clinical trials run in India,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor at the University of Michigan’s School of Public Health. “So the widening gap is due to both the spacing between two doses and non-adherence.” The disparity is of concern because while infections have come off the highs reached in early May, India is still seeing more than 13,000 new cases every day and hundreds of deaths.   Waning urgency “When cases are as low as they are right now, the level of enthusiasm and the level of urgency to be vaccinated may wane,” said Brian Wahl, a New Delhi-based epidemiologist at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, which has worked on a campaign to boost vaccine confidence with a medical college in the north Indian city of Chandigarh. Hesitancy is potentially acute in India’s countryside, where about two-thirds of the population lives with limited access to poorly-funded health facilities. Many state governments have made the first-shot vaccination certificate a de-facto requirement for accessing welfare programs, including a food ration system that many poor and rural-dwelling families depend on. There are no equivalent requirements attached to receiving the second dose.  Government officials have been following up with people about their second shot, but it can be difficult to make them return as well as to convince those who are hesitant, said Wahl. “The further progress you make, the more challenging it is to get higher and higher levels of coverage.” Nevertheless, Wahl expects the gap to narrow in coming weeks. A slew of Indians are slated to get their second AstraZeneca shot following a long wait to get their first in the summer, when the vaccine’s local manufacturer -- the Serum Institute of India Ltd. -- began to significantly gear up its production. Children’s shots Also skewing the statistics is the fact that India is yet to deploy any vaccines for those under 18, some 40% of India’s population. That may change soon. One locally developed inoculation has been approved for over 12s, but hasn’t started to be administered yet. The country’s drug regulator is also currently reviewing another shot for those as young as two. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is aiming to fully vaccinate India’s adult population by year-end. Until then, health authorities hope the vaccines already deployed -- as well as natural immunity built up by an estimated two-thirds of the population -- will hold the line.  But risks remain. “In pockets where we are not seeing the same high level of immunization, there’s a threat you could see smaller outbreaks,” Wahl said. “Immunity does wane over time. Continuing to keep up with the immunization campaign is important.”  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-100-crore-covid-19-vaccination-milestone-hides-a-worrying-divide-1042034.html
19-10-2021||National||Experts divided on need to vaccinate kids below 12 years against Covid||As India gears up to vaccinate children and adolescents against coronavirus, some health experts have suggested that there is no need to vaccinate children below 12 years of age. Top virologist Gangandeep Kang reiterated Muliyil's point stressing that lack of granular data on children is a major issue. “Am reluctant to vaccinate children now for the reason of science, and also for the reason of ethics, as many elderly have not been covered,” Kang said. “There is a concept of immune imprinting for some infections such as influenza, dengue and even HIV. The first time you encounter something and respond to it, that shapes your immune system to all subsequent versions of that same thing,” she explained adding that it matters which shot the kids take first. An expert panel recently recommended the emergency use of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on children and adolescents in the age group of 2-18 years. However, the Centre is exercising full caution before it finally kickstarts the Covid-19 vaccination drive for children in India. “If the vaccination is to help children who are at risk of dying, then there is no evidence that the vaccine will work. Many can get infection even after vaccination,” Muliyil said. No timeline on when vaccination for kids will begin The government will take a final decision on vaccinating children and adolescents against coronavirus on the basis of overall scientific rationale as well as the supply situation of vaccines available for those below 18 years old, Covid Task Force chief V K Paul had earlier said. While noting it will not be possible now to give a particular timeline on when Covid vaccination will start for children, Paul had said, "The preparation for incorporation of Zydus Cadila's vaccine into the vaccination programme is proceeding well, training is already being held. NTAGI advice for the best use of the vaccine is explored. So soon, this will be rolled out". According to Paul, Covid infections in children are very mild or asymptomatic, and that is one side of the story. On the other side, he said that once there is enough vaccine available that can be used in children, "so why not protect them". Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-divided-on-need-to-vaccinate-kids-below-12-years-against-covid-1042048.html
19-10-2021||National||PM to interact with CEOs, experts of global oil and gas sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with CEOs and experts of the global oil and gas sector on Wednesday via video conferencing, his office said. This is the sixth such annual interaction which began in 2016 and marks the participation of global leaders in the oil and gas sector, who deliberate upon key issues of the sector and explore potential areas of collaboration and investment with India, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. Prime Minister Modi will interact with CEOs and experts of the global oil and gas sector on October 20 at 6 PM via video conferencing, it said. The broad theme of the upcoming interaction is promotion of clean growth and sustainability.  The interaction will focus on areas like encouraging exploration and production in hydrocarbon sector in India, energy independence, gas-based economy, emissions reduction through clean and energy efficient solutions, green hydrogen economy, enhancement of biofuels production and waste to wealth creation, according to the PMO.  CEOs and experts from leading multinational corporations and top international organisations will be participating in this exchange of ideas, the statement said. Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas Hardeep Singh Puri will be present on the occasion.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-interact-with-ceos-experts-of-global-oil-and-gas-sector-1042052.html
19-10-2021||National||Global Hunger Index 2021 reflects India’s reality where hunger accentuated post-Covid: Oxfam India||India's Global Hunger Index 2021 ranking at 101st position "unfortunately" reflects the reality of the country where hunger has accentuated since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, Oxfam India said. India slipped to 101st position in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) of 116 countries, from its 2020 position of 94th, and is behind its neighbours Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. Reacting sharply to the report, the Ministry of Women and Child Development had said it was "shocking" to find that the Global Hunger Report 2021 has lowered the rank of India on the basis of FAO estimate on proportion of undernourished population, which is found to be "devoid of ground reality and facts and suffers from serious methodological issues''. Oxfam India said the GHI data which states that India dropped to the hunger-level ranks by seven spots to the 101st spot "unfortunately reflects the reality of the country where hunger accentuated since the Covid-19 pandemic”. “This trend of undernutrition in India is unfortunately not new, and is actually based on the government's own National Family Health Survey (NHFS) data. The data shows that between 2015 and 2019, a large number of Indian states actually ended up reversing the gains made on child nutrition parameters. “This loss of nutrition should be of concern because it has intergenerational effects, to put it simply - the latest data shows that in several parts of India, children born between 2015 and 2019 are more malnourished than the previous generation,” said Amitabh Behar, CEO, Oxfam India. The Union budget this year discussed India's POSHAN (Prime Minister's Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nourishment) scheme with “increased” allocations to POSHAN 2.0. However, the POSHAN Abhiyaan launched in 2017 to improve nutrition among children, pregnant women and lactating mothers, has languished due to poor funding resulting from clever clubbing with other schemes within the health-budget and even worse implementation. Only 0.57 per cent of the current budget has been allocated towards funding the actual POSHAN scheme and the amount for child nutrition dropped by a whopping 18.5 per cent compared to 2020-21, Oxfam India said in a statement. "There are massive negative consequences to not arresting high levels of malnutrition. In India, both our adult population and children are at risk. For instance, the BMI of a quarter of our (teenage and middle-aged) women is below the standard global norm, more than half of our women suffer from anaemia. “A quarter of our (teenage and middle-aged) men also show signs of iron and calcium deficiencies as per the latest round of NHFS data,” said Varna Sri Raman, Lead, Research and Knowledge Building at Oxfam India. The GHI report, prepared jointly by Irish aid agency Concern Worldwide and German organisation Welt Hunger Hilfe, termed the level of hunger in India "alarming". India's GHI score has also decelerated -- from 38.8 in 2000 to the range of 28.8 - 27.5 between 2012 and 2021. The GHI score is calculated on four indicators --undernourishment; child wasting (the share of children under the age of five who are wasted i.e who have low weight for their height, reflecting acute undernutrition); child stunting (children under the age of five who have low height for their age, reflecting chronic undernutrition) and child mortality (the mortality rate of children under the age of five). Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-hunger-index-2021-reflects-india-s-reality-where-hunger-accentuated-post-covid-oxfam-india-1042053.html
19-10-2021||National||India delays Covid-19 vaccine supplies to WHO-backed COVAX||India has delayed committing supplies of vaccine to the COVAX global sharing effort, two sources told Reuters on Tuesday, a day after one of its key backers, the WHO, said the agency could not "cut corners" to approve a domestically developed vaccine. The world's biggest vaccine maker resumed exports of Covid-19 doses this month for the first time since April. It has sent about 4 million to countries such as neighbouring Bangladesh and Iran, but none to COVAX. Delayed supplies to COVAX could disrupt inoculation drives in many African nations that rely on it for vaccines. On Monday, in the run-up to an Oct. 26 meeting on Covaxin, India's first domestically developed COVID-19 vaccine, the World Health Organization (WHO) said it could not "cut corners" in the approval decision. One of the sources said it was "frustrating" that India had yet to confirm any supply to COVAX, despite a promise by the health minister last month to meet the commitment to COVAX and others during the quarter to December. The sources, who have been briefed on the export talks, declined to be identified as they were not authorised to speak on the subject. "We are still waiting for confirmation on when and how many doses we can expect when exports do resume, and are not aware of any specific delay," COVAX co-lead GAVI, the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, said in an email. "Indian vaccines have a powerful role to play" in ending the pandemic, it added. India's health ministry, WHO and the Serum Institute of India (SII), which is the world's biggest maker of vaccines, did not respond to requests for comment. SII, contracted to supply hundreds of millions of doses of a version of the AstraZeneca vaccine to COVAX and countries such as Bangladesh, has more than tripled its output of the vaccine since April, to reach 220 million doses a month. Indian government officials have said they are confident the WHO will soon approve emergency use of Covaxin, which accounts for 11 per cent of the 990 million doses India has injected, with the rest mostly from AstraZeneca. A few weeks ago, Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of SII, told the Telegraph newspaper that the company would resume exports to COVAX in October. "Initially these supplies will be small, but by January 2022, once we have satisfied domestic demands ... we will see large volumes go to COVAX," he added. Before India halted overseas vaccine shipments in April to fill domestic demand, it donated or sold more than 66 million Covid-19 doses, including Covaxin. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-delays-covid-19-vaccine-supplies-to-who-backed-covax-1042059.html
19-10-2021||National||Hindi-Tamil row: Zomato reinstates employee it sacked, founder bats for 'higher tolerance and chill'||Within hours of food delivery company Zomato sacking a customer care executive for telling a customer from Tamil Nadu that Hindi is the country’s “national language,”  the company founder Deepinder Goyal tweeted saying they are reinstating the employee, underlining that the "level of tolerance and chill in our country needs to be way higher than it is nowadays". "An ignorant mistake by someone in a support centre of a food delivery company became a national issue. The level of tolerance and chill in our country needs to be way higher than it is nowadays. Who's to be blamed here? On that note, we are reinstating the agent – this alone is not something she should have been fired for. This is easily something she can learn and do better about going forward," Goyal said in a tweet.  An ignorant mistake by someone in a support centre of a food delivery company became a national issue. The level of tolerance and chill in our country needs to be way higher than it is nowadays. Who's to be blamed here? Adding that "we should all tolerate each other's imperfections and appreciate each other's language and regional sentiments," Goyal said, "Tamil Nadu – we love you. Just as much as we love  the rest of the country. Not more, not less. We are all the same, as much as we are different." Earlier, after an uproar over the incident, Zomato released a statement in English and Tamil on Tuesday afternoon to apologise on behalf of the customer care agent, saying the company understands that food and language are "core to any local culture" and that it "takes both of them seriously".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindi-tamil-row-zomato-reinstates-employee-it-sacked-founder-bats-for-higher-tolerance-and-chill-1042065.html
19-10-2021||National||Jaishankar visits Israel's Ovda Airbase to meet IAF contingent taking part in biennial Blue Flag exercise||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday visited Israel's Ovda Airbase to meet the Indian contingent participating in the biennial Blue Flag exercise involving Air Force missions from eight countries, that aims to share knowledge and combat experience to improve operational capabilities. A total of 85 Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel are taking part in the exercises along with five upgraded Mirage 2000 fighter aircraft. They are the latest updated technological version of the French aircraft, equipped with advanced avionics and weapons systems. The US, UK, Germany, France, Italy, Greece and Israel are the other nations participating in the exercises, which will for the first time see the participation of F-35 aircraft. India had also participated in this biennial event in 2017 with the focus then on boosting special operations capabilities, including search and rescue operations under different conditions and cross border counter-terrorist operations. A 45-member Indian contingent, including 16 Garud commandos, had then participated in the exercises. The Indian Air force had sent C-130J "super Hercules" aircraft along with Garud commandos then. The Blue Flag drill is a bi-annual exercise designed to strengthen Israel’s military cooperation internationally. Israel is among the top arms suppliers to India with sales ranging from Phalcon AWACS (airborne warning and control systems) and Searcher, Heron and Harop UAVs (unmanned aerial vehicles) to Aerostat and Green Pine radars, Barak anti-missile defence and several types of missiles and laser-guided bombs.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-visits-israels-ovda-airbase-to-meet-iaf-contingent-taking-part-in-biennial-blue-flag-exercise-1042070.html
19-10-2021||National||Prominent NC leader quits party after Devender Singh Rana's exit||Former Jammu and Kashmir minister Prem Sagar Aziz quit the National Conference (NC) on Tuesday and extended support to former party colleague Devender Singh Rana, who joined the BJP recently. Aziz, who was the NC's Bani Assembly constituency in-charge, said he is resigning from the primary membership of the party, along with his supporters. "I was in the Congress for 45 years and joined the National Conference only because of Rana. As I know that he is working for the cause of Jammu, I support his cause unequivocally. "Now that Rana has dissociated himself from the National Conference for the sake of Jammu, I cannot continue in the party and extend my support to Rana," he said in a statement here. Rana, the younger brother of Union minister Jitendra Singh, quit the NC on October 10, along with senior party colleague and former minister S S Slathia. Both of them joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi the next day. Rana was the provincial president of the NC. Aziz said he will "stand like a rock behind Rana" as his contribution to the cause of Jammu has been an inspiration for him to work for people. Rana had taken over as the NC's provincial president in 2011 after relinquishing his office as the political advisor to the then Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prominent-nc-leader-quits-party-after-devender-singh-ranas-exit-1042073.html
19-10-2021||National||Once having cycled across 17 nations, 67-year-old Mayure on Mission Kashmir to Kanyakumari||Having once paddled across 17 nations and 15,000 kilometres to reach Athens back in 2004, veteran Maharashtra cyclist Sanjay Mayure has embarked on 'Bharat Darshan' as he has undertaken a challenge to cycle from Kashmir to Kanyakumari in two months. A renowned cyclist from Maharashtra's Vidarbha region 67-year-old Mayure reached New Delhi on Tuesday after having started his mission from Srinagar's Lal Chowk on October 8. From Delhi, Mayure will be heading to Gwalior followed by Nagpur and then off to Hyderabad. From Hyderabad, he will be reaching Bengaluru before the final stretch which consists of three cities --- Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Rameswaram covering around 4,100 kms. Mayure is expected to cover this distance in the next two months. "I think age is just a number. It is very easy to give excuses to avoid difficult tasks. Cycling has been my passion right from childhood. It kept me healthy and busy at this age too," said Mayure, who had some years back retired as Nayab Tahsildar of revenue department at DM's office. Asked how he manages his accommodation as there is a fair amount of expense associated with this kind of a journey across India. "I have never taken money and mostly managed on my own. I have spent lot of nights at Gurdwaras and ate the langar food and at times stayed in Mandirs where I have survived on prasad. Some places where I have no option, I stay at budget hotels to cut costs. But this is my passion and I can't ask for money from anyone," said Mayure, who hails from a small town Buldana, which is 50 kms from Ajanta, Ellora Caves. Mayure, who won several cycling races in his younger days and earned the reward of 'Ghatacha Raja' (King of Ghats), was 50 years old when he had cycled across 17 countries to encourage Indian Olympians during the Athens edition. So how does he manage costs and Mayure revealed a story of passion. "My wife is a retired SBI officer, my son is also working in a bank and my daughter-in-law is a teacher. I can't tell how much my wife encourages me. I save my pension money and then use it for these trips. When I went to Athens, she sold a plot of land for Rs 7 lakh and funded my trip," Mayure said. Mayure has also done the famous 'Narmada Parikrama' covering about 4,000 kms on his cycle earlier in January this year. So what's after reaching Kanyakumari? "Well I plan to come back to Chennai and take a flight to Pune. From Pune, my friends will join me as we embark on a cycling trip to Shirdi," concluded Mayure, who wants everyone to "push the paddle and stay away from worries."  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/once-having-cycled-across-17-nations-67-year-old-mayure-on-mission-kashmir-to-kanyakumari-1042076.html
19-10-2021||National||India's Covid-19 R-value below 1 since September, say researchers||India's R-value, which reflects how rapidly the coronavirus pandemic is spreading, has remained below one since September, suggesting that the infection rate is declining, according to a study. The Reproduction number or R refers to how many people an infected person infects on an average. In other words, it tells how 'efficiently' a virus is spreading. An R-value smaller than 1 means the disease is spreading slowly. Conversely, if R is greater than one, the number of infected people is increasing in each round - technically, this is what is called the epidemic phase. The bigger the number than one, the faster the rate of spreading of the disease in the population. According to figures calculated by researchers of the Chennai-based Institute of Mathematical Sciences, the R-value of top 10 states with most number of active cases was below one till October 18. However, some of the cities continue to show a rising number of active cases. Kolkata has an R-value over one, perhaps “unsurprising” given the mass gatherings during the (recently-concluded) Durga Puja, said Sitabhra Sinha, who is leading the research. Bengaluru also has R-value over one — it has been so ever since mid-September — while the R-values of Chennai, Pune and Mumbai are just below one. The country's R-value, calculated between September 25 and October 18, was 0.90. Between August 30 and September 3, the value was 1.11. It started declining since then — the R-value was 0.94 between September 4 and 7, 0.86 between September 11 and 15, 0.92 between September 14 and 19 and 0.87 between September 17 and 21, as per the study. After the brutal second wave of coronavirus between March to May this year, the daily Covid-19 cases have been on a decline. On Tuesday, India logged 13,058 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 231 days, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 25 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 114 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.54 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.14 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-r-value-below-1-since-september-say-researchers-1042079.html
19-10-2021||National||Video of Congress MLA, husband creating ruckus at police station goes viral||A Congress MLA and her husband have been caught on camera allegedly creating a ruckus at a police station in Jodhpur after her nephew was booked for drunken driving and his vehicle impounded. A video of the Shergarh MLA Meera Kanwar and her husband Ummed Singh, a PCC member, purportedly showing the duo sitting on the floor of the police station and arguing with policemen that all children drink and a bit of drinking does no harm, went viral on Monday night. “Sabke bacche peete hain. Kya hua jo thodi bahut le li? (All children drink. What happened if he took a little),” the MLA is heard telling officials at the Ratanada police station while demanding the immediate release of her nephew and his vehicle. Jodhpur | In a viral video, Congress MLA Meena Kanwar & her husband were seen staging a dharna at a police station over the release of their kin who were caught allegedly for drunk driving. In the video, she was heard saying, "all kids drink." The MLA and her husband are also heard rather accusing the policemen of misbehaving with them under the influence of liquor and asking them to leave their chairs and stand up in front of the MLAs. In the video, though the policemen are heard requesting the MLA and her husband to sit on chairs, they sat on the floor of the police station in a bid to pressurise the policemen. Eventually, under the MLA's pressure, the local policemen allowed her to leave the police station along with her nephew and his vehicle despite the police having lodged a formal case against her nephew under section 185 of the Motor Vehicle Act and impounding the vehicle, a senior police official said requesting anonymity. On being asked about the video, DCP (East) Bhuvan Bhushan Yadav said that the investigation of the case had been given to the ACP (East). “Only after the investigation, we would be able to arrive at some conclusion,” Yadav said. Meena Kanwar, however, claimed that police misbehaved with her nephew despite him giving his introduction. “He was not found under the influence of liquor. On his information, we reached the police station but police behaved rudely with us,” she alleged.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/video-of-congress-mla-husband-creating-ruckus-at-police-station-goes-viral-1042086.html
19-10-2021||National||Shahjahanpur advocate murder: Lawyers demand increased security||A day after an advocate was gunned down at the district court in Shahjahanpur, lawyers on Tuesday demanded increased security at the court premises and decided that people will be let in only after checking their identity cards. A condolence meeting was also held at the court for Bhupendra Singh (58), who was shot dead by a fellow lawyer, Suresh Gupta, over an old rivalry on Monday. According to police, Gupta was upset with Singh as he had filed over two dozen cases against him. Singh of Jalalabad tehsil had gone to the third-floor office of ACJM-I of the district court to meet a clerk regarding a case when the gunshot was heard and he was found dead, the police had said. General secretary of Central Bar Association Shahjahanpur Aneet Trivedi told PTI that a condolence meeting was held for Singh. It was decided that visitors should be allowed to enter the court premises only after checking their identity cards. Often it has been seen that criminals enter courts wearing black coats, he said. A demand for providing increased security to advocates was also made, he added. Gupta has been arrested for Singh's murder. His two sons, Gaurav and Ankit, have also been booked in connection with the case, according to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shahjahanpur-advocate-murder-lawyers-demand-increased-security-1042092.html
19-10-2021||National||Many are skipping second Covid shot despite record vaccine stocks||A "sizeable number" of people in India have not taken their second Covid-19 vaccine dose by the due date despite adequate supplies, the health ministry said on Tuesday, as new infections fell to their lowest since early March. Daily shots have averaged 50 lakh this month, a fifth of September's peak, though states are sitting on record stocks of more than 10 crore as the domestic output of the AstraZeneca vaccine soars. Despite the low number of infections, ministry officials have been urging people to get vaccinated fast, especially as the ongoing festival season means family gatherings and mass shopping, raising the risk of infection. Nearly three-quarters of India's 944 million adults have received at least one dose but only 31 per cent have been fully inoculated, mainly due to a longer-than-usual gap between AstraZeneca doses but also because people are skipping their second shots. "A sizeable number of beneficiaries who are eligible have not received their second dose," the health ministry said in a statement. "It was pointed out that many states have adequate doses to vaccinate those people who are awaiting their second dose. Government of India is in a position to provide additional vaccine doses ... so that they can complete the aforesaid task." More than 24 crore adults have yet to get a shot, while vaccination has not started for those under 18. India reported 13,058 new infections on Tuesday, the lowest since early March and taking the total to 34.1 million. Deaths rose by 164 to 452,454. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-are-skipping-second-covid-shot-despite-record-vaccine-stocks-1042095.html
19-10-2021||National||Govt sanctions ad hoc bonus to employees for FY21||The government has sanctioned non-productivity linked or ad hoc bonus for central government employees for fiscal year 2020-21. In an office memorandum, the Department of Expenditure under the Finance Ministry said the employees of central para military forces and armed forces too would be eligible for the bonus. Employees who were in service as on March 31, 2021, and have rendered at least six months of continuous service during 2020-21 fiscal year would be eligible for this ad hoc bonus. The non-productivity linked bonus (ad hoc bonus) would be paid to the central government employees in Group C and all non-gazetted employees in Group B, who are not covered by any productivity-linked bonus scheme. The calculation ceiling for payment of this bonus would be monthly emoluments of Rs 7,000. "The quantum of ad hoc bonus will be worked out on the basis of average emoluments/calculation ceiling whichever is lower," the Department of Expenditure said. To calculate ad hoc bonus for one day, the average emoluments in a year will be divided by 30.4 (average number of days in a month). This will, thereafter, be multiplied by the number of days of bonus granted. Giving an illustration, the memorandum said given the calculation ceiling of monthly emoluments of Rs 7,000 (where actual average emoluments exceed Rs 7,000), the non-productivity linked bonus or ad-hoc bonus for 30 days would work out to be Rs 6,908. It also clarified that in case of employees who resigned, retired from service or expired before March 31, 2021, the ad hoc bonus would be paid only to those who superannuated or retired on medical grounds or died before March 31, 2021, but after completing at least six months regular service during the year. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-sanctions-ad-hoc-bonus-to-employees-for-fy21-1042096.html
19-10-2021||National||8 people booked for burning effigies of PM Modi, CM Yogi||An FIR was lodged on Tuesday against seven people for burning effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, police said. The action was taken after some videos went viral on social media in which some persons were seen burning effigies of the PM and the CM, they said. Taking note of the videos, the police have lodged an FIR against seven people have been lodged under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for violating official orders. The police are trying to trace the offenders. Budaun’s Additional Superintendent of Police (Rural) Praveen Singh Chauhan said the video is of Gidhaul village in Musajhag area apparently shot on October 16. After taking their cognisance, the FIR was registered at Musajhag police station. The accused included a Bhartiya Kisan Union leader. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-people-booked-for-burning-effigies-of-pm-modi-cm-yogi-1042111.html
19-10-2021||National||Coal, railway, power ministers discuss coal supply situation at power plants||Coal minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday discussed ways to improve coal stocks at thermal power plants with railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and power minister R K Singh. The meeting comes against the backdrop of power plants grappling with coal shortages. "Held virtual meeting with Ministers @AshwiniVaishnaw ji & @RajKSinghIndia ji, along with officers of @CoalMinistry, CMDs & officials of coal companies. We discussed improving coal stock at thermal power plants & resolved our commitment to fulfill energy demands of the country," Joshi said in a tweet. The coal minister also reviewed the performance of Coal India arm Northern Coalfields Ltd (NCL) and directed it to ramp up production and load at least 34 rakes of the dry fuel daily. "Reviewed @NCL_SINGRAULI today, with the company CMD. Directed NCL to ramp up coal production and load at least 34 rakes per day. After this, will be visiting coal mines of NCL to interact with employees & motivate them to scale up coal excavation & dispatch," Joshi said. Last week, Joshi said the government was making full efforts to meet the coal demand of power producers and stressed that steps were being taken to soon ramp up the dry fuel supply to 2 million tonnes per day. The minister also felicitated machine operators at the Nigahi opencast coal project of NCL and said their role is integral for scaling up coal production and dispatch from the block. "Flagged off a Coal Dumper Truck at Nigahi OCP, @NCL_SINGRAULI. This indigenous dumper has been manufactured by BEML and furthers #MakeInIndia initiative," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-railway-power-ministers-discuss-coal-supply-situation-at-power-plants-1042123.html
19-10-2021||National||Madhya Pradesh to give Rs 20,500 crore power subsidy to farmers, domestic consumers||The Madhya Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday approved subsidy in power bills of over Rs 15,700 crore for farmers, and the continuance of subsidy of Rs 4,980 crore for domestic electricity consumers during the current fiscal. It also gave the nod to a scheme under which tribal families in 16 districts would get doorstep delivery of foodgrains from PDS (ration) shops. After the meeting held virtually and chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Home Minister and government spokesperson Narottam Mishra said the cabinet decided to provide over Rs 20,500 crore of subsidy on power bills to farmers and domestic consumers. An official statement said later that continuance of the subsidy for domestic consumers, including Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and those in Below Poverty Line category, under the Grah Jyoti Yojana will cost the exchequer Rs 4,981.69 crore. A subsidy of Rs 15,722.87 crore will be given in bills of agriculture pumps (up to 10 horse power capacity) and other farm sector consumers. It is estimated to benefit about 21.75 lakh farmers. SC and ST farmers owning up to one hectare of land will get free power supply, the statement said. The state government also approved the Mukhyamantri Ration Aaapke Dwar Yojana which will benefit tribals in 7,511 villages across 74 blocks of 16 districts. Under the scheme, tribal families will get doorstep delivery of ration from Public Distribution System (PDS) shops. This scheme will not be launched in the areas where bypolls are going to take place later this month, Mishra clarified. “This is not a new announcement. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan had made this announcement on September 18 and it was approved today by the cabinet. This should not be linked to the bypolls,” he said. Byelections to three Assembly and one Lok Sabha seats in Madhya Pradesh are scheduled for October 30.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-to-give-rs-20500-crore-power-subsidy-to-farmers-domestic-consumers-1042139.html
19-10-2021||National||Pakistan Navy claims it blocked Indian submarine from entering into country’s waters||Pakistan's military on Tuesday claimed that its navy blocked an Indian submarine from entering into the country’s waters last week. There was no immediate response from the Indian Navy to the Pakistani claim. The incident occurred on October 16 when an Indian submarine was detected by a Pakistan Navy (PN) patrol aircraft, the Pakistan military said in a statement. The navy "detected and blocked the Indian submarine on 16 Oct 21 from entering into Pakistani waters," according to the statement. It said that during the prevailing security milieu, a strict monitoring watch has been kept by the Pakistan Navy to safeguard maritime frontiers of the country. According to the statement, it is the third incident of its kind during which an Indian Naval Submarine has been prematurely detected and tracked by the Pakistan Navy's Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft. The army also shared a short footage of the purported incident. An incident of this nature was last reported in March 2019 when the navy had detected and thwarted an attempted entry by an Indian submarine, the statement claimed. "The Pakistan Navy used its specialised skills to ward off the submarine, successfully keeping it from entering Pakistani waters," PN had said in a statement at the time. It claimed that another reported attempt by an Indian submarine was made in November 2016 which was tracked and pushed clear out of Pakistan's waters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-navy-claims-it-blocked-indian-submarine-from-entering-into-country-s-waters-1042142.html
19-10-2021||National||Questions raised over Prasar Bharati's content syndication policy; CEO allays concerns||A content syndication policy proposed by Prasar Bharati has come under fire from many quarters with questions being raised over the alleged auction of "national treasures", a charge denied by the public broadcaster's CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati. In a letter earlier this week, CPI(M) MP S Venkatesan wrote to the Information & Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur stating that it is "disgusting to note that monetisation has gone to the level of marketing historical 'treasures' also". "It may have an adverse impact on polity as well as peace and tranquillity of this country," he said. Venkatesan accused the government of only looking at its short term needs of managing fiscal deficit as the reason behind the move. "It is not an issue of making money for the short term needs of the government to manage fiscal deficit but an important one that has long term consequences on the society," he added. Former Prasar Bharati CEO and TMC Rajya Sabha member Jawhar Sircar too questioned the move. "What exactly is this 'Auction' of our nation's priceless records? Clarify immediately!?" he tweeted. Vempati took to Twitter to clarify the provisions of the proposed policy calling out detractors for "misinterpreting" the document. "There is no such decision. A recently notified policy for syndicating content rights seems to have been misinterpreted. These are specific legal aspects on Rights & Limitations that would be addressed in the License Agreements typical of any such Syndication. At this time only the broad policy has been notified. Detailed License Agreements will be part of eAuction Notification when they are held. "Unfortunate comment by someone of your eminence and erudition Sir. It appears you have not read the Policy Document. Kindly peruse the same," he said in tweets in response to the CPI(M) MP. Writer and editor, Vijay Sai raised questions on copyright issues and asked who would get the royalties for the archival content. "They can sell to whoever they want. Have they compensated the artistes whose works they plan to sell?! What about royalties?! What about copyrights?!," he asked. According to the notification issued by Prasar Bharati, the policy will ensure that its archival and premium content is syndicated to third parties through an open and transparent mechanism of e-auction in order to fetch the maximum market value of content on a demand basis.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/questions-raised-over-prasar-bharatis-content-syndication-policy-ceo-allays-concerns-1042145.html
19-10-2021||National||India-Pak match should be called off in view of civilians killing in Kashmir: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday said the cricket match between India and Pakistan at the T-20 World Cup should be cancelled in view of the recent killing of civilians by terrorists in Kashmir. Addressing a press conference, AAP MLA Atishi said the match should not be held until Pakistan stops sponsoring terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. She also sought to know Prime Minister Narendra Modi's opinion on this issue. "We are seeing repeated attacks on Indians in Kashmir. There should not be a cricket match with Pakistan under these circumstances. Our prime minister will agree to this," Atishi said. The MLA was asked if her party supports demands for cancellation of the India-Pakistan match at the T-20 World Cup in view of the recent killing of civilians by terrorist in Kashmir. "I am sure that not only the AAP but even the BJP and its leadership as well as the prime minister will agree that until Pakistan stops sponsoring terror attacks in India territory, there should not be any cricket match between India and Pakistan," she said. The AAP leader said when Modi was in opposition, he used to raise this issue, asking why should there be a cricket match between India and Pakistan when Pakistan-sponsored terrorism is taking place in Indian territory. "Today when Pakistan sponsored terror attacks are happening, can we just sit down and watch? What is the opinion of our prime minister?" she asked. So far in this month, 11 civilians have been killed by terrorists in Kashmir. On Sunday, terrorists had shot dead two workers from Bihar and injured another after barging into their accommodation in Kulgam in south Kashmir.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pak-match-should-be-called-off-in-view-of-civilians-killing-in-kashmir-aap-1042146.html
19-10-2021||National||Coal supply prioritised temporarily to power sector to replenish dwindling stock: CIL||State-owned CIL on Tuesday said the supply of coal was prioritised temporarily to power producers to replenish their dwindling stock of the dry fuel. The statement assumes significance in the wake of the country's power plants grappling with fuel shortages. "In view of the low stock position at the power house end due to a spurt in economic activities during post-second wave of Covid-19, the supply of coal was prioritised temporarily to the power sector to replenish their dwindling coal stock," Coal India Ltd (CIL) said in a statement. To achieve the same in the quickest possible time, coal companies were advised only to go slow temporarily on conducting further e-auction of coal, barring the special forward e-auction for power. "This was a highly transitory measure to tide off the current high demand scenario in the power sector and normalcy will be restored soon," the filing said. Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday discussed ways to improve coal stocks at thermal power plants with Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Power Minister R K Singh. The coal minister also reviewed the performance of Coal India arm Northern Coalfields Ltd (NCL), and directed it to ramp up production and load to at least 34 rakes of the dry fuel daily. Last week, Joshi said the government was making full efforts to meet the coal demand of power producers and stressed that steps are being taken to soon ramp up the dry fuel supply to two million tonnes per day. The minister also felicitated machine operators at the Nigahi opencast coal project of NCL and said that their role is integral to scale up coal production and despatch from the block. "Flagged off a coal dumper truck at Nigahi OCP, @NCL_SINGRAULI. This indigenous dumper has been manufactured by BEML and furthers #MakeInIndia initiative," he said. Coal India accounts for over 80 per cent of the domestic coal output.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-supply-prioritised-temporarily-to-power-sector-to-replenish-dwindling-stock-cil-1042151.html
19-10-2021||National||42 dead as heavy rains batter Uttarakhand, UP||At least 42 people died and more than a dozen were missing after landslides and flash floods triggered by several days of heavy rain hit Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, officials said Tuesday. Officials in Uttarakhand said 35 people were killed in fresh landslides on Tuesday after six died in similar incidents a day earlier. Reports said that four fatalities were witnessed in Uttar Pradesh.  At least 30 of them were killed in seven separate incidents in the worst-affected Nainital early Tuesday, after cloudbursts -- an ultra-intense deluge of rain -- triggered a series of landslides and destroyed several structures. "So far 30 people have been confirmed dead, while many people are still missing," Nainital senior civil officer Ashok Kumar Joshi told AFP. Joshi said several remote areas in the hilly region witnessed widespread damage in the intense rainfall. Five of the dead were from a single family whose house was buried by a massive landslide, another local civil officer Pradeep Jain told AFP. Another landslide in the northern Almora district killed five people after huge rocks and a wall of mud demolished and engulfed their home. At least six others were killed on Monday in two remote districts of the state. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) extended and widened its weather alert on Tuesday, predicting "heavy" to "very heavy" rainfall in the region over the next two days. The weather office said several areas were drenched by more than 400 millimetres (16 inches) of rainfall on Monday, causing landslides and flooding. Authorities ordered the closure of schools and banned all religious and tourist activities in the state. Television footage and social media videos showed residents wading through knee-deep water near Nainital lake, a tourist hotspot, and the Ganges bursting its banks in Rishikesh. More than 100 tourists were stuck inside a resort in Ramgarh after the overflowing Kosi river deluged several areas. Landslides are a regular danger in India's north, but experts say they are becoming more common as rains become increasingly erratic and glaciers melt. Experts also blame construction work on hydroelectric dams and deforestation. In February, a ferocious flash flood hurtled down a remote valley in Uttarakhand, killing around 200 people. At least 5,700 people perished there in 2013. Forecasters have also warned of more downpours in the coming days in Kerala where floods have already killed at least 27 people since Friday. Many dams in the state were nearing the danger mark and authorities were evacuating thousands to safer locations as major rivers overflowed. India's weather office said heavy rains will again lash the state in the next two days after a brief reprieve on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/42-dead-as-heavy-rains-batter-uttarakhand-up-1042155.html
19-10-2021||National||Amit Shah flags off Modi Vans for Kaushambi in Uttar Pradesh||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday flagged off 'Modi Vans' under the BJP's 'seva hi sangathan' programme to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi's completion of 20 years as the head of a government, including over 13 years as Gujarat chief minister. Five 'Modi Vans' will work as health centres as well as help centres in the Kaushambi Lok Sabha constituency, and will be operated by the Kaushambi Vikas Parishad, BJP leader Vinod Sonkar said after the flagging off ceremony. Sonkar is the BJP's MP from Kaushambi and the Vikas Parishad is run by him. These vans are equipped with a machine that can conduct 39 tests, including those for diabetes, with blood samples in one go. The van will also release a weekly medical bulletin, Sonkar said. He added that besides providing health facilities these vans will also help in the registration of beneficiaries under different central schemes. Through these vans, people will get prescriptions to help them avail telemedicine services and services of BJP associated health volunteers in villages, Sonkar said. These vans also have a 32-inch television and high-speed internet service, and will broadcast Prime Minister Modi's monthly radio broadcast 'Mann Ki Baat', he said. Various public rallies and speeches of BJP leaders will also be broadcast, Sonkar said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-flags-off-modi-vans-for-kaushambi-in-uttar-pradesh-1042164.html
19-10-2021||National||Crude bomb thrown at Kerala police team carrying out drug raid||A joint team of police and narcotics cell officials, who carried out a drug raid on Tuesday on a four-member group holed up in a hotel at Karamana, were in for a surprise when two of the accused threw a country-made bomb at the raiding party and escaped. No official was injured in the incident, an officer from Karamana Police Station, said. The remaining two members -- one aged 22 years and the other 18 years -- were arrested by the team, he said. Two air guns, one lighter shaped like a gun, two swords and a knife were the weapons recovered from their room, besides more than 5 kilograms of ganja, tablets of a narcotic substance and half a gram of MDMA, the officer said. The arrested accused are being questioned to ascertain the whereabouts of the two who escaped, the police said. The raid was carried out on the basis of a tip that a gang was holed up in the hotel room for sale of drugs, it said. As the raiding party entered the room, two of the four people present there threw a country-made bomb at the officers and escaped by jumping off from the first floor balcony of the room, police said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crude-bomb-thrown-at-kerala-police-team-carrying-out-drug-raid-1042186.html
19-10-2021||National||Govt to roll out 5-year strategic perspective plan to make India big tech player: Chandrasekhar||The government is looking at rolling out a five-year strategic perspective plan to make India a significant tech player, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on Tuesday. The minister added that the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) will partner with the private sector in areas not just limited to soliciting business for them but for future technology developments like quantum computing, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity and semiconductors, according to an official statement released by the ministry. "Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has set some serious ambitions and wants India to be a significant player in the tech space. "Soon, we are going to roll out a five-year strategic perspective plan, detailing the competency and capabilities that need to be developed for realising these ambitions," Chandrasekhar said at a technology conference organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). He added that there have been tremendous strides in digitising the country's economy and public services in the past six years, which has helped India remain resilient during the Covid-19 pandemic. "We have created Unicorns at the rate of two a month, attracting $65 billion investment in the tech space," Chandrasekhar said. The minister said the post-Covid-19 era offers a new set of opportunities and there has never been a more exciting time for those in technology than today. "At MeitY, we have clear objectives, we expect to be partners with the private sector in areas not just limited to soliciting business for you...but even in areas of future technology development whether it is quantum computing or strategic areas, where we want India to create competencies like artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, and semiconductors, etc," he said. The minister said the government is willing to walk the extra mile and is open to all sorts of consultations to prepare a road map for India to emerge as a significant player in the technology space. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-roll-out-5-year-strategic-perspective-plan-to-make-india-big-tech-player-chandrasekhar-1042187.html
19-10-2021||National||Over 99 crore Covid vaccines administered in India so far||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 99 core on Tuesday, the Union health ministry said. More than 37 lakh (37,92,737) vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm, it said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-99-crore-covid-vaccines-administered-in-india-so-far-1042190.html
19-10-2021||National||India occupies top spot globally in emissions related to crop burning: Report||India is ranked at the top in emissions related to crop burning, accounting for 13 per cent of total global emissions for the 2015-2020 period, according to a new report released by climate tech startup Blue Sky Analytics, which is also part of global coalition "Climate TRACE". Blue Sky Analytics, the Indian climate tech startup founded by an IIT alumnus, also pointed towards a 12.2-per cent contribution by India to cropland fire emissions in 2020. The data in the report reveals new insights into recent trends in biomass fires, including emissions from forest and crop residue fires in India. For example, the data verifies the downward trend in crop fires being observed between 2016 and 2019, citing a reduction in the GHG emissions due to cropland fires by 11.39 per cent in the said period. However, it also points to an increase in emissions by 12.8 per cent in 2019-20, increasing India's global contribution to 12.2 per cent. Climate TRACE is a global coalition with a mission to accelerate climate action by providing independent high-resolution and near-real-time (GHG) emissions data. Its innovative approach fills critical knowledge gaps for all countries that rely on the patchwork system of self-reporting that currently serves as the basis for most existing emissions inventories. "For effective climate action, it is essential to have an independent, system-level view of emissions. This is especially critical for sources like fires, which are rapidly increasing in frequency and scale, but whose emissions are still poorly tracked and accounted for in most multi-sector inventories," said Abhilasha Purwar, an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) alumnus and the founder and CEO of Blue Sky Analytics. The emissions estimates from Blue Sky Analytics cover both fires caused by human activities, including burning in forest areas for conversion to agricultural land or of crop residues and wildfire activity, producing a comprehensive picture of fire emissions. By combining multiple satellite data sources for active fire identification and characteristics with higher resolution global land cover maps, these estimates supplement the existing country-level reporting methods, which rely primarily on seasonal estimations and ground measurements of the burned area. "For far too long, climate action has been hindered by a lack of independent, verifiable data on emissions. Climate TRACE is built on the notion that we can only manage what we can measure," explained former US vice-president and Climate TRACE coalition convening member Al Gore. "We are helping to create a level-playing field for everyone who wants to take an active role in reducing emissions -- from government ministers and regulators to investors and business leaders to journalists and citizen activists. This new era of radical transparency will put everything out into the open," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-occupies-top-spot-globally-in-emissions-related-to-crop-burning-report-1042191.html
19-10-2021||National||Coal crisis: Number of power projects with less than 4-day coal stock dips to 58||The coal stock situation at thermal power projects has improved further as the number of non-pit head projects having less than four days of coal (supercritical stock) reduced to 58 on Monday from 69 a week ago, government data showed. According to the latest coal stock data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), the number of non-pit head projects having less than four days of coal was 58 on October 18 and 69 on October 11. The data showed that the number of plants with supercritical stock was 61 this Sunday (October 17). Thus, the coal stock situation is inching towards normalcy. The improvement in the coal stock situation assumes significance in view of the ongoing shortage of dry fuel at thermal power plants in the country. The Central Electricity Authority monitors the coal stock situation of 135 thermal power plants with a cumulative generation capacity of over 165 GW. The data also showed that the number of power plants with zero days of coal has come down to 13 as of Monday with a cumulative installed generation capacity of 11,710 MW, compared to 15 with 15,290 MW capacity a week back. The number of the plants with one day of coal stock has increased to 28 with 34,795 MW capacity as of October 18, compared to 27 with 35,360 MW capacity on October 11. The number of plants with two days of coal decreased to 18 (with 27,490 MW capacity) from 20 (22,755 MW) a week ago. The number of plants with three days of coal also came down to 12 (with 16,874 MW capacity) from 21 (27,014 MW) a week ago. The number of plants with four days of coal has decreased to 18 with 20,725 MW capacity as of Monday, from 20 with 25,840 MW capacity a week ago, showing improvement in dry fuel stock. The number of plants with five days of coal has increased to 12 (12,840 MW capacity) from five (4,105 MW) a week ago. The power ministry data also showed improvement in the power shortage situation as it came down to 2,060 MW on October 18 from 6,857 MW a week back. Amid the coal shortage at power plants, the peak power shortage had moderated to 986 MW on October 15, in sharp contrast to 11,626 MW on October 7. The 11,626 MW peak power shortage on October 7 was the highest during the first half of this month. As per experts, power demand further moderated from last weekend with the onset of autumn and heavy rains in many parts of the country. They opined that the coal stock situation at power plants would further improve in the coming days with the government's efforts to scale up supplies. Earlier last week, the power ministry had stated that the capacity of units under outage due to low coal stocks reduced from 11 GW on October 12 to 5 GW on October 14. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-crisis-number-of-power-projects-with-less-than-4-day-coal-stock-dips-to-58-1042193.html
19-10-2021||National||TV18 Broadcast Q2 profit doubles to Rs 231 crore||TV18 Broadcast Ltd on Tuesday reported over two-fold increase in consolidated net profit at Rs 231.40 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, 2021. The company had clocked a net profit of Rs 115.55 crore in the year-ago period, the media firm said in a regulatory filing. Consolidated revenue from operations was up 29.14 per cent to Rs 1,307.90 crore in the quarter under review as against Rs 1,012.80 crore in the year-ago period. “Consolidated EBITDA for the quarter grew 53 per cent YoY, operating margin at 18.2 per cent,” the company said in a post earning statement adding that both News and Entertainment businesses further improved profitability. Total expenses in the quarter were at Rs 1,104 crore, up 21.34 per cent as against Rs 909.82 crore. TV18 Broadcast Chairman Adil Zainulbhai said the quarter was quite remarkable, both from a macro as well as the company’s point of view. The outlook, he said, is looking quite promising from a medium-term perspective and this is a good news for the consumer-facing businesses. “With expansion into sports genre, we have taken a significant step towards scaling up our entertainment portfolio to the next level. This will help establish us as a truly integrated media company across broadcast, OTT and content studio business spanning general entertainment, news, movies and sports,” said Zainulbhai. Shares of TV18 Broadcast on Tuesday settled at Rs 46.15 apiece on BSE, down 1.18 per cent.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tv18-broadcast-q2-profit-doubles-to-rs-231-crore-1042194.html
19-10-2021||National||More rain in store for Odisha and Bengal; rivers in spate, landslide warning issued||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday forecast more rainfall for Odisha and West Bengal, the two neighbouring states that have already been pounded by low pressure area-induced heavy showers over the past three days, throwing life out of gear in places. According to the Met department, the states will have to brace for downpour over the next two days, despite the low-pressure system having moved to Bihar. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the Bay of Bengal for the next 48 hours. Water levels in Subarnarekha, Budhabalang and Jalaka rivers in northern Odisha are on the rise, the weatherman said. The MeT Department has predicted light to moderate rain or thundershowers in both coastal and interior regions of Odisha. Under the influence of the low-pressure area, squally weather condition with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph, gusting up to 60 kmph, is likely to prevail off the Odisha coast for the next 48 hours, it said. The MeT office has issued a yellow warning for Sundargarh, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj and Balasore on Wednesday, and predicted thunderstorms in parts of Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapara, Angul, Boudh, Kandhamal, Kalahandi and Dhenkanal districts. The weatherman asked the Naveen Patnaik government to be prepared to meet water-logging, landslides or localised flood-like situations in the districts for which the yellow warnings were issued. Special Relief Commissioner (SRC), Pradeep Kumar Jena, in a letter to the district collectors, asked them to ensure round-the-clock operation of control rooms. Talchher in Odisha received 30 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 5.30 pm on Tuesday, followed by Boudh at 16 mm. In West Bengal, the weatherman warned of extremely heavy rainfall over Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Alipurduar till Wednesday morning and downpour till Thursday over all sub-Himalayan districts. It predicted thunderstorm with lightning along with widespread light to moderate rainfall in all districts of the state till Thursday morning. Jhalong in Kalimpong district received maximum rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 am on Tuesday at 200 mm, the Met said. Other places in Bengal which received heavy rainfall during the period are Darjeeling at 170 mm, Pedong and Sukhiapokhri at 150 mm, Canning at 100 mm, Diamond Harbour at 90 mm and Purulia at 80 mm), the Met said. The Met office has warned of landslides in the hilly areas of Darjeeling and Kalimpong. Kolkata received 37 mm rainfall in that time frame.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-rain-in-store-for-odisha-and-bengal-rivers-in-spate-landslide-warning-issued-1042195.html
19-10-2021||National||Gangster Suresh Pujari arrested in Philippines: Report||Gangster Suresh Pujari who is wanted in several extortion cases in Mumbai and surrounding areas has been arrested in the Philippines, police sources said on Tuesday. The police in Thane, where most of the extortion cases have been registered against him, has started the process to seek his custody, a senior police official told PTI. While Mumbai Police did not comment on the development, a report on the website of the Manila Bulletin, a newspaper in the Philippines, said the "Bureau of Immigration" had arrested Suresh Basappa Pujari (48) from Paranaque city, and he would be "expelled". He was staying in the country illegally, it added. At least 23 cases of extortion are registered against him in Thane, said the senior police officer. Thane Police had issued a look-out notice against Pujari and an Interpol red corner notice was also issued against him, the official added. Suresh is a close relative of gangster Ravi Pujari who was arrested in Senegal two years ago and deported to India. After parting ways with Ravi Pujari in 2007, Suresh fled abroad. He also used an alias of `Satish Shekhar Pai', the official said. According to police sources, he was arrested last Thursday. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gangster-suresh-pujari-arrested-in-philippines-report-1042199.html
19-10-2021||National||PM Modi expresses anguish at loss of lives in Uttarakhand rains||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed anguish at the loss of lives in Uttarakhand due to heavy rains and noted that rescue operations are underway to help the affected.  Twenty-three more people were reported killed in the state on Tuesday as houses collapsed due to incessant rain in various parts of the state, leaving many trapped under the debris. The death toll now stands at 28 with the Kumaon region being the worst hit. Five deaths were reported on Monday, according to the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC). Modi tweeted, "I am anguished by the loss of lives due to heavy rainfall in parts of Uttarakhand. May the injured recover soon. Rescue operations are underway to help those affected. I pray for everyone's safety and well-being."  I am anguished by the loss of lives due to heavy rainfall in parts of Uttarakhand. May the injured recover soon. Rescue operations are underway to help those affected. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being. Earlier in the day, the prime minister had spoken to Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami to take stock of the situation in the state.    The chief minister briefed Modi about the situation and said the administration is fully alert. Modi assured Dhami of all necessary help to deal with the situation. Modi also spoke to Union minister Ajay Bhatt, who hails from the state. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-expresses-anguish-at-loss-of-lives-in-uttarakhand-rains-1042201.html
19-10-2021||National||ICICI Pru Life posts 47% jump in net profit to Rs 445 cr for Sept quarter||ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Co Ltd on Tuesday reported nearly 47 per cent jump in its net profit to Rs 445 crore for the second quarter ended September 30. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 303 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year 2020-21. The total income during July-September 2021 also rose to Rs 23,188 crore, compared with Rs 16,715 crore in the year-ago period, ICICI Pru Life said in a regulatory filing. As against this, a massive Rs 500-crore net Covid-19 claims left the second-largest private-sector life insurer in the red with a Rs 186-crore net loss in the June 2021 quarter, despite it reporting good all-round numbers, including a 71 per cent growth. At Rs 445 crore, net income for the reporting quarter grew 47 per cent from the year-ago period, its Managing Director and Chief Executive N S Kannan told PTI. He also said this September was the best-ever month in terms of topline (revenue) growth since the inception. He said the net income growth was driven by the growth in the value of the new business and a massive jump in investment income which jumped to Rs 13,817 crore in the quarter, from Rs 8,000 crore a year ago. Guiding towards much better days ahead, Kannan said that from the claim side, "I can very well say that we are at the end of the tunnel as claims have been steadily declining month-on-month and it hit a low of Rs 75 crore in the final month of the quarter". Premium earned during the September 2021 quarter rose to Rs 9,533 crore, from Rs 8,733 crore a year ago. The net premium earned stood at Rs 9,286 crore, up from Rs 8,572 crore in the year-ago quarter. Claims/ benefits paid in the second quarter of this fiscal stood at Rs 8,022 crore, compared with Rs 4,909 crore in the year-ago period. Profit after tax has decreased to Rs 259 crore in the first half of 2021-22, from Rs 591 crore a year ago, it said. "Claims and benefits payouts increased by 82.4 per cent from Rs 7,504 crore in H1 FY2021 to Rs 13,690 crore in H1 FY2022, primarily on account of increase in surrender/withdrawals and death claims. "The company had Covid-19 claims (net of reinsurance) of Rs 862 crore," it said. The company has arguably the average shortest settlement time of just one day and a settlement ratio of 97.5 per cent. ICICI Pru said the total claims on account of Covid-19 for April-September 2021 stood at Rs 1,879 crore. The full-year Covid-19 claims for the same in FY2021 were Rs 354 crore. Claims net of reinsurance during the first half of the current fiscal were Rs 862 crore. It was Rs 198 crore in FY2021. The life insurer said it has a provision of Rs 412 crore (Rs 332 crore in March 2021) held for future Covid-19 claims, including IBNR (incurred but not reported). Kannan said the increased consumer awareness of the need for life insurance and the company's customer-centric products enabled it to grow new business by 62 per cent sequentially in the September 2021 quarter. "Significantly, we posted our best-ever September on monthly sales for any year since inception... Our new business sum assured grew by 35 per cent year-on-year to Rs 3.37 trillion in H1 FY2022, and we continued to be the private sector leader with an overall market share of 13.2 per cent," Kannan said. As a result, the company's absolute VNB (value of new business) grew 45 per cent year-on-year to Rs 873 crore for the first half of FY2022, he said adding that this will help in achieving the stated objective of doubling FY2019 NVB by FY2023. "We settled all genuine claims quickly to ensure customers and their families had the required financial support in their hour of need," Kannan said. He further said that the improvement in the pandemic situation with each passing month, increased consumer awareness on the need for life insurance and the suite of customer-centric products have enabled the company to grow new business by 62 per cent sequentially this quarter. "Significantly, we posted our best-ever September on monthly sales for any year since inception, aided by our well-diversified product and distribution channel mix," Kannan added. ICICI Prudential Life's stock on Tuesday closed at Rs 660.15 apiece on the BSE, down 1.95 per cent from the previous close.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icici-pru-life-posts-47-jump-in-net-profit-to-rs-445-cr-for-sept-quarter-1042204.html
19-10-2021||National||Uttarakhand govt to give Rs 4 lakh to kin of those killed in rain-related incidents||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami met people affected by heavy rainfall in Kumaon and Garhwal regions of the state on Tuesday and announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the next of kin of those who had lost their lives in the disaster. Twenty-three people were killed in Uttarakhand and eight went missing on Tuesday mostly in Nainital district as incessant rains continued to lash various parts of the state, especially the Kumaon region, razing houses to the ground and leaving many trapped in the debris. With 23 deaths reported on Tuesday, the toll in rain-related incidents across Uttarakhand since Monday has risen to 28. Five casualties had been reported on Monday, the State Emergency Operation Centre here said. Dhami, who undertook an aerial survey of the affected areas besides interacting with the disaster-affected people in Rudraprayag, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar district, said people need to have patience in this hour of crisis. All necessary arrangements are being made by the state government, he said, adding that there was no need to panic. The crisis can be overcome with the cooperation of all, he said. Disaster Management Minister Dhan Singh Rawat, DGP Ashok Kumar, Rudrapur MLA Rajkumar Thukral and senior officials were with the chief minister when he met the affected people in Rudrapur and Kichcha in Udham Singh Nagar district.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-govt-to-give-rs-4-lakh-to-kin-of-those-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-1042210.html
19-10-2021||National||Singhu lynching: Tomar's photo with Nihang 'leader' triggers row; Punjab minister sees 'conspiracy'||Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Tuesday called the lynching of a labourer at the Singhu border a possible conspiracy to defame the farmers’ agitation, citing a purported photograph of Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar with a Nihang “leader”. Former state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar also joined the controversy triggered by the appearance of the photograph on social media, alleging that Central agencies could be involved in last week's murder at a farmers’ protest site near the Delhi-Haryana border. The group photo includes Tomar and a man in blue robes of the Sikh order of the Nihangs. The Union minister has in the past met farmer protest leaders to negotiate a solution to the deadlock over agri-marketing laws. Without mentioning any name, Randhawa claimed that the same Nihang leader was “defending” the main accused in the killing. The Nihang group had accused the victim of desecrating a Sikh holy book. “In view of the recent disclosures about one of the Nihang leaders having already been in touch with the Government of India, Minister for Agriculture N S Tomar in particular, the lynching incident has now taken an entirely different turn,” Randhawa alleged in a statement. “There appeared to be a deep-rooted conspiracy to defame the farmers' stir,” the minister claimed. He said Lakhbir Singh, the Dalit victim who belonged to Cheema Kalan village in Tarn Taran district, was very poor. “We need to find out who lured him to the Singhu border and who paid for his travel as he could not even afford his meals,” the Punjab minister said. The deputy CM said he has instructed the local administration to find out under what circumstances the man was taken from his home to the Singhu border. “In view of the recent photographic evidence available, the Nihang leader will also need to explain in what capacity he had met Union Agriculture Minister N S Tomar and whether he was mandated to do so by the farmers' organisations spearheading the campaign against the three black farm laws.” Given the importance of the place where the “Nihang leader” was camping, “it was mandatory on his part to keep the farmers' unions informed and updated about his meetings with the Union minister”, Randhawa said. “This has raised genuine doubts and suspicion among the minds of people and these need to be cleared,” he added. The minister said the Punjab government will do everything to get to the root of the “conspiracy” and expose and punish the culprits. Former state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar alleged that there could be a role of the “agencies” in the murder at the Singhu border. But he did not elaborate on this. “There is certainly something more than what meets the eye,” he said in a statement. “The BJP has long been trying to tarnish the secular farmers’ struggle as a Sikh movement to term protesting Sikhs as militants," Jakhar alleged, adding that the Punjabis are the country’s sword arm. He demanded a thorough investigation into events leading to the death. Lakhbir Singh was brutally killed last week and his body strung to a barricade at the farmers' protest site with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons. Sarabjit Singh, who was among the Nihangs arrested for the murder, claimed that he had "punished" the man for "desecrating" a Sikh holy book. A large number of farmers mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s border for nearly a year, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws enacted at the Centre. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singhu-lynching-tomars-photo-with-nihang-leader-triggers-row-punjab-minister-sees-conspiracy-1042211.html
19-10-2021||National||WHO director general has lauded India's Covid vaccination efforts: Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said he had an interaction with WHO Director General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on various issues related to health and the latter lauded the "mammoth efforts" undertaken by the Indian government for vaccination against Covid-19. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in India crossed 99 core on Tuesday and as the country is close to administering 100 crore doses, the Centre has urged the states to focus on the second-dose coverage of vaccination in light of adequate availability of vaccine doses. "Had a detailed interaction with DG WHO @DrTedros, accompanied by other senior officials of @WHO, on various issues related to health, including pandemic management and WHO reforms. DG WHO lauded the mammoth efforts undertaken by the Indian government for #COVID19 vaccination," Mandaviya said in a tweet. According to official sources, around 74.45 per cent of India's eligible adult population has been administered at least one dose of the Covid vaccine and around 30.63 per cent have received both doses. "We are at 99 crores. Go for it India, continue to rapidly march towards our milestone of 100 crore #COVID19 vaccinations," Mandaviya said in another tweet. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-director-general-has-lauded-indias-covid-vaccination-efforts-mandaviya-1042212.html
19-10-2021||National||CISCE board postpones first term exam for classes 10, 12||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) on Tuesday postponed the first term exam for classes 10 and 12 due to reasons "beyond" its control, according to officials. "CISCE has decided to postpone class 10 and 12 first semester examination for 2021-22 session due to reasons beyond our control. All stakeholders will be informed of a revised schedule in due course of time," board chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said in an order. The exams for the two classes were scheduled to begin from November 15.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisce-board-postpones-first-term-exam-for-classes-10-12-1042213.html
19-10-2021||National||India will soon achieve target of administering 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses: Union Minister||India will soon create history by achieving the target of vaccinating over 100 crore people against Covid-19, Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pawar said here on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference, Pawar said vaccination is going on on a war footing in the country. She attributed the fast pace of inoculation to teamwork. "Apart from tackling the pandemic, the focus (of the government) is on the vaccine production. (A budget of) Rs 35,000 crore is set aside for this purpose," she said. The cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 inoculation drive has exceeded 99 crore, as per the government data. The countrywide Covid-19 vaccination programme was launched on January 16 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The country will soon create history by achieving the target of vaccinating over 100 crore people against Covid-19," Pawar said. The minister said vaccine doses have been provided in the entire country in the last nine months and the process has been expedited. She said the prime minister was personally monitoring the inoculation drive and working to fix loopholes. Responding to a query, the minister said Covid-19 vaccination for children would start once the necessary approvals are in place. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) had last week recommended the grant of Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in the age group of 2-18 years. The minister said vaccine production is a huge task and the prime minister is in touch with all the states. Pawar said Maharashtra has been provided with the highest number of doses of vaccines and added that doses were provided as per demand. "The Centre is committed to providing vaccines to all the states. Had vaccines not been provided in adequate numbers to Maharashtra the state wouldn't have achieved the feat of a record vaccination," the minister said. Some ministers in Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) had earlier alleged that Maharashtra was not getting enough doses from the Centre. Speaking on the Covid-19 scenario, Pawar said the second wave has not subsided yet and a threat of a third wave persists. "The Centre is closely monitoring the situation," she added. The minister said the number of Covid-19 cases hasn't come down in Maharashtra and Kerala. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-soon-achieve-target-of-administering-100-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-union-minister-1042215.html
19-10-2021||National||India at 71st on Global Food Security index 2021 of 113 nations||India is ranked at 71st position in the Global Food Security (GFS) Index 2021 of 113 countries, but the country lags behind its neighbours Pakistan and Sri Lanka in terms food affordability, according to a report. Pakistan (with 52.6 points) scored better than India (50.2 points) in the category of food affordability. Sri Lanka was even better with 62.9 points in this category on the GFS Index 2021, a global report released by Economist Impact and Corteva Agriscience on Tuesday said. Ireland, Australia, the UK, Finland, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Canada, Japan, France and the US shared the top rank with the overall GFS score in the range of 77.8 and 80 points on the index. The GFS Index was designed and constructed by London-based Economist Impact and is sponsored by Corteva Agriscience. The GFS Index measures the underlying drivers of food security in 113 countries, based on the factors of affordability, availability, quality and safety, and natural resources and resilience. It considers 58 unique food security indicators including income and economic inequality – calling attention to systemic gaps and actions needed to accelerate progress toward United Nations Sustainable Development Goal of Zero Hunger by 2030. According to the report, India held 71st position with an overall score of 57.2 points on the GFS Index 2021 of 113 countries, fared better than Pakistan (75th position), Sri Lanka (77th Position), Nepal (79th position) and Bangladesh (84th position). But the country was way behind China (34th position). In the food affordability category, Pakistan (with 52.6 points) scored better than India (50.2 points). Sri Lanka was also better at 62.9 points on the GFS Index 2021. In case of availability of food, quality and safety as well as protecting natural resources for food production, India scored better than Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka on the GFS Index 2021, the report added. However, over the past 10 years, India's incremental gains in overall food security score were lagging behind that of Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh. India's score improved only by 2.7 points to 57.2 in 2021 from 54.5 in 2012 when compared with Pakistan by 9 points (to 54.7 in 2021 from 45.7 in 2012) while that of Nepal by 7 points (to 53.7 points in 2021 from 46.7 points in 2012) and Bangladesh by 4.7 points (to 49.1 in 2021 from 44.4 points in 2012). China's score improved by 9.6 points to 71.3 in 2021 from 61.7 in 2012, the report said. "The GFSI looks beyond hunger to identify the underlying factors affecting food insecurity around the world," said Tim Glenn, Executive Vice-President and Chief Commercial Officer, Corteva Agriscience. The findings of GFS Index 2021 also showed that global food security has decreased for the second year in a row after seven years of progress towards the Sustainable Development Goal of achieving zero hunger by 2030. According to Pratima Singh, Head of the Global Food Security Index at Economist Impact, "The index shows that, while countries have made significant strides toward addressing food insecurity in the past ten years, food systems remain vulnerable to economic, climatic, and geopolitical shocks. Action is imperative at all levels--local, national, and global--to end hunger and malnourishment and ensure food security for all." In its global report, Economist Impact stated that the Index shows that to meet these present and emerging future challenges requires that investments in food security are sustained – from innovation in climate-resilient crop yields to investing in programs to assist the most vulnerable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-at-71st-on-global-food-security-index-2021-of-113-nations-1042216.html
19-10-2021||National||Govt forms expert group to develop proposal for tax policy for tobacco products||The government has constituted an expert group to develop a proposal for a comprehensive tax policy for all tobacco products. The group will analyse the existing tax structure for all forms of tobacco -- smoking and smokeless – and develop a roadmap for the tobacco tax policy, an office memorandum, issued by the health ministry on October 12, said. "The undersigned is directed to say that tax and price policies are widely recognised to be one of the most effective means of influencing the demand for and thus the consumption of tobacco products,” it said. "To develop a proposal for comprehensive tax policy for all tobacco products with a public health perspective, it has been decided to constitute an expert group," the memorandum said. The group will also recommend immediate steps to be taken for making India ‘MPOWER’ compliant with regards to 'R' component (highest level of achievement), it said. It will suggest various options, models of tax rates and standards for consideration in the Budget 2022-23 and future budget sessions. There are nine members of the expert group including Vikas Sheel, additional secretary and mission director in the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), Dr Pulkesh Kumar, deputy secretary in the MoHFW, and Dr Rijo M John, health economist. There will be representatives from the NITI Aayog, tax research unit, GST Council, Central Board of Indirect Taxes, Customs, and WHO Country Office for India. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-forms-expert-group-to-develop-proposal-for-tax-policy-for-tobacco-products-1042232.html
19-10-2021||National||Summoning of officers to court discharging public duties unwarranted: SC||The Supreme Court has set aside an order of the Allahabad High Court summoning Chairman and Regional Manager of a bank saying summoning of the officers discharging public duties is unwarranted. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by Prathama UP Gramin Bank and others challenging an order passed by the High Court through which it summoned the Chairman of the bank to apprise him of how the officers of the Bank are working. The high court, which was dealing with a termination order of an employee, had also directed the Regional Manager of the Bank to appear in person and to file an affidavit stating the number of persons working in the Bank as Daily Wager. A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian expressed displeasure over the summoning of officers and said the apex court has already commented adversely against the practice of the officers being summoned to the court. "We find that there is no reason for the High Court to summon the Chairman and Regional Manager of the Bank. If the High Court was so sure that the order of termination is contrary to law, the High Court would be well within its jurisdiction to pass such an order but summoning of the officers, discharging public duties, is clearly unwarranted," the bench said. The apex court in its October 8 order set aside the high court direction to summon the officers of the bank and asked the bank to file an affidavit within four weeks in the matter. "It shall be open to the High Court to decide the writ petition in accordance with the law," the bench said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/summoning-of-officers-to-court-discharging-public-duties-unwarranted-sc-1042236.html
19-10-2021||National||New Quad of India, Israel, US, UAE to launch international forum for economic cooperation||India is set to join Israel, the United Arab Emirates and the United States to launch an international forum for economic cooperation as a virtual meeting among the foreign ministers of the four nations has sowed the seeds of a new 'Quad'. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Israeli Foreign Minister Yair Lapid joined the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, and the UAE Foreign Minister, Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, in a video conference late on Monday. The virtual meeting ended with the decision to launch an international forum for economic cooperation to harness the “unique array of capabilities, knowledge and experience” of the four nations, Lapid was later quoted in a tweet by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Israel. India's move to join the US, the UAE and Israel in a new quadrilateral consultation reflected its keenness to take advantage of the Abraham Accords to deepen engagement with Israel without risking its relations with the UAE and the other Arab states of the Persian Gulf. Lapid also said that the “Quartet” of the foreign ministers held a discussion on the possibility of jointly building infrastructure in the fields of transportation, technology, maritime security, economics and trade apart from exploring other joint projects. Jaishankar later called the video conference with his counterparts in Israel, the UAE and the US “a fruitful first meeting”, thus indicating that it was not a one-off consultation and the four nations would continue to remain engaged in the quadrilateral format. He tweeted that the virtual meeting ended with all sides agreeing on “expeditious follow-up” to the discussion they had on “working together more closely on economic growth and global issues”. Ned Price, the spokesperson of the US State Department, said that the four sides had discussed “expanding economic and political cooperation in the Middle East and Asia, including through trade, combating climate change, energy cooperation, and increasing maritime security”. They also discussed people to people ties in technology and science and ways to support global public health in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Blinken reiterated the support of the US President Joe Biden’s administration support for the Abraham Accords and normalization agreements and discussed future opportunities for collaboration in the region and globally. The Abraham Accords are the pacts Israel inked with Bahrain and the UAE in September 2020. Biden’s predecessor Donald Trump’s administration played a key role in getting the agreements signed and thus setting in motion the process of normalization of Israel’s relations with the UAE and Bahrain. India welcomed the Abraham Accords, stating that it always supported peace and stability in West Asia – a region, which it considered as its “extended neighbourhood”. India-Israel counter-terrorism and defence cooperation widened over the past few years. Israel has been one of the largest suppliers of military hardware to India. India’s energy and economic ties with the UAE also expanded significantly. The UAE has also been quietly mediating between India and Pakistan and facilitated back-channel talks between the two neighbours last year. New Delhi is also confident about balancing its ties with Iran and Israel. Jaishankar had two back-to-back visits to Tehran in July and August and extended an invitation on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the new Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi for an early visit to India. This was the second quadrilateral consultation with participation of India and the US, which in 2017 also re-launched another four-nation coalition with Japan and Australia, primarily to build a coalition of democracies to counter communist China’s expansionist aspirations in the Indo-Pacific region. India's latest move to join Israel, the US and the UAE in the new quad signalled its willingness to continue to pursue the policy of entering into small regional groupings to expand its orbits of influence.    Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-quad-of-india-israel-us-uae-to-launch-international-forum-for-economic-cooperation-1042241.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||All matters will be resolved, says Channi after Sidhu flags issues in letter to Sonia Gandhi||All matters will be resolved and the party's agenda implemented, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Monday, a day after the Congress' Punjab unit chief made public his letter to Sonia Gandhi flagging several issues. On Sunday evening, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi held a meeting with Sidhu. Minister Pargat Singh, considered close to Sidhu, was among those present there. Interacting with reporters on Sunday, Channi said, "Be it 13-point, 18-point, 21-point or 24-point, whatever the agenda is will be implemented. No point will be left out." "It's alright he (Sidhu) raised the issues... We have to implement the party's ideology. The party is supreme. All issues will be resolved," he replied when asked about Sidhu's letter. Sidhu has sought a meeting with party president Sonia Gandhi, flagging in a letter issues which the government "must deliver upon" and saying it is the poll-bound state's "last chance for resurrection and redemption". In the letter to the Congress president on October 15, a day after he had meetings with senior party leaders in Delhi, Sidhu pitched for a "Punjab Model with a 13-Point Agenda to be part of the Congress manifesto for the 2022 Assembly Elections". Days after resigning as Punjab Congress chief, Sidhu had on October 15 said his concerns had been resolved and the party asserted that he would continue as the head of the state unit. Sidhu reminded Sonia Gandhi of the party's 18-point agenda "given to the last chief minister" of Punjab and said that those were "equally relevant today". He had raised several issues including justice in the 2015 sacrilege cases, arrest of "big fish" in drug racket, and scrapping power purchase pacts. Sidhu's letter, which he put in the public domain by posting on Twitter, had indicated that he was still not satisfied with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi-led government over its handling of key issues which he has been raising in the recent past. Channi became the chief minister after the unceremonious exit of Congress veteran Amarinder Singh, who had been at loggerheads with Sidhu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-matters-will-be-resolved-says-channi-after-sidhu-flags-issues-in-letter-to-sonia-gandhi-1041906.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||Shah reviews security situation, discusses civilian killings in Kashmir with police top brass||Union Home Minister Amit Shah discussed various security issues, including the recent killing of civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, in a meeting with state police and central armed police forces chiefs here on Monday, officials said. Shah chaired the concluding session of the "National Security Strategies Conference" at the Intelligence Bureau (IB) headquarters here and the deliberations held were "detailed and expansive", a spokesperson of the ministry said. The DGPs of all states and Union Territories, and chiefs of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) participated in the meeting. "The conference deliberated on various internal security challenges and discussed ways to tackle them firmly," the spokesperson said. Official sources said the overall security situation in the country and various law and order issues, including the recent incidents of targeted killings of civilians in Kashmir, were discussed in the meeting. So far, 11 people have lost their lives in shootings targeting civilians in Jammu and Kashmir this month. On Sunday, terrorists had shot dead two workers from Bihar and injured another after barging into their accommodation in Kulgam in south Kashmir. In the meeting, the home minister also reviewed the current Left Wing Extremism (LWE) scenario in various Naxal-affected states and discussed the busting of terror modules across the country, the sources said. The meeting is part of the exercise initiated by the home minister to meet the top police brass once in six months.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shah-reviews-security-situation-discusses-civilian-killings-in-kashmir-with-police-top-brass-1041914.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||BJP, RSS to hold 2-day coordination meet from Tuesday||A two-day coordination meeting of the BJP and the RSS will be held in Delhi from Tuesday to deliberate on policy-related issues, sources said on Monday. Top leaders of the BJP, including its secretary-general (organisation) BL Santhosh, other officer-bearers and Union ministers are expected to attend the meeting, they said. RSS-affiliated organisations related to various sectors like education, culture and economy are expected to attend the close-door meeting. Top office-bearers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) are also likely to be there in the meeting, the sources said. Such meetings between the RSS and representatives of the BJP and its government at the Centre keep taking place for sharing of ideas and giving feedback on government policies. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-rss-to-hold-2-day-coordination-meet-from-tuesday-1041918.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||'Deepavali isn't Jashn-e-Riwaaz': Tejasvi Surya slams Fabindia's post on Diwali||BJP leader Tejasvi Surya, on Monday, slammed clothing brand Fabindia’s ad campaign referring to Diwali as ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’. He said that it was “deliberate misadventure”. Surya, the national president of BJP Yuva Morcha, said in a tweet, “Deepavali is not Jashn-e-Riwaaz. This deliberate attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals, depicting models without traditional Hindu attires, must be called out. And brands like @FabindiaNews must face economic costs for such deliberate misadventures. ” Deepavali is not Jash-e-Riwaaz. This deliberate attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals, depicting models without traditional Hindu attires, must be called out. The company, in a tweet, had depicted some male and female models in sarees and kurta pyjamas. As we welcome the festival of love and light, Jashn-e-Riwaaz by Fabindia is a collection that beautifully pays homage to Indian culture,” the company had tweeted. However, Fabindia has now deleted the original tweet. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/deepavali-isnt-jashn-e-riwaaz-tejasvi-surya-slams-fabindias-post-on-diwali-1041961.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||Speak Out: October 19, 2021||BJP leader Tejasvi Surya, on Monday, slammed clothing brand Fabindia’s ad campaign referring to Diwali as ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’. He said that it was “deliberate misadventure”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speak-out-october-19-2021-1041963.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||Congress sounds poll bugle in UP: 40% tickets to women, announces Priyanka Gandhi||In an apparent bid to portray itself as the voice of the women to counter BJP, Congress on Tuesday announced that it would reserve 40 per cent tickets for the women in the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which are barely five months away. Addressing a press conference in Lucknow, Congress general secretary and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra dropped ample hints that the grand old party, which had been reduced a fringe player in the state electoral politics, would seek to use the women power to 'defeat' the ''caste-ridden politics'' being practised in the state by its rivals. "Women have not been able to become a force in UP as they are not united... they need to be united... free gas cylinders and monetary help will not improve their condition," she said. "It is essential to get rid of the politics of caste and religion... it is high time women rose above caste and fought for change... women should not be seen through the prism of caste," the Congress leader said. Priyanka cited incidents of crimes against women in the state in the past few years and said that the decision to give 40 per cent tickets to the women was prompted by her party's desire to ensure that they did not face discrimination and got equal opportunity to grow in every field. She referred to the Hathras rape and murder victim and the Unnao gang-rape victim and claimed that the absence of women in politics had resulted in creating an atmosphere of hatred in the state. "I met women from different sections of the society during my visits inside the state and found that all of them had been victims of discrimination and all of them wanted to do something for the society and country," she added.   Priyanka, however, added that the tickets to the women would be given on the basis of merit though she said that there was nothing wrong in fielding wives and daughters of the politicians in the polls. On whether the decision would be extended to the Congress-ruled state of Punjab, which would also go to polls along with UP, she said that she was in charge of UP only. "It will be good if they (Punjab leaders) also follow it." She added that she has not taken any decision on contesting the polls yet. When asked about the chief minister's face of the Congress in the state, the Congress leader said that a decision in this regard would be taken at the appropriate time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-sounds-poll-bugle-in-up-40-tickets-to-women-announces-priyanka-gandhi-1042026.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||Bengal bypolls: BJP candidate, MLA heckled by 'TMC supporters' in Coochbehar||A BJP candidate for the upcoming assembly by-elections and a legislator were heckled in the presence of a saffron party MP allegedly by TMC supporters during campaigning in West Bengal's Coochbehar district on Tuesday. The local TMC leadership, however, denied the involvement of party workers in the incident. Ashok Mondal, the BJP candidate for Dinhata assembly by-election, and Natabari's party MLA Mihir Goswami were heckled in the presence of Jalpaiguri's BJP MP Jayanta Roy during campaigning at Nayarhat. Alleged TMC supporters raised 'go back' slogans as the BJP leaders reached the area to campaign for the October 30 by-poll. Police, however, brought the situation under control. Mondal and Goswami had faced a similar situation in Bamanhat area on Monday. BJP alleged that the incidents were engineered to prevent the party candidate from campaigning. The by-election to Dinhata assembly constituency was necessitated by the resignation of Nisith Pramanik, winning candidate and Minister of State for Home Affairs, who retained his Lok Sabha seat. The TMC renominated Udayan Guha, who had lost to Pramanik. Besides Dinhata, by-elections will also be held in Santipur (Nadia), Gosaba (South 24 Parganas) and Khardah (North 24 Parganas).  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bengal-bypolls-bjp-candidate-mla-heckled-by-tmc-supporters-in-coochbehar-1042081.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||PM Modi afraid of speaking on China, alleges Asaduddin Owaisi||Hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for keeping "quiet" on the rising fuel prices and Chinese "intrusion" in Indian territory, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi alleged that Modi is afraid of talking about China. The Hyderabad MP also said targeted civilian killings was going on in Kashmir due to the failure of the BJP-led central government. "The Prime Minister never speaks on two things--rise in petrol and diesel prices and on China which has entered our country and is sitting inside. The prices have skyrocketed but the Prime Minister does not speak anything," the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief said while addressing a public meeting on Monday night. "And now China has entered and sitting inside our country. When Pakistan did Pulwama (attack) then Modi had said 'ghar mein ghus ke marenge' (will hit them inside their home) but now China has entered and sitting in India but he is not doing anything. India's Prime Minister is afraid of talking about China," Owaisi alleged. He further said, "Nine of our soldiers were killed (in Jammu and Kashmir recently) and on October 24 there is a T20 match between India and Pakistan (India's upcoming T20 World Cup game against Pakistan)." "Modi ji...nine of our soliders were killed and will you play T20? Pakistan is playing T20 in Kashmir with the lives of Indians. Poor workers from Bihar are getting killed and targeted killing is happening. What is the IB (Intelligence Bureau) and Amit Shah (Union Home Minister) doing? What is the Intelligence doing in Kashmir?" Owaisi asked. "Weapons are coming and terrorists are coming from Pakistan and will you play match," he said, adding what is happening in Kashmir is the failure of the BJP-led central government, which, he claimed, does not have the policy to deal with terrorism.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-afraid-of-speaking-on-china-alleges-asaduddin-owaisi-1042124.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||Congress leaderless, in bad condition, only Rahul, Nath left, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday ridiculed the Congress and said it faced a leadership vacuum with the party having only Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and Kamal Nath in the state. He was speaking at a rally in Udaygarh in the Jobat Assembly seat, where a bypoll is scheduled for October 30 with the BJP nominating Soluchana Rawat as its candidate. "From Delhi to Bhopal, the condition of the Congress is bad as it is left with no leaders. In Delhi, it has Rahul Gandhi and in MP, Kamal Nath is the only option for the party when it comes to the chief minister, leader of the opposition, state unit president, star campaigner. And its youth leader is now Nakul Nath (Chhindwara MP and Nath's son). The rest of the Congress is anaath (orphaned)", Chouhan said. Taunting the opposition party further, Chouhan said the Congress had no "water left in it" and, therefore, could not be relied upon to arrange it for the masses either. He said the Congress, during its 15-month stint in power under Nath, had stopped tribal welfare schemes started by the BJP, adding that development works took place in Alirajpur district, of which Jobat is a part, under the BJP and the Congress had ignored the area for 50 years. Roads had been built in the area by the BJP government and wells have been dug in fields under its Kapildhara scheme, while work was underway to bring Narmada river water to the district through a pipeline, the CM said. In order to help tribals, the sale of tendu leaves will be through forest committees, and produce will be bought at support prices, he said, adding that petty cases against tribals will be taken back and youth from these communities will be trained to become rural engineers. Bypoll results will be announced on November 2. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaderless-in-bad-condition-only-rahul-nath-left-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan-1042132.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||RJD to support Congress, AIUDF, CPI in Assam bypolls||RJD has lent its support to candidates of different Opposition parties for the coming by-poll in Assam, the party said in a statement on Tuesday. It urged people not to vote for the BJP-led coalition government in the state in the October 30 bypolls to five assembly seats saying that the ruling alliance has failed to resolve the people's problems. RJD will support the CPI candidate in Thowra constituency, AIUDF nominee in Gossaigaon, and Congress candidates in Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, and Mariani, the statement said. It alleged that the BJP-led government has failed to address burning issues like price rise and urged the voters to ensure its and its allies' defeat. By-election to Gossaigaon and Tamulpur are necessitated due to the death of the sitting MLAs, while the legislators of Bhabanipur, Mariani, and Thowra resigned from their seats and joined the ruling BJP. Thowra and Mariani seats were bagged by the Congress in the March-April assembly polls, while the UPPL had won Gossaigaon constituency. The BPF and the AIUDF had secured Tamulpur and Bhabanipur respectively. RJD was part of the Congress-led ‘Grand Alliance’ in the state polls held earlier this year. Its other allies were AIUDF, BPF, CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM), Adivasi National Party (ANP), and Jimochayan (Deori) Peoples Party (JPP). The alliance had, however, fallen apart after the election following its defeat in the hands of the NDA. In the 126-member Assam assembly, BJP's strength is 59. The ruling allies - AGP and UPPL have nine and five MLAs respectively, while the Congress has 27 legislators, AIUDF has 15 members, BPF three, and CPI(M) one. There is one Independent member. Former chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has vacated his Majuli seat following his induction in the union cabinet but the by-poll for it was not announced as he had submitted his resignation after the declaration of dates for the other five seats. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rjd-to-support-congress-aiudf-cpi-in-assam-bypolls-1042160.html
19-10-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh to float his own party soon, 'hopeful' of pact with BJP||Ousted as Punjab chief minister by the Congress last month, Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday night announced that he will launch a new party and hopefully enter into a "seat arrangement" with the BJP in the next year's Assembly elections if the saffron party manages to resolve the farmers' protest. Singh's decision was made public by a series of tweets by his media adviser Raveen Thukral. "The battle for Punjab’s future is on. Will soon announce the launch of my own political party to serve the interests of Punjab and its people, including our farmers who’ve been fighting for their survival for over a year," Tukral quoted Singh as saying. Singh said he was "hopeful of a seat arrangement with the BJP in 2022 Punjab Assembly polls if farmers' protest is resolved in farmers’ interest". He also said he was looking at alliance with like-minded parties such as break-away Akali groups, particularly the Dhindsa and Brahmpura factions. "I will not rest till I can secure the future of my people and my state. Punjab needs political stability and protection from internal and external threats. I promise my people I will do what it takes to ensure its peace and security, which is today at stake," he said. Singh had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on September 29 amid political buzz that he may join hands with the BJP but then the meeting was described as one in which the veteran leader gave suggestions for ending the farmers' protest and security situation in Punjab. He was ousted as chief minister following a sustained campaign by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had the support of the Gandhi siblings Rahul and Priyanka and was replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi. Son of Maharaja Sir Yadavindra Singh and Maharani Mohinder Kaur of Patiala belonging to the Phulkian dynasty, Singh was inducted into the Congress by Rajiv Gandhi and was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1980. He resigned from Lok Sabha and Congress in protest against Operation Blue Star and joined the Akali Dal. He then became an Akali Dal MLA and was a minister in the state government. However in 1992, he split from the Akali Dal and formed his own party Shiromani Akali Dal (Panthic). It later merged with the Congress in 1998. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-to-float-his-own-party-soon-hopeful-of-pact-with-bjp-1042196.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||'Leave it to us': Ex-Bihar CM Manjhi has a request for PM Modi after Kashmir killings||Former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, on Monday, has condemned the killings and even targeted the prime minister and the union home minister. "I'm deeply upset because our Bihari brothers are being killed in Kashmir. If Prime Minister Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah are unable to improve the situation in Kashmir, then they should leave it to us Biharis, we will turn things around in 15 days," said Manjhi in a tweet.   The terror attacks have drawn strong condemnation from political parties across the spectrum. Meanwhile, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has also condemned the targeted killing of Bihari migrant workers in Jammu and Kashmir, saying the incidents have created an "environment of fear". Kumar said he has spoken to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and senior Bihar officials are in touch with their counterparts in the union territory over the incidents. "It's a matter of serious concern that people who have gone for work are being deliberately targeted in J&K. Authorities concerned must remain alert to check such incidents there," he told reporters after winding up his public interaction programme 'Janata Ke Durbar Mein Mukhyamantri' (Chief Minister in the Court of People). Two labourers from Bihar were gunned down by terrorists in Kulgam district on Sunday, taking the number of civilians killed in targeted attacks in J&K this month to 11. Another labourer sustained bullet injury. Kumar said he has conveyed his concern over the killings to Sinha. "Every citizen is free to go to any corner of the country for work. The latest incident in which two labourers from Bihar were killed in J&K is quite serious as militants barged into the accommodation of the victims and fired on them. Their bodies are being brought back to Bihar," he said. Sunday's was the third attack on non-local labourers in less than 24 hours. The deceased have been identified as Raja Rishidev and Joginder Rishidev, while Chunchun Rishidev was injured. Arvind Kumar Sah, a golgappa seller, was shot dead a few days ago. "I hope that J&K authorities will now be alert and make adequate security arrangements to ensure that no one, especially migrant workers, is attacked there. They should obtain information about migrant workers and the place where they are residing," Kumar said. The Bihar government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased, and issued instructions to the department of labour and social welfare to ensure that benefits under relevant schemes reach the bereaved families. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/leave-it-to-us-ex-bihar-cm-manjhi-has-a-request-for-pm-modi-after-kashmir-killings-1041989.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||BJP worker among 4 nabbed over Lakhimpur Kheri violence, minister's son sent to judicial custody||The Uttar Pradesh police on Monday apprehended four more persons, including a BJP worker, over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, taking the number of arrests in the episode to 10, said officials. Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra along with others accused in the case were also sent into judicial custody from police custody on Monday, the officials said. Eight persons, including four farmers, were killed in the October 3 violence during a farmers' protest in the Tikonia area of the district, with the incident snowballing into a major political controversy over the alleged involvement of the Union minister's son. “Four persons were arrested on Monday by the Crime Branch of the Lakhimpur Kheri police along with the SWAT team. The SIT investigators and other senior officials are interrogating the accused and further probe is underway,” the UP police said in a statement. Those held have been identified as Sumit Jaiswal, Shishi Pal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam and Nandan Singh Bisht, the police said. So far, the special investigation team (SIT) has arrested 10 persons including the key accused Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, Ashish Pandey, Lavkush Rana, Shekhar Bharti and Latif. Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti and Latif were remanded in judicial custody on Monday after nearly a fortnight in police custody, the officials said. An FIR was lodged at the Tikonia police station on October 3 over the episode in which the son of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra 'Teni' was named as accused besides 15 to 20 unnamed persons. The next day, a counter-FIR was lodged at the same police station on the basis of a complaint by Sumit Jaiswal, who has now been arrested. In the complaint, Jaiswal, a resident of Ayodhyapuri here, identified himself as a BJP worker who was on his way to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya for a wrestling event at Banbirpur, the native village of the union minister, when the violence Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-worker-among-4-nabbed-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-ministers-son-sent-to-judicial-custody-1041990.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi speaks to CM Dhami, Bhatt as heavy rains lash Uttarakhand||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami to take stock of the situation in the state hit hard by incessant rains.  The chief minister briefed Modi about the situation and said the administration is fully alert. Modi assured Dhami of all necessary help to deal with the situation. Modi also spoke to Union minister Ajay Bhatt, who hails from the state, in this regard, official sources said. Five people, including three labourers from Nepal, were killed and two others were injured in rain-related incidents in Uttarakhand on Monday. State authorities have advised Chardham pilgrims not to proceed to the Himalayan temples till the weather improves.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-speaks-to-cm-dhami-bhatt-as-heavy-rains-lash-uttarakhand-1042004.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi experiences first 'good air' day in 14 months as rains 'wash out pollutants'||Rewarding Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's efforts to reduce pollution levels in Delhi, nature seems to be doing its own magic as Delhites breathed the freshest air in more than 14 months. Heavy rains in Delhi garnered its first ‘good air day’ this year in a span of 24 hours. On Sunday, Delhi’s AQI had hovered near the “very poor” category (above 300) at 298, with a toxic haze enveloping the city the day before. As air quality usually starts falling from mid-October, experts said a clean air day during this time was highly “unusual”. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board, which started measuring AQI in 2015, shows good air days are rare in Delhi with no such days reported in 2015, 2016 and 2018. Good air days outside the monsoon season are still rare, with just one recorded since 2015, the report said. In 2017, there were two “good air” days, on July 30 and 31 and 2019 also saw only two such days, on August 18 and 19. Last year, Delhi saw five good air quality days, one in March following the total Covid-19 lockdown and four in August. V K Soni, head, environment and research centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD), told TOI, “Good rainfall recorded in Delhi and neighbouring states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand, helped wash out pollutants, pushing the city’s AQI in the ‘good’ category.”  Meanwhile, with stubble burning in neighbouring states spiking pollution in the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on October 12 asked for the common man's help in bringing down pollution by foregoing use of personal vehicles at least once a week and turning off vehicles at traffic signals. Kejriwal has claimed that the pollution level was under safe limits in the capital till recently but has risen in the past couple of days as farmers in neighbouring states started burning stubble. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-experiences-first-good-air-day-in-14-months-as-rains-wash-out-pollutants-1042008.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||SAD announces four more candidates for Punjab assembly polls||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday announced four more candidates for the Punjab assembly polls to be held next year, taking the total number of names to 74 so far. Baldev Singh Mann has been fielded from Sunam while Harpal Juneja will contest from Patiala Urban seat, said senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema. Former Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief Gobind Singh Longwal will be fielded from Lehra and Hardev Singh Megh from the Balluana assembly segment. The SAD had in June allied with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for elections to the 117-member Punjab assembly. According to the seat-sharing arrangement, the Mayawati-led BSP will fight in 20 of the 117 assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-announces-four-more-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-polls-1042016.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||CRPF jawan found dead in J&K's Ramban||The body of a CRPF jawan bearing a gunshot wound was found in Jammu and Kashmir's Ramban district on Tuesday morning, official sources said. Constable Rajeev Ranjan was found dead at the 84th Battalion camp in the Boom Chanderkoot area of the district around 8.40 am, they said. As per the sources, Ranjan, who was from Bihar's Chhapra district, allegedly shot himself with his service rifle. Inquest proceedings have been initiated by police under section 174 of the CrPC, they said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-found-dead-in-jks-ramban-1042023.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court to hear Lakhimpur Kheri matter on October 20||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Wednesday the matter pertaining to the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight persons, including four farmers, were killed during a farmers' protest. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, which had on October 8 expressed dissatisfaction over the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government in the “brutal” murder of eight persons, would hear the matter. Ten people, including Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, have been arrested so far in connection with the case. The top court is hearing the matter after two lawyers had written a letter to the CJI seeking a high-level judicial inquiry, also involving the CBI, into the incident. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed in the violence. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the passage of three laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 since last November. The apex court had stayed the implementation of these laws in January. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh While hearing the matter on October 8, the apex court had questioned the Uttar Pradesh government over the non-arrest of all the accused and had directed preservation of evidence. The bench had said, “the law must take its course against all accused” and “the government has to take all remedial steps in this regard to inspire confidence” in the investigation of “brutal murder of eight persons”. The counsel appearing for the state government had assured the top court on October 8 that all appropriate action would be taken in the case. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-to-hear-lakhimpur-kheri-matter-on-october-20-1042032.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Incessant rain claims 24 lives in Uttarakhand; Nainital cut off from rest of state||At least 24 people died and more than a dozen were missing after landslides and flash floods triggered by several days of heavy rain hit northern India, officials said Tuesday. Forecasters have also warned of more downpours in the coming days in the southern state of Kerala where floods have already killed at least 27 people since Friday. Officials in the Himalayan state of Uttarakhand said 18 people were killed in fresh landslides on Tuesday after six died in similar incidents a day earlier. At least 13 of them were killed in three separate incidents in Nainital town early Tuesday after a cloudburst -- an ultra-intense deluge of rain -- triggered a landslide and destroyed several structures. "Twenty-four people have died in the state in two days. There were six deaths in the state on Monday and so far 18 people have lost their lives on Tuesday," Ashok Kumar, Uttarakhand police chief, told AFP. Five of the dead were from a single-family whose house was buried by a massive landslide, local civil officer Pradeep Jain told AFP. Another landslide in the northern Almora district killed five people after huge rocks and a wall of mud demolished and engulfed their home. The Indian Meteorological Department extended and widened its weather alert on Tuesday, predicting "heavy" to "very heavy" rainfall in the region over the next two days. The weather office said several areas were drenched by more than 400 millimetres (16 inches) of rainfall on Monday, causing landslides and flooding. Authorities ordered the closure of schools and banned all religious and tourist activities in the state. Television footage and social media videos showed residents wading through knee-deep water near Nainital lake, a tourist hotspot, and the Ganges bursting its banks in Rishikesh. More than 100 tourists were stuck inside a resort in Ramgarh after the overflowing Kosi river deluged several areas. Landslides are a regular danger in India's Himalayan north, but experts say they are becoming more common as rains become increasingly erratic and glaciers melt. Experts also blame construction work on hydroelectric dams and deforestation. In February, a ferocious flash flood hurtled down a remote valley in Uttarakhand, killing around 200 people. At least 5,700 people perished there in 2013. In the south, large parts of Kerala have been battered by floods and landslides since late last week, leaving at least 27 people dead. Many dams in the state were nearing the danger mark and authorities were evacuating thousands to safer locations as major rivers overflowed. India's weather office said heavy rains will again lash the state in the next two days after a brief reprieve on Tuesday. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/incessant-rain-claims-24-lives-in-uttarakhand-nainital-cut-off-from-rest-of-state-1042042.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Bhupendra Patel asks Uttarakhand CM to help Gujarat pilgrims stranded due to bad weather||Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel spoke to his Uttarakhand counterpart Pushkar Singh Dhami on Tuesday regarding Gujarati pilgrims stuck in the northern state following incessant rains there and urged him to extend all possible help to the visitors. As per a rough estimate, around 100 pilgrims from different parts of Gujarat, who went to Uttarakhand for the Chardham Yatra, were stranded following heavy rains and landslides there, Gujarat Revenue Minister Rajendra Trivedi said. Gujarat CM Patel spoke to Dhami over phone and urged him to provide necessary help to the stranded pilgrims from Gujarat. The CM also asked officials to start contacting the stranded people, an official release said. Following Patel's instructions, the State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC) issued a helpline number - 07923251900 - to collect and share information about the stranded pilgrims, it said. About 80 to 100 pilgrims from Gujarat are currently stuck in different parts of Uttarakhand due to heavy rains and bad weather, Trivedi said. "Out of them, six are stuck at a considerable height near the Kedarnath temple. However, they are not in any danger. Others are currently staying in hotels in other places such as Joshimath.At present, all the stranded pilgrims are safe, including those six," he said. While the weather is now getting better, several roads are closed due to landslides, the minister noted. "We are in contact with the Uttarakhand government to airlift those six pilgrims. It is not possible at present because of the rough weather. They will be rescued using a helicopter once the weather improves," Trivedi said. Among those stuck in Uttarakhand included a group of 18 people from Rajkot, six persons from Maninagar area of Ahmedabad and six youths from Thaltej area of the city. One of the stranded persons from Rajkot, Mahesh Sorathiya, in a video message said, "We are a group of 18 pilgrims from Rajkot who are on the Chardham Yatra. Due to bad weather, we have been stuck in a hotel in Netala area on Gangotri road for last two days. Luckily, we all are safe here. We are waiting for the weather to clear so that we can begin our journey." Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to CM Dhami to take stock of the situation in Uttarakhand. Five people, including three labourers from Nepal, were killed and two others were injured in rain-related incidents in Uttarakhand on Monday. The Uttarakhand authorities have advised Chardham pilgrims not to proceed to the Himalayan temples till the weather improves.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhupendra-patel-asks-uttarakhand-cm-to-help-gujarat-pilgrims-stranded-due-to-bad-weather-1042045.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Army chief visits forward areas along LoC in Jammu||Army chief General M M Naravane visited forward areas along the LoC in Jammu region on Tuesday and was briefed on the ground situation in the region and ongoing counter-infiltration operations, officials said. The Army chief is on a two-day visit to Jammu, they said. Naravane visited forward areas of the White Knight Corps and undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the Line of Control (LoC), the officials said. His visit to Jammu and Kashmir comes at a time when there has been a slew of selective killing of minorities in the Kashmir valley. Eleven civilians have been killed by militants in the Valley this month.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-chief-visits-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-1042050.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||UP court sentences BJP lawmaker to five-year imprisonment in forged mark sheet case||A district court in Ayodhya sentenced BJP lawmaker Indra Pratap Tewari and two others to five years imprisonment on charges of using forged mark sheets to gain admission in a college around 29 years ago. Special judge (MP/MLA Court) Pooja Singh also imposed a fine of Rs 14,000 on each of them. Tewari and Phoolchand Yadav had allegedly got admission in B. Sc second year at Saket College in Ayodhya on the basis of a forged mark sheet in 1992. All of them were students of the college and had failed in B.Sc first year and were thus not eligible to be promoted to the second year. Similarly, Kripa Nidhan Tewari, who was also convicted along with the BJP MLA and Yadav, had failed in the first-year course of Bachelor of Law at the same college but was promoted to the second year on the basis of a forged mark sheet. The then principal of the college had lodged a complaint with the police way back in 1992. All of them were sent to jail immediately after the court pronounced its verdict. Tewari, who was an MLA from Gaosaiganj assembly seat in Ayodhya district, could lose his membership after the verdict. The Supreme Court had ruled in a case in 2013 that any member of Parliament or state assembly or member of the legislative council would lose membership of the house if convicted of a crime and is sentenced to a minimum of two years imprisonment. A red faced BJP leadership refused to comment on the verdict.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-court-sentences-bjp-lawmaker-to-five-year-imprisonment-in-forged-mark-sheet-case-1042067.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to inaugurate Kushinagar airport, put key Buddhist site on global tourism map||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Kushinagar International Airport in eastern Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, putting the prominent Buddhist pilgrimage site on the world tourism map. The inaugural flight from Sri Lanka will land at the airport on Wednesday with relics of the Buddha from the Waskaduwa Sri Subuddhi Rajvihara Temple which will be open to the public for veneration. Over 100 Buddhist monks, including anunayakas of all four orders of Buddhism in Sri Lanka – Asigiriya, Amarapura, Ramanya and Malwatta – will accompany the relics of the Buddha on the inaugural flight. Namal Rajapaksa, the Sri Lankan Minister of Youth and Sports and the son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, will also lead a five-member ministerial delegation to Kushinagar on the occasion. The airport has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 260 crore and will facilitate domestic and international pilgrims to visit the 'mahaparinirvana' site of Lord Buddha and is an endeavour to connect the Buddhist pilgrimage holy sites around the world, a Prime Minister's Office statement said. The airport will serve nearby districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and is an important step in boosting investment and employment opportunities in the region. It added that the Prime Minister will also participate in an event marking 'Abhidhamma Day' at the Mahaparinirvana Temple in Kushinagar before attending a public function to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of various development projects. At the Mahaparinirvana Temple, Modi will pay his respects to the reclining statue of Lord Buddha and also plant a Bodhi tree sapling. The 'abhidhamma' day symbolises the end of a three-month rainy retreat – 'varshavaas' or 'vassa' – for the Buddhist monks during which they stay at one place in vihara and monastery and pray. The event will also be attended by eminent monks from Sri Lanka, Thailand, Myanmar, South Korea, Nepal, Bhutan and Cambodia, as well as ambassadors of various countries. The PMO said Modi will walk through the exhibition of paintings of Ajanta frescos, Buddhist sutra calligraphy and Buddhist artefacts excavated from Vadnagar and other sites in Gujarat. At a public event, the prime minister will lay the foundation stone of Rajkiya Medical College, Kushinagar which will be built at a cost of over Rs 280 crore. The college will have a 500-bed hospital and provide admissions to 100 students in MBBS course in the academic session 2022-2023. He will also inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of 12 development projects worth over Rs 180 crore, it added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kushinagar-airport-put-key-buddhist-site-on-global-tourism-map-1042071.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt cancels leaves of health workers to bolster dengue response||The Rajasthan government has cancelled the leaves of health workers and decided to send nodal officers in areas affected by dengue and other seasonal diseases to run special campaigns, officials said Tuesday. According to an official statement, Health Minister Raghu Sharma directed officials to run 'Dengue Mukt Rajasthan' campaign from October 20 to November 3 to check the outbreak of dengue and other seasonal diseases. Under the campaign, 24X7 control rooms and rapid response teams have been formed in all districts to carry out anti-larva exercise and awareness activities amonth among other measures. Sharma held a video conference meeting with all Chief Medical Health Officers (CMHOs), Principal Medical Officers and other officials of the health department and issued necessary directions. A senior official of the medical and health department said, "Leaves have been cancelled with effect from Tuesday. Those who have gone on a leave will also have to return. The leaves have been cancelled till further orders." Sharma also reviewed the arrangements made to curb the outbreak of seasonal diseases, besides carrying out coronavirus vaccination and testing. According to the statement, he asked officials to carry out anti-larva exercise in 50 adjoining houses if a patient of malaria, dengue or chikungunya is found in any house. Officials have been asked to conduct awareness activities on the prevention of seasonal diseases. Instructions have also been given to maintain regular supply of adequate medicines for seasonal diseases and to conduct door-to-door surveys in the affected areas and identify and treat patients. Rajasthan has reported 6,797 cases of dengue and other seasonal diseases this year till October 18, with the highest of 1,411 reported in Jaipur, an official said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-cancels-leaves-of-health-workers-to-bolster-dengue-response-1042104.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Migrant workers fleeing Kashmir throng railway stations, bus stands in Jammu, Udhampur||Thousands of migrant workers fleeing Kashmir along with their families queued up outside ticket counters of railway stations and bus stops here Tuesday as targeted killing of minorities and non-locals by terrorists triggered an exodus from the Valley. The security in and around the railway stations and bus stands in Jammu and Udhampur has been beefed up as a precautionary measure as people have been arriving in large numbers, desperate to leave ahead of schedule, and more are on the way, officials said. Outside the railway station in Jammu, men, women and children were seen waiting on the roadside in long queues without basic facilities of water or shelter. As per rough estimates, 3 to 4 lakh migrant labourers, most of them Hindus, from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand come to the Valley every year in early March for skilled and unskilled jobs such as masonry, carpentry, welding and farming, and go back home before the onset of winter in November. But the selective killings have triggered a fear psychosis among them, propelling them to flee before they had planned to. On Sunday, two labourers from Bihar were gunned down when terrorists barged into their accommodation in Kulgam district, taking the number of civilians killed in targeted attacks in Jammu and Kashmir this month to 11. Another labourer sustained bullet injuries. "There is grave fear and terror after the killings of labourers. This has never happened in the past. So we fled the Valley to save our lives and also our children," Santosh Kumar of Bihar's Sitamarhi district said. A brick kiln worker in the Rajpora area of Pulwama district, Kumar said most of those fleeing are scared as there is no guarantee of their security.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-workers-fleeing-kashmir-throng-railway-stations-bus-stands-in-jammu-udhampur-1042113.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Priyanka's 'women card' aims to create momentum for Congress in Uttar Pradesh||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi's announcement on Tuesday that 40 per cent of candidates will be women is aimed at creating momentum for the party in the state, which has a very weak organisation on the ground ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections early next year. The decision to field a large number of women comes against the backdrop of Priyanka pitching for early announcement of candidates for the Assembly polls at the Congress Working Committee last Saturday reasoning that it could help stem desertions at the last minute. The party's Central Election Committee is set to meet soon and it is expected that Priyanka's announcement would be reflected in the first list of candidates itself. With Priyanka "leading from the front", the Congress expects that the 'women card' it has unveiled will "set the agenda" in the UP polls and put other parties, especially the ruling BJP that cannot boast of exemplary action in crime against women, on the backfoot. "The announcement is...truly unprecedented and historic. It is a turning point in Indian politics," Congress Working Committee member Jairam Ramesh tweeted. Rivals have not taken Congress's move lightly. BJP's IT cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted that while Gandhis pontificate on women empowerment, not a day passes in Rajasthan, a Congress-ruled state, when a woman, often a Dalit, is not raped or molested. BSP chief Mayawati also questioned the move, saying the move was "pure election drama". During the last Lok Sabha elections, 6.70 crore or 45.89 per cent of total voters in UP were women. Of this, 3.99 crore or 46.16 per cent of women voters cast their votes. The Congress move takes a leaf out of the successful strategy of leaders like Chandrababu Naidu (TDP), Nitish Kumar (JD-U), Naveen Patnaik (BJD), Mamata Banerjee (Trinamool Congress) and Arvind Kejriwal (AAP), who used women-centric schemes for leaping into power. Party functionaries particularly refer to the cycle scheme for girls in Andhra Pradesh under Naidu and in Bihar under Nitish. While Patnaik reserved 33 per cent of its seats for women in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamool Congress always boasts about ensuring that at least 30 per cent of their winning lawmakers are women. Counting on the logic that Congress is not a cadre-based party but a mass-based organisation, party managers believe that the move to field 40 per cent of candidates — around 160-170 women out of the total 403 if Congress fights from all seats — would widen its base and create a momentum for the party, which has not much organisation on the ground. "This will create momentum. More people will see Congress as a credible organisation to support. Priyanka Gandhi's entry and a series of protests she held in UP, especially on crime against women will surely help the party to improve its tally," a senior leader said. The party is confident that Priyanka has resonance among the masses and select recent protests increased her reach. Priyanka's pro-active approach in Hathras and Sonbhadra sexual assault cases had made the Congress as a visible Opposition face, they feel.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyankas-women-card-aims-to-create-momentum-for-congress-in-uttar-pradesh-1042130.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Over 300 people rescued from flood-affected Uttarakhand: NDRF||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has rescued over 300 people from flood-affected areas of Uttarakhand, the federal force said on Tuesday. The NDRF has deployed 15 teams in the state, where 16 people have died in rain-related incidents so far. The Kumaon region of the hill state has been severely hit by heavy rains, leading to razing of houses and leaving many trapped in the debris. "Rescue operation is in progress and so far, teams have evacuated more than 300 stranded persons from Udham Singh Nagar district and other flood-affected areas," an NDRF spokesperson said. He said while six teams are deployed in Udham Singh Nagar, two teams each are stationed in Uttarkashi, Chamoli and one team each in Dehradun, Pithoragarh and Haridwar. "One team and a sub-team have been deployed in Nainital while one sub-team is placed at Almora," the spokesperson said. The team in Uttarkashi has been stationed to "respond to any contingency and ensure safety of 'yatris' (travellers) of the Char Dham yatra which has been halted temporarily", he added. The force has also deployed 11 teams in Kerala districts that have been similarly battered by heavy rains, resulting in floods and landslides over the last few days. "A 24x7 control room in Delhi is monitoring the situation and is in close coordination with state authorities concerned," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-300-people-rescued-from-flood-affected-uttarakhand-ndrf-1042141.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah briefs PM Modi on J&K situation, discusses steps to be taken||Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and briefed him about the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of the targeted killings of Hindu and Sikh minorities in the region. Shah met the Prime Minister at the latter's official residence. They are learnt to have discussed steps to be taken in the valley to restore the confidence of the religious minorities who have begun moving out of the Kashmir valley fearing for their lives. At least 11 persons, mostly non-local, have been gunned down in the Kashmir valley by terrorists in the last fortnight, reviving memories of the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits from the valley in the 1990s. Shah had met top security officials from the Intelligence Bureau, National Investigation Agency, Directors General of Police and Directors General of central paramilitary forces on Monday to “deliberate on various internal security challenges and tackle them firmly”. The Kashmir issue is expected to be taken up for discussion at the cabinet meeting on Wednesday where steps to deal with the situation are likely to be on the agenda. Shah has asked investigative and intelligence agencies to act on every piece of input received in the matter. The Home Minister is scheduled to visit Jammu and Kashmir on October 23 and 25 to review the security situation in the union territory. This is Shah's first visit to Jammu and Kashmir after the reading down of Article 370 and bifurcation of the state of Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories. Shah is expected to announce some development projects in the union territory. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-briefs-pm-modi-on-jk-situation-discusses-steps-to-be-taken-1042150.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Punjab: Khaira's resignation as MLA accepted, Bholath seat falls vacant||The Punjab Assembly speaker accepted the resignation of Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira on Tuesday and the Vidhan Sabha seat has now fallen vacant. Khaira had joined the Aam Aadmi Party in December 2015 after resigning from Congress and was elected from the Bholath assembly seat in Kapurthala in 2017. After he was unceremoniously removed as the Leader of Opposition of the Punjab Assembly in 2018, he rebelled against the AAP and resigned from the primary membership of the party in January 2019. He floated his own outfit Punjabi Ekta Party and unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Bathinda seat. Khaira then returned to the Congress along with rebel AAP legislators Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh. On June 3, he resigned as legislator before joining Congress. Khaira had returned to the Congress nearly six years after quitting it. According to a statement issued by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, it is notified that consequent upon the resignation of Khaira, the seat of Bholath assembly constituency in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha has fallen vacant with effect from October 19. "I had resigned as MLA on 3rd June before joining the Congress. Thereafter, the speaker asked me to submit my resignation in a proper format which I did today in person. My resignation has been accepted,” said Khaira in a statement. The AAP had been seeking disqualification of Khaira as an MLA under the anti-defection law. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-khairas-resignation-as-mla-accepted-bholath-seat-falls-vacant-1042180.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Army intensifies operation against terrorists holed up in Poonch forests||After suffering nine casualties in as many days, the army has upped the ante against the terrorists holed up in the jungles of Poonch in the Jammu region, asking locals not to venture out of their homes and blocking main roads for a full-scale operation, officials said. As loud explosions and staccato of gunfire pierced the air in the border district of Poonch with the troops advancing into the dense forests, Army Chief General M M Naravane on Tuesday visited forward areas along the LoC to review the ground situation and ongoing counter-infiltration operations. "General MM Naravane #COAS (Chief of Army Staff) visited forward areas of #WhiteKnight Corps & undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the Line of Control. "COAS was briefed by commanders on the ground about the present situation & ongoing counter-infiltration operations," the Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) of the Indian Army tweeted. The area where the operation is currently going on falls under XVI Corps of the army, also known as 'White Knight'. Earlier last week, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat had visited Poonch and other forward areas to review the situation, the officials said. Before concluding his two-day tour, the officials said the Army chief visited the border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, where the massive operation to track down terrorists hiding in the forest areas of Mendhar, Surankote and Thanamandi has been going on since October 11. The operation to neutralise the holed-up terrorists intensified on Tuesday with authorities asking people in Mendhar in Poonch to stay indoors for their safety. The people were alerted through the public address system in local mosques in Bhatta Durrian and adjoining areas as the security forces were preparing a final assault against the terrorists believed to be hiding in the forest area, the officials said. The residents were asked not to venture into the forest area and also keep their livestock at their homes in view of the ongoing operation. Those who have gone outside were asked to suspend their activities and return to their homes along with their animals, the officials said. The deafening sounds of explosions and gunfire shook the forest area shortly after the announcements with security forces launching assaults on suspected locations, mostly natural caves. However, there was no immediate report of any casualty. A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) and four other security personnel laid down their lives in a fierce gunfight during the start of the counter-insurgency operation in Surankote forest of Poonch on October 11 and four other soldiers including another JCO lost their lives in another encounter in Nar Khas forest in Mendhar on Thursday evening after the security forces extended the cordon and search operation. Drones and helicopters were pressed into service to assist the marching troops, which included para-commandos, in the jungle spread over nearly 8 km X 2 km area at a distance of four km from the Line of Control, the officials said. The entire forest belt is still under tight security cordon to neutralise the terrorists, the officials said, adding the area is mountainous and the forest is dense, making the operation difficult and dangerous. Eight suspected persons including a mother-son duo were detained for questioning from Bhatta Durrian in connection with providing logistic support to the terrorists. However, it is to be seen whether the support was given voluntarily or under duress, the officials said. Earlier on Saturday, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Rajouri-Poonch range, Vivek Gupta said the presence of terrorists in the forest area connecting Poonch and Rajouri was observed two and a half months ago and accordingly tactical operations were launched to track them down. "The joint security grid was tracking different groups of terrorists but sometimes operations take time, depending on the topography of the area. "'The contact with the terrorists was established on three occasions during the start of the operation, based on the intelligence inputs," the officer had said, adding the terrorists are holed up and the joint forces are on the job to take the operation to the logical conclusion. The traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended as a precautionary measure for the fifth day on Tuesday in the wake of the ongoing operation. Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-intensifies-operation-against-terrorists-holed-up-in-poonch-forests-1042202.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||AAP, BJP spar over rise in dengue cases in Delhi||The Aam Aadmi Party Tuesday targeted the BJP over a rise in dengue cases in Delhi, alleging that municipal corporations did not take timely preventive measures. Holding the BJP-ruled civic bodies responsible for the surge in cases, AAP MLA Atishi claimed that preventive measures like fogging and door-to-door checking for breeding of mosquitoes in stagnant water were not started in advance. Hitting back at Atishi, Delhi BJP dubbed her allegations as "shameful" and clarified that all three municipal corporations are running awareness campaigns, carrying out fogging and trying to curb the spread of dengue by regular check of homes. The national capital has witnessed a surge in dengue cases in the last two weeks and the first death was reported on Monday. According to a civic report on vector-borne diseases released on Monday, one death due to dengue and a total of 723 dengue cases have been recorded this season till October 16, which is the highest case count since 2018 for that duration. "BJP-ruled MCDs have not taken even a single step in time to prevent dengue in Delhi.... You will not find a single person whose house the MCD workers have visited to check for the breeding of mosquitoes this season. At this time, very little fogging is happening all over Delhi," Atishi alleged. She claimed that while municipal corporations do not have "adequate" fogging machines, anti-dengue medications for fogging have also not been bought "even till this month". "BJP's MCD is playing with the lives of Delhiites. BJP leaders have put the budget of dealing with dengue-malaria in their own pockets instead of spending them on machines and medications," she alleged. Reacting to the AAP leader's charge, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that nothing can be "more shameful" than MLA Atishi's statement that municipal corporations are not doing anything to check the spread of dengue and malaria in Delhi. "The MCDs are running awareness campaigns, doing fogging and checking the spread of dengue-malaria by regular check of homes especially coolers through DB workers while Atishi's Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is wasting crores of rupees on hoarding campaigns," he said in a statement. Kapoor asked Atishi to ask the Delhi chief minister to stop wasting money on advertising and help municipal corporations financially to better control the spread of dengue-malaria. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-bjp-spar-over-rise-in-dengue-cases-in-delhi-1042205.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||First phase of voting for zila parishad, panchayat samiti polls in Rajasthan on October 20||Polling for the first phase of Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti elections in Rajasthan's Alwar and Dholpur districts will be held on October 20, the State Election Commission (SEC) said on Tuesday. In the first phase, 683 candidates are in the fray for 153 wards of seven panchayat samitis. As many as 1,263 polling stations have been set up for the elections, State Election Commissioner P S Mehra said. Over 9.41 lakh voters will be able to exercise their franchise in the two districts. Of these, 4.98 lakh are men and 4.43 lakh are women, he said. The SEC and district administrations have completed all preparations to conduct free, fair, and peaceful voting in accordance with Covid-19 guidelines, he added. The Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti elections in Alwar and Dholpur will be conducted in three phases. Voting for the second and third phases will be held on October 23 and October 26, respectively. The counting of votes will be done at the district headquarters on October 29. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-phase-of-voting-for-zila-parishad-panchayat-samiti-polls-in-rajasthan-on-october-20-1042208.html
19-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur violence case: SIT releases photos of six suspects||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case on Tuesday released pictures of six people standing near an SUV, which was set ablaze during the October 3 incident. It has assured that details of those giving information will not be revealed besides informers will be given due rewards. The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh had set up the SIT to investigate the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. "The SIT team probing the October 3 violence has got some photos and videos. We are releasing photographs and appeal to people to identify them," an SIT official said. "Six photographs have been released for identification," he said. The SIT has already issued notices to over three dozen farmers for questioning in a case related to the lynching of BJP workers. Two FIRs were registered at the Tikonia police station after eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence. In the first FIR, MoS Ajay Mishra's son Ashish was named as accused besides 15 to 20 unidentified persons. Another FIR was lodged at the same police station on the basis of a complaint by Sumit Jaiswal, who has now been arrested. In the complaint, Jaiswal, a resident of Ayodhyapuri here, identified himself as a BJP worker who was on his way to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya for a wrestling event at Banbirpur, when the violence broke out. So far, 10 people, including the MoS’ son Ashish Mishra, have been arrested in the case. The farmers alleged that Ashish Misra was present in one of the vehicles during the incident, a charge which has been denied by him. The minister's son claimed he was present in Banbirpur village at the time to attend a wrestling event. Among eight killed, four were farmers, one was a local journalist and three were BJP workers.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-violence-case-sit-releases-photos-of-six-suspects-1042237.html
19-10-2021||Panorama||Big cities must look to choppers to decongest traffic||Imagine an urban conglomerate known for the world’s worst traffic jams. The city, with a population density of around 8,000 per square kilometre and with approximately 6 million vehicles, has one vehicle for every two citizens. The number of vehicles on its roads continues to grow rapidly while the capacity of public transport is unrelentingly stretched. It is, however, home to business elites of the country, with a large number of billionaires calling the city their home. Crime in the city is so rampant that even elites, like the CEO of a supermarket chain, have been targeted. This could be an Asian city, say, Manila or Jakarta. But for the crime-related data nugget, this could be Bengaluru or Mumbai but it is not. This is Sao Paulo, the business capital of Brazil and the largest city in all of South America. To fix this dismal situation, Sao Paulo looked at helicopters. The invisible hand of the market stepped in. That led to helicopter collectives popping up in Sao Paulo. Helisolutions, a company with a business model wherein more than 100 members share the costs of purchase, maintenance, and pilot time on a fleet of copters was started. Airbus introduced Voom, an on-demand helicopter service with the objective to make helicopter services available to everyone travelling on the ground. Voom followed an asset-light model similar to Ola, facilitating it to cut its fixed costs to provide cheaper helicopter services that can be availed by the not-so-rich class. Uber too allows you to hail a helicopter with its UberCopter service. Mercedes Benz started a venture in Sao Paolo just to fund the helicopter sector. Soon after helicopter operators established a series of flight corridors for easy services. Each corridor had an assigned altitude between 2,000-3,500 feet. To fly above 3,500 feet, permission from Sao Paolo’s Air Traffic Control system was required. Further, to decrease the load on the single ATC system, in 2004, Sao Paulo implemented a dedicated helicopter ATC system for all rotary-wing aircraft. Thus, when the helicopter industry was booming, due to rapid urbanisation their already existing huge buildings facilitated helipad infrastructure. Sao Paulo currently has around 528 helipads. The city is said to have more than 450 helicopters, the largest number for any city in the world. India’s big cities present a picture similar to that we see in Sao Paulo. They are relentlessly becoming more crowded and are increasingly unliveable. Much of this can be attributed to inadequate infrastructure development. Our roads are jammed, commute time has constantly increased and growth in the number of vehicles on our roads doesn’t seem to slow down while there is no significant change in our road infrastructure. As the 2019 Tom Tom Survey of 416 cities points out, Bengaluru and Mumbai top the charts of cities with congestion. Bengaluru spends around 243 hours per year driving in rush hours while for Mumbai it is 209 hours. Economic loss on account of traffic congestion in both Bengaluru and Mumbai runs into billions of dollars. The cost of health and environment are other issues. Travelling to Bengaluru’s airport is a story of missed flights and wasted money. In Mumbai, Bandra Kurla Complex to Andheri, It takes an average of 90 minutes to travel about 12 kms during the evening rush hour. Quite like Sao Paulo, both these cities are large hubs of economic activity. Elites of Indian industry, including many billionaires, reside in these cities. In this chaos, as with Sao Paulo, helicopters present an easy fix. What needs to be done? Creating the enabling infrastructure will be essential. Respective local governments and the Central government could help by setting up helipads across key locations in the city subject to environmental clearance. Industrial houses could support by creating and providing relevant infrastructure, for public use, on tall buildings, and on their campuses for example the IT companies. The Airports Authority could provide dedicated air corridors and align user charges. Public sector enterprise, Pawan Hans Helicopters Ltd as the largest player could take the lead on behalf of the government. In a city like Bengaluru, a typical 10-minute helicopter ride to the airport could cost, as per current estimates, some Rs 4,000 per person. This fare will most likely come down if adequate volumes kick in. With 9 to 10 passengers per trip, it is immensely viable for helicopters. While heli-taxi ventures have been launched in the past, CEOs and VCs could incubate and support UberCopter equivalent enterprises. Large corporates by providing the initial customer base could help such new businesses stand on their feet. This handholding will create a long term win-win solution for the city and its people. In no way less important will be for the DGCA to look at helicopters with a fresh pair of eyes, not with those used for fixed wing operations. This presents a quick fix to some of the traffic congestion issues in both Bengaluru and Mumbai. More importantly, it gives a much-needed fillip to the stunted helicopter industry. It will create a new business line generating revenue, employing thousands in addition to the economic cost saved on account of improved connectivity. A successful model in Bengaluru and Mumbai could be the template for businesses in other cities and in remote parts of the country where the government has enthusiastically promoted regional connectivity schemes. (The writer is a public policy consultant at Chase India.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/big-cities-must-look-to-choppers-to-decongest-traffic-1042222.html
19-10-2021||Panorama||Listening to your gut is important||Hippocrates, who lived around 400 BC, has been quoted as saying “death sits in the bowels” and “bad digestion is the root of all evil”, showing that the significance of the intestines in human health has been long recognised. In the past, most research on the impact of bacteria in the intestinal environment has focused on gastrointestinal pathogens and the way they cause disease. However, in recent times, there has been a considerable increase in the study of the positive effects of human microbes on health and wellness. Interest in the functioning of the human microbiome, particularly the gut microbiome, and its role in various diseases, has exponentially increased in recent decades. This unseen world of microbes residing in our body outnumbers the number of cells in our body and is influenced by diet, physical activity, antibiotic consumption, physical and psychological stress, etc.  In a healthy state, gut microbiomes have myriad positive functions, including the metabolism of non-digestible components of foods, protection from viruses, bacteria and boosting the immune system. Let’s understand this better.  Why is the gut microbiota important? The human microbiome consists of collective genomes of predominantly bacteria, viruses, Protozoa, Archaea, Eukaryotes, that live symbiotically on and within various sites of the human body, like the oral cavity, genital organs, respiratory tract, skin, and gastrointestinal system, that influences our health to a great extent.  Gut microbiota is important for: Moreover, research has found links between altered bacterial populations, and the following diseases: The human microbiome has an influence on the four broad areas of importance to health, namely, nutrition, immunity, behaviour and disease. There is sufficient link between gut microbiota and good health. The altered composition of gut microbiota is likely to impair the normal functioning of gut microbiota in maintaining host wellness. It can potentially induce selective-increase of certain microbiota members including pathobionts, leading to dysregulated production of microbial-derived products or metabolites, which might be harmful to the host, causing a diverse range of diseases on local, systemic or remote organs.  Gut microbiota dysbiosis is implicated in multiple disease conditions including: Going forward, a deeper understanding of gut microbiota and its manipulation with diet and physical activity may provide vital clues to reversing or controlling some of these disorders. Faecal Microbiota Transplantation is now an established therapy in treating diseases like recurrent C Difficle Infection and is emerging as a therapeutic option in many other disorders including Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) and liver diseases. In the future, the gut microbiota will become a cornerstone of preventive medicine. (The author is a gastroenterology expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/listening-to-your-gut-is-important-1042224.html
19-10-2021||Right in the Middle||What’s in a name? A lot||“Get ready. You have to leave for Darbhanga at the earliest. The Karnataka Police have apprehended an Indian Mujahideen (IM) suspect from a village there in the Chinnaswamy Stadium blast case,” said my News Editor in an early morning phone call in 2012. In the next five hours, I was at Barh Samaila, a nondescript village in Darbhanga, 200 kms away from Patna where the suspect was apprehended. There was a pall of gloom in the village as the Muslim-dominated villagers were in a state of shock after the Karnataka Police picked up the suspect, Kafil Akhtar. While roaming around the village, I found that a majority of them had not cooked their food in solidarity with the family. As I was taking a stroll, one of the youths asked me: “Who are you?” I said: “I am a senior journalist from a Bangalore-based newspaper.” The moment I said “Bangalore”, around 25 young men came from nowhere and surrounded me. I was completely unaware that a day before, the cops, who apprehended Kafil, had posed themselves as private telecom company employees looking to set up towers in rural areas, before flying back to Bengaluru with Kafil. The crowd swelled and was about to turn unruly as they mistook me to be a plainclothesman cop from Bangalore. Before they could charge towards me, a voice came from another side: “Abhayji, what are you doing here?” It was Shakeel Ahmad, the then Union Minister of State for Home in the UPA regime, who was there to express his solidarity with the aggrieved family at Barh Samaila. Being identified by my name, that too by a Union minister, saved the day for me. While villagers complained that Kafil had never been to Bengaluru, his namesake Kafeel, also from Barh Samaila, and a distant relative of Kafil, stayed in Karnataka and was a cycle mechanic. However, while the Karnataka Police had done their homework meticulously, they kept the Bihar Police out of the loop, notwithstanding the strong protest later lodged by the Bihar CM and the DGP. The Karnataka cops had got Kafil’s number from Kafeel, who was earlier arrested. Besides, there were three more occasions where the cops could have erred but carried out the entire operation with clinical precision. First, just near Barh Samaila, there is a village called Samaila. also in Darbhanga. But the cops were not confused. They swooped down to Barh Samaila, not Samaila. Secondly, there is a place called Hajipur Chowk before reaching this village in Darbhanga. There is also a Hajipur Chowk near Vaishali (while coming to Darbhanga). The Karnataka cops knew which Hajipur Chowk they had to visit. And third, there is a place called Barh, located 80 kms east of Patna. While Barh Samaila is 200 kms north of Patna. Though no help was sought from the local police, the Karnataka cops knew they had to visit Barh Samaila, not Barh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/what-s-in-a-name-a-lot-1042217.html
19-10-2021||Second Edit||Arun Mishra's inappropriate comments on human rights||The comments made by the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) Justice Arun Mishra on matters related to human rights on its 28th foundation day last week were inappropriate and went against the remit of the statutory body. Mishra commended the government and praised Union Home Minister Amit Shah for his “untiring efforts’’ to foster peace in Jammu and Kashmir and the North-East. He made his remarks in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Both of them had spoken before Mishra, and he seemed to be endorsing their views. The NHRC chairperson should not be seen as speaking for the government, which is often accused of serious human rights violations. Mishra had in the past, when he was a judge of the Supreme Court, inappropriately praised Prime Minister Modi, and last week he praised Shah for “ushering in a new age in J&K and the North-East.’’ Jammu & Kashmir and the North-East are places from where many human rights violations and atrocities are regularly reported. Security forces figure as the accused in most of them and so the government is responsible and answerable for them. The NHRC has the responsibility to investigate the charges and take remedial action. To praise the government for its actions in these areas amounts to giving a clean chit to the government. It is not the task of the NHRC chairperson to give a certificate to the government on its actions, like the scrapping of Article 370, in J&K. There has, in fact, been a flood of charges of rights violations in Kashmir in the past two years and the NHRC should be concerned about them. Instead, the chairperson is seen supporting the government. Mishra also condemned the “new trend’’ of wrongly accusing India of human rights violations at the “behest of international” forces. This is also not a matter for the NHRC to talk about. It is for the government to defend itself against such charges. The NHRC and state human rights commissions were created to investigate charges of human rights violations and to protect the rights of citizens through legal interventions and by other means. The rights commissions have a remedial, even adversarial, role vis-a-vis the government. They are meant to hold governments to account. They are part of the checks and balances in a democracy. They should not weaken themselves by speaking and acting like government departments. Mishra’s comments will lead to loss of trust in the body, and it is another sign of the weakening of democratic institutions in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/arun-mishras-inappropriate-comments-on-human-rights-1042218.html
19-10-2021||South||DH Toon | Kerala disaster management back in focus||Need to implement the Madhav Gadgil committee report on protecting the Western Ghats and flaws in Kerala's disaster management plans have once again become a hot topic of discussion as major landslides wreck the state for the fourth year in a row.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dh-toon-kerala-disaster-management-back-in-focus-1041944.html
19-10-2021||South||Idamalayar, Pampa dams in Kerala opened||The sluice gates of Idamalayar and Pampa reservoirs were opened early on Tuesday in the wake of increase in the water level and more rains forecast in the coming days in Kerala. The development comes a day after the state government opened the shutters of Kakki and Sholayar dams to release surplus water. The Ernakulam district administration confirmed the opening of shutters 2 and 3 of Idamalayar dam by 50 centimetres each. Opening of shutters 3 and 4 of the Pampa dam by 45 centimetres each was confirmed by the Pathanamthitta district administration. The state government on Monday had announced that Idukki dam, built across the Periyar river, Idamalayar in Ernakulam and Pampa dam, in Pathanamthitta, were going to be opened on Tuesday. Even though rains subsided in several parts of Kerala on Monday, after receiving heavy downpour last week, the decision to open shutters of these dams was taken as water levels there had reached close to the danger marks and more rains were expected from Wednesday. In view of the prevailing situation and expected worsening of weather conditions, the government had on Monday also cancelled pilgrimage to the Lord Ayyappa shrine in Sabarimala for the Thula masam poojas. It had also advised people living in low lying areas and close to the rivers, whose dams have been opened or scheduled to be opened, to be vigilant and move to the relief camps set up across the state in the wake of the heavy rains which has claimed 38 lives so far. According to the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), the number of rain-related deaths in Kerala from October 12 to October 18 is 38. During the same period, at least 90 houses have been destroyed in the rains while 702 houses have been partially damaged, SDMA has said.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/idamalayar-pampa-dams-in-kerala-opened-1041979.html
19-10-2021||South||Sex worker-turned-author basks in glory of Kerala film award||It has been over 15 years since Nalini Jameela shocked the conventional mindsets of the society and upset the patriarchy by penning a path-breaking autobiography on her daring and frightful life as a sex worker. Since then, she has been enjoying several identities in life ranging from a best selling author and activist to gender expert and social relationship counsellor and now at the age of 69, she is a recipient of the prestigious Kerala State Film Awards. Jameela adjudged the special jury mention for costume-design in the movie "Bharathapuzha", directed by Manilal, when the state government awards were announced here on Saturday. For Jameela, it was yet another unexpected twist which the life had in store for her and she was bold enough to say that the lessons she had drawn from her early life as a sex worker was her base for any new achievement. "The state award was really unexpected...It was for the first time in my life that I did costume designing for a movie. I cherish this honour as one of the greatest achievements in my life," Jameela told PTI. Noting that experience makes a person strong and bold, she said it was plenty of her experiences-whether good or bad, that made her capable to fight all odds and reach this stage of life. "Bharathapuzha revolves around the story of Sugandhi, a sex worker in her mid thirties, hailing from central Kerala district of Thrissur. Actress Siji Pradeep played the central character in the woman-centric film, which deals with several gender issues. "While chosing costumes for the character, I actually saw myself in her... me as a sex worker during my young age. I never used costly sarees or ornaments in life and I do not even like to wear a bindi. I tried to reflect those characteristics in the heroine's physical persona," she said. Jameela also said while designing outfits for the heroine and helping her with the mannerisms and body language of a young sex worker, the dreadful memories of the grim past came flooding back. "I spent days with the film crew, especially the heroine, to provide all support they needed. There were scenes in the film which I could relate with that of my life...," the activist explained. It was her long-drawn friendship with Manilal, the director, that brought her to the tinsel world. When he had discussed the project with her, Jameela never imagined that she would be entrusted with costume designing. But, she made up her mind to take up the new challenge and managed to complete the work as per the expectations of the filmmaker. "I worked according to my own perspectives. But, the happiest part was that the director was convinced about what i was trying to say.. He had given me the liberty to follow my mind while designing and selecting costumes," the elderly woman added. A third standard drop out, Jameela was forced into prostitution at a very tender age following the death of her husband who had succumbed to cancer. While running from pillar to post to look after her family and raise her two daughters, she had no option but to take up sex work as a profession- which the conventional society viewed as immoral and unethical. The years-long life as a sex worker, police brutality, attack by goons and endless physical tortures inflicted by "clients", has only given Jameela an added energy to fight the hardships and shatter the taboo attached to sex workers. Before turning a sex worker and started loitering in bus terminus and railway stations soliciting 'customers', she had worked in brick kilns and domestic help to earn daily bread for her near ones. When she published the 'Autobiography of a Sex Worker" in the year 2005 after retiring from sex work, it fast turned out to be one of the best sellers of Malayalam besides kicking up a widespread debate on the plight of the hapless community. After the first book had been translated into several languages including English, she came up with another one "Romantic Encounters of a Sex Worker", a memoir which revolves around the relationships she developed with the 'clients', in 2018. Besides being a member of several NGOs, she has also been working as a gender and social relationship counsellor and taking classes in colleges and universities on the subject. Asked whether she would like to build a career in costume designing, she said she was not sure whether any mainstream film makers or production houses would give her an opportunity and if anything comes her way, she would definitely give it a shot. She said the changed perspective and empathetic approach of the new generation towards sex workers and the LGBT people is a great solace for the community members. The 69-year-old woman also cherished a dream of bringing out the cinematic adaptation of her autobiography and setting up a care centre for elderly people. "Those who came from streets, worked in mud kilns and toiled in someone's backyard as a domestic help will surely have a great strength and courage to fight the odds and shatter the taboos of this patriarchal society," Jameela concluded.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sex-worker-turned-author-basks-in-glory-of-kerala-film-award-1042007.html
19-10-2021||South||#RejectZomato trends on Twitter after executive tells Tamil Nadu customer 'Hindi is national language'||Food delivery platform Zomato faced flak on social media after a customer care executive told a customer from Tamil Nadu that he should know Hindi since it is the country’s “national language.” Three hashtags -- #Hindi_Theriyathu_Poda, #HindiIsNotNationalLanguage, and #RejectZomato – have been trending on Twitter since Monday evening.  After an uproar over the incident, Zomato released a statement in English and Tamil on Tuesday afternoon to apologise on behalf of the customer care agent, saying the company understands that food and language are "core to any local culture" and that they "take both of them seriously". Netizens said that Zomato’s executive’s assertion was “wrong” and the company should respect the sentiments of the locals. The hashtag also received support from outside Tamil Nadu with people from southern states including Karnataka narrating incidents of customer care executives insisting them to speak in Hindi.  The issue also received political attention with DMK MP Kanimozhi tweeting that it should be made mandatory for companies to serve their customers in their local language. “A customer doesn’t necessarily need to know Hindi or English. #Hindi_Theriyathu_Poda,” she wrote on her verified Twitter page.  Vikash, who is from Tamil Nadu, took to Twitter on Monday evening to complain that he was denied a refund for a missing food item in his order for “not knowing Hindi” and shared screenshots of his conversation.  The agent told Vikash that he was not able to get a refund from the restaurant “due to language barrier” to which the customer responded that Zomato should have hired people with knowledge of Tamil since it doing business in Tamil Nadu.  “For your kind information, Hindi is our national language. So it is very common that everybody should know Hindi a little bit,” the Zomato agent told Vikash, according to the screenshot of their conversation.  As the issue dominated the discussion on Twitter, Zomato issued a statement apologising for the incident. “We have terminated the agent for their negligence towards our diverse culture. The termination is in line with our protocols, and agent's behaviour was clearly against the principles of sensitivity that we train our agents for on a regular basis,” Zomato said. “This customer care agent's statements do not represent our company's stance towards language and diversity,” the company said, adding that besides building a Tamil version of its app, Zomato has already localised marketing communication in Tamil for the state by signing up music director Aniruddh Ravichander." “We are in the process of building a local Tamil call/support centre in Coimbatore. We understand food and language are core to any local culture and we take both of them seriously,” the company said.  After the statement said the agent was being sacked, Tamil Twitter was at it yet again seeking to know the need for firing someone rather than helping them understand. Hours later, Goyal took to Twitter to announce that the agent has been reinstated. “An ignorant mistake by someone in a support centre of a food delivery company became a national issue. The level of tolerance and chill in our country needs to be way higher than it is nowadays. Who's to be blamed here?” he asked. An ignorant mistake by someone in a support centre of a food delivery company became a national issue. The level of tolerance and chill in our country needs to be way higher than it is nowadays. Who's to be blamed here? “And remember, our call centre agents are young people, who are at the start of their learning curves and careers. They are not experts on languages and regional sentiments. Nor am I, btw. Having said that, we should all tolerate each other's imperfections. And appreciate each other's language and regional sentiments,” he added. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rejectzomato-trends-on-twitter-after-executive-tells-tamil-nadu-customer-hindi-is-national-language-1042038.html
19-10-2021||South||Kerala floods: Shutters of Idukki dam opened, orange alert in 11 districts||Shutters of the Idukki dam in Kerala were opened on Tuesday morning as water level kept on increasing, triggering an alert up to the suburbs of Kochi. The state also continues to be on high alert as the IMD sounded orange alert in eleven of the 14 districts in the state for Wednesday and Thursday. Devotees who turned up at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple were also sent back. The shutters of Idukki dam located at Cheruthoni town were opened for the first time after 2018 when it had opened after 26 years. The move was widely criticised then as it had resulted in flooding in the suburbs of Kochi, which is around 100 kilometres away, apart from causing massive destruction to Cheruthoni town. Poor dam management was alleged to be a reason that aggravated the 2018 floods. This is why the dam, which is the tallest arch dam in the country, has been opened with utmost care and precaution this time. A red alert was sounded by Monday evening and people along the banks of the river were shifted. Three shutters were lifted in a phased manner from 11 am. Around one lakh litre of water was being released per second. The water level of the dam reached 2,398 feet by Tuesday morning and the plan is to retain it at 2,395 feet as the IMD forecast another spell of rains from Wednesday. A large number of people also thronged Cheruthoni to witness the water flow after the shutters were opened. Earlier during the day, shutters of the Pamba and Idamalayar dams were also partially opened. The Kakki dam in Pathanamthitta district was partially opened on Monday morning leading to a slight increase in water level at Pamba in Sabarimala. A large number of devotees who tuned up for darshan at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple were sent back from Nilackal base camp. The temple that was opened for the week-long monthly pooja will close by Thursday. Meanwhile, many parts of Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts continue to be remain flooded.   Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-shutters-of-idukki-dam-opened-orange-alert-in-11-districts-1042057.html
19-10-2021||South||India fishing boat sinks after collision with Sri Lanka navy vessel||An Indian fishing trawler has sunk after allegedly ramming a Sri Lankan navy vessel that was driving out poachers from the island nation's prawn-rich waters, officials said Tuesday. The two countries are separated by the narrow Palk Strait known for its jumbo prawns, with Sri Lankan fishermen long accusing their Indian neighbours of poaching in their territory. The incident took place late Monday, with rescuers still searching Tuesday for one of the trawler's missing crew members, the navy said in a statement. Two other fishermen from the boat were rescued, it said. "The search and rescue operation is being augmented by a team of navy divers, fast attack craft and inshore patrol craft," the navy added. On Sunday Sri Lankan fishermen took to the sea in a protest that called on authorities to block Indian fishing boats from their waters and end bottom trawling. The practice -- banned from Sri Lankan waters in 2017 -- involves dragging heavy nets across the sea floor to catch a large volume of fish, damaging the marine ecosystem. Sri Lankan fishermen were not allowed to venture out during much of the island's decades-long Tamil separatist war that ended in 2009, allowing Indians a free run in the area. But there have been increasing tensions over poaching since Sri Lankan fishermen have been permitted at sea again. The South Asian country has regularly detained large numbers of Indian fishermen and seized their boats, but there has been no let-up in poaching, according to locals. Sri Lankan fishermen say every week, several Indian vessels enter their waters to fish. An Indian fisherman was allegedly killed by Sri Lankan forces in March 2017. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/india-fishing-boat-sinks-after-collision-with-sri-lanka-navy-vessel-1042093.html
19-10-2021||South||Kerala received 135% extra rain this month, says IMD||As Kerala braces for another spell of downpour from October 20, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) data shows that the southern state has received 135 per cent excess rain during the period from October 1 to 19. During the heavy spell on October 16 when the IMD issued a Red alert indicating extremely heavy rainfall, numerous incidents of landslips and other rain-related accidents were reported from south-central districts of Kerala, resulting in at least 24 deaths. The season's rainfall data on the IMD website shows that the normal rainfall for the period of October 1 to 19 was 192.7 mm whereas the actual rainfall was 453.5 mm. There is a "large excess departure" of 135 per cent, the website says. "During October-December, through the north-east Monsoon, the state receives an average rainfall of 491.6 mm, which is 16.8 percent of the annual rainfall. This year, the state has received 453.5 mm rain during Oct 1-19, instead of the usual 192.7 mm. This means that the state has already received over 90 per cent of this season's rainfall," a senior IMD official told PTI. Except for Thrissur and Alappuzha, all other districts have received over 100 per cent of the usual rainfall. While Kozhikode saw the highest increase (223 per cent excess), Alappuzha saw the least increase (66 per cent) in rainfall. The official said the heavy downpour which the state witnessed recently marks the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon which normally ends by September 30. Kerala has received excess rain due to the low-pressure zones that developed near the Lakshadweep coast in the South-Eastern region of the Arabian Sea and in the South-Eastern parts of the Bay of Bengal. After a relative respite of two days, the IMD today issued an orange alert for 11 districts of Kerala indicating heavy rainfall on Wednesday. The IMD sounded the alert for Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, and Kannur districts on October 20. The weatherman has put 12 districts on orange alert on Thursday also. It has been issued for all districts other than Kannur and Kasaragod on October 21. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-received-135-extra-rain-this-month-says-imd-1042112.html
19-10-2021||South||Sangam Age fish symbol incised on ring well found in Keeladi||A ring well incised with the decorated fish symbol has been unearthed during the seventh phase of the archaeological excavation in Keeladi near Madurai, in yet another evidence that the site belonged to the Sangam Age.  The fish symbol, which is an integral part of the flag believed to have been used by the mighty Pandiyan Kingdom, was found incised on a ring well that looked like a design. Tamil Nadu Minister for Tamil Culture and Archaeology Thangam Thennarasu took to Twitter on Tuesday morning to share a picture of the ring well.  “Decorated Fish Symbol found in one of the ring wells for the first time in Keeladi excavations. Ever-fascinating Keeladi,” Thennarasu tweeted after inspecting the site at Keeladi. The seventh phase of excavations in Keeladi ended on September 30 during which over 5,000 artefacts have been found.  Over a dozen ring wells have so far been found in Keeladi and Agaram, another habitation site, demonstrating the water conservation technology used by Tamil over 2,000 years ago. Carbon dating of artefacts found in the fourth phase of excavations in Keeladi found they were at least 2,600 years old, pushing the Sangam Era further back by 300 years.  “After the necessary touch-up and cleaning, we found the fish symbol incised on the ring well. This is the first time that we have found fish symbol on a ring well in Keeladi. It looks like they have used a nail to draw the fish symbol,” a source in the Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA) told DH. Archaeologists said the decorated fish symbol is yet another evidence to conclude that Keeladi is a Sangam Era site. Several artefacts found during Keeladi excavations have thrown enough evidence to suggest that the site belonged to the Sangam Era.  Archaeological findings in Keeladi and Sivagalai in Thoothukudi district have created a buzz with researchers and archaeologists in Tamil Nadu calling them significant as they “narrow down” the gap between the Tamil urban settlements and the Indus Valley Civilisation (IVC). However, they say “more evidence” should be forthcoming.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sangam-age-fish-symbol-incised-on-ring-well-found-in-keeladi-1042119.html
19-10-2021||South||Attacks on offices prompt TDP to call for bandh in AP on October 20||Describing the alleged attacks on Telugu Desam Party offices as "state-sponsored terrorism", the party supremo N Chandrababu Naidu on Tuesday called for a state-wide bandh in Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday protesting the incidents. Speaking to reporters, he said he apprised the Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan of the situation even as the DGP Gautam Sawang did not respond to his phone calls. "Police and government colluded and attacked offices at several places. These are organised attacks. I appeal to the people, we call for a state-wide bandh... Why should we hesitate to ask for the implementation of Article 365… what else do we need to show the failure of law and order in the state,” he said at a press conference. The DGP is not fit for the post, he alleged. He said there should be a thorough inquiry on the attacks. The TDP chief alleged the state has become a home for ganja cultivation and drug mafia. Ruling YSR Congress Party cadre on Tuesday allegedly ransacked Telugu Desam Party's headquarters at Mangalagiri near here, offices at Visakhapatnam and other places, blaming that a spokesperson of the opposition party made objectionable comments against the Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in a press conference. TDP spokesperson K Pattabhi Ram earlier in the morning, objecting to police notices to former minister Nakka Ananda Babu, made caustic remarks against Jagan Mohan Reddy. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/attacks-on-offices-prompt-tdp-to-call-for-bandh-in-ap-on-october-20-1042129.html
19-10-2021||South||Kerala keeps fingers crossed as orange alert issued in 12 districts||With the Indian Meteorological Department forecasting heavy to very heavy rains and winds across the state on Wednesday and Thursday and sounding an orange alert in 12 of the 14 districts, Kerala is keeping fingers crossed. Many parts of the state are still flooded and the water level in dams remains high. On Tuesday, shutters of three more dams, including the Idukki dam, were partially opened, triggering an alert up to the suburbs of Kochi. Many parts of Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam remained flooded and search operations for two more persons at the landslide-hit areas were still progressing. So far the death toll has reached 27. The shutters of Idukki dam located at Cheruthoni town were opened for the first time after 2018. It was after a gap of 26 years that the shutters were opened during the 2018 floods and it resulted in flooding in suburbs of Kochi, which is around 100 kilometres away, apart from causing massive destruction to Cheruthoni town. The poor dam management was alleged to be a reason that aggravated the 2018 floods. For that reason opening of the shutters of the dam, which is the tallest arch dam in the country, has been done with utmost care and precaution this time. A red alert was sounded by Monday evening and people along the banks of the river were shifted. Three shutters were lifted in a phased manner from 11 am. Around one lakh litre of water was being released per second. The water level of the dam reached 2398 feet by Tuesday morning and the plan is to retain it at 2395 feet as the IMD forecast another spell of rains from Wednesday. A large number of people also thronged at Cheruthoni to witness the water flow after the shutters were opened. IMD sounded orange alert in 11 districts, except Kasargod, Alappuzha and Kollam for Wednesday and 12 districts, except Kannur and Kasargod, on Thursday. Row over poor weather alert The state government has raised concerns over inaccurate weather alerts from the IMD. Revenue Minister K Rajan said that only a green alert was issued by IMD in the calamity-hit Kottayam and Idukki districts for last Saturday. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress alleged that the state's disaster management systems were again proving to be inefficient. Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that even as rough weather alerts were prevailing in the state from October 8, adequate measures were not taken. He also sought a probe into the matter. The issue is likely to rock the Kerala Assembly session on Wednesday. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-keeps-fingers-crossed-as-orange-alert-issued-in-12-districts-1042162.html
19-10-2021||South||TRS, BJP spar over Dalit-Bandhu scheme suspension in poll-bound Huzurabad||Days ahead of the Huzurabad bypoll, the TRS and BJP are sparring over the Election Commission of India (ECI) suspending the implementation of the “Dalit-bandhu” scheme in the assembly constituency. The K Chandrasekhar Rao government's welfare scheme envisages Rs 10 lakh financial assistance for select SC families for their economic empowerment, with ventures like dairy farming, kirana shops. The programme was initiated ahead of the poll schedule release and is being implemented in a pilot mode in the constituency which has a considerable number of SC voters. The TRS leaders are hopeful that the scheme would swing the result in favour of them. However, the ECI has on Monday stated that the direct benefit transfers scheme “shall be deferred in the constituency in all its forms till the completion of bye-elections.” Huzurabad would vote on October 30. The seat held by former health minister Eatala Rajender fell vacant in June after he resigned from TRS and also the assembly membership. Eatala later joined the BJP and is the saffron party's candidate now. The former colleague who has a good hold in the area poses a big challenge to Rao in the polls. Following the ECI decision, the TRS is blaming the BJP for the programme suspension in Huzurabad. “Dalit bandhu was not brought in for the sake of Huzurabad polls. It is an ambitious scheme envisaged by the CM in the budget for Dalit empowerment. By getting the scheme suspended, the BJP has betrayed the Dalit community,” alleged Koppula Eshwar, Telangana's social welfare minister. While it was originally decided to earmark Rs 1,200 crore under the programme for the entire state, Rao had later announced that about Rs 2,000 crore would be expended in Huzurabad alone. Though 21,000 SC families were planned to be covered from the five mandals of the constituency, the number later went above 24,000. The TRS government has reportedly transferred about Rs 1,655 crores till now into the beneficiaries' bank accounts. The BJP is disputing the TRS claims and accusations, calling the suspension a failure of CM Rao. “By not implementing the scheme fully, the CM has allowed the ECI to defer the programme. Rao who said that there would not be any restrictions has later set conditions for the SC families to withdraw and use the money. The CM who is cheating Dalits has conspired to put the blame on others,” Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay said, adding that the Huzurabbad voters would teach the ruling party a lesson. Meanwhile, Padmanabha Reddy of Forum for Good Governance, an NGO working for reforms, said that they had complained to ECI against the Dalit bandhu implementation in Huzurabad in August “because of the impending polls”. “It is ridiculous that the programme is stopped now when the elections are only a few days away and after the money was transferred to the beneficiary accounts,” Reddy said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-bjp-spar-over-dalit-bandhu-scheme-suspension-in-poll-bound-huzurabad-1042179.html
19-10-2021||South||'Not just a concrete structure...': Untold stories of misery from Kerala||A concrete house on a riverbank plunging into the gushing waters is just one of the viral, heart-wrenching scenes from Kerala, decimated by landslides and floods this week. It was not just a house that was washed away by the Manimala river in Kottayam's Mundakayam but a private bus driver's earnings and savings of 25 years for his daughter's future. Nature's fury has left behind a series of untold stories of misery. Around 30 houses in Mundakayam area alone were washed away. The home of bus driver Jebi was considered to be one of the strong structures of the locality and was serving as a home to neighbours during the unprecedented rain. As the water came gushing in, Jebi's wife, daughter and others in the house moved out and within 30 minutes, the house was gone. Jebi's wife fainted when she witnessed it, while Jebi himself was stranded in the flood at nearby Kanjirapally in Kottayam district. Jebi told the media that savings he had kept for his daughter's future were also washed away. He was yet to pay off the loan he took to construct the house. Some cash that his wife kept in her purse was also missing after the melee. What was left behind was only the clothes we are wearing, says Jebi pleading for the government's support. It was 14-year-old Alan's birthday on Monday when rescue workers were searching for his body among the debris of the landslide-hit Koottickal in Kottayam district. The family was also planning to celebrate his birthday with his favourite black forest cake, says his uncle Reji. Alan and his mother Sonia were buried alive in the landslide, while his father Jomy had a narrow escape.  Sonia's body was already recovered. Some parts recovered from the spot, believed to be that of Alan's, were found to be that of an adult upon medical examination. Hence, the search for Alan's body continues. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-just-a-concrete-structure-untold-stories-of-misery-from-kerala-1042243.html
19-10-2021||State||Karnataka Congress withdraws 'illiterate Modi' tweet; DK Shivakumar 'regrets' language||Karnataka Congress leader D K Shivakumar on Monday "regretted" the "illiterate Modi" tweet by the Karnataka Congress Twitter account, saying that parliamentary language is a non-negotiable pre-requisite for political discourse. "I have always believed that civil and parliamentary language is a non-negotiable pre-requisite for political discourse. An uncivil tweet made by a novice social media manager through the Karnataka Congress official Twitter handle is regretted and stands withdrawn," he tweeted late on Monday.  I have always believed that civil and parliamentary language is a non-negotiable pre-requisite for political discourse. An uncivil tweet made by a novice social media manager through the Karnataka Congress official Twitter handle is regretted and stands withdrawn. The tweet by Karnataka Congress terming Narendra Modi "#HebbettuGiraakiModi" meaning the belittling Hindi expression ‘angootha chhaap' went viral on social media drawing wrath from netizens and BJP sympathisers. “Congress built schools, but Modi didn’t study. There was an adult education programme and still Modi didn’t study. Despite the prohibition of beggary, those who chose the lazy life of begging have pushed citizens of this country towards poverty. The country is suffering because of #HebbettuGiraakiModi,” the Congress said in a now-deleted tweet. The tweet was part of a series slamming PM Modi with the hashtag.  The saffron party hit back saying, “Yes, our PM is different from your leaders. As PM, he didn’t light a woman’s cigarette, didn’t dance in a bar and hasn’t been caught transporting drugs. His is a life dedicated to the nation, not his family,” the BJP said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-congress-withdraws-illiterate-modi-tweet-dk-shivakumar-regrets-language-1041982.html
19-10-2021||State||Girl poisons 4 family members to death, upset over 'discrimination' in affection||A 17-year-old girl allegedly poisoned four of her family members to death, upset over "discrimination" in the affection shown between her and siblings, police said. The incident that took place in July at Lambanihatti in Isamudra village in this district, has now come to light. The girl's family members who died are her father, mother, grandmother, and sister, while her 19-year-old brother, who had taken ill due to the poisoning, has survived. According to police sources, they consumed 'Ragi mudde' (Ragi balls) mixed with insecticide for dinner on July 12 prepared by the girl, following which they started vomiting, and subsequently four of them died. The accused only ate rice and rasam prepared by her sister, they said. The food materials and utensils used were sent to forensic laboratory, and after examination, it was confirmed that insecticide was mixed in the ragi mudde served to family members. Police said, on investigation it came across that the accused had grown up at her maternal grandparents’ home and moved into her parents' house about three years ago. She complained of "discrimination" in the affection shown by parents between her and her siblings. She was upset that she was being "ill-treated" and that her brother and sister got "more love", and so decided to poison them, officials said, adding that she had once in the past failed in her attempt to poison family members. As the accused is a minor, she has been sent to the girls’ remand home. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/girl-poisons-4-family-members-to-death-upset-over-discrimination-in-affection-1042040.html
19-10-2021||State||Karnataka govt gets 4,500 applications for Rajyotsava awards||The Karnataka government has received 4,500 applications for the Rajyotsava awards, Kannada & Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar said Tuesday.  "The shortlisted names will be announced on October 28," he said.  In a first, the government had asked citizens to nominate deserving people for this year's edition of the Rajyotsava awards, taking a leaf out of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for people to nominate achievers for the Padma awards. The Rajyotsava award, instituted way back in 1966, is Karnataka’s second-highest civilian honour after the Karnataka Ratna. Recipients of the award receive a cash prize, a gold medal and a citation. The government will recognise 66 achievers this year. On Tuesday, Kumar unveiled a new pro-Kannada campaign 'Kannadakkaagi Naavu' (We stand for Kannada) ahead of the Rajyotsava celebrations on November 1.  Natives of Karnataka have to make an effort to converse in chaste Kannada for one week between October 24 and 30, to mark Kannada Rajyotsava, while those residing here from other states must aim to learn at least a hundred sentences in the regional language.  Through this, the government wants to encourage people to converse in Kannada not just in personal spaces but even online and at work. "This is a public programme initiated by the government. None of this is mandatory," Kumar specified.  On this occasion, the government will hold various cultural programmes in the five Rangayanas of the state. A similar set of programmes including theatre, dance and music will be held in Bengaluru's public spaces, IT companies, metro stations and Vidhana Soudha.  At 11 am on October 28, one lakh people across the state will sing at the same time. The government has chosen three Kannada songs for this event. The department has reached out to fourteen Kannada associations in other states and countries, all of whom will take part in singing.  Further, the government will conduct a contest where participants are required to speak about Karnataka, Kannada and heritage for four minutes in chaste Kannada.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-gets-4500-applications-for-rajyotsava-awards-1042105.html
19-10-2021||State||Karnataka sees 349 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday logged 349 new cases of Covid-19 and 14 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,84,022 and death toll to 37,967, the health department said. The day also saw 399 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,36,926. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 161 new cases, as the city saw 125 discharges and five deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is 9,100. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.41 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was at 4.01 per cent. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Udupi recorded three deaths, while one death each was reported from Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Kodagu, Mysuru, Tumakuru, and Uttara Kannada. After Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru logged the highest of 37 new infections, Dakshina Kannada 24, Hassan 23, and Uttara Kannada 19. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 12,49,662 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,78,802 and Tumakuru 1,20,574. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,26,666, followed by Mysuru 1,76,041 and Tumakuru 1,19,231. Cumulatively a total of 4,95,74,033 samples have been tested, of which 85,022 were tested on Tuesday alone. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sees-349-new-covid-19-cases-14-deaths-1042140.html
19-10-2021||State||Kannada filmmaker Natesh Hegde triumphs at Pingyao Festival||Natesh Hegde's Pedro, a Kannada feature film, has received rave reviews in the international film festival circuit. On Tuesday, Hegde clinched the best director's award at the Pingyao International Film Festival in Shanxi, China. His film competed in the Crouching Tigers competition section.  Pedro, which is about a middle-class electrician, is Hegde's first feature film. It is produced by popular Kannada actor-director Rishab Shetty. The film shows how village people respond to an accidental crime committed by an electrician. Hegde's father, Gopalakrishna Hegde, has played the lead role. Sandalwood actor-director Raj B Shetty has a small role in the film.  The film premiered at the Busan International Festival and then was showcased at the BFI London Film Festival earlier this month. Hegde, who studied journalism at the Karnatak University in Dharwad, worked briefly as a journalist at the Kannada daily Prajavani. Hailing from Sirsi, his short film Kurli made it to several festivals.  Natesh was one of the 19 individuals picked for the 'DH Changemakers' in 2019, an annual event of Deccan Herald to honour remarkable people from Karnataka who make a difference in the lives around them or sparkle in their area of specialisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kannada-filmmaker-natesh-hegde-triumphs-at-pingyao-festival-1042172.html
19-10-2021||State||Congress threatens to file case against Kateel on defamatory remark on Rahul Gandhi||Congress on Tuesday threatened file a defamation case against BJP Karnataka president Nalin Kumar Kateel for calling Congress leader Rahul Gandhi a "drug addict". "The BJP National leaders should immediately take action against  Kateel and should sack him from the party. Otherwise, Congress workers will hold massive a protest against BJP," Youth Congress National President B V Srinivas said. To divert public attention on burning issues like rising oil prices, unemployment, poverty, inflation, Kateel is making irresponsible statements, Srinivas told media. Condemning Kateel's statement, Srinivas said the BJP leader should know his position before making defamatory comments against a national leader. "Why is Kateel silent on burning issues like job loss due to Covid-19 and price rise in the state?" he questioned. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-threatens-to-file-case-against-kateel-on-defamatory-remark-on-rahul-gandhi-1042175.html
19-10-2021||State||Article 371(j) cell to shift to Kalaburagi soon, says Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday that an order had been issued to shift the Article 371(J) cell from Bengaluru to Kalaburagi, to supervise the development works and appointments in Kalyana Karnataka region. The cell will soon start functioning in Kalaburagi. He told reporters at the Kalaburagi airport that as assured in the legislature session, a permanent secretary has been appointed to the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB). “I will speak about the recruitment for vacant posts in this region after the bypolls are over,” the CM said. The government is ready to provide an additional Rs 1,500 crore along with annual budgetary allocation of Rs 1,500 crore to the KKRDB. Before this, the board must spend the funds being released by the government, the chief minister said. The CM exuded confidence that the BJP will win the bypolls to Hanagal and Sindagi Assembly segments. Revenue Minister R Ashoka visited the tremor-hit villages. He spoke to the residents and the scientists on the frequent tremors in Gadikeshwar and its surrounding villages. The government will take a call on constructing sheds for the residents after scientists and earthquake experts submit their report, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/article-371j-cell-to-shift-to-kalaburagi-soon-says-bommai-1042178.html
19-10-2021||State||Other wife, child no ground to disobey maintenance decree: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court has said that a Muslim man hurriedly contracting another marriage after pronouncing talaq upon his first wife cannot be heard to say that he has to maintain the new spouse and the child begotten from her as a ground for not discharging the maintenance decree. The court made this observation while coming to the rescue of a divorced woman who had secured a decree for her maintenance after years of struggle and has been relentlessly battling for its enforcement. “He ought to have known his responsibility towards the ex-wife who does not have anything to fall back upon; the said responsibility arose from his own act of talaq and prior to espousing another woman; the responsibility & duty owed by a person to his ex-wife are not destroyed by his contracting another marriage,” Justice Krishna S Dixit said. Nine years after the suit was filed, the family court had, in 2011, ordered the ex-husband to pay monthly maintenance of Rs 3,000. However, the ex-husband pleaded lack of means to pay and was also sent to civil prison in December 2012. He was released in January 2013 on paying Rs 30,000. His subsequent application citing financial incapacity to pay was rejected and he approached the High Court. The court, while rejecting the petition, also imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on the ex-husband. The bench requested the trial court to accomplish the execution on a war-footing and report compliance to the registrar general of the high court within three months.  The court said there is sufficient intrinsic material in the Holy Quran and Hadith, which lays foundation to the accrual of a corresponding right in favour of a divorced wife for maintenance. “Generally, it is conditioned by three cumulative factors viz (i) mehr amount is insignificant; (ii) she is incapable of paddling her life boat on her own; & (iii) she has remained un-remarried,” the court said. The court also observed that contentions such as the duty to furnish essentials to the ex-wife is coterminous with iddat period post talaq and that the quantum of maintenance amount cannot exceed the size of mehr money are difficult to sustain in ‘law in a changing society’.   “Divorce brings a trainload of difficulties to the women, is obvious; divorced women in general and divorced Muslim women in particular undergo a lot of hardship; the tears they shed are hidden in their veils; it is not that the unscrupulous men do not know all this,” Justice Dixit said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/other-wife-child-no-ground-to-disobey-maintenance-decree-karnataka-hc-1042188.html
19-10-2021||State||Don't vote for JD(S): Siddaramaiah to minority community||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Tuesday urged the voters from the minority community not to cast even a single vote to the JD(S) during the Hangal and Sindagi bypolls, as voting for the regional party means voting for the BJP. The leader of opposition in the state assembly accused the JD(S) of deliberately fielding minority community candidates in both the constituencies to help the BJP. "Though JD(S) has fielded its candidates, the straight fight is between the Congress and BJP. JD(S) has not fielded a candidate with an intention to win. They have fielded to help the BJP. I'm not saying this, people are saying this," Siddaramaiah said. Addressing the campaign meeting at Sindagi constituency here, he said, Congress is always the target for JD(S), and pointed out that during the Basavakalyan bypolls held earlier this year, too the regional party fielded a Muslim candidate, who got about 8,000 votes, which resulted in Congress' loss. "Making Congress to lose is their (JDS) intention. But I know people are not dumb as they think... minority community voters know and understand their intention.....I pray to minority community voters, that if you vote for JD(S), it is like voting for BJP. So don't cast a single vote for JD(S)," he added. The JD(S) has fielded 33-year-old post graduate Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindagi and 35-year-old B.E, M.Tech (CSE) graduate Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal. Congress during the 2018 assembly polls too had accused the JD(S) of being the "B-team" of BJP. Bypolls will be held on October 30, while counting of votes will take place on November 2. The by-elections have been necessitated as the seats fell vacant following the death of Sindagi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP’s C M Udasi from Hangal.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dont-vote-for-jds-siddaramaiah-to-minority-community-1042189.html
19-10-2021||State||Schools pile up uniforms on parents heaving under fee burden||A day after the government announced the reopening of schools for primary grades, several private unaided schools have sent out messages to parents, insisting that they buy uniforms for their children. Expressing anger against the school managements, the parents said buying uniforms was a waste of resources as only six months were left in the academic year. “We received a message from the school early on Tuesday, asking us to visit the school before October 22 to buy uniforms,” said a parent from Bengaluru. “To begin with, many parents are in a dilemma over sending children to school. Pressuring them to buy uniforms will force parents to keep their children away from offline classes,” the parent said. The parents have demanded that the government issue clear instructions, asking schools not to impose such things. “We agree that old uniforms will not fit kids, but putting pressure on parents to buy new sets of uniforms in the middle of the academic year does not make sense,” said Vinutha G, the parent of a class 3 child. Not just uniforms, parents said some schools have issued circulars, asking parents to clear the fee dues before October 25. Some schools said they will discontinue online classes from October 25, if the dues are not cleared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/schools-pile-up-uniforms-on-parents-heaving-under-fee-burden-1042203.html
19-10-2021||State||Have never quarrelled with anyone, says Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said he has never quarrelled with anyone. "I have a lot of work to do. Siddaramaiah himself comes to have a verbal fight with me," he said. Speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi airport, he asked, "Why should I quarrel with him (Siddaramaiah)?..." On Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan criticising him, Kumaraswamy said Zameer is not his friend now but an old friend. "I will not speak about him and have left everything to the god." On Sindagi bypolls, the former chief minister claimed that Congress has been relegated to the third position as there is a straight fight between the JD(S) and BJP. "Both Congress and BJP are at the forefront in receiving percentage (bribe). The people of the state should make up their minds to throw out these political parties from power in the State," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/have-never-quarrelled-with-anyone-says-kumaraswamy-1042207.html
19-10-2021||State||Farmers worry as India's 'illegal' GM rice is pulled from EU shelves||The discovery of 500 tonnes of genetically modified (GM) rice by the European Commission and subsequent withdrawal of the rice flour from the markets has rung alarm bells among farm activists who noted that the GM paddy cultivation was not allowed in India except for confined field trials. Following an alert from France in June, the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed notified the commission, an EU body. The notification identified the product as 'Unauthorised genetically modified (p35S and tNos) rice flour from India'.  The flour and its products were marketed in nearly 20 EU countries, which are being recalled. On Tuesday, the Coalition for GM-Free India wrote to A K Jain, Chairperson of Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee at the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change expressing concern over the contamination of paddy seeds or leaks of GM seeds. "While India does not allow GM rice cultivation, we've had various GM rice varieties at various stages of confined field trials. Global experiences show us that seed and food supply chains can get contaminated from field trials of GM crops in general and GM rice in particular," the letter said, citing the example of the United States, and the GM rice fiasco where a company had to pay $750 million in damages to 11,000 farmers for contamination. The discovery of GM rice from India, it said, will cost the farmers as the country exported rice worth Rs 65,000 crore in 2020-21. "Such loss of reputation will affect market prices," the letter said. The letter said the discovery of Bt cotton, Bt brinjal and Bt soybean found to have been grown illegally in India shows that GM crops in field trials are contaminating the farms and food. "It is an unfortunate truth that our regulatory system has been found ineffective in curbing," it added. Rajesh Krishnan from the Coalition, a farmer based in Wayanad, said the news was of concern not just to states growing Basmati rice but also to southern parts of the country which have been exporting traditional varieties of rice in the recent years. "In India, we have a growing trend of export of non-Basmati rice over the last few years. The rice grown in Kerala is reaching West Asian and European markets. Any contamination will hit the farmers hard," he said. The news comes in the wake of a private company seeking field trials for Bt cotton and maize in Karnataka, a proposal that has already seen much opposition from the farmers and activists. Kavita Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable & Holistic Agriculture said farmers in Karnataka remain vulnerable to incidents of contamination or leakage as the state government has not taken a stand against GM crops. "There is enough scientific evidence to show the damage caused by GM crops to the environment and human health. In India, all the contaminations are linked to field trials. Those who vouch for the safety of field trials are yet to fix the liability for incidents of contamination. This shows that our regulatory mechanisms are unfit to handle such events," she said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmers-worry-as-indias-illegal-gm-rice-is-pulled-from-eu-shelves-1042214.html
19-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Exclusive | Karnataka ready to monetise public data||Karnataka will allow monetisation of a treasure trove of citizen data available at its disposal by anonymising personal details under its new open data policy, as the government looks to take advantage of increasing digitalisation to provide "effective governance". Notified recently and reviewed by DH, the Karnataka Open Data Policy governs the use of public data. The policy classifies name, address, ID details and religion as personal data. “Only anonymised data could be shared and monetised,” the policy states. What this means is: any organisation, institution (educational or research), corporate body, the private agency registered in India and operational for 24 months can ink an agreement with the government, including a non-disclosure pact, and buy data to make business decisions.  “In Karnataka, we know where schools and hospitals are located," Shreevyas HM, project director of the Karnataka Open Data Interface at the Centre for e-Governance, told DH, explaining how monetisation works. "We also know the literacy rates, disease and patient details. So, data on an area with a high population but low literacy where there aren’t good schools may be purchased to identify where a school or hospital can be opened." Giving an example, he pointed out how the Ministry of Transport had monetised information on vehicles that Ola and Uber have purchased.  With its own policy, Karnataka joins a select club of states — Telangana, Odisha, Sikkim and Punjab — in having an open data regime.  The state government is sitting on a vast collection of citizen data. The new policy classifies data based on its intended usage: shareable data, sensitive data (that can be disclosed only on a need-to-know basis) and restricted data (that can cause a threat to life or loss of public assets, accessible only through a prescribed process of registration and authorisation). “...growing digitalisation in Karnataka has increased the quantities of different forms of data and information being generated...Sharing of data is imperative to facilitate effective and transparent governance,” the policy states, adding that the government aims to “tap the power of data”.  The policy requires every department to have a chief data officer (CDO), who will be the owner of departmental data. “All heads of departments have been told to strictly direct the CDOs to publish datasets in the Karnataka Open Data Interface portal,” Shreevyas said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-exclusive-karnataka-ready-to-monetise-public-data-1041903.html
19-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka schools for classes 1 to 5 to reopen from October 25||The state government on Monday announced that it will reopen primary schools from 1st to 5th standard across Karnataka from October 25 after a gap of one and a half years when they were shut in March 2020 due to the Covid pandemic. Offline classes will be held with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines and only with a consent letter from parents. Following a clearance from the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), Primary and Secondary Education Minister BC Nagesh announced in Bengaluru that all primary classes will resume in offline mode from October 25 with 50% capacity, to begin with.  Nagesh said that considering the psychological challenges faced by children due to the prolonged closure of schools, classes will be held in a phased manner. “While classes will be held for half a day during the first week, full-day classes will be held from November 1,” the minister said. However, during the first week of reopening, the department will not serve mid-day meals but they will be a regular affair from November 1 as schools will begin to hold full-day classes. But for the students of 6th standard and above, mid-day meals will be served from October 21. The minister said, “We will follow all the rules issued by the TAC and a detailed SoP will be issued to schools in a day or two.” He said classes with 50% of the actual strength applies only to those schools which have many students but lack infrastructure. “The 50% capacity is to ensure social distancing. But this does not apply to 80% of the schools as they have good infrastructure,” the minister clarified. Meanwhile, the minister directed teachers to sensitise children about the Covid pandemic and to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. The state government’s decision to reopen primary schools has evoked mixed responses from parents, students and other stakeholders. Though the state has decided to resume classes after 20 months, some parents are unwilling to send children to the schools. “This is the season of viral diseases and I don’t feel my child is safe as they are vulnerable to infections. I will continue with online classes this year,” said Indira, parent of a class 2 child. But Sagar, a student of 5th standard is all happy about going back to the school. “I am happy that we can go to school and meet my friends. These online classes were so boring,” he reacted. Offline classes optional The government has clarified that attendance for offline classes is not mandatory. Schools have to offer both offline and online options and the parents can choose between them. But several Bangaluru schools have discontinued online classes and communicated them to parents. Following complaints by many parents who have flagged the issue to the department, Nagesh said, “We have received many complaints, but when inquired, the schools say they have 80% attendance for offline classes and conducting both the modes is not possible with the limited resources. “ No decision on kindergarten The government is yet to decide on kindergarten and Montessori schools. The minister said that the department will discuss these schools after a month. “Anganwadi centres are functioning on alternate days, but we have not taken any decision about opening schools for LKG and UKG. We will discuss this with the TAC after a month and decide accordingly,” the minister stated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-schools-for-classes-1-to-5-to-reopen-from-october-25-1041905.html
19-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KFCC wants censorship of Hindi dubbed films in Bengaluru||The Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC) on Monday submitted a memorandum listing out "several inherent issues faced by the industry" to L Murugan, Union Minister Of State for Information and Broadcasting, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Diary. The KFCC, in its memorandum, raised the need for Hindi-dubbed versions of Kannada films to be censored in Bengaluru. Apart from the original (in Kannada), the Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam versions of a film are viewed by The Bengaluru Regional CBFC office. For the Hindi version, the film's team must get clearance from Mumbai's Censor Board office, according to office-bearers of the KFCC. "This causes inconvenience to filmmakers as they aren't able to release the Hindi version along with the Kannada original as scheduled. So we want the Hindi dubbed films to be viewed in the Bengaluru office itself," said KFCC secretary N M Suresh. "I will make sure the Kannada film industry functions in a smooth manner," Murugan told reporters, promising to look into the memorandum at the earliest. Senior actor Shivarajkumar, present during the meeting, urged Murugan to provide a positive response to the producers. "The industry is already hit badly by the Covid-19 pandemic. Certain decisions from the centre will help the industry in the long run," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kfcc-wants-censorship-of-hindi-dubbed-films-in-bengaluru-1041919.html
19-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Why no action against Ugrappa: Eshwarappa asks Congress||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Tuesday slammed the Congress and asked why no action was taken against former MP V S Ugrappa in connection with the alleged whispering that took place between him and another Congress leader M A Saleem about KPCC President D K Shivakumar at a recent press meet. Speaking to media persons at Kalaburagi Airport, the minister said Saleem has been suspended from the party but Ugrappa has been served a notice. "Why didn't Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah speak about it?" he asked. "Siddaramaiah has not given any statement so far even though leaders of his party were heard whispering about the corruption of the KPCC president. There is politics behind it. The Congress which claims to be pro-minority has punished a Muslim leader. The party has reached a dismal state. Siddaramaiah should speak about the discrimination in taking disciplinary action," Eshwarappa told. Siddaramaiah who has the habit of speaking lightly about Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Basavaraj Bommai remained silent, he asked. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/why-no-action-against-ugrappa-eshwarappa-asks-congress-1042125.html
19-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Less than 50% of HIV patients in Karnataka got one Covid vaccine dose||The World Health Organization (WHO) recently recommended administering an additional dose of Covid vaccine to immunocompromised people due to their higher susceptibility to breakthrough infections after standard immunisation. Data shows that only 22.36% of HIV patients in Karnataka are fully vaccinated while 48.89% have taken the first dose. There are more than 1.69 lakh HIV patients in the state who are on antiretroviral therapy (ART). NGO Karnataka Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS (KNP+) works closely with the Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS). KNP+ president Thyagaraj D T said at least 11% of HIV patients in the state had contracted Covid and 42 of them had died. While these recovered Covid patients are waiting for completion of three months after recovery for vaccination, another sizable immunocompromised population in the state is of transplant patients who received either live or cadaveric organs or tissues, and have therefore been put on life-long immunosuppressants. Since 2007 until October 1 this year, as many as 1,589 people in the state have received cadaveric organs in transplant procedures, said State Organ Transplant and Tissues Organisation (SOTTO) Chief Transplant Coordinator Lijamol Joseph. There are also those who have undergone organ transplant with the help of live donors, of which SOTTO doesn't maintain data. Thyagaraj told DH: "If the government prioritises PLHIV (People Living with HIV) for an additional vaccine dose, we will have no objection, but currently, the ART treatment is helping keep our CD4 counts stable which is lending us some protection. Currently, our vaccination status is being recorded on our ART cards and we are proactively being led to vaccination centres." CD4 cells, also known as T cells, are white blood cells that fight infection and play an important role in the immune system. A CD4 count is used to check the health of the immune system in people infected with HIV (human immunodeficiency virus). HIV attacks and destroys CD4 cells. "There is no vaccine hesitancy as PLHIV are themselves enquiring about Covid vaccination. They know their vulnerabilities. Out of 1,69,502 PLHIV on ART, 82,871 have taken the first dose and 37,909 have taken the second dose. We hope to have at least 60% of them vaccinated with the first dose soon," he added. Another challenge is that PLHIV or those on immunosuppressants cannot choose Covaxin with less than four weeks to six weeks gap between doses and have to instead chosen Covishield with the 84-day gap between doses. "You should not get Covaxin, if you are immune-compromised, or are on medicine that affects your immune system," says Bharat Biotech’s fact sheet on Covaxin. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/less-than-50-of-hiv-patients-in-karnataka-got-one-covid-vaccine-dose-1042200.html
19-10-2021||West||NIA gets 10-day custody of 3 accused in Mundra drug haul case||A special court here on Monday granted the National Investigation Agency (NIA)10-day remand of three persons initially arrested in a case related to seizure of 2,988 kg of heroin at Gujarat's Mundra Port last month. The court of special judge P C Joshi remanded the accused, M Sudhakaran and Durga Vaishali - who allegedly ran Vijayawada-registered M/S Aashi Trading Company that had imported a consignment of 'talc stones' (which turned out to be drug) - and Rajkumar P, to 10-day NIA custody as sought by the central agency. The accused, also booked under anti-terror act UAPA, were arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) before the case was transferred earlier this month to the NIA. The case relates to the seizure of heroin, disguised as consignment of semi-processed talc stones originating from Afghanistan, which had arrived at the Mundra Port from the Bandar Abbas Port in Iran. The three accused were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, and the matter was being heard by a special NDPS court at Bhuj in Kutch district. Soon after the case was handed over to the anti-terror agency by the Union Home Ministry, the probe agency moved an application in the Bhuj court, requesting custody of the three accused and transfer of documents to the NIA special court, which has its jurisdiction in Ahmedabad, special public prosecutor, NIA, Amit Nair said. The accused have now also been booked the under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The trio was produced before the court, which granted their custody to the NIA after its submissions, Nair said. On September 13, the DRI had detained two containers that had arrived at the Mundra Port from Kandahar in Afghanistan via the Bandar Abbas Port. The declaration accompanying the containers claimed they had "semi-processed talc stones". However, on September 17 and 19, it was established that the two containers in fact contained heroin which was concealed in "the lower layers" of "jumbo bags" topped with talc stones. Besides the trio, five more persons have been arrested by the DRI in connection with the single largest heroin haul in India so far. The value of the seized drug was estimated to be nearly Rs 21,000 crore.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-gets-10-day-custody-of-3-accused-in-mundra-drug-haul-case-1041909.html
19-10-2021||West||Gujarat govt releases video of its plan for Gandhi Ashram, says 'restoration' to inspire future generation||A day after a group of Gandhian organisations set out on a march from Sevagram to Sabarmati to protest against the redevelopment plan for Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram, the state government on Monday released a video on social media platforms, sharing its plan for the Ashram for the first time in public domain. The government has termed its plan as "restoration" of "Gandhiji's karmabhoomi" to "keep alive his values and philosophy and continue to inspire future generations." The 4.48 minutes long video titled "Gandhi Ashram Restoration Project" was uploaded on Chief Minister Office Twitter and Instagram handles. The video has been made by "Mahatma Gandhi Sabarmati Ashram Memorial Trust", which is said to have been formed by the state government recently to look after redevelopment work and the subsequent management of the Ashram precinct. Despite repeated attempts, K Kailashnathan, chairman of the Executive Council, set up by the state government for project implementation, didn't respond to comment. The development comes a day after 50 people representing various Gandhian organisations embarked on "Sevagram-Sabarmati Sandesh Yatra" in protest against the government's plan for redevelopment. The march, started from Sevagram Ashram in Wardha, will reach Ahmedabad on October 23. On October 24, a silent protest is likely to be held at the Ashram. The short video describes the Ashram set up by Gandhi in 1917 as "the austere, simple and authentic architecture of the ashram was the very embodiment of Gandhiji's value and philosophy." It says, "It is true that today's Gandhi Ashram memorial is deeply inspiring yet it has long been felt that it leaves much to be desired. When established the Ashram was spread out over 120 acres of land on the outskirts of Ahmedabad. It had 63 buildings that housed numerous activities of the Ashram. Today, what people know as Gandhi Ashram is only five acres of the original Ashra which has been preserved as a memorial. Only three of its original buildings are open for visitors, many of the others have either been torn down or lie across the busy ashram road. The video says that over the years many new buildings "that are incongruous with the architecture of the original Ashram, have also been built on Ashram ground, making it unrecognisable from the place where Gandhijji nurtured India's quest for freedom." It adds, "During this 75th year of India's independence the government has resolved to restore Gandhi ashram in a way that preserves the ethos of the original ashram. Ashram road will be severed and diverted. The Ashram will be expanded to include all buildings built during Gandhi's time. Buildings and activities which are not congruent with the proposed memorial will be moved to satellite campuses adjoining the ashram. Ashram wasis who are currently the tenants of various trusts will be given ownership of new houses with upgraded facilities located within 50 metres of their current locations. Those who chose to move to a different location will be provided a generous compensation or four-bedroom homes which are ready to occupy." Sharing the government's plan, the film says, "A conceptual master plan for expansion and restoration of Arham has been prepared. The original building of the Ashram will be carefully restored and brought alive for everyone to visit and be inspired by. A few new museums and exhibits will be added to display Gandhi's life and works. Gandhi Ashram archive and library will be better housed and facilities will be created for research and training. Amenities will be augmented to support the continuously increasing number of visitors. All of these be done in a way that preserves the ethos and sanctity of the original Ashram.Chandrabha revolt in the vicinity of the ashram will be made into a pleasant urban waterway. The historic dandi bridge will be restored." The video says that the estimated cost for this project is 1,200 crore, which will be funded by the Government of India and managed by the Gujarat government in "consultation and consensus" with all stakeholders. "Restoration of Gandhiji's karmabhoomi will keep alive his values and philosophy and continue to inspire future generations," the video added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-releases-video-of-its-plan-for-gandhi-ashram-says-restoration-to-inspire-future-generation-1041964.html
19-10-2021||West||Shilpa Shetty, Raj Kundra file Rs 50-crore defamation suit against Sherlyn Chopra||Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty and her businessman-husband Raj Kundra on Tuesday sent a legal notice to actor Sherlyn Chopra, seeking an apology and Rs 50 crore in damages for ruining their reputation by making "false and baseless" allegations against them. The legal notice, sent through their advocate Prashant Patil, has sought an unconditional public apology from Chopra in leading newspapers and on digital media platforms within seven days, failing which it warned of civil and criminal proceedings against the 37-year-old actor. "Failing which my clients shall institute appropriate civil and criminal proceedings against you (Sherlyn Chopra) without further reference to you," the notice said. "The entire allegations made by Sherlyn Chopra against Raj Kundra and Ms Shilpa Shetty Kundra, are concocted, false, fake, frivolous, baseless, without any evidence, even to Sherlyn Chopra's knowledge and have been made with an ulterior motive to defame and extort money," it said. Both Kundra and Chopra are accused in a pornographic content case. Last month, Kundra was granted bail in the case by a Mumbai court after he spent two months in jail. Last week, Chopra had filed a complaint at the Juhu police station here against Shetty and Kundra, accusing the couple of committing fraud against her. In the complaint, she has also levelled allegations of harassment, cheating, and criminal intimidation. The notice said Chopra's allegations are nothing but an "afterthought" as she is also an accused in the pornographic case probed by the cyber cell of the Mumbai police. Shetty is in no way connected nor involved in looking after the day-to-day affairs of the JL Stream app (promoted by Kundra), it said. It (allegations) is nothing but an audacious attempt by Chopra to drag Shetty's name to create an unwanted controversy and gain media attention, the notice said. In the notice, the couple has claimed Chopra has committed offences under sections 499 (makes or publishes any imputation concerning any person intending to harm) 550 (punishment for defamation), 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion) and 195(A) (threatening any person to give false evidence) of the IPC. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shilpa-shetty-raj-kundra-file-rs-50-crore-defamation-suit-against-sherlyn-chopra-1042094.html
19-10-2021||West||Maharashtra allows restaurants and eateries to function till midnight||The Maharashtra government has permitted all restaurants and eateries to function till midnight, according to a government notification issued by state's Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte on Tuesday. The notification comes a day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a meeting with the state's Covid Task Force and directed officials to prepare guidelines for extending the operational hours for restaurants and shops. “… all restaurants and eateries may be allowed to function till midnight 12 AM and all other establishments that have been allowed to function by the government may be allowed to function till 11 PM,” the notification said. The state government has allowed the reopening of amusement parks, theatres and drama theatres from October 22. However, water rides in amusement parks have still not been permitted, it added. “We are slowly relaxing the restrictions and the number of patients seems to be decreasing. We are also reopening cinemas and theatres from October 22. There is a constant demand to extend the working hours of restaurants and shops,” a statement quoting Thackeray had said. Maharashtra reported 1,485 Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest daily count in more than 17 months, and 27 deaths, taking the infection tally to 65,93,182 and the toll to 1,39,816, as per the state health department. As of Monday, Maharashtra had 28,008 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-allows-restaurants-and-eateries-to-function-till-midnight-1042116.html
19-10-2021||West||Goa consumes two tonnes of beef sourced from Karnataka every day: CM||Over 2,100 kg of beef sourced from meat traders in Karnataka is consumed in Goa every day, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told the state legislative assembly on Tuesday. In a written reply to Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo, tabled during the ongoing two-day session of the Goa legislative assembly, Sawant also said that over the last six months, 388 tons of beef was procured by dealers from Karnataka. "On an average, based on the meat inspection charges collected by the competent authorities, 2,120 kg of beef is received from Karnataka for consumption on a daily basis," Sawant said. CM Sawant also said that while the price of beef sold in Goa ranges from Rs 3.27 lakh to Rs 3.75 lakh, 388 tons of beef was procured from Karnataka by local beef traders over the last six months. Both slaughtered beef were sourced from cattle and buffalo. The recent passing of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill (2020) by the Karnataka assembly had caused a beef shortage in Goa for several months. After a similar law was passed in Maharashtra earlier, Karnataka was the sole major supplier of fresh beef and livestock to Goa. Goa's beef-eating minority communities account for more than 30 per cent of the state's population. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-consumes-two-tonnes-of-beef-sourced-from-karnataka-every-day-cm-1042209.html
