20-10-2021||Comment||Where is the Tata who can restore it to glory?||Paris, prince of Troy, stole Helen, the wife of King Menelaus of Sparta. Menelaus led a war against Troy, killing Paris. Helen’s beauty inspired Christopher Marlowe to gush “Was this the face that launched a thousand ships...Sweet Helen make me immortal with a kiss.” Whether Helen wished to return to her husband is a matter of conjecture, but the romance of waging a war to repossess a stolen bride continues. On a less heroic scale, Air India, an enchanting bride, was snatched from the Tata empire through nationalisation in 1953. While one can imagine what passions drive men to wage a war to repossess the women they loved, one wonders what possessed Ratan Tata to retrieve Air India, now an impoverished relict.  JRD Tata, the passionate founder of Air India and its chairman until 1977, competed against legendary international airlines — Pan Am, American, United from the US; British Airways, Air France, Lufthansa, from Europe; and Japan Airlines, Cathay and Quantas in the East — and earned fulsome praise for operational efficiency and reliability, winning customers. It was no mean achievement. But JRD excelled them in service excellence. He created a distinctive identity and an aura that surrounded the airline. Long before Singapore Airlines created the iconic Singapore Girl, Air India’s air hostesses in their fine silk sarees embodied India’s unique, vibrant and diverse culture – sophisticated, yet traditional with understated elegance and grace.  JRD was a towering figure. It is well known that he was India’s first licensed pilot in 1929. In 1932, he flew India’s first commercial flight, carrying mail and two passengers from Karachi to Chennai via Mumbai on a single-engine hopping flight. That saw the birth of Tata Airlines, which became Air India in 1946. It was a pioneering feat.  But what is less known is that he was a daredevil. In 1930, Prince Aga Khan announced an Air Race for Indian nationals, with a prize for the winner of the first solo flight from England to India, or vice versa, to be completed within six weeks from the start. JRD took the challenge, and so did two other intrepid pilots — Manmohan Singh from Rawalpindi and Aspy Engineer, who had just turned 18. The latter two took off separately from Croydon, England. JRD embarked on his flight from Karachi in the opposite direction. Manmohan damaged his aircraft en route, but managed to reach Karachi after six weeks.   Feisty Aspy Engineer, (who later became the second Chief of the Indian Air Force) flying across Europe had a snag and landed at the remote Aboukir airstrip in the desert near Alexandria in Egypt, needing spark plugs. JRD, taking off from Karachi, lost his way due to a faulty compass, zigzagged via Haifa, Cairo, and also landed at Aboukir and ran into his competitor Aspy. The inherent magnanimity of JRD came to the fore. Both were flying Gypy Moths. Without a thought, JRD gifted Aspy four of his spare spark plugs – which he had kept for himself as reserve in such an eventuality. And soon, both took off in opposite directions and reached their destinations. Aspy won the Aga Khan Prize, beating JRD by two and a half hours. Imagine their grit flying through thunderstorms, high turbulence and fog, over mountains and deserts with just a map and compass. GPS did not exist then.   JRD combined in himself the magical qualities that make a great leader. Vision, magnanimity, charity, insight, decisiveness in complex situations, courage, talent for grooming younger people, and immense charisma.  While JRD also showed remarkable entrepreneurial foresight and set up Tata Motors, Titan, TCS, Voltas and Air India, he founded institutions like the Tata Memorial Centre for Cancer Research and Treatment, Tata Institute of Social Sciences and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research — which together enhanced the fortunes and the image of the Tatas, and of India. But what were the unique traits that distinguished him to build a great airline that was both successful and endearing?  JRD could see the big picture and yet never lost sight of the finer details. He would walk the aisles, converse with passengers, make meticulous notes and follow up with letters to departmental heads. On flights, he would wipe any stains on the coffee cups and jugs. He once went into the lavatory, rolled up his sleeves and scrubbed the toilet. The airline staff got the message. With his intuitive Parisian taste for elegance (his mother was French, and he grew up in France as a child), he took great interest in the design of cabin ambience and in the attire and coiffure of the air hostesses (which never appeared like uniforms); he paid attention to the cuisine and the music that wafted through the cabin, which enchanted passengers as they came on board. With flights on time and flawless operations, Air India became the true pride and brand ambassador for the new nation that had just emerged from its dark past.  Ratan Tata’s achievements are considerable. He transformed the Tatas into a global behemoth after taking over from JRD, acquiring companies like Tetley, Jaguar and Land Rover, and Corus Steel. But when you look at the recent acquisition of Air India which is drowning in debt, with two of his other airlines also haemorrhaging cash, you begin to wonder if he is chasing a mirage, carried away by sentiment and ego in repossessing an ideal that no longer exists. It’s a starkly different world today from the JRD era.  The present generation of leaders at the helm of affairs at Tata companies were all born after the 1950s and were in their late-20s when JRD was ‘sacked’ as chairman of Air India by the Janata Party government in 1977 (although he returned to it briefly after Indira Gandhi returned to power). None of them have first-hand experience of the great leadership and managerial qualities of JRD — save for Ratan Tata, who was groomed under him, but who is now 84. We all romanticise the past, but who among the phalanx of leaders in the Tata group can fill the shoes of JRD to overcome what seems like an insurmountable challenge from the likes of Indigo, SIA and Emirates? Can an external professional CEO pull it off?  Air India is now in the kitty. Tatas must move with lightning speed. The challenges seem daunting. But everything is possible. As Walt Disney said, “If you can dream it, you can do it.” (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/where-is-the-tata-who-can-restore-it-to-glory-1042562.html
20-10-2021||First Edit||No hope of change in Congress||The much-awaited meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) last week kicked the can down the road by promising organisational elections and the installation of a new president for the party in one year from now. Electoral timetables have come before also and passed, and there is no certainty that the present promise will be fulfilled. A week is a long time in politics, but for the Congress, even a year may be too short for anything to happen. In any case, the most important thing that can happen is a decision about the party’s president, and that has already happened, even before the election, with Rahul Gandhi expressing his willingness to consider taking that position again. The CWC has again proved, if proof is needed, that the family will not move and yield an inch of space at the top to anyone else. That was also clear from Sonia Gandhi’s assertion that she was both a “hands-on’’ and a “full-time’’ president, rebutting the question posed by the so-called G-23 leaders about who took decisions in the party. None of the leaders challenged her statement. She pointed out that the party had highlighted the failures of the Narendra Modi government and tried to coordinate with other opposition parties. She also said the party has seen the emergence or entry of some young leaders. No one challenged her claims or asked her why the party lost its government in Madhya Pradesh and came close to losing it in Rajasthan and was routed in the Assembly elections in Bihar, Assam, West Bengal and Kerala. She was also not asked why the party lost many leaders. There were no questions about the mismanagement in Punjab and the growing emaciation of the party at the national level and in the states. If she is the top leader, why were some others taking crucial decisions? The G-23 leaders’ letter calling for “sweeping changes’’ is now a dead letter. They have even been warned that there is no need to speak to her through the media. Sonia Gandhi’s combative speech was the only highlight of the meeting, held after 18 months of political distress for the party. There was no honest introspection, and it gave no roadmap for the coming months. There was also no attempt to confront the political, organisational and ideological issues before the party. There are important state elections being held in the next one year, and political opportunities opening up for opposition parties. The Congress does not seem to be in a position to make use of them as the present drift is likely to continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/no-hope-of-change-in-congress-1042569.html
20-10-2021||In Perspective||Why poor nations remain poor||The revelation of names of national leaders, celebrities and billionaires in the Pandora Papers shows how they have used the services of 14 offshore providers to hide their wealth or pay less tax. The media has already published some sensational stories of how the icons of industrial houses, sportspersons and those with links to politicians have routed illicit financial transactions, stashing away billions. Simultaneously, we have seen the statements issued by these people denying any wrongdoing or illegality, and asserting that they have followed the rule of law. Offshore service providers put in their professional expertise to advise their clients on how to move their wealth secretly from one destination to other, ostensibly all within legal boundaries. But the ICIJ has unearthed documents that reveal the setting up of dubious structures and trusts in tax havens to hide wealth. These cross-border financial flows are backed and facilitated by well-organised network of offshore tax havens that rely on intermediaries or ‘enablers’. They are not just passive facilitators, they are often active and aggressive purveyors of illicit financial flows. They include tax advisers, financial institutions like banks, and corporate trust providers. According to Prem Sikka, Professor of Accounting at the Business School, University of Essex, UK, “The big four accounting firms -- PWC (Price Waterhouse Coopers), Deloitte, EY (Ernst and Young) and KPMG -- are the epicentres of global tax avoidance industry, adversely impacting and subverting democracy”. His study in 2012 revealed that annual tax avoidance in developing countries due to this was about $500 billion. In comparison, the total foreign aid disbursed by the developed countries is about $120 billion per year. These companies have enormous political and economic clout, as their combined revenue earnings amount to that of the 55th largest economy in the world. Their past history shows dealings with questionable regimes and dictators. Their motive is to make profits by providing opportunities for elites to transfer wealth from poor nations to the safe jurisdictions of tax havens. It is too naive to accuse tax havens of facilitating these capital flows. In reality, they are just conduits to extract wealth from the global south to the global north, serving bigger financial centres like New York and the City of London. The illegal money from the poorer countries is laundered to make it legal and eventually it reaches the final destinations, especially in the US and Europe. The Pandora Papers have confirmed this to be the case. What is intriguing is that these illicit flows of money are uni-directional: to the coffers of the old empires, the colonial rulers. In the post-colonial era, the elites established sophisticated mechanisms to take their assets to offshore jurisdictions to continue the extraction of wealth, protecting the interests of old colonial rulers and setting up this new empire. For the old empires, wealth was created by the exploitative system of slavery and colonial resource exploitation. The all-pervasive and powerful new empire is dominated by the US and Europe, which perpetuate the global system of wealth extraction through tax havens and secrecy jurisdictions. World leaders hail the economic rise of China and India. But these claims sound so hollow when we see that the wealth created by exploiting people and natural resources through a few billionaires ends up in tax havens, enriching the new axis of the global offshore economy. The world has never seen this level of amassing of wealth and power, concentrated in the hands of a few, leading to inequitable distribution and widening the gap between rich and poor. This is already unprecedented in human history, but we are only just getting started on digital transactions that can move capital and wealth seamlessly. This has resulted in the erosion of democratic and human values. Modes of capitalistic production, based on the profit motive as the sole objective instead of community good, will not only create tensions within humanity, but as the signs show, we are annihilating other creatures on the planet in the process. We need tectonic shifts in global governance to address this challenge that threatens humanity. The Pandora Papers are an indication of the failure of a so-called successful model. The faultlines were evident in the financial crisis of 2008 and the Panama Papers revelations in 2016.  But we failed to take note and enact measures to address the structural problems of modern industrial civilisation. The revelations of the names of prominent Indians in the recent expose show how these links of global capital are being reinforced by global financial systems. Recall the rhetoric of our Pradhan Sevak to bring back all the offshore money and deposit it into every citizen’s account? Well, that was the political promise before elections; the reality is now in front of us, revealed by the Pandora Papers. Let us hope his government takes measures at least to halt the further draining of the country’s wealth to secret destinations in the service of the new empires that our elites and politicians serve. (The writer is an environmental activist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/why-poor-nations-remain-poor-1042564.html
20-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 PHCs from Bidar awarded NQAS certificate||Despite poor medical infrastructure in Bidar district, three primary health centres of the district have been awarded with National Quality Assurance Standards(NQAS). PHC at Dhannur (S) in Bhalki taluk, Chintaki and Thana Kusnoor of Aurad taluk in Bidar district have received NQAS certuficate District Quality Assurance Standard nodal officer Dr Shivashankar said the NQAS is implemented by Central Quality Supervisory Committee (CQSC) at the centre and State Quality Assurance Committee at the state level and district Quality Assurance Committe at district level headed by deputy commissioner. Every health facility is assessed under eight area of concern-service provision, patient rights, inputs, support services, clinical services, infection control, quality management and outcome. Departmental checklists will be separate for each facility. It is 19 departments for district hosipital, 17 for taluk hopsital, 12 for community health centre, six for primary health centre. Every facility has to go through internal asesmment, district level assessment, state level assessment and national level assessment. In each level, every facility has to score more than 70%, he explained. Ffter the certification was awarded, each PHC will get annual funds of Rs three lakh from the government of India and this certificate is for three years. The funds will be continued if these PHCs fulfill the criteria to be set by the NQAS next time also, he told. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr V G Reddy lauded three PHCs for receiving NQAS certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-phcs-from-bidar-awarded-nqas-certificate-1042276.html
20-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two arrested for illegal sand extraction||The Ullal police arrested two persons in connection with illegal sand extraction on the seashore at Ucchila in the wee hours of Wednesday. Acting on a tip off, the police raided the spot and arrested Rayal D’Souza, a resident of Talapady, and Mayyadi, a resident of Kallapu near Thokkottu, said DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar. The police have seized three bikes and two lorries from the spot. Two separate cases have been registered and the investigation is in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-arrested-for-illegal-sand-extraction-1042377.html
20-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 positivity rate declines in Dakshina Kannada||The Covid-19 positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada has declined in the last few days. The district has been registering less than 50 daily cases for the last one week and even the number of recoveries too has increased. The positivity rate which was nearly 5 per cent in August has come down to 0.32 per cent on October 19. Even the active cases have come down to 301 from 2,200 active cases in the first week of September. On an average, 7,000 to 8,000 samples are tested daily in the district. The primary and secondary contacts of the infected are also traced and tested. According to statistics from the health department, only 30 per cent of the active cases are undergoing treatment in hospitals while the remaining are either in home isolation or in Covid care centres. The recovery rate in the district is 98.27 per cent. From March 1, 2021 till October 18, a total of 80,667 people tested positive for Covid and 935 have lost their lives. According to Nodal officer Dr Ashok, “the surveillance continues in the district. More emphasis is given in and around the area where Covid-19 cases have been reported. The schools and colleges have been directed to strictly adhere to Covid-19 guidelines.” Vaccination A total of 15,16,464 beneficiaries have been administered with the first dose of vaccine in Dakshina Kannada while 7,80,104 have been administered with both doses of vaccine, as per the Health department bulletin. The target in the district is 18 lakh beneficiaries. The health department has been creating awareness on the need for vaccines through Asha workers. During Dasara celebrations, the department in association with temple administration had set up vaccination centres at Gokarnanatha Temple in Kudroli, Mangaladevi Temple, Kukke Subrahmanya Temple and Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple. Even those from outside the district too had availed the facility, said officials. Schools reopen Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that primary schools will reopen in the district from October 25 and classrooms should have 50 per cent of the capacity. A Parent's consent letter is mandatory for attending physical classes. The classrooms should be sanitised using 1 per cent of sodium hypochlorite solution daily after the class hours. Teachers who are above 50 years old should use a face shield in the classrooms. The Dakshina Kannada district administration has allowed the opening of swimming pools with 50 per cent of the capacity in each batch. Body temperature should be tested before entering the pool. Only those who have availed two doses of vaccine and do not have any symptoms can use the pool. The rest rooms and the area where swimmers use frequently should be sanitised daily, said the DC. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-positivity-rate-declines-in-dakshina-kannada-1042454.html
20-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||KRS water level crosses 120 feet||With Kodagu region receiving good rainfall, the water level in Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya district crossed 120 feet on Wednesday. It crossed the 120-ft mark for the second time in a span of three months. The water level touched 120.5 ft on Wednesday. While inflow of water to the dam was 8,097 cusec, the outflow was 6,720 cusec. The water level in the dam had crossed 120 ft last on August 9. But it dipped subsequently as water was released to Tamil Nadu as per the directions of the Cauvery River Water Management Board. The dam’s full reservoir level is 124.8 feet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krs-water-level-crosses-120-feet-1042540.html
20-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||4 districts report zero fresh Covid cases||Karnataka, on Wednesday, added 462 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine deaths, taking the caseload and toll to to 29,84,484 and 37,976, respectively. Four districts: Bagalkot, Gadag, Haveri and Raichur reported zero infections and zero Covid-19 related deaths on Wednesday. Twenty seven districts recorded zero fatalities. The day also saw 479 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,37,405. Active cases stood at 9,074. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 253 cases and six deaths. Other districts too reported fresh cases, including 43 in Mysuru, 32 in Tumakuru, 29 in Dakshina Kannada and 19 in Hassan. One death each was reported in Bidar, Dharwad and Mysuru. The positivity rate for the day was 0.39% and the case fatality rate was 1.94%. A total of 1,16,121 samples were tested on Wednesday, taking the number of samples examined to 4.97 crore. The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 6.15 crore, with 1,62,668 people being inoculated on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-districts-report-zero-fresh-covid-cases-1042542.html
20-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Apologise for barb against Rahul: Congress to Kateel||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar, who retracted an “uncivil” tweet made by his party on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, has demanded an apology from his BJP counterpart Nalin Kumar Kateel for calling former AICC chief Rahul Gandhi a “drug addict and peddler”.  While speaking at an event in Hubballi, Kateel claimed his remarks on Rahul were based on media reports.  “According to some media reports, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is a drug addict and drug peddler. Both national and state presidents of the Congress are out on bail. How can those, who cannot run the party, run the country?” said Kateel. The Congress threatened to file a defamation case against Kateel and its leaders demanded his sacking “Yesterday I said I believe we should be civil and respectful in politics, even to our opponents. I hope the BJP agrees with me, and will apologise for their state president’s abusive and unparliamentary remarks against Shri Rahul Gandhi,” Shivakumar said in a tweet.  Youth Congress national president B V Srinivas said in Delhi Congress workers will hold a massive protest against the BJP. “Why is Kateel silent on burning issues like job loss due to Covid-19 and price rise in state,” Srinivas questioned. Kateel’s remarks came as an apparent strike against Congress for calling Modi “#HebbettuGiraakiModi” that translates into the Hindi expression “angootha chhaap” for an illiterate person.  Shivakumar regretted the tweet and said it was posted by a “novice social media manager”.  Referring to the tweet on Modi, Kateel said the Congress had gone bankrupt intellectually and it has lost respect to the Constitution too. Congress leaders themselves do not know who their chief is. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi is working for ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’, Siddaramaiah worked for ‘Saabrka (Muslims) Saath, Saabrka Vikas’, Kateel remarked. Meanwhile, condemning Kateel’s statement, AICC general secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao demanded that BJP remove Kateel from the post. “Being a party president, he should not make such baseless statements and stoop to this level. It is shameful that a person with such a mentality is the state president of a national party,” Rao said, calling Kateel “senseless” and as someone who had lost his “mental balance”.  Lashing out at the ruling party, Rao further alleged that BJP was a corrupt party both financially and morally. “They have no principles. They take God’s name for ulterior political motives,” he said.  He urged Chief Minister Bommai to take control of what his party leaders were speaking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/apologise-for-barb-against-rahul-congress-to-kateel-1042254.html
20-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) angry after BJP hurls ‘bigamy’ taunt at H D Kumaraswamy||The BJP on Wednesday taunted former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy by calling him a bigamist, a personal comment that did not go down well with the JD(S) that continued its attack on the RSS. The BJP took to Twitter to respond to Kumaraswamy’s barb against the RSS, the BJP’s ideological parent. The JD(S) leader, on Tuesday, wondered if the RSS shakhas taught its members how they should watch pornography. This was a reference to BJP MLAs who were caught watching adult videos inside the Legislative Assembly in 2012. “Dear Kumaraswamy, do you know of some conscious mistakes committed by those who masquerade as intelligent people? We will give you a list. Take a look at it once. They are crimes as per the IPC,” the BJP said. “Signal jump, breach of trust, corruption, nepotism and more importantly, bigamy. Shouldn’t Kumaraswamy, who is always pontificating the mistakes of others, be cautious always,” the BJP asked. √ ಸಿಗ್ನಲ್ ಜಂಪ್√ ವಿಶ್ವಾಸ ದ್ರೋಹ ( ಬ್ರೀಚ್ ಆಫ್ ಟ್ರಸ್ಟ್ )√ ಭ್ರಷ್ಟಾಚಾರ√ ಸ್ವಜನ ಪಕ್ಷಪಾತ√ ಎಲ್ಲಕ್ಕಿಂತ ಮುಖ್ಯವಾಗಿ ಬೈಗಮಿ The BJP’s “bigamy” taunt refers to a phase in Kumaraswamy’s personal life for which he once expressed regret on the floor of the Legislative Assembly in the presence of his wife Anitha, also a legislator. The JD(S) responded with its own set of tweets containing questions on the RSS. “Is RSS an authentic organization? When was it registered? Where is its registered office? Is it engaged in social service, politics or money-making? Has the Sangh given an account of the donations it has received? Is there a balance sheet? Who audits them? Is it a lie that schoolgoing swayamsevak children are being brainwashed? Is there a license to keep trishul and other weapons in schools, which is illegal? Kumaraswamy has raised several such questions. Why did the BJP fail to display guts by answering them,” the regional party asked. “Why is the BJP, which has provoked Kumaraswamy, silent on anti-constitutional acts of the Sangh? If those who oppose the Constitution are traitors, what should we call the RSS then?” the JD(S) said. Defending its leader, the JD(S) said Kumaraswamy did not raise personal matters. “Where is Kumaraswamy, who had the guts to talk about his personal life in the Assembly, and where are BJP leaders who committed a heinous act in the Assembly,” the JD(S) said, asking the BJP to introspect. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-angry-after-bjp-hurls-bigamy-taunt-at-h-d-kumaraswamy-1042438.html
20-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||KSE demands apology from Siddaramaiah over remarks against PM||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa warned Congress leaders that BJP would continue to criticise Congress leader Rahul Gandhi if they don't stop making derogatory remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has been accepted as a leader across the world.  Speaking to media persons on Monday, he said BJP leaders had never made any derogatory remark against national leaders of other parties in the past. The then leader of opposition in Lok Sabha Atal Bihari Vajpayee had called the Indira Gandhi as Durga of India for taking bold steps during a war between India and Pakistan. Besides, Vajpayee had even extended support to her. But what is the state of Congress leaders today at the national and state level? he questioned.  Referring to Leader of Opposition in assembly Siddaramaiah's remark "hebbet giraki" against Modi (uneducated), Eshwarappa said such remark has hurt sentiments of people across the country and the world. "How can we keep quiet under such circumstance?" he questioned and demanded Siddaramaiah to tender an apology to the people of the country.  Defending state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel's remark against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, he said "our president has replied to the remark made by Congress leader. Siddaramaiah and others must be sent to Nimhans in Bengaluru so that they may recover from mental health." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kse-demands-apology-from-siddaramaiah-over-remarks-against-pm-1042461.html
20-10-2021||Mysuru||Leopard rescued from poultry farm ||The Forest department personnel were successful in darting a leopard that strayed into a poultry farm on Jayapura-Marballihundi main road, in Mysuru taluk, on Tuesday. According to sources, the leopard had entered the poultry farm, belonging to Shivannegowda, at around 7 pm, on Monday to feed on the fowls. As it had turned dark, the employees did not notice the leopard and as usual, switched off the lights and locked the shed, and went to  sleep in a house next to the farm. The employees heard an animal roaring in the wee hours of Tuesday and rushed to the farm to see a leopard trapped inside. They immediately alerted the Forest department. A team, led by Range Forest Officer Girish, visited the spot and rescued the leopard by darting it, with the help of veterinarian Wasim. The leopardess is around three years old and is healthy. The animal was released into Nagarahole Wildlife Sanctuary, said DCF Kamala Karikalan. Poultry farm owner Shivannegowda said the leopard had devoured more than 15 birds. A large number of people gathered near the farm, once they learnt about the leopard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/leopard-rescued-from-poultry-farm-1042275.html
20-10-2021||National||The Modi government wants to keep press releases 'simple'||Ministries under the Narendra Modi government have been asked by the Cabinet Secretariat to improve their communication methods. Besides English, ministries have been directed to make the information available in Hindi and regional languages too for widespread access. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-modi-government-wants-to-keep-press-releases-simple-1042285.html
20-10-2021||National||Fuel on fire! Petrol, diesel rates soar to record high||After two days of lull, petrol and diesel prices on Wednesday were again hiked by 35 paise per litre each, pushing rates to new highs across the country. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 106.19 a litre and Rs 112.11 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 102.89 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 94.92. The rate hike comes after two days of no changes. Prior to that, for four straight days prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each. With this rise, petrol is now at Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all state capitals while diesel has touched the level in over a dozen states. Diesel crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Panaji and Ranchi. The costliest fuel is in the border town of Ganganagar in Rajasthan where petrol comes for Rs 118.23 a litre and diesel for Rs 109.04. Since ending of a three-week long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 17th increase in petrol price and the 20th time that diesel rates have gone up. While petrol price in most of the country is already above Rs 100-a-litre mark, diesel rates have crossed that level in over a dozen states/UT including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Kerala, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Goa and Ladakh. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. International benchmark Brent crude is trading at $84.43 per barrel on Wednesday for the first time in seven years. A month back, Brent was trading at $73.92. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rate revision on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, diesel rate has gone up by Rs 6.50 per litre and petrol price has increased by Rs 5. Prior to that, petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-on-fire-petrol-diesel-rates-soar-to-record-high-1042286.html
20-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Modi wants 'simple' press releases||Ministries under the Narendra Modi government have been asked by the Cabinet Secretariat to improve their communication methods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-modi-wants-simple-press-releases-1042288.html
20-10-2021||National||India logs 14,623 new Covid-19 cases, 197 deaths||India logged 14,623 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,41,08,996, while the active cases declined to 1,78,098, the lowest in 229 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,52,651 with 197 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Meanwhile, Kerala continues to account for more than half of the nation's daily Covid-19 cases with 7,643 new cases and 77 deaths.  In the last 24 hours, 19,446 people recovered from the virus, taking the total recoveries to 3,34,78,247.  Till date, India has administered 99.12 crore vaccine doses under its vaccination drive.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 26 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 115 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.52 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.15 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 5,020 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 4,52,651 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,39,865 from Maharashtra, 37,967 from Karnataka, 35,928 from Tamil Nadu, 27,002 from Kerala, 25,090 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,998 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-14623-new-covid-19-cases-197-deaths-1042302.html
20-10-2021||National||PM Modi pays tribute to Maharishi Valmiki on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tributes to Maharishi Valmiki, who authored the Ramayana, on his birth anniversary. His emphasis on social empowerment is an inspiration, the prime minister said. "I bow in reverence to Maharishi Valmiki on the special occasion of Valmiki Jayanti. We recall his seminal contributions towards chronicling our rich past and glorious culture. His emphasis on social empowerment keeps inspiring us," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-maharishi-valmiki-on-birth-anniversary-1042307.html
20-10-2021||National||WHO chief discusses Covaxin, resumption of AstraZeneca vaccine supplies to COVAX facility with Health Minister||WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus discussed the issue of the emergency use listing of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin and resumption of supplies of the Serum Institute of India-manufactured AstraZeneca vaccine to the COVAX facility among other topics during a telephonic conversation with Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. “Had a call with @mansukhmandviya, India's Health Minister, to discuss #India's ongoing #Covid19 vaccination programme; the need for a global pandemic agreement; digital health; & traditional medicine. We welcome India's support to strengthen WHO, incl. via flexible, sustainable financing,” Ghebreyesus tweeted on Tuesday. The WHO Director-General said that he also discussed with Mandaviya vaccine equity issues: “the resumption of SII/AstraZeneca vaccine supplies to #COVAX; the Covaxin Emergency Use Listing process; and technology and license sharing through C-TAP.” Covid-19 Technology Access Pool (C-TAP) was launched in May last year for facilitating timely, equitable and affordable access of Covid-19 health products by boosting their supply. Mandaviya had also tweeted that he had a “detailed interaction” with the WHO chief, accompanied by other senior officials of the global health agency “on various issues related to health, including pandemic management and WHO reforms. “DG WHO lauded the mammoth efforts undertaken by the Indian government for #Covid19 vaccination,” Mandaviya tweeted. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in India crossed 99 crore on Tuesday and as the country is close to administering 100 crore doses. According to official figures, around 74.45 per cent of India's eligible adult population has been administered at least one dose of the Covid vaccine and around 30.63 per cent have received both doses. On Monday, WHO said it is expecting one additional piece of information from Bharat Biotech regarding its Covid-19 vaccine COVAXIN and emphasised that it has to thoroughly evaluate to ensure vaccines are safe and “cannot cut corners” before recommending a vaccine for emergency use. “We are aware that many people are waiting for WHO’s recommendation for Covaxin to be included in the #Covid19 Emergency Use Listing, but we cannot cut corners - before recommending a product for emergency use, we must evaluate it thoroughly to make sure it is safe and effective,” the global health organisation had said in a tweet. “Bharat Biotech - the manufacturer of Covaxin - has been submitting data to WHO on a rolling basis and WHO experts have reviewed these data. WHO is expecting one additional piece of information from the company today,” it said. WHO said the timeframe for its Emergency Use Listing procedure is dependent on how quickly a company producing the vaccine is able to provide the data required for the WHO to evaluate the vaccine’s quality, safety, efficacy and its suitability for low- and middle-income countries. “When the information provided addresses all questions raised, WHO and the Technical Advisory Group will complete the assessment and come to a final recommendation whether to grant Emergency Use Listing to the vaccine,” it said. On Sunday, World Health Organisation Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan had said in a tweet that the technical advisory group at the World Health Organisation will meet on October 26 to consider the Emergency Use Listing for Covaxin. Bharat Biotech had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) on April 19 for its vaccine. The WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. According to the WHO, submissions to the global health body for prequalification or listing under the emergency use procedure are confidential. If a product submitted for assessment is found to meet the criteria for listing, WHO will publish the results widely. Duration of the emergency use listing process depends on the quality of the data submitted by the vaccine manufacturer and on those data meeting WHO criteria, according to the agency. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. The Covishield vaccine, which has been developed by AstraZeneca, is manufactured in India by Pune-based Serum Institute of India. India will resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the ‘Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool. The government had stopped export of Covid-19 vaccines after the second wave of the pandemic hit the country in April this year. India has exported over 66 million vaccine doses to nearly 100 countries through grants, commercial shipments and the COVAX facility. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-chief-discusses-covaxin-resumption-of-astrazeneca-vaccine-supplies-to-covax-facility-with-health-minister-1042314.html
20-10-2021||National||PM Modi inaugurates Kushinagar international airport in Uttar Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated the Kushinagar international airport, which is an endeavour to connect Buddhist pilgrimage sites around the world as well as facilitate travel of pilgrims to the final resting place of Lord Buddha. Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh is the final resting place of Gautama Buddha where he attained Mahaparinirvana after his death, and is among the most important pilgrim spots for Buddhists. The airport has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 260 crore and the new terminal building is spread across 3,600 square metres. It has been developed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) in association with the Uttar Pradesh government. The new terminal can handle 300 passengers during peak hours. "The airport will help in attracting more followers of Buddhism from home and abroad to Kushinagar and will enhance the development of Buddhist theme based circuit. "Journey of Lumbini, Bodhgaya, Sarnath, Kushinagar, Shravasti, Rajgir, Sankisa and Vaishali of Buddhist circuit will be covered in lesser time," the civil aviation ministry said in a release on Monday. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugurates-kushinagar-international-airport-in-uttar-pradesh-1042322.html
20-10-2021||National||Calls to boycott India vs Pakistan T20 WC match echo after J&K killings||Ahead of the much-anticipated India versus Pakistan T20 World Cup match, political parties are increasingly calling for skipper Virat Kohli to opt out of the match in light of the recent targeted attacks on migrant workers and minorities in Jammu and Kashmir.  On Sunday, two labourers from Bihar were gunned down when terrorists barged into their accommodation in Kulgam district, taking the number of civilians killed in targeted attacks in Jammu and Kashmir this month to 11. Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi called for India to abandon the match against Pakistan, saying "unless targeted attacks on Indians stop, it will be not right to play match like this." "We see people being attacked in Kashmir. I’m sure that even the Prime Minister agrees with the stand of not conducting the match (IND v PAK) as when in Opposition he used to question that when state-sponsored terrorism is taking place in India why should we play cricket with them?” she said at a press conferance.  She further said, “So, I am sure that not only AAP but even BJP and its leadership along with the PM will agree..." Union Minister and RPI chief Ramdas Athawale echoed the call for a boycott and went on to call for an all-out war against the neighbouring country. “India should not play Pakistan. The neighbouring country has not learnt its lesson. So, there should be an ‘aar paar ki ladaai’ (all-out war). It is Pakistan's ploy not to allow development in the Valley,” he said.  Among leaders in the Opposition, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, in a veiled attack, mentioned the match between the arch-rivals in light of attacks on soldiers. "Our nine soldiers died in J&K, and on October 24 India-Pakistan T20 match will happen,” he said. Union Minister Giriraj Singh said the match should be reconsidered "if the relations between India and Pakistan are not good." However, the BJP or Centre has not taken stand.  BCCI said India will have to play Pakistan since the tournament is organised by International Cricket Council.  “We strongly condemns the killings. However, under the International Cricket Council's (ICC) commitments, you can't refuse to play any one,” vice-president Rajiv Shukla said. Many had demanded a boycott of the high-profile match in 2019 during the aftermath of the Pulwama suicide attack.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/calls-to-boycott-india-vs-pakistan-t20-wc-match-echo-after-jk-killings-1042332.html
20-10-2021||National||Work on 11 new airports progressing in Uttar Pradesh: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said work on 11 new airports, including two international aerodromes, is progressing in the state. Speaking at the event for the inauguration of Kushinagar International airport, the chief minister said this will be the ninth airport in Uttar Pradesh. The inaugural Sri Lankan Airlines flight landed at Kushinagar international airport on Wednesday. The airport was formally inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Adityanath said work is also progressing for Ayodhya airport and that air connectivity in the state is getting strengthened, which will provide an impetus for development. From 1947 to 2014, he said that only two airports were functional in Uttar Pradesh, including Lucknow and Varanasi, and air connectivity of the state was confined to around 16 cities. "Kushinagar airport has become operational as the 9th airport of the state whereas there is direct air service from the airports of Uttar Pradesh to 75 major cities," he said. Later, Adityanath along with Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and other Union ministers addressed the media at the airport. "With the Kushinagar airport, it will be easier for people to visit from places like Japan, Korea and Cambodia," he said at the briefing. Scindia said the number of UDAN air service routes will be increased in the state, adding that the target is to have 1,000 routes across the country. Kushinagar airport, built at a cost of Rs 260 crore, has a runway length of 3,200 metres and a width of 45 metres. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, Union ministers Kiren Rijiju, G Kishan Reddy, Arjun Ram Meghwal, V K Singh and Meenakshi Lekhi, among others, were present at the event. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/work-on-11-new-airports-progressing-in-uttar-pradesh-yogi-adityanath-1042333.html
20-10-2021||National||Beware, Stalkerware leak has put your personal data on smartphone at risk||A smartphone spyware has put personal data of hundreds of thousands of users at risk, like call records/recordings, text messages, photos, browsing history and precise geolocations, according to a report by TechCrunch. The personal data can be pulled from a person's phone because of a security issue in widely used consumer-grade stalkerware or spyware, as per the report. "We can't name the spyware or its developer since it would make it easier for bad actors to access the insecure data," the report said on Tuesday. It said that efforts were on to contact the spyware developer because the security and privacy of thousands of people are at risk until the issue is fixed. Stalkerware apps are generally disguised under a fake app name with suspicious access to messages, call logs, location and other personal activity. Once downloaded, these apps could be repurposed by people to spy on others' smartphones. The spyware security issue was discovered as part of a wider investigation into consumer-grade spyware. Codero, the web firm that provides hosting for the developer's spyware infrastructure, was contacted but it did not respond, the report mentioned. Earlier this month, Google said that it has purged several "stalkerware" ads from its Play Store, promoting apps that violated its policies. "We do not allow ads promoting spyware for partner surveillance. We immediately removed the ads that violated our policy and will continue to track emerging behaviours to prevent bad actors from trying to evade our detection systems," a Google spokesperson was quoted as saying. Several stalkerware apps used a variety of techniques to successfully evade Google's ban on such apps. Google in October last year updated its Play Store policies to impose a ban on stalkerware apps. "In short, it's spyware beloved by creeps, jealous ex-partners, and those who have no qualms about invading someone's privacy in the hope of tracking what they're up to and with whom," security writer Graham Cluley had said in a blog post. A recent report by cyber security firm Kaspersky claimed that as some people try to digitally control the lives of their intimate partners, nearly 4,627 mobile users in India were found to be the victim of stalkerware. In 2020, a total of 53,870 mobile users were affected globally by stalkerware. In 2019, Kaspersky discovered 67,500 affected mobile users. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beware-stalkerware-leak-has-put-your-personal-data-on-smartphone-at-risk-1042344.html
20-10-2021||National||We have established faith among people that it is possible to fight corruption: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said his government, after hard work in the last six-seven years, has established faith among people that it is possible to fight corruption and that they will get benefits of various government schemes without the involvement of middlemen. Virtually addressing a joint conference of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) virtually at Kevadia in Gujarat, Modi claimed the previous government did not have the will to fight corruption. “In the last six-seven years, we have been able to establish faith among people that it is possible to stop corruption in the country. People of the country have faith today that they will get benefits of government schemes without any middlemen,” Modi said. "Corruption, big or small, takes away the rights of common people. It is a hindrance in the progress of the country and effects our collective energy," he said. Modi also said that there should be no safe havens anywhere in the world for those committing crime against the country and its people.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-have-established-faith-among-people-that-it-is-possible-to-fight-corruption-pm-modi-1042349.html
20-10-2021||National||Foreign dignitaries hail Kushinagar airport inauguration, say it will boost tourism||Several foreign dignitaries, including Sri Lankan minister Namal Rajapaksa, on Wednesday hailed the inauguration of the Kushinagar International Airport, and said it will boost the number of Buddhist tourists visiting India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated the new international airport at Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh, and said his government has taken a number of steps to instil new energy in the aviation sector. "Tourism between India and Sri Lanka has always been very robust. We have a lot of Indians coming to Sri Lanka and also Sri Lankan pilgrims coming to different states (in India), especially Varanasi, Prime Minister's constituency," Rajapaksa told reporters at the inauguration event. "So now we believe that opening up Kushinagar will increase the number of pilgrims (coming to India) from Sri Lanka and also Buddhist pilgrims from all over the world," the Sri Lankan Cabinet minister said. Ambassador of Thailand to India Pattarat Hongtong said the Kushinagar airport will improve tourism between the two countries and facilitate Buddhist travellers. Ambassador of Vietnam to India Pham Sanh Chau also said that the Kushinagar Airport will give a boost to the numbers of Buddhist tourists visiting India. The Kushinagar airport has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 260 crore and will facilitate domestic and international pilgrims to visit the 'mahaparinirvana' site of Lord Buddha and is an endeavour to connect the Buddhist pilgrimage holy sites around the world, according to the Prime Minister's Office.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-dignitaries-hail-kushinagar-airport-inauguration-say-it-will-boost-tourism-1042351.html
20-10-2021||National||Lakhimpur Kheri case: Investigation can't be unending, State must not drag its feet, SC tells UP govt||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the Uttar Pradesh government that the investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri case -- related to mowing down of protesting farmers -- cannot be an unending process and the State must dispel the impression that it was dragging its feet. Taking up a PIL in the matter allegedly involving Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the state government, to ensure statements of witnesses were recorded before a magistrate and adequate protection was granted to them. The court queried the state government counsel over the delay in recording of statement of witnesses before a judicial magistrate. The investigation should not be an "unending story", the bench said, adding recording of statement for a judicial magistrate got far better evidentiary value. Going through a status report, the court noted that of 34 witnesses, only four witnesses' statement were recorded. "We feel you are dragging your feet. Please dispel that," the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli told Salve. The counsel, for his part, said that two FIRs were lodged into the matter, one related to killing of farmers and another on lynching of other persons. He said as many as 10 accused had been arrested in the matter and four were in police custody for interrogation. Salve also said the second FIR lodged in the matter related to lynching was a little difficult to investigate. He also pointed out several videos of the incident have been received and sent for forensic examinations. He sought further time to file a fresh status report, detailing the steps taken for investigation into the case. The court, allowing his plea, put the matter for consideration on October 26. At the outset, the bench also ticked off the state government counsel for last minute filing of its status report in the case. Salve assured the court to file its next status report on Monday. As many as eight people, including four farmers, were killed on October 3, when a car allegedly ferrying the Union Minister's son ran over a group of protesters gathered to oppose a programme attended by Uttar Pradesh's deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The minister's son was arrested in the case subsequently after the top court took up a letter petition filed by advocate Shiv Kumar Tripathi and pulled up the UP government over the delay. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhimpur-kheri-case-investigation-cant-be-unending-state-must-not-drag-its-feet-sc-tells-up-govt-1042352.html
20-10-2021||National||India's Covid-19 tests decline as cases continue to plateau||During the peak of the second wave of Covid-19, which hit India earlier this year, the country reported spike of over 4 lakh cases. Since then, the overall daily Covid cases have continued to plateau to less than 15,000 cases a day as of mid-October. Meanwhile, the number of tests fell from 19 lakh in the beginning of May to 13 lakh as on October 19. In May, India conducted as many as 19 lakh tests per day, with the peak being 22 lakh tests towards the end of the month. The number spiked in June, going as high as 37 lakh during the early days of the month and hovering around the 20 lakh tests range, even as cases during the period had fallen to 1.3 lakh. India conducted more than 10 lakh tests daily on average between July and September, with the lowest being 11.5 lakh in the last week of July and the highest being nearly 24 lakh in the third week of August. During this period, India's Covid cases showed a downwards trend, going from 46,000 cases in the beginning of July to as low as 31,000 cases a day by the end of August. However, after September, India's Covid cases dived, with the number of cases falling to under 15,000 as of mid-October. During this period, the number of tests conducted daily also showed a decline, going from 16 lakh tests in the beginning of September to 13 lakh tests as of October 19. The number of tests conducted during this period hit a low in early October, with just 9.9 lakh tests conducted on October 4. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tests-decline-as-cases-continue-to-plateau-1042359.html
20-10-2021||National||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children likey to be rolled out in phases||Last week, the subject expert committee of the Indian drug regulatory panel recommended emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Covaxin to be administered in children in the age group 2-18.  India's drug regulatory body, however, is carefully examining the panel's recommendation and other factors before rolling out vaccines for kids, government sources told the publication.  “There are several factors that are being considered by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) like what is the performance of the vaccine in young adults (18 years or so). Also, there is an availability problem, which is being evaluated,” a government source said. Bharat Biotech is also struggling to boost supplies, contributing merely 10-11 per cent of India's vaccinations, which are inching close to the 100-crore mark.  Allowing Covaxin for kids could put a pressure on existing supplies affecting the elderly and vulnerable, many of who are yet to receive their second dose still. To address these issues, the authorities may reportedly go for a phased rollout. “This was adopted in the case of adults as well. A phased rollout starting with 12-year-olds and above may be adopted. Vulnerable children or those with co-morbidities are likely to be prioritised irrespective of their age group,” another source was quoted in the publication. However, the Centre has not confirmed the claim so far.  The government will take a final decision on vaccinating children and adolescents against coronavirus on the basis of overall scientific rationale as well as the supply situation of vaccines available for those below 18 years old, Covid Task Force chief V K Paul had earlier said. Experts are divided on the subject of vaccinating children in the country. “The purpose of vaccination is to save lives. And that risk is not there for children. A committee may be technically competent, but from a public health point of view, there is no justification,” Chairman of the Scientific Advisory Committee of ICMR NIE, Jayprakash Muliyil said. Studies have shown that children affected with Covid-19 suffer mild symptoms or are asymptomatic entirely. However, they can carry and transmit heavy loads of coronavirus. One more argument from the experts is that enough elderly people are not covered with vaccinations.   Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotechs-covaxin-for-children-likey-to-be-rolled-out-in-phases-1042362.html
20-10-2021||National||Flights to soon connect Kushinagar with Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata||Flights from Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata will soon operate to Kushinagar airport, which was inaugurated on Wednesday. Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesday said that Kushinagar airport will connect Buddhist pilgrim sites. As many as 54 new airports have come up in the last seven years, the minister said while speaking at the inaugural event for the Kushinagar International airport. According to him, Delhi-Kushinagar flights will be operational four times a week from November 26. Besides, there will be flights connecting Mumbai and Kolkata. In a release, SpiceJet said flights on the Delhi-Kushinagar-Delhi sector will operate four times a week on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays. The services will begin from November 26. "The airline will be connecting Kushinagar with two more key metros – Mumbai and Kolkata – starting 18th December, 2021," the release said. Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director of SpiceJet, said the launch of new UDAN flights to Kushinagar airport will give an impetus to tourism of this holy city where Lord Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flights-to-soon-connect-kushinagar-with-delhi-mumbai-kolkata-1042369.html
20-10-2021||National||Muslim marriage is a contract and not sacrament unlike a Hindu marriage: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court has held that the Muslim marriage is a contract with many shades of meaning, not a sacrament unlike a Hindu marriage and does not repel certain rights and obligations arising from its dissolution. The case pertains to a petition filed by Ezazur Rehman (52) in Bhuvaneshwari Nagar in Bengaluru, praying to quash an order passed by the First Additional Principal Judge of Family Court in Bengaluru on August 12, 2011. Rehman had divorced his wife Saira Banu by uttering Talaq on November 25, 1991, months after the marriage with a 'Mehr' of Rs 5,000. After the divorce, Rehman then contracted another marriage and became the father of a child. Banu then filed a civil suit for maintenance on August 24, 2002. The family court ordered that the plaintiff is entitled to monthly maintenance at the rate of Rs 3,000 from the date of the suit till the death of the plaintiff or till she gets remarried or till the death of the defendant. Dismissing the petition with a cost of Rs 25,000, Justice Krishna S Dixit in his order dated October 7 said, "'marriage is a contract' has many shades of meaning; It is not a sacrament unlike a Hindu marriage, is true." Elaborating further, Justice Dixit said a Muslim marriage is not a sacrament, does not repel certain rights and obligations arising from it dissolution. "Such a marriage dissolved by divorce, per se does not annihilate all the duties and obligations of parties by lock, stock and barrel," the bench noted. The Judge said the marriage amongst Muslims begins with the contract and graduates to the status as it ordinarily does in any other community. "This very status gives rise to certain justiciable obligations. They are ex contractu," the court said. In law, new obligations too may arise, of them being the circumstantial duty of a person to provide sustenance to his ex-wife who is destituted by divorce. Quoting verses from Surah Al Bakra in Qur'an, Justice Dixit said a pious Muslim owes a moral and religious duty to provide subsistence to his destitute ex-wife. The court said a Muslim ex-wife has a right to maintenance subject to satisfying certain conditions, is indisputable. In Islamic jurisprudence, as a general norm, Mehr, that is dower, is treated as consideration for marriage, the court said adding that it may be a 'prompt dower' payable before the wife is called upon to enter the conjugal domicile or it may be a 'deferred dower' payable on the dissolution of marriage. "Ordinarily, the right of an ex-wife to maintenance does not extend beyond 'Iddat'. I should hasten to add that Islamic jurisprudence has not treated this as thumb rule ever, although there is some juristic opinion in variance," Justice Dixit observed. "This norm has to be subject to the rider that the amount paid to the ex-wife, be it in the form of 'Mehr' or be it a sum qualified on the basis of 'mehr', or otherwise, is not an inadequate or illusory sum," the judge noted. He also pointed out that 'Mehr' is fixed inadequately and bride-side lacks equal bargaining power inter alia because of economic and gender-related factors. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-marriage-is-a-contract-and-not-sacrament-unlike-a-hindu-marriage-karnataka-hc-1042373.html
20-10-2021||National||Jaishankar discusses growing bilateral relations, global strategic affairs with Israeli President Herzog||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday called on Israeli President Isaac Herzog and discussed ways to promote and strengthen the growing bilateral relationship in various sectors besides exchanging views on global strategic affairs. The meeting took place at Beit HaNassi, the president's official residence here. President Herzog thanked Jaishankar for his personal commitment, and that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ministers, to promoting and strengthening ties with Israel, according to a press release issued by the President's office. During the diplomatic working meeting, Herzog also praised the flourishing of the Israel-India relationship in a range of fields. Ahead of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Israel and India next year, President Herzog emphasised his intention to personally assist in promoting and strengthening this important relationship, the statement said. President Herzog and Jaishankar further discussed global strategic affairs, it said. Jaishankar said that it was "a great honour" to call on President Herzog. "I bring the greetings and good wishes of the government and people of India as we approach the 30th anniversary of the upgradation of the ties," Jaishankar wrote in the visitors' book at Beit HaNassi. Jaishankar, who is currently on a five-day visit to Israel, also called on Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and discussed the bilateral relations. This is Jaishankar's first visit to Israel as External Affairs Minister. He is visiting the country at the invitation of Alternate Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid. On Tuesday, Jaishankar met with Israeli Parliament Speaker Mickey Levy and the two leaders discussed at length the common challenges faced by the two countries like radicalisation, and took stock of the developments in the region. On Monday, Jaishankar held "very productive talks" with Alternate Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Yair Lapid during which the two countries agreed to resume negotiations on a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) from next month with an aim to conclude the long-pending deal by next June. India and Israel elevated bilateral relations to a strategic partnership during the historic visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Israel in July 2017. Since then, the relationship between the two countries has focused on expanding knowledge-based partnership, which includes collaboration in innovation and research, including boosting the 'Make in India' initiative.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-discusses-growing-bilateral-relations-global-strategic-affairs-with-israeli-president-herzog-1042374.html
20-10-2021||National||Heavy rainfall disrupts normal life in Sikkim, triggers landslides at several places||Normal life was thrown out of gear in Sikkim on Wednesday as torrential rain caused landslides at several places, blocking the National Highway-10 and snapping the arterial road link with neighbouring West Bengal, officials said. Following heavy rain, one of the landslides hit the highway at the 29th Mile area in West Bengal, around 60 km from the Himalayan state's Rangpo border. Another landslide occurred at Pani House here this morning, disrupting vehicular movement, the officials said, adding that the efforts were underway to remove the debris from the road. Supporting pillars of a steel bridge at Rangpo, the gateway to Sikkim, got damaged due to heavy flow of water in the Teesta river which has been in a spate over the past few days, they said. The authorities have started restricting the movement of vehicles on the bridge. The downpour also damaged crops and properties at several places, the officials said. As the rain continued to batter the state, a large number of people have been rescued to safe places and relief materials have been sent to the affected areas. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-rainfall-disrupts-normal-life-in-sikkim-triggers-landslides-at-several-places-1042378.html
20-10-2021||National||Ensure there's no safe havens anywhere for those who betray India: PM Modi to CVC, CBI||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday directed officials of the Central Vigilance Commission and the Central Bureau of Investigation to ensure there are no safe havens anywhere in the world for those who betray the country. Virtually addressing a joint conference of the CVC and the CBI at Kevadia in Gujarat, Modi said no matter how powerful a person may be, stern action should be taken against those who work against the interest of the nation or its people. The statement comes at a time when the central government is engaged in legal proceedings to bring back alleged economic offenders like Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, who have taken refuge in foreign countries. "You have to remember that your partnership is with this 'mitti' (soil), with Maa Bharti (Mother India). There should not be any safe havens anywhere in the world for those who betray the country or its people," the PM said addressing the conference. “However powerful one may be, stern action should be taken against those who work contrary to the national interest or of our people. We should continue our work in the national interest,” he said. Modi said due to the hard work of his government in the last six to seven years, a faith has been established among people that corruption can be stopped. "In the last six to seven years, we have been able to establish a faith among people that it is possible to stop corruption in the country. People of the country have faith today that they will get benefits of government schemes without any give and take or without any middlemen,” he said. "Corruption, big or small, takes away the rights of common people. It is a hindrance in the progress of the country and affects our collective energy," he added. Modi said the previous government lacked the will to control corruption. "The way the earlier government functioned, it lacked the political and administrative will to fight corruption. Today, there is a political will and administrative reforms are also being carried out to achieve the goal," he said. He said after independence, the mindset of the governments was to keep everything under their control. Those governments kept maximum control with themselves and due to it, the system witnessed many wrong practices, he said. "Maximum control, be it at home, in family or in the country, causes maximum damage,” Modi said. “We started as a mission to simplify the life of people by reducing controls, we believe in minimum government and maximum governance,” he said. The prime minister listed various initiatives taken by his government to curb corruption in the last seven years by using technology and trusting people. “You all are witnessing how we used trust and technology to make people free which has stopped corruption in many ways,” he said. Modi asked officials to work to prevent corruption, instead of just focusing on ways to detect crime after a fraud takes place. He also asked officials of the CBI and CVC to brainstorm on how to find ways to save people from cyber frauds. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-theres-no-safe-havens-anywhere-for-those-who-betray-india-pm-modi-to-cvc-cbi-1042384.html
20-10-2021||National||We can't interfere: Supreme Court rejects plea to seek report on alleged malpractices in NEET UG exam||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to consider a plea for calling for a report on investigations in the FIRs registered in different states over the alleged malpractices in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) held on September 12. The top court said that any interference will be detrimental to a large number of students. A bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao said that they realised the problems highlighted by a group of candidates but it was not inclined to intervene in the matter. "We can't interfere. We understand what you say but it will create a lot of confusion. Any interference at our hands will be detrimental to a large number of students," the bench, also comprising Justice B R Gavai, said. Senior advocate Salman Khurshid, appearing for the petitioners, said he was not pressing for cancellation of the exam and conduct of fresh tests, in view of the fact that the same prayers were declined earlier. He submitted that FIRs have been filed at various places and sought the top court's direction to call for a fact-finding report on the issue. The SC said the results have not been announced and asked if there is any doubt in the mind of the National Testing Agency. Khurshid told the bench that this must be in the normal course. The senior lawyer then sought liberty to approach the court with similar prayers at a later appropriate stage if some material comes to the fore. The top court said, "Any observation by us will be taken out of context and confuse students." The counsel finally withdrew the plea as the court remained disinclined to entertain the matter. The plea filed by Vishwanath Kumar and others claimed that the CBI had registered the FIR against four accused persons and unknown others, stating that the process of examination was manipulated by using proxy candidates on the date of examinations. Earlier on October 4, the court had refused to entertain a similar plea, saying cancellation of the exam cannot be at the cost of lakhs of students. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-cant-interfere-supreme-court-rejects-plea-to-seek-report-on-alleged-malpractices-in-neet-ug-exam-1042391.html
20-10-2021||National||Southwest monsoon to withdraw completely from India around October 26: IMD||The southwest monsoon will withdraw completely from the entire country around October 26, paving the way for the commencement of the northeast monsoon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. After its late withdrawal from northwest India, the southwest monsoon remains active over some parts of the country. The southwest monsoon withdrawal line currently passes through Kohima, Silchar, Krishnanagar, Baripada, Malkangiri, Nalgonda, Bagalkote, and Vengurla. Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from remaining parts of northeast India, the entire north Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of West Bengal and Odisha, some parts of the central Bay of Bengal, parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, entire Goa, some more parts of Karnataka and some more parts of central Arabian Sea around October 23, the IMD said. “With likely setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over the Bay of Bengal and extreme south Peninsular India, the Southwest Monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country around 26th October 2021. Simultaneously, the Northeast Monsoon rains are also likely to commence over Southeast Peninsular India from around 26th October 2021,” the Met department said. The northeast monsoon brings rains over Tamil Nadu, parts of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Puducherry. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from northwest India commenced on October 6. The retreat was the second-most delayed withdrawal of the southwest monsoon since 1975. The southwest monsoon withdrawal from northwest India in 2019 started on October 9. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from northwest India usually begins on September 17. However, the southwest monsoon remains active over several parts of the country. The IMD said a cyclonic circulation lies over Bihar and neighbouring areas. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread, light to moderate rainfall with isolated heavy fall and thunderstorms and lightning is very likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya, Tripura, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on October 20 and 21 and over Gangetic West Bengal and Bihar on October 20 and (it will) reduce thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over the sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim on October 20 and very heavy falls over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya on the same day, it added. There will be rainfall activity over Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal and south interior Karnataka during October 20-24, the IMD said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/southwest-monsoon-to-withdraw-completely-from-india-around-october-26-imd-1042405.html
20-10-2021||National||Lord Buddha inspiration for India's Constitution: Modi||Lord Buddha is the inspiration for India's Constitution even today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. Addressing a gathering at the Abhidhamma Day programme, he asserted that the 'dhamma chakra' on the tricolour is the driving force for the country. Even today, when someone enters Parliament (of India), they see the mantra 'Dharma Chakra Pravartaanye', he said. "Buddha is global because he talks about starting from within. Lord Buddha's Buddhatatva is the sense of ultimate responsibility," he added. "Today when the world talks about climate conservation and expresses concern over climate change, then may questions come up. But if we adopt the message of Buddha, then the path of what has to be done, instead of who has to do it, will be visible," he said. The prime minister inaugurated a new international airport here. Kushinagar is the final resting place of the Buddha. This is where he attained Mahaparinirvana after his death. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lord-buddha-inspiration-for-indias-constitution-modi-1042407.html
20-10-2021||National||AstraZeneca sets up clinical data insights division in India||Drug firm AstraZeneca on Wednesday said it has launched a clinical data and insights division in India for data-related management of its clinical trials. The Bengaluru-based clinical data and insights (CDI) division is a critical advancement to support a growing global portfolio and build on internal data expertise, the drug firm said in a statement. The CDI division works across therapy areas and portfolios, supporting early and late-stage clinical programmes from Phase 1 to Phase 3, with an integrated end-to-end approach for clinical data, analytics, insights and risk management, it added. Currently a 30-member team, the division is expected to grow to over 100 members by 2022, the drug firm said. "India has seen a constant uptick in investment in areas such as business services, engineering, digital, IT, R&D and product development from global Fortune-500 companies. “AstraZeneca in India is no different – since its inception, AstraZeneca India has supported the global organisation with various services spanning IT, business services and R&D from our centres in Chennai and Bengaluru, on transformative projects," AstraZeneca India Managing Director Siva Padmanabhan said. AstraZeneca's decision to set up the CDI division in India is only a natural progression of this to further capitalise on the extensive talent pool in the country, he added. At present, the drug maker's CDI footprint includes over 400 employees and around 700 data management professionals in vendor partnerships across six countries. "Clinical data and insight solutions enable pharmaceutical organisations such as ours to gain in-depth visibility into the patient's journey by extracting actionable insights from disparate data sources. “The establishment of the CDI division in India is key to our strategic vision of being industry leaders in this space," AstraZeneca Vice President, Global Head of Clinical Data & Insights Natalie Fishburn said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/astrazeneca-sets-up-clinical-data-insights-division-in-india-1042408.html
20-10-2021||National||Delhi HC restrains broadcast of ICC T20 World Cup by rogue websites||The Delhi High Court has restrained rogue websites from streaming the ICC Men's T20 World Cup 2021 in violation of the exclusive broadcasting rights held by Star Channels and Disney+ Hotstar. While hearing a plea by Star India Pvt Ltd, Justice Sanjeev Narula said if an ex-parte interim injunction is not granted at this stage against rogue websites, an irreparable loss will be inflicted upon the exclusive broadcaster which has a prima facie case in its favour. “Till the next date of hearing before this court, the interim injunction is granted in favour of the Plaintiffs,” the judge said and issued summons on the suit and listed it for further hearing on February 22. “Defendants Nos. 1 to 7 (rogue websites) (and such other websites and entities which are discovered during the course of the proceedings …) are restrained from, in any manner, communicating to the public, hosting, reproducing, streaming, broadcasting, re-broadcasting, re-transmitting, exhibiting, and/ or making available for viewing and downloading, providing access to and/or communicating to the public, displaying, uploading, modifying, publishing, updating and/ or sharing…, the ICC Men's T20 World Cup 2021, and the content related thereto, so as to not infringe the Plaintiff's broadcasting reproduction rights as contained in Star Channels and Disney+ Hotstar in relation to the same,” said the judge in his October 12 order. The seven rogue websites mentioned in the order are "http://filmyclub.wapkiz.com"filmyclub.wapkiz.com, "http://ipl.hitcric.tv"ipl.hitcric.tv, tamilblasters.win, "http://uptomovie.xyz"uptomovie.xyz', "http://doratv-ipl.wapkiz.com"doratv-ipl.wapkiz.com, "http://thdtvworld.xyz"thdtvworld.xyz' and "http://zolhdtv.com"zolhdtv.com'. The court clarified that if other similar websites are discovered by Star India concerning the streaming of the World Cup and are brought on record by way of an affidavit, the interim order of injunction would apply to them as well.   The court further directed the Centre to issue notification calling upon the internet and telecom service providers to block access to websites and also directed the internet service providers to block such access. The ICC Men's T20 World Cup 2021 is scheduled from October 17 to November 14, 2021 in UAE. In its suit, Star India informed that it acquired “exclusive global media rights”, including television rights, digital rights, and certain ancillary rights, for various ICC events for a duration of eight years i.e. from 2015–2023 for a substantial consideration. It apprehended that its exclusive rights concerning the ICC Men's T20 World Cup 2021 would be infringed and alleged that seven rogue websites infringed the same earlier for another cricket event, Vivo IPL 2021. It was submitted that such rogue websites “spring up” at the time of the broadcasting of the events and infringe the exclusive broadcasting rights. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-restrains-broadcast-of-icc-t20-world-cup-by-rogue-websites-1042409.html
20-10-2021||National||Supreme Court rejects bail plea by alleged ISIS sympathiser||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a bail plea by a man, arrested by the Gujarat police in 2017 for allegedly collecting funds and recruiting people for international terror organisation ISIS. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli rejected the petition filed by advocate Farrukh Rasheed on behalf of accused Ubed Ahmed alias Ubaid Mirza. "Allegations are very serious against you. There is evidence against you. At this stage, there is no reason for us to discard those evidences. You have been working as ISIS agent. Your WhatsApp chats pertain to killing people of other religion," the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, told senior advocate Siddhartha Dave. In his arguments, Dave said the man, who was a practising advocate in Surat, has been in jail for four years without charges having been framed, in gross violation of his fundamental rights. "Only allegation is that I was recruiting some people from ISIS for money. The Unlawful Activities Prevention Act has been invoked against me on the basis of Facebook posts and WhatsApp chats, though not single paise has been recovered from me," he said.  The counsel also claimed the accused never traveled to Syria. The bench, however, said, "We are not saying we can’t grant you bail because the UAPA has been invoked. In fact, the nature of allegations is very serious." The court also asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Gujarat ATS over the reason for delay in trial. He responded by saying it was because the accused or co-accused had challenged every single order passed by the trial court. Finally, the bench said, "We are not inclined to grant bail. We direct the trial court to complete trial in one year. The trial has to continue at least two days a week." The petitioner was arrested on October 25, 2017 on allegations that he was radicalised with the philosophy of ISIS by Safi Armar alias Al Hindi of Syria/Iraq and Abdullah Al Faizal of Jamaica. He was allegedly found discussing, advocating, disseminating ISIS ideology on social media or sharing social media links with another accused, Kasim, who was planning to carry out a lone wolf attack at Synagogue in Ahmedabad. His chats allegedly revealed that he wanted to buy a pistol and generate funds through smuggling of cigarettes, gold or old cars. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-rejects-bail-plea-by-alleged-isis-sympathiser-1042415.html
20-10-2021||National||BSNL gets licence to operate Inmarsat's Global Xpress satellite comms services in India||Inmarsat on Wednesday said its strategic partner BSNL has secured necessary licences to deliver its Global Xpress (GX) mobile broadband services in India, that would enable Indian domestic airlines and international airlines flying over the country to provide high-speed inflight connectivity. Under BSNL's Inflight and Maritime Connectivity (IFMC) licence from Telecom Department, GX will be available to Indian customers across government, aviation and maritime, Inmarsat said in a statement. The announcement assumes significance as it means that India's airlines will be able to deploy GX for in-flight connectivity within India and across the world, while India's commercial maritime companies will be able to enhance significantly the digitalisation of their vessels for more effective ship operations and crew welfare services. According to the statement, state-owned BSNL's licence will also see the GX service offered to government and other users. Introduction of services will happen in a phased manner, for customers and partners. The statement quoted Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director of SpiceJet Ltd, as saying: "We are delighted that Global Xpress, the world-leading passenger inflight connectivity service, is now coming to India". "We are looking forward to offering this ground-breaking connectivity service to our passengers later this year, when we introduce our new Boeing 737 MAX aircraft," Singh said, adding it will enable customers to remain connected in the air as they do on the ground. GX, operating in the Ka-band, is a high-speed broadband network designed for mobility and government customers to seamlessly span the world. The service delivers the high bandwidth, reliability and security that commercial and government-grade mobility customers need. GX is evolving to offer even more capacity, capabilities, and operational agility for Inmarsat customers now and into the future. The company is launching a further seven GX satellites, including its next-generation GX satellites, over the coming three years, each of which will add more capacity into a single region than the first four satellites combined. The GX gateway for India is located in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. "Today is a significant day for Inmarsat and our valued, long-term partnership with India, which was a signatory to the founding treaty establishing Inmarsat in 1979," Rajeev Suri, Inmarsat CEO said. Inmarsat, Suri said, is "delighted" to make the global high-speed mobile broadband 'Ka-band' network available to the government and businesses in India through partner BSNL. "Today's announcement...will help to underpin the further economic growth that we all wish to see in India," Suri said. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) Chairman and Managing Director, P K Purwar said, "Global Xpress is recognised as the world's best high-speed satellite communications service for the government and mobility business customers and "we are very pleased to make these capabilities available to users in India". Inmarsat is well-positioned to partner with the Indian government to address the ever-growing demand for reliable, mobile satellite communication services across a broad range of commercial and public sectors, Gautam Sharma, Inmarsat India Managing Director, said. After the introduction of Inmarsat's voice and broadband data communication services across India in the past, Inmarsat's Global Xpress services has now secured the necessary licences through partner BSNL, Sharma added. Terming Global Xpress as "gold standard of high-speed satellite mobile broadband communications", Sharma said it will enable Indian domestic airlines and international airlines flying over India to provide the fast inflight connectivity. "It will also speed up the digitalisation of Indian-flagged maritime vessels and give an edge to the Indian government, including its defence forces," Sharma noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsnl-gets-licence-to-operate-inmarsats-global-xpress-satellite-comms-services-in-india-1042423.html
20-10-2021||National||Cruise drugs case: Aryan Khan moves Bombay HC for bail||Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, approached the Bombay High Court on Wednesday, seeking bail in connection with the case of seizure of banned drugs aboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. His advocates then immediately filed an appeal in the HC, challenging the lower court's order. The appeal is likely to be mentioned by Aryan Khan's lawyers on Thursday before a single bench of Justice N W Sambre. The bail pleas of Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha were rejected by the special court on Wednesday afternoon. They were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3 and are presently in judicial custody. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cruise-drugs-case-aryan-khan-moves-bombay-hc-for-bail-1042433.html
20-10-2021||National||Punjab Congress MLA, his security personnel thrash youth for questioning him about his work||A video has appeared on social media showing Punjab Congress MLA Joginder Pal and his security personnel thrashing a youth for asking what work the legislator had done for his village. As the incident left the party embarrassed, Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Wednesday that a legislator has to serve the people and the MLA should not have behaved in this way.         In the video, Pal, an MLA from the Bhoa assembly seat in Pathankot district of poll-bound Punjab, is addressing a group of people on Tuesday.       Congress MLA Joginder Pal from Bhoa assembly seat in Pathankot district of Punjab beat up a youth along with his Punjab Police security men because the youth dared to ask him a question about his work in last 4.5 years in power. Then a youth, identified as Harsh Kumar, could be heard questioning the legislator as to what work he had done during his tenure. When a security man of the legislator held his arm to lead him away from the event, Joginder Pal could be heard asking the youth to come and speak to him. As the MLA gave him a microphone to speak, the youth asked, "Tu ki kita (what have you done?)" The youth's question left Joginder Pal furious and he could be seen slapping him in the video. The MLA, his two security personnel, and another person then thrashed the youth and he was taken outside of the venue. Harsh Kumar on Wednesday said he had just asked a question to the MLA but he was badly beaten up by Pal and a few others. His mother said his son had only asked the MLA as to what he had done for the village and demanded justice for him. There was no reaction from the MLA. The BJP hit out at the ruling Congress in Punjab, saying it shows the intolerant face of the party. "After Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra turned out journalists from their PCs for asking factual questions, it is the turn of Joginder Singh, Congress MLA from Boha in Pathankot, to thrash a young man black and blue for just questioning him. This is the intolerant face of Congress," said Amit Malviya, BJP Nationional Executive member and in-charge of its Information and Technology Department. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-congress-mla-his-security-personnel-thrash-youth-for-questioning-him-about-his-work-1042435.html
20-10-2021||National||UPSC launches helpline for govt job aspirants from economically weaker section, backward classes||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Wednesday launched a toll-free helpline to help government job aspirants from economically weaker sections and backward classes among others. The UPSC conducts civil services examination to select the country's bureaucrats, diplomats and police officers among others and also holds other tests to recruit government officers. "This initiative is also a part of the commission's endeavour of undertaking queries of such candidates in a friendly manner," the UPSC said in a statement. The helpline will remain operational on all working days during the office hours, it said. The initiative is part of celebrations under the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Indian Independence. The commission has opened a helpline, toll free number 1800118711, with the objective to assist candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Other Backward Classes (OBC), Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) and Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD), who have applied or are intending to apply for the commission's examinations or recruitments, the statement said. "The candidates of above categories facing any difficulty in filling up the application form of any examination/recruitment or for any queries concerning the commission's examinations/ recruitments, may contact this dedicated helpline for assistance," it said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-launches-helpline-for-govt-job-aspirants-from-economically-weaker-section-backward-classes-1042439.html
20-10-2021||National||Indian diplomat's mike goes silent at UN conference while criticising China’s BRI||India has voiced its strong opposition to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and its flagship project - the CPEC - at the just concluded second UN Sustainable Transport Conference where the Indian diplomat’s mike curiously went silent while she was highlighting New Delhi’s objection to the controversial projects. The sudden "mike failure" at the UN meet hosted by China here from October 14 to 16 created a flutter and took several minutes to restore. Even the video of the next speaker began to play but it was halted by UN under-secretary-general Liu Zhenmin, the former vice foreign minister of China, who urged the Indian diplomat, Priyanka Sohoni, Second Secretary of the Indian Embassy here, to continue her speech. After the mike system was restored at the conference hall, Liu said, “dear participants, we are sorry. We are confronting some technical problems and played the video of the next speaker. I am sorry for that” and asked Sohoni to resume her speech. "You are lucky..You are back and welcome back," he told Sohoni following which the Indian diplomat continued her speech without interruption. "We share the international community’s desire for enhancing physical connectivity and believe it should bring greater economic benefits to all in an equitable and balanced manner," Sohoni said. "Expansion and strengthening of physical connectivity is an integral part of India’s economic and diplomatic initiatives,” she said. "There have been some references to the Belt and Road Initiative or BRI at this conference. Here, I wish to say that as far as China’s BRI is concerned, we are uniquely affected by it. It’s inclusion of the so-called China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) as a flagship project impinges on India’s sovereignty,” Sohoni said. The BRI is a multi-billion-dollar initiative launched by Chinese President Xi Jinping when he came to power in 2013. It aims to enhance China's influence and also link Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the Gulf region, Africa, and Europe with a network of land and sea routes. The $60 billion CPEC, which connects Gwadar Port in Pakistan's Balochistan with China's Xinjiang province, is the flagship project of the BRI. India has been vocally objecting to China over the CPEC as it is being laid through the Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK). Beijing for its part is playing down India’s objections, saying it is an economic initiative and has not affected its principled stand on the Kashmir issue. "No country can support an initiative that ignores its core concerns on sovereignty and territorial integrity," Sohoni said. "This aside there are also larger issues regarding how connectivity initiatives should be pursued. We are of the firm belief that connectivity initiatives must be based on universally recognised international norms,” she said. "They must follow principles of openness, transparency, and financial responsibility and be pursued in a manner that respects sovereignty, equality, and territorial integrity of nations. India for its part abides by these principles and stands ready to make collective efforts for sustainable development through a human-centric approach,” she said. Sohoni also said that India has adopted bold measures in the realm of clean energy, energy efficiency, deforestation, and biodiversity. "We have ambitious renewable energy target of 450 GW by 2030 demonstrating our commitment towards combating climate change. It is not without a reason therefore we are among few countries whose NDC (Nationally Determined are two degrees compatible," she said. "We are on track and exceed our commitments and targets from Paris. A drop of 24 per cent in emission intensity has already been achieved," she said. Earlier, a few speakers ahead of Sohoni, a Pakistani diplomat had showered praise on the BRI and its flagship project CPEC, terming it as a “game-changer” for the region. Xi, who aggressively promoted BRI in the last few years, himself referred to it in his speech on the opening day of the UN conference on October 14 which focussed on promoting sustainable transport to bring down the carbon emissions. "China will not change course in its pursuit of a new system of open economy of higher standards, and China will not waver in its resolve to promote trade and investment liberalisation and facilitation,” Xi said. "China's door of opening-up will only open wider, and will never be closed. China will continue to advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, strengthen infrastructure connectivity with other countries, and develop a green Silk Road and a digital Silk Road at a faster pace,” he said. After Sohoni’s speech, Chinese transport minister Li Xiaopeng, who was present at the conference, responded to the Indian diplomat’s criticism. "I would like to extend my apologies for the technical glitch just now when the Indian delegate spoke," Li said. "I don’t want to be offensive. Just now you have mentioned a lot of topics. As for the topics you mentioned, I would like to make some complements,” Li said in an apparent reference to Sohoni’s speech. "The BRI is open and inclusive. We tried to improve the connectivity and seek the development of all countries. In the past eight years, all the international communities have welcomed this initiative. Up to now about 141 countries and 32 organisations have signed more than 200 agreements with China,” Li said. "A lot of important and practical projects have been implemented, which includes a lot of important transport projects. I would like to invite all parties to contribute to the development of this (BRI) project," Li said. Diplomatic sources said the Chinese minister’s response at the conference to the Indian diplomat may constitute a breach of UN protocol. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-diplomats-mike-goes-silent-at-un-conference-while-criticising-china-s-bri-1042442.html
20-10-2021||National||India expected to see higher salary with 9.3% hike in 2022: Report||Higher salaries in India are making a comeback with 9.3 per cent hike being expected in 2022, from 8 per cent in 2021, and with companies planning to give employees larger raises as they face mounting challenges of attracting and retaining employees, according to a report. Salaries are projected to see a median salary increase of 9.3 per cent next year compared to the actual median salary increase of 8 per cent in 2021, according to the 'Salary Budget Planning Report' by global advisory, broking and solutions company Willis Towers Watson. India's projected salary increase is the highest in Asia-Pacific for the next year as optimism returns over improved business outlook in the next 12 months, the report added. The Salary Budget Planning Report is a bi-annual survey conducted online between May and June 2021, with 1,405 companies across sections of industries from 13 markets in Asia-Pacific, including 435 companies in India. The report further showed that a majority (52.2 per cent) of companies in India have projected a positive business revenue outlook for the next 12 months, up from 37 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020, which point towards a much-anticipated economic recovery. This translates into increased hiring across businesses with 30 per cent of companies planning to hire in the next 12 months, the report said adding that this is almost three times more than 2020. The report also showed that a large part of hiring across sectors is likely to happen within critical functions such as engineering (57.5 per cent), information technology (53.4 per cent), technically skilled trades (34.2 per cent), sales (37 per cent) and finance (11.6 per cent), and these jobs will command a high salary. In addition, attrition rates in India, both voluntary and involuntary, have been lower compared to other countries in the region, the report stated. The voluntary attrition rate was 8.9 per cent and involuntary attrition rate was 3.3 per cent, it added. "Increased business optimism is clearly translating into higher salary budgets and increased hiring activity. The pandemic was a watershed moment in the way organisations plan their people spend," Willis Towers Watson Consulting Leader India, Talent and Rewards, Rajul Mathur said. He added that while talent attraction and retention remain a challenge, the core employee value proposition will now need to go beyond just competitive salaries and increasingly focus on a wider range of benefits, wellness, upskilling and the overall employee experience. "This trend is likely to reshape the people spend and total rewards philosophy in India going forward," Mathur added. Meanwhile, the report showed that the high-tech sector is expected to see the highest salary increase at 9.9 per cent in 2022, followed by the consumer products and retail sector at 9.5 per cent and manufacturing at 9.30 per cent. In terms of proportionate increase over last year, the high-tech sector again tops with a projection of almost 1.9 per cent increase from 2021, it stated. "Covid-19 accelerated the digitalisation process across industries including automation and artificial intelligence. These developments, along with the high-tech sector's early adoption of the remote working model, have positively impacted the sector's salary projections. "The manufacturing and retail sectors saw rising demand driven by the easing of Covid-19 restrictions and a positive outlook of order inflows and consumer sentiment," he said. On the other hand, the energy sector received among the lowest actual salary increase in 2021 at 7.7 per cent, the report said. The projected salary of the energy sector in 2022 is also the lowest at 7.9 per cent, according to the report. Mathur said a combination of the prevailing macroeconomic environment, typical business cycle and the lingering business impact from the pandemic have adversely affected the energy sector the most. "That said, the salary increments for the renewable sector can be expected to be comparatively higher as India moves towards clean energy," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expected-to-see-higher-salary-with-93-hike-in-2022-report-1042447.html
20-10-2021||National||Govt revises guidelines for international passengers — Here's what the new rules say||India on Wednesday further relaxed guidelines for international travellers by allowing fully vaccinated passengers from 11 countries, including Britain, France and Germany, to leave the airport without the need to undergo tests or home quarantine.  The government on Wednesday issued revised guidelines -- valid from October 25 -- for international arrivals at a time when it is encouraging a gradual restart of global tourism just in time for the tourist season during winters. “...The travellers from all such countries which provide quarantine-free entry to Indians are allowed certain relaxations on arrival,” the guidelines said. Such countries have been marked as 'Category A' which comprise Britain, France, Germany, Nepal, Belarus, Lebanon, Armenia, Ukraine, Belgium, Hungary and Serbia. These countries have an agreement with India on mutual recognition of vaccination certificates of nationally recognised or WHO recognised vaccines or exempt Indian citizens fully vaccinated with nationally recognised or WHO recognised vaccines. Fully vaccinated travellers arriving in India from 'Category A' countries will be allowed to leave the airport without any post-arrival tests or mandatory home quarantine. The revised guidelines will be valid from October 25. Partially vaccinated or unvaccinated travellers will have to submit a sample for post-arrival Covid-19 test, undergo home quarantine for seven days and get a re-test done on the eighth day of arrival in India and self-monitor health for another seven days. “If a traveller is coming from a country excluding those covered under Category A, they would be required to undergo the measures as mentioned above, irrespective of their Covid-19 vaccination status,” the guidelines state. All travellers to India will have to upload a self-declaration form and a Covid-19 negative test report on the Air Suvidha portal and airlines have been asked to ensure the availability of the report before allowing a passenger to board the aircraft. Additionally, the government has identified all European nations, including Britain, and eight other countries --South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe as 'countries at risk'. Travellers from these countries to India will have to follow the additional measures, including post-arrival testing. However, fully vaccinated travellers from 'at risk countries' that feature in 'Category A' will be allowed to leave the airport without any additional test or mandatory home quarantine. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-revises-guidelines-for-international-passengers-heres-what-the-new-rules-say-1042450.html
20-10-2021||National||CBSE to allow change in city of exam centre for first term class 10, 12 board exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday said Class 10 and 12 students can request a change in the city of examination centre for the first term board exams if they are not in the same city where they had taken admission. “It has come to the notice of the board that some students are still not in the city of their school where they had taken admission and are residing somewhere else. In view of the above, at an appropriate time, CBSE will inform the students to make a request to their respective schools to change the city of examination centre,” CBSE examination controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. The CBSE will instruct the schools to forward the request of students through an online system. First term board exams for Class 10 will begin from November 30 and exams of Class 12 students are scheduled from December 1. This is the first time that CBSE is holding two term-end exams instead of one annual examination. Bifurcating the academic session, holding two term-end exams and rationalising the syllabus was part of the special assessment scheme for class 10 and 12 CBSE board exams for 2021-22 announced in July in view of Covid-19. The exams will be objective and the duration of the tests will be 90 minutes. The exams will start at 11.30 am instead of 10.30 am in view of the winter season. The exams for the minor subjects will be conducted by schools, though the question paper will be provided by the board.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-allow-change-in-city-of-exam-centre-for-first-term-class-10-12-board-exams-1042456.html
20-10-2021||National||Covid night curfew lifted in Uttar Pradesh||In view of the improved Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh, the state government on Wednesday lifted night restrictions between 11 pm to 6 am, a senior official said here. "On directions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Corona curfew between 11 pm to 6 am) is being lifted in the state," Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said here. The order in this regard has been issued to all the officers concerned. The state reported 11 fresh cases on Wednesday and there are 112 active cases, a senior health official said, adding that 16,87,048 patients have recovered from the virus till now. After the lifting of Covid-19 lockdown, the state was continuing with night restrictions which it called 'Corona curfew'. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-night-curfew-lifted-in-uttar-pradesh-1042458.html
20-10-2021||National||Jaishankar unveils plaque in memory of Indian soldiers who sacrificed their lives in WWI||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday unveiled a plaque at Ra'anana in northern Israel in the memory of Indian soldiers who laid down their lives in the Battle of Tabsor during World War I. This is a step towards establishing an India Trail, marking the major points where Indian soldiers fought and paid the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty in the region. It is envisaged that the trail -- India’s military great war path -- will involve six plaques at six places, of which Haifa and Ra’nana are a part. The trail is envisaged to be completed in 2022 to commemorate the 75th year of India's Independence. "Unveiled the memorial plaque for Indian Army soldiers who fought at the Battle of Tabsor in the Megiddo Offensive of September 1918," Jaishankar tweeted. "This is part of a larger India Trail that will bring out the role of our soldiers in shaping the history of this region," he added. Saluting the valour of the Indian soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in the region, Jaishankar said he is "honoured to visit the site of the famous battle of Tabsor of WWI at Raanana". Fought on September 19-20, 1918, the Battle of Tabsor was an important battle and the opening of the famous Meggido offensive. These events played a crucial role in the victory of the Entente Forces over the Ottoman armies in Palestine during WWI. A vast majority of the soldiers who participated in this offensive were Indian troops, consisting of Punjabis, Sikhs, Gurkhas, and soldiers from various other regions of undivided India. The valour and the indomitable fighting spirit of the Indian troops displayed in this and other battles that followed in this land have been recognised as a major contributor in the capture of Tabsor, the opening stage that led to the final eventful victory of the EEF over the Ottomans in this land. The plaque was unveiled by Jaishankar along with the Mayor of Raanana, Chaim Broyde, as part of the 75th year of India's Independence and 30 years of diplomatic relations between Israel and India. "When we look back and ask ourselves as to what we can draw from time as a source of strength to build our relationship, I think it is important to also look at other parts of our history and one of the less well-known parts relates to what we are commemorating today," Jaishankar told the gathering at the event. "The presence, the sacrifices of the Indian soldiers is not a story that has got the attention it should in our own countries nor in the world. As our relationship strengthens, it is important to realise how much in the past we have done for each other. "It is also in some ways a segment of India's own growing global story as we set out to engage the world in a much more intense way and to explain to the world what our connections have been with it for many many decades," he noted. Emphasising that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has "changed India's approach to those historical events...what we are doing today should be projected as a part of a greater trail, so that not only tourists from India and Israelis, but the world can follow the trail to understand what the history has been between us. It is a notable contribution to our relationship building," Jaishankar stressed. Eran Tearosh, Chairman of the Society for the Heritage of World War I in Israel also participated in the ceremony sharing details of the battle and its significance. "It was a military masterpiece" in terms of "deception and execution" strategy, Tearosh said, adding, "We owe a deep sense of gratitude to the Indian soldiers." He also expressed hope that an "India trail" would be created as part of the 75th year of India's independence and on the occasion of 30 years of diplomatic relations between India and Israel. Describing Ra'anana as a friend of India, Broyde said with this unveiling and ongoing efforts "people will hear stories of this battle". He also expressed hope that there would be "no more wars and no more bloodshed". During the event, which was attended by local people and people from the Indian Jewish community, local school children sang national anthems of India and Israel and a song, "you have got a friend in me". Jaishankar kicked off his five-day visit to Israel on Sunday by laying wreaths at a cemetery for Indian soldiers who laid down their lives in the region during World War I in Talpiot, Jerusalem. About 900 Indian soldiers are interred in cemeteries across Israel in Jerusalem, Ramle, and Haifa. "I am deeply honoured to pay homage to the valiant sons of India who fought with bravery and courage in this land during WWI, bringing glory to themselves, their comrades and their motherland," Jaishankar wrote in the visitors' book. "The valour and supreme sacrifice of these bravehearts will forever remain etched in the heart of our nation. Your heroism and selfless service is an inspiration and beacon of light that will forever guide us in the service of our country. I wish to thank you & Commonwealth War Graves Commission for maintaining these memorials for Indian soldiers in Israel," he wrote. The heroics of the Indian soldiers have prominently come to light here during the past two decades and the story of liberation of the northern coastal city of Haifa, in what most war historians consider “the last great cavalry campaign in history”, has become a household tale with its inclusion in the city's local history textbooks. The Indian Army commemorates September 23 every year as Haifa Day to pay its respects to the three brave Indian Cavalry Regiments -- Mysore, Hyderabad, and Jodhpur Lancers -- that helped liberate Haifa following a dashing cavalry action by the 15th Imperial Service Cavalry Brigade. Captain Aman Singh Bahadur and Dafadar Jor Singh were awarded the Indian Order of Merit (IOM) and Captain Anop Singh and Second Lieutenant Sagat Singh were awarded the Military Cross (MC) as recognition for their bravery in this battle. Major Dalpat Singh, widely known as the Hero of Haifa, was awarded a military cross for his bravery. Indian cavalry regiments armed with spears and swords had displayed the highest tradition of valour and cleared the enemy from the rocky slopes of Mount Carmel. In a symbolic gesture of friendship with Israel, India renamed the iconic Teen Murti Chowk, a war memorial, during the visit of then Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu to Delhi in January 2018 to Teen Murti Haifa Chowk. Prime Minister Modi visited the Haifa cemetery during his visit to Israel in July 2017 and unveiled a plaque commemorating Major Dalpat Singh for his critical role in the liberation of the city. The 61st Cavalry, the name given to the unit created after the merger of cavalry units after independence, sent a contingent to Israel in 2018 to participate in the centenary celebrations. The Israel Post had issued a commemorative stamp in 2018 in appreciation of Indian soldiers' role in liberating the city. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-unveils-plaque-in-memory-of-indian-soldiers-who-sacrificed-their-lives-in-wwi-1042460.html
20-10-2021||National||Militants using new modus operandi to kill targets: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Veteran Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Wednesday said militants in Jammu and Kashmir have adopted a new modus operandi of killing their targets by using pistols from close range, instead of grenades and landmines. In this month so far, 11 civilians, including non-residents of Jammu and Kashmir, have been shot dead by militants in different parts of Kashmir. "There seems to be a shift in the strategy of militants... earlier they would use grenades and landmines. Then they would eliminate their targets in cars... now we are in the fourth stage where they pass close to a civilian target and kill him," he told reporters. Azad, who met workers from various parts of Kashmir at his residence, said the people of the Valley are against the killing of innocent civilians. "People of Kashmir are 10 times more against these killings than people elsewhere in the country," he said. Azad said the purpose of his interactions was to ascertain the ground situation. "I wanted to find out from our constituency workers whether militancy has increased or decreased and whether people want statehood or not, among other issues, " he said. In August 2019, the Centre had abrogated the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated it into Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/militants-using-new-modus-operandi-to-kill-targets-ghulam-nabi-azad-1042467.html
20-10-2021||National||IPS officer Param Bir Singh not traceable, Maharashtra govt tells HC||The whereabouts of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh were not known, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court. As the IPS officer was not traceable, it did not wish to continue its assurance that no coercive action (such as arrest) would be taken against him in an Atrocities Act case, the government said. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, appearing for the state, told a division bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal that the circumstances had changed. "He isn't traceable. In these circumstances, we do not want to continue our earlier statement where the government said it would not take any coercive action against him," Khambata said. Param Bir Singh's counsel Mahesh Jethmalani said he had not been declared as an absconder yet. "In this case, he was summoned twice and both the times he responded," Jethmalani said. The high court was hearing a petition filed by the senior IPS officer seeking to quash the FIR lodged against him under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and relevant IPC sections on a complaint filed by police inspector Bhimrao Ghadge. The judges adjourned the hearing to the next week. Ghadge, presently posted in Akola district, has leveled allegations of corruption against Singh and some other officers when Singh was Thane police commissioner. Singh pressurised him to drop the names of some persons from a case and when he refused, he was framed up in false cases, Ghadge claimed. The FIR was registered under the Atrocities Act as the complainant belongs to an SC community as well as for extortion and some other Indian Penal Code offenses. Singh's lawyer claimed that the FIR was a backlash over Singh's allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The IPS officer is also facing at least four extortion cases in Thane and Mumbai. He was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in March after the arrest of police officer (now dismissed) Sachin Waze in the case of an SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran. Singh then accused Deshmukh of asking Waze to collect Rs 100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The NCP leader, who denied the allegation, soon stepped down as minister and is facing CBI probe. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ips-officer-param-bir-singh-not-traceable-maharashtra-govt-tells-hc-1042470.html
20-10-2021||National||Govt looking to vaccinate country's entire adult population by year end: MoS Health||More than 99 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in India and the government has set a target of vaccinating the country's entire adult population by the end of the year, Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Bharati Pravin Pawar said on Wednesday. While virtually addressing the FICCI's "Healthcare Excellence Awards” ceremony, Pawar informed that under the 'Make in India' initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi “India is one of the leading countries in the global medical devices market in the world.” Detailing the success amid challenges posed by Covid-19, the Union minister said, "More than 99 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the country and the government has set a target of vaccinating the country's entire adult population by end of the year." The minister thanked the dignitaries present at the event and expressed her appreciation for the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) for contributing immensely to the Covid-19 response in close coordination with the Empowered Groups, central and state governments. Speaking on the occasion, Pawar said a “great responsibility lies on us to achieve the Prime Minister's dream of achieving affordable, accessible, safe and modern health care in India.” She further said, “the Government of India launched various nationwide programs for prevention, control, and eradication of communicable and non-communicable diseases and improvement of maternal and child health”. The minister highlighted that in working towards the goal of achieving universal health coverage, the government launched the world's largest public-funded health care programme, the 'Ayushman Bharat Mission'. She added that the scheme has been expanded to include the Digital Health Mission that aims to converge the various components of the health care ecosystem on one platform for seamless integration and better health outcomes. Pawar informed that the government has also launched numerous financial support schemes over the past couple of years for creating the appropriate environment for growth as well as augmenting public-private infrastructure of hospitals and public-funded labs across the country. The National Medical Commission and Paramedical Council have been key achievements in the field of medical education, she said. The minister also informed that India's health indicators have shown consistent improvement in the past decade. She noted that “relentless efforts of the Central government have resulted in the launching of various nationwide programs for prevention, control, and eradication of communicable and non-communicable diseases and improvement of maternal and child health.” Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-looking-to-vaccinate-countrys-entire-adult-population-by-year-end-mos-health-1042477.html
20-10-2021||National||Co-WIN can be customised, scaled up for health interventions across globe: MEA official||India's Co-WIN technological platform which is spearheading its Covid-19 vaccination drive can be customised and scaled up for health interventions across the globe, a senior Ministry of External Affairs official said on Wednesday, noting that New Delhi is working on sharing this platform with partner countries.  Addressing the ASEAN-India Track 1.5 Dialogue on Cyber Issues, Secretary (East) Riva Ganguly Das also said that some states are leveraging their expertise in cyberspace to achieve their political and security-related objectives and indulge in contemporary forms of cross-border terrorism.  "At the same time, non-state actors and terrorists around the world are using cyberspace to broaden their appeal, spread virulent propaganda, incite hatred and violence, recruit youth and raise funds," Das said.  There are widespread concerns that with the advent of new technologies like 5G, vulnerabilities and harmful hidden functions are being introduced, including through backdoor channels, into ICT networks and products, she stressed. Noting that since cybercrime often has a transnational dimension, Das said there is a crucial need for international cooperation to exchange experiences and share best practices for the protection of information infrastructures. "Our overarching objective is to harness cyberspace for the growth and empowerment of people, not just of our own country, but for all humanity," she asserted. As part of its Covid vaccination drive, one of the largest such drives in the world, India has developed Co-WIN – a scalable, inclusive and open technological platform, she said. "The Co-WIN platform can be customised and scaled up for health interventions across the globe. We are working on sharing this platform with partner countries in the interest of health cooperation and their preparedness to meet challenges to the health of countries across the world," Das said. She underlined that India lays huge emphasis on bilateral and international cooperation on cyber security.  "The need for cooperation between India and ASEAN member countries in this field is, therefore, self-evident," she said.  ASEAN, as we know, has been proactive in the region's efforts to tackle cyber security challenges and has undertaken various cyber confidence-building measures, she noted. Das said this emphasis of ASEAN on Cyber Security and Cyber connectivity in accordance with international laws resonates deeply with India's approach towards Cyberspace.  India has also been working domestically to address the cyber security challenges through platforms capable of supporting and sustaining the efforts in securing the cyberspace as well as through the adoption of comprehensive policies such as the New National Cyber Security Policy, which would provide an overview of what it takes to effectively protect information, information systems and networks, Das said. Noting that equitable access to Cyberspace and its benefits is the other important area that India-ASEAN engagement on Cyber issues needs to focus on, Das said, "We have witnessed the critical role played by digital technologies during the Covid-19 waves, in keeping the supply chains open for an accelerated and sustainable economic recovery in the region and therefore, it becomes all the more important that the digital inequalities are addressed." Digital inclusion is at the heart of the Digital India programme which envisions transforming India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy with various programmes like BharatNet, Digital Village, Aspirational Districts, MyGov and eKranthi, Das pointed out.  This gradual digital inclusion has proven to be of immense value to us in these uncertain times, she said. "We must cooperate to bridge this digital divide through capacity building to create globally secure cyberspace," she added. Das asserted that India is committed to an "open, secure, free, accessible and stable cyberspace environment", which will become an engine for innovation, economic growth, sustainable development, ensure free flow of information and respect cultural and linguistic diversity.  "With our transformative technology initiatives in recent years such as IndiaStack, Aadhar and UPI, we have successfully leveraged the tremendous potential of cyber technologies in implementing the SDG agenda and improving governance," Das said.  Moving forward, India is keen to exchange its experiences with ASEAN toward a safer and more secure global cyberspace for our peoples, Das said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-win-can-be-customised-scaled-up-for-health-interventions-across-globe-mea-official-1042482.html
20-10-2021||National||Mundra port heroin seizure: NIA seizes 'talc mixed with drugs' after raid||The NIA on Wednesday seized what is understood to be talc mixed with narcotics during a raid at a godown here in connection with its probe related to the recent seizure of 2,988 kg of heroin at Gujarat's Mundra port. The search, according to the agency, was carried out a building located in the Nebsarai area of the national capital. "...white powder material, suspected to be talc mixed with narcotics, has been seized with the help of the FSL (forensic science laboratory)," a National Investigation Agency (NIA) spokesperson said. The agency had carried out similar searches in the Mundra heroin seizure case twice earlier. The NIA early this month took over the case from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on the directions of the Union home ministry and registered a criminal complaint under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The case relates to the seizure of 2,988.21 kg of narcotic substance – heroin -- at the Mundra port and the involvement of foreign nationals in the procurement and delivery of the consignment, an NIA official had said. On September 13, the DRI detained two containers that had arrived at Mundra Port from Kandahar in Afghanistan through the Bandar Abbas port of Iran. The declaration accompanying the containers claimed they had "semi-processed talc stones". However, a thorough examination established that the two containers in fact contained 2,988 kg of heroin worth Rs 21,000 crore, which was concealed in "the lower layers" of "jumbo bags" topped with talc stones, an official release had said. The DRI had arrested eight persons, including five foreign nationals, in connection with the seizure of the drugs. Searches were then conducted by the NIA in Chennai, Coimbatore and Vijayawada at premises of the accused. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mundra-port-heroin-seizure-nia-seizes-talc-mixed-with-drugs-after-raid-1042486.html
20-10-2021||National||Agreements signed with 11 countries for mutual recognition of Covid vaccines: Centre||The health ministry on Wednesday said India has signed agreements for mutual recognition of nationally or WHO recognised Covid-19 vaccines with 11 countries including the UK, France and Germany and fully vaccinated travellers coming from these countries shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine and testing. Revised guidelines for international arrivals were released on Wednesday. These fresh rules supersede all guidelines issued on the subject on and after February 17, 2021, the ministry said. The list of countries with which the government has an agreement for mutual recognition vaccination certificate for individuals fully vaccinated with nationally recognised or WHO recognised Covid-19 vaccine and those exempting Indian citizens fully vaccinated with nationally or WHO recognised vaccines are the UK, France, Germany, Nepal, Belarus, Lebanon, Armenia, Ukraine, Belgium, Hungary and Serbia. If travellers are fully vaccinated and coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO approved Covid-19 vaccines, they shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine and testing, according to the revised guidelines. They will, however, need to produce a negative RT-PCR report. They shall self monitor their health for 14 days post arrival, according to the revised guidelines. If partially or not vaccinated, the travellers need to undertake measures which include submission of sample for post-arrival Covid-19 test at the point of arrival after which they will be allowed to leave the airport, home quarantine for seven days, re-test on the eighth day of arrival in India and if negative, further self monitor of their health for next seven days. The list of countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing (countries at-risk) are South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and countries in Europe including the UK. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agreements-signed-with-11-countries-for-mutual-recognition-of-covid-vaccines-centre-1042487.html
20-10-2021||National||India asks Qatar to deliver LNG cargoes not taken in 2015||A global energy shortage has promoted India to ask its largest gas supplier, Qatar, to deliver some 50 shiploads or cargoes of LNG it deemed too expensive six years ago. Petronet LNG Ltd, the nation's biggest liquefied natural gas importer (LNG), has asked Qatargas to deliver in 2022 the 50 cargoes that were deferred in 2015, its chief executive officer Akshay Kumar Singh said on the sidelines of the India Energy Forum by CERAWeek here. These will be on top of the 7.5 million tonnes a year or 115 cargoes of LNG it imports on a long-term contract. India in 2015 had not taken delivery of the cargoes as it renegotiated the pricing of the long-term supply contract. Qatar had then agreed to revise the pricing formula subject to India buying an additional 1 million tonnes per annum of LNG. As regards the cargoes that were not taken, it was decided that India can see the cargoes anytime during the remainder of the contract that ends in 2028. In case Qatar is unable to meet the request, the deferred cargoes can be delivered in 2029. "We have requested Qatar to give us the pending 50 cargoes next year," Singh said. "We require the cargoes now." Spot LNG prices in Asia rose to a record $56.33 per million British thermal units on October 6, valuing a standard cargo at about $190 million. Petronet pays about $11 per mmBtu under its oil-linked contract with Qatar. Last year, Petronet had sought 3 cargoes additional to the annual contracted volume, of which Qatar delivered two, an official aware of the matter said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-qatar-to-deliver-lng-cargoes-not-taken-in-2015-1042488.html
20-10-2021||National||Will you commit murder if senior directs so, High Court asks police officer||The Madras High Court on Wednesday wondered whether a police officer would commit a murder if his senior instructs to do so and said only God can save the department. God alone can save the police department, Justice P Velmurugan exclaimed when the criminal revision petition from D Kannan, suspended SP of Villupuram district, seeking to discharge him from a sexual harassment case, came up today. The official was cited as the second accused, the first being a suspended Special DGP, accused of sexually harassing a woman subordinate IPS officer, in the case. The judge also observed "it is a shame that the women in police department are not treated with the dignity they deserve." The charge against Kannan was he prevented the car in which the woman SP was travelling to Chennai on February 22, to lodge a complaint against her superior with the state police chief. When the petition came up today, Kannan's counsel told the judge that his client had carried out the instructions given by his superior. Disobeying the orders of the superior officers would amount to insubordination, he contended. It was then Justice Velmurugan asked whether Kannan would commit murder if he was told to do so. Only lawful instructions can be carried out. If a senior officer faces such allegations, how will the people have faith in the department. Only 10 per cent of the police officers are acting as per their conscience, the judge said, adding such incidents are a shame on the department. Sensing that the judge is likely to dismiss the petition, the counsel sought the court's permission to withdraw the plea. The judge dismissed it as withdrawn. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-you-commit-murder-if-senior-directs-so-high-court-asks-police-officer-1042496.html
20-10-2021||National||UAE assures energy supplies to India||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Wednesday vowed to meet India's growing energy demand, saying it will remain the nation's trusted partner of choice. Minister of Industry and Advanced Technology Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber said the UAE is investing across its energy supply chain to remain a reliable energy provider to India and the world. Stating that the energy demand is outpacing supply, he said the present global scenario calls for continued investment across the entire energy sector to avoid a deeper supply crunch. Speaking virtually at the 5th India Energy Forum by CERAWeek, he said India's economy is returning to "robust, almost double-digit growth" as the world recovers from the pandemic. He acknowledged the challenges facing the energy sector during this phase and explained how the UAE is responding to remain a long-term and reliable energy provider to India and the world. "This recovery comes with challenges, particularly for the energy sector, as we are seeing energy demand outpacing supply. It is clear that while the world rightly embraces the energy transition, we will need oil and gas for many decades to come. The current demand dynamic is, therefore, a wake-up call to continue to invest across the entire energy sector to avoid a deeper supply crunch," he said. This, he said, is the approach being taken in the UAE. "We are investing across our energy supply chain and increasing our oil and gas capacity to ensure we remain a reliable, responsible energy partner to the world and India in particular." The minister said India is one of the UAE's closest friends and one of its most important trading partners and the strategic ties between both countries have strengthened in recent years. Al Jaber said the UAE is keen to build on the strong ties to expand energy cooperation. "We are very proud that you have entrusted us to serve as a key supplier to India's Strategic Petroleum Reserves. We are proud to include Indian companies as concession partners in our upstream assets, and as major investors in our downstream value chain. And we are proud that India is now our number one LNG customer. "Our partnership in energy has a great foundation that I want to build on. There are so many opportunities, from the full range of our refined and petrochemical products to new energies, like zero carbon hydrogen. And, as India expands its renewable energy portfolio, the UAE is keen to build on the investments we have already made to help you reach your 450 GW goal by 2030," he said. Indian companies have steadily increased their participation in the UAE's energy sector. In March 2019, a consortium of two Indian oil companies were awarded the exploration rights for an onshore block in Abu Dhabi. This followed the award in February 2018 of a 10 per cent participating interest in Abu Dhabi's offshore Lower Zakum Concession to an Indian consortium of three companies. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uae-assures-energy-supplies-to-india-1042498.html
20-10-2021||National||CBI files chargesheet in Dhanbad judge murder case||The CBI has filed a charge sheet against two accused in the alleged murder of Dhanbad Judge Uttam Anand, who was mowed down by an auto-rickshaw on July 28, officials said on Wednesday. The CBI has filed the charge sheet against auto-rickshaw driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma. They are both in judicial custody, they said. CCTV camera footage showed that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene, killing him. The case was handed over to the CBI by the Jharkhand government. The CBI had dispatched a 20-member team under its ace investigator VK Shukla to probe the case. Shukla was recently awarded by the Union Home Ministry for being among the best investigators. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-files-chargesheet-in-dhanbad-judge-murder-case-1042506.html
20-10-2021||National||High prices could slow India's transition to gas||High prices threaten India's goal to boost the use of gas in its energy mix as some industries are looking at switching back to coal and petcoke, a top bureaucrat in the federal oil ministry said on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a target to raise the share of natural gas in the country's energy mix to 15 per cent by 2030 from about 6.2 per cent now to cut India's carbon footprint. In the long run, India want to raise the use of renewables and biofuels and had turned to the use of natural gas in the "intermediate period" despite holding vast reserves of coal, oil secretary Tarun Kapoor said at the India Energy Forum. "Now this very high gas price has given us a message that probably we can not rely on natural gas. The rather basic question now is can we rely on imports," Kapoor said. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) under long-term deals costs about $11-$12 per million British thermal units (mmBtu), versus more than $38 per mmBtu on Asia's spot gas LNG-AS market currently and a record high of over $56 hit earlier this month. To cut its carbon footprint, India allowed some consumers to shift to gas. Kapoor said these industries might switch back to coal and petcoke due to the higher gas prices. Petcoke, short for petroleum coke, is a byproduct of the oil-refining process. India, the world's third biggest oil consumers and importer, is also exploring strategies to cut its crude import bill including asking companies to jointly negotiate for oil purchase contracts. Kapoor said Indian refiners should look at having long-term oil contracts of more than one year's duration with a fixed, or near to fixed, price component. "In oil, term contract is just a one-year contract and it is not a fixed-price contract," Kapoor said. "The contract can be fixed-price or linked to some index which is not so volatile. It is just a question of reducing risk," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-prices-could-slow-indias-transition-to-gas-1042513.html
20-10-2021||National||India on threshold of 100-crore Covid-19 vaccinations||India is on the threshold of achieving the 100-crore Covid-19 vaccination mark with demand for the second dose of the jab overtaking the first dose over the past seven days. According to the Cowin dashboard, India had administered more than 99.54 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines till 7:30 pm on Wednesday since the immunisation drive began on January 16. Of the 46.64 lakh doses administered on Wednesday, 26.73 lakh were beneficiaries of the second dose, while 19.98 lakh persons were given the first dose of the vaccine. The demand for the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine has overtaken the first demand for the first dose since October 13 and the trend has continued till date. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya is set to release an audiovisual film to celebrate the landmark milestone. As of date, 70.40 crore persons have received the first dose of the vaccine, while 29.13 crore have received both doses of the vaccine. Government plans to make public announcements at airports, railway stations after reaching the 100 crore vaccination milestone. Ropeway operator Usha Breco has offered free rides to first 100 double-vaccinated persons on its ropeways in Junagadh, Ambaji, Pavagadh in Gujarat, Haridwar in Uttarakhand and Palakkad and Kollam in Kerala. The government had told the Supreme Court that it would administer both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccines to the entire eligible population by December 31, 2021, but that target appears unlikely to be met. While India is racing to vaccinate its population, countries such as Israel and the US have started administering booster doses. The WHO had asked developed countries to ensure that poor countries get vaccines first. The government expects to receive 85 crore doses of vaccines between October and December this year and is looking forward to achieving the target. India is also gearing up to vaccinate children between 2 and 18 years and has lined up two homegrown vaccines developed by Zydus Cadila and Covaxin for the purpose. Zydus Cadila is yet to launch its vaccine for adolescents despite getting the requisite approvals. Serum Institute is also carrying out clinical trials on children for Covovax, which would be over around January. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-on-threshold-of-100-crore-covid-19-vaccinations-1042522.html
20-10-2021||National||Woman killed, legs severed to steal anklets in Rajasthan||A 55-year-old woman was hacked to death in the rural area of Jamwa Ramgarh, police said Wednesday, adding the killers severed her legs to steal her silver anklets. The victim's body was handed over to her family members after the deadlock between them and police officials ended. After the incident was reported Tuesday, her family and villagers sat on a dharna with the dead body. Jaipur collector Antar Singh Nehra and other officials met them at the village on Wednesday and promised them a compensation of Rs 8 lakh (Rs 5 lakh under victim compensation scheme and Rs 3 lakh from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund) and allotment of a dairy booth to the victim’s kin. Several teams are making efforts to identify and arrest the accused, Nehra said. As he ensured action against the killers, the victim’s family accepted her body after postmortem. Circle Officer (CO) Lakhan Meena said the body has been cremated. The body of the woman with hilt marks on the head and the neck was found in Khatepura village on Tuesday. Her legs were chopped off and her silver anklets taken away. The severed limbs were found near the body. The family members of the woman staged a protest on the spot, the CO said. Meanwhile, the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), which is the main opposition party in the state, targeted the Rajasthan government for the “increase” in crime rate. BJP national spokesperson and Jaipur Rural MP Rajyavardhan Rathore went to the protest site and stressed that the murder took place in broad daylight. BJP state president Satish Poonia, Rajya Sabha MP Kirodi Lal Meena said Congress leadership should take note of crimes occurring in Rajasthan. Poonia also demanded the resignation of the chief minister, saying that crime has increased under his rule. “Criminals fearlessly killed the woman for silver anklets. Not only Jamwa Ramgarh, there have been many such incidents in the entire state. The Chief Minister should resign,” Poonia said. “Rajasthan was a peaceful state, people used to come here in large numbers to travel and for business, but under the Gehlot government, law and order has deteriorated. People are under fear and the criminals are roaming fearlessly,” he told reporters in Bikaner. Deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore issued a statement, saying that due to the poor law and order situation in Rajasthan, criminals escaped after brutally killing the woman. He said the accused are still out of the grip of police. “Due to the lack of a full-time home minister in Rajasthan, atrocities against women are increasing continuously and the police are proving to be a failure, so Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who is also holding the home department, should resign with immediate effect,” Rathore said. BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Kirodi Lal Meena said: “Priyanka Gandhi, who is giving the slogan 'Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon (I'm a girl who can fight)' in Uttar Pradesh, should come to Jamwa Ramgarh of Jaipur and see what kind of incident has happened here. She should take up the fight for the rights of women in Rajasthan.” He further said that the CM was busy “glorifying” Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and their family to save his leadership. “Women safety must be given priority but Gehlot and the Gandhi family are only indulging in politics," he said. “Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi always rush to Uttar Pradesh to take political advantage of incidents but they should also come to Rajasthan to see what is happening in the state under the Congress rule,” Kirodi Lal Meena added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-killed-legs-severed-to-steal-anklets-in-rajasthan-1042524.html
20-10-2021||National||Nirav Modi UK extradition appeal to be heard on December 14||A British court will hear on December 14 an appeal filed by fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi against his extradition from the UK to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. The 50-year-old jeweller, who remains behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest in March 2019, was granted permission to appeal against the Westminster Magistrates’ Court extradition order on mental health and human rights grounds. High Court judge Martin Chamberlain had ruled on August 9 that arguments presented by Modi’s legal team concerning his “severe depression” and “high risk of suicide” were arguable at a substantial hearing. "This case is fixed for a one-day hearing on 14th December,” a High Court official said, in reference to the substantial hearing. The UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which represents the Indian authorities in court, confirmed it will be contesting the appeal on behalf of the Indian government. The appeal against District Judge Sam Goozee’s February ruling to send the case to the Home Secretary was granted leave to appeal on two grounds – under Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR) to hear arguments if it would be “unjust or oppressive” to extradite Nirav Modi due to his mental state and Section 91 of the Extradition Act 2003, also related to mental ill-health. "I will not restrict the basis on which those grounds can be argued, though it seems to me that there should be a particular focus on whether the judge was wrong to reach the conclusion he did, given the evidence as to the severity of the appellant’s [Modi’s] depression, the high risk of suicide and the adequacy of any measures capable of preventing successful suicide attempts in Arthur Road prison,” Justice Chamberlain’s August ruling notes. The adequacy of measures capable of preventing “successful suicide attempts” at Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where Modi is to be detained upon extradition to India, also fall within the arguable ambit. The permission to appeal was denied on all other grounds, including the admissibility of evidence provided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and against UK Home Secretary Priti Patel’s extradition order. The High Court also noted that the District Judge’s approach to the identification of a prima facie case in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case was “correct”. "Given the test, he had to apply, and the volume of evidence relied upon against the appellant [Modi], he was entitled to conclude that each of the requests disclosed a prima facie case,” the High Court ruling notes. Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added to the CBI case. If Modi wins the December appeal hearing in the High Court, he cannot be extradited unless the Indian government is successful in getting permission to appeal at the Supreme Court on a point of law of public importance. On the flip side, if he loses that appeal hearing, Modi can approach the Supreme Court on a point of law of public importance, to be applied for to the apex court against the High Court’s decision within 14 days of a High Court verdict. However, this involves a high threshold as appeals to the Supreme Court can only be made if the High Court has certified that the case involves a point of law of general public importance. Finally, after all, avenues in the UK courts are exhausted, the diamantaire could still seek a so-called Rule 39 injunction from the European Court of Human Rights. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modi-uk-extradition-appeal-to-be-heard-on-december-14-1042527.html
20-10-2021||National||SC to allow journalists inside courtrooms in physical proceedings||The Supreme Court Wednesday decided to allow journalists inside courtrooms to witness the proceedings to be conducted in physical mode subject to adherence to usual Covid-19 protocols. Earlier, the apex court registry had come out with the revised SOP saying that from October 20, all the matters listed on Wednesdays and Thursdays would be heard in the physical presence of lawyers and litigants in courtrooms only. “With the physical hearing in the Supreme Court of India commencing tomorrow (Thursday, October 21, 2021), it has been decided to allow the media persons, subject to usual Covid restrictions, into the courtrooms for covering the proceedings,” the apex court said in the release. However, given the limitation of space inside the courtrooms due to the need to strictly maintain physical distancing, it is requested that the media persons may observe self-regulation and not to over-crowd the courtrooms, it said. “Media persons may even consider issuing a roster among themselves for this purpose which will help them in sharing the notes from all the courtrooms at the end of the day’s proceedings. This advisory is issued with the purpose of keeping all the stakeholders safe by way of adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour,” it said. The top court has been hearing cases through video conference since March last year due to the pandemic and several bar bodies and lawyers have been demanding that physical hearings should resume immediately. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-allow-journalists-inside-courtrooms-in-physical-proceedings-1042528.html
20-10-2021||National||Coal shortage continues at thermal plants, 61 units with less than 4-day stock||Coal shortage at thermal power projects is still continuing as number of non-pit head projects having less than four days of coal (supercritical stock) rose to 61 on Tuesday from 58 on Monday, official data showed. According to the latest coal-stock data of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), the number of non-pit head projects having less than four days of coal was 61 on October 19 and 58 on October 18. The data showed that the number of plants with supercritical stock was 65 last week (on October 12). Thus, the coal stock situation has improved eventually but the crisis is still continuing. The improvement, as well as a little deterioration in the coal stock situation, assumes significance in view of the ongoing shortage of dry fuel at thermal power plants in the country. The Central Electricity Authority monitors the coal stock situation of 135 thermal power plants with a cumulative generation capacity of over 165 GW. The data also showed that the number of power plants with zero days of coal has come down to 15 as of Tuesday with a cumulative installed generation capacity of 15,080MW, compared to 18 with 18,630 MW capacity a week back. The number of the plants with one day of coal stock has increased to 22 with 29,640 MW capacity as of October 19, compared to 26 with 34,140 MW capacity on October 12. The number of plants with two days of coal increased to 19 (with 25,445 MW capacity) from 17 (19,245 MW) a week ago. The number of plants with three days of coal stood at 18 (with 22,594 MW capacity) as against 18 (25,224 MW) a week ago. The number of plants with four days of coal has decreased to 15 with 18,130 MW capacity as of Tuesday, from 19 with 23,080 MW capacity a week ago, showing improvement in dry fuel stock. The number of plants with five days of coal stood at 10 (11,495 MW capacity) as against 10 (8905 MW) a week ago. T he power ministry data also showed improvement in the power shortage situation as it came down to 4,161 MW on October 19 from 5,591 MW a week back (on October 12). As per experts, power demand would further moderate with the onset of winter. They opined that the coal stock situation at power plants would further improve in coming days with government's efforts to scale up supplies. Earlier last week, the power ministry had stated that the capacity of units under outage due to low coal stocks reduced from 11 GW on October 12 to 5 GW on October 14. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-shortage-continues-at-thermal-plants-61-units-with-less-than-4-day-stock-1042529.html
20-10-2021||National||India reaches out to GenNext of Rajapaksa Clan, Buddhist monks of Sri Lanka||India on Wednesday reached out to GenNext of the first family of Sri Lanka and sought to consolidate its connection with the predominant Sinhala-Buddhist nationalism in order to claw back the space it lost to China in the Indian Ocean island nation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government played host to a delegation of Sri Lankan Buddhist monks, who arrived on the first flight that landed at the Kushinagar International Airport in Uttar Pradesh. Modi inaugurated the airport and took part in the rituals marking Abhidhamma Day at the Mahaparinirvana Temple in Kushinagar – the final resting place of Lord Buddha. He also had a meeting with Namal Rajapaksa, nephew of Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, who led the delegation from the island nation. “The greatest gift Sri Lanka received from India is Buddhism! We have always shared a close relationship between our nations & our people! It is the vision of HE President @GotabayaR & HE PM @narendramodi to strengthen this bond between our nations & (and) our people,” tweeted Namal. “India-Sri Lanka ties are getting stronger and stronger across different sectors. This augurs well for the people of our nations,” Modi replied to Namal on Twitter, adding that he was happy to meet the neighbouring nation’s young leader in Kushinagar. Namal is seen as the next generation leader of the Rajapaksa Clan, which returned to power in Colombo in November 2019 riding on a Sinhala-Buddhist nationalist wave that swept Sri Lanka after a series of blasts killed over 260 people across the island. The government led by Gotabaya and his brother Mahinda Rajapaksa since then allowed Beijing to expand its influence in the Indian Ocean nation, causing unease in New Delhi. The BJP government in New Delhi is now trying to reach out to the powerful Sri Lankan Buddhist monks, who have been opposing New Delhi’s traditional support to the clamour for more political power for the island’s minority Tamils. Modi conveyed to Mahinda Rajapaksa during a virtual summit in September 2020 that New Delhi would provide a grant assistance of $ 15 million to develop Buddhist ties between India and Sri Lanka. Namal on Wednesday handed over the first copy of the English, Sinhala and Tamil translations of the Bhagwad Gita to Modi. “The translation of the sacred text was commissioned by HE @PresRajapaksa as a symbol of our people to people friendship & (and) our cultural similarities,” he tweeted. “This is a great initiative undertaken by my friend, @PresRajapaksa. The teachings of Lord Buddha unite our nations and make our planet better.” Not only with Sri Lanka, the Modi Government used the inauguration of the international airport in Kushinagar to reach out to other nations with significant population of Buddhists, inviting diplomats from Myanmar, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Lao PDR, Bhutan, South Korea, Mongolia, Japan, Singapore and Nepal. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reaches-out-to-gennext-of-rajapaksa-clan-buddhist-monks-of-sri-lanka-1042530.html
20-10-2021||National||India is exporting strictly non-GM rice: Govt||The government on Wednesday clarified that India does not export genetically modified (GM) rice as there is no commercial variety of such crop in the country and its cultivation is also banned here. The clarification from the commerce ministry came following a news report regarding food recall linked to alleged GM rice from India. "It may be clarified that there is no commercial variety of GM rice in India, in fact the commercial GM cultivation of rice is banned in India. There is no question of export of GM rice from India," the ministry said in a statement. It further said in the particular incident, which was reported through Rapid Alert by EU (European Union), the GMO contamination is suspected to have been found in the rice flour which was processed in EU and they themselves are not sure of the exact source of the contaminant. The broken white rice exported from India, which is allegedly one of the possibilities, has passed through many hands before reaching to the actual processors in EU, it said. While there is always a possibility of mixing or cross contamination at every stage, the exporter has confirmed that the rice exported was non-GM. "Since, there is no commercial variety of GM in India, proper testing was also done before shipment of the consignment. The possibility of GMO contamination due to white rice exported by India is not possible," it said. India is exporting strictly non-GM rice, the ministry said, adding the incident could be a conspiracy to malign the country's image as a reliable supplier of quality rice to the world. Experts in India both from the Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee (GEAC) and agricultural experts from IARI as well as other rice experts, are however investigating the matter but re-confirming that commercial GM variety of rice is not grown in the country, it added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-exporting-strictly-non-gm-rice-govt-1042533.html
20-10-2021||National||Delhi AQI deteriorates to 'poor' category with stubble-burning incidents going up||The air quality in Delhi deteriorated to the "poor" category on Wednesday with the number of stubble-burning incidents going up, authorities said. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' forecast body SAFAR, the national capital's Air Quality Index (AQI) was recorded at 222 and it is likely to degrade further over the next two days due to an expected rise in the number of stubble-burning incidents. "Delhi's AQI is in the poor category. Fire count's share in PM2.5 is 12 per cent. Fire emission from upwind region enhances PM2.5 concentration as winds at transport level are from the northwest region. "Stubble burning share is likely to increase in the next two days if there is no rain. The overall AQI is likely to further degrade to the higher-end of the poor category for the next three days," it said. According to the data from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), a total of 969 farm fires were recorded in the six regions with Punjab accounting for 788, Haryana for 155, one in Uttar Pradesh, four in Rajasthan and 21 in Madhya Pradesh. No fire was recorded in Delhi. On October 19, 562 farm fires were recorded collectively in the six regions with Punjab accounting for 496, Haryana for 55, five each in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, and one in Madhya Pradesh. No fire was recorded in Delhi. On the previous day, 60 farm fires were recorded in the six states, of which Punjab recorded 57 incidents, Haryana one and Rajasthan two. There were no fires in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. However, the IARI said detection of burning events by satellites was hampered due to clouds over eastern Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. A total of 4,768 burning events were detected in the six states between September 1 and October 19, which are distributed as 2,942, 1,082, 625, zero, 34 and 85 in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh respectively. Overall, the total number of burning events recorded in the six states is 56.7 per cent less than in 2020 till date. Punjab recorded a 65.4-per cent reduction, Haryana recorded a 6.9-per cent reduction, Uttar Pradesh recorded a 25.5-per cent increase, Delhi recorded a 100-per cent reduction, Rajasthan recorded a 88.8-per cent reduction and Madhya Pradesh recorded a 83.7-per cent reduction in the current season as compared to 2020. Scattered rainfall over north India had significantly brought down pollution in the national capital on Tuesday with the AQI in the "good" category at 82. Stubble burning in the neighbouring states significantly contributes to the air pollution in Delhi. The active fire events due to rice residue burning were monitored using satellite remote sensing, following the new "Standard Protocol for Estimation of Crop Residue Burning Fire Events using Satellite Data". Punjab and Haryana attract attention during the paddy harvesting season in October and November. Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-aqi-deteriorates-to-poor-category-with-stubble-burning-incidents-going-up-1042534.html
20-10-2021||National||Govt will ask all vehicle makers to produce flex-fuel engines: Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said that the government will ask all vehicle manufacturers to make flex-fuel engines under the Euro VI emission norms in the next six-eight months. Flex-fuel, or flexible fuel, is an alternative fuel made of a combination of gasoline and methanol or ethanol. Addressing an event, Gadkari further said in the next 15 years, Indian automobile industry will be worth Rs 15 lakh crore. "We were planning to submit an affidavit in the Supreme Court to allow manufacturing of flex-fuel engines under the Euro IV emission norms...But now I feel that we will ask all vehicle manufacturers to make flex-fuel engines (that can run on more than one fuel) under the Euro VI emission norms in the next 6-8 months," he said. Gadkari claimed that the cost of vehicles won't rise after making it mandatory for all vehicle manufacturers to make flex-fuel engines. The minister predicted that in the coming days, India will be able to export green hydrogen. The government in January, 2016 has decided to leapfrog directly from Euro IV emission norms for petrol and diesel to Euro VI standards. An inter-ministerial group headed by Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari on January 6, 2016 had taken the decision to advance the date by four years to April 1, 2020 for implementation of Bharat Stage VI (equivalent to Euro VI norms followed globally) for supply of cleaner auto fuel, by altogether skipping the Euro V grade norms.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-will-ask-all-vehicle-makers-to-produce-flex-fuel-engines-gadkari-1042535.html
20-10-2021||National||Taliban says India willing to send humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan||The Taliban on Wednesday claimed that India was ready to provide humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, where an acute food crisis was unfolding with nearly 14 million people facing starvation. Two senior diplomats of the government attended a meeting hosted by Russia in Moscow. The meeting was also attended by the officials of Pakistan, China and Iran, in addition to representatives from the new dispensation the Taliban set up in Afghanistan. New Delhi’s representatives also had a separate meeting with the delegation of the Taliban. This was the first such occasion when serving diplomats of India attended a plurilateral meeting with attendance of the leaders of the Taliban, which returned to power in Afghanistan a couple of months back through a swift blitz across the country, taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. “The Indian envoy to the Moscow Format meeting said that the people of Afghanistan need humanitarian assistance, Afghanistan is going through a difficult situation. India is ready to provide humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan,” the Taliban’s spokesperson, Zabihullah Mujahid, posted on Twitter. The government officials in New Delhi, however, did not confirm or deny the Taliban spokesperson’s tweet. The TASS news agency quoted Russian President’s special envoy for Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, stating that the participants of the meeting in Moscow on Wednesday called on the United Nations to convene an international conference of donors on providing socio-economic assistance to the war-ravaged country. India had sent two retired diplomats to attend a conference hosted by the Russian Government in Moscow in 2018. A delegation of the Afghan Taliban had also attended the conference in the capital of Russia. India had also sent its ambassador to Qatar to attend the ceremony that marked the signing of the US-Taliban deal in Doha in February 2020. New Delhi also had some back-channel engagements with the Taliban over the past few months before the militant organisation returned to power in Kabul. Finally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government on August 31 for the first time publicly acknowledged its engagement with the Taliban as New Delhi’s envoy to Doha had a meeting with Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the militant organisation’s political office in the capital of Qatar. Though PM Modi himself called out the Taliban’s interim government in Afghanistan for lack of inclusivity, his government has been considering supporting the UN and its World Food Programme in responding to the crisis in Afghanistan. The WFP has also been discussing with Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad the possibility of the consignment of wheat donated by India being transported to Afghanistan through Pakistan. Even before the Taliban took over Kabul, a humanitarian crisis was already unfolding in Afghanistan, as a result of continued conflict, severe drought, Covid-19 pandemic, failing health system and economic slowdown. It worsened after the government of President Ashraf Ghani collapsed on August 15 and the Taliban returned to power in Afghanistan through a swift military blitz taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. The WFP estimated that one in every three Afghans had already been facing severe hunger and now 95 percent of families were not consuming enough food. The conflict-ravaged country is on the brink of economic collapse, with the local currency at an all-time low and food prices on the rise.  “Acute malnutrition is above emergency thresholds in 27 out of 34 provinces, and is expected to worsen, with almost half of children under five and a quarter of pregnant and breastfeeding women needing life-saving nutrition support in the next 12 months,” the WFP stated in a global appeal for support for Afghanistan. It estimated that it would urgently need US $ 200 million to help people in need across Afghanistan between now and the end of the year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-says-india-willing-to-send-humanitarian-assistance-to-afghanistan-1042545.html
20-10-2021||National||Class 7 student beaten to death by teacher in Rajasthan||A Class 7 student of a private school was allegedly beaten to death by a teacher in Rajasthan's Churu district on Wednesday, police said. The accused teacher has been apprehended, they added. Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra expressed grief over the incident and issued directions to officials to suspend the recognition of the school. SHO of Salasar police station Sandeep Vishnoi said 13-year-old Ganesh was a Class 7 student of a private school and he was severely thrashed by the teacher for not completing homework. He was rushed to a hospital in an unconscious state where doctors declared him brought dead, Vishnoi said. He said accused teacher Manoj (35) has been detained and will be placed under arrest. A case against him has been registered, he added. Dotasra said police have started an investigation in the case. “The authorities have been directed to suspend the recognition of the school till the matter is investigated,” he tweeted.  चूरू के सालासर के कोलासर गाँव में आज एक निजी स्कूल टीचर की पिटाई से 7वीं क्लास के बच्चे की मौत होने का दुःखद समाचार मिला। पुलिस ने आरोपी शिक्षक को पकड़ कर उचित जाँच शुरू कर दी है।मामले की पूरी जाँच होने तक स्कूल की मान्यता निलंबित करने हेतु अधिकारियों को निर्देशित कर दिया गया है। Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/class-7-student-beaten-to-death-by-teacher-in-rajasthan-1042558.html
20-10-2021||National Politics||Speak Out: October 20, 2021||Karnataka Congress leader D K Shivakumar on Monday "regretted" the "illiterate Modi" tweet by the Karnataka Congress Twitter account, saying that parliamentary language is a non-negotiable pre-requisite for political discourse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speak-out-october-20-2021-1042277.html
20-10-2021||National Politics||In satirical post, Derek O'Brien likens PM Modi to James Bond aka 007||TMC MP Derek O'Brien on Tuesday shared a meme on Facebook taking a dig at the Narendra Modi government for its management of the Indian economy.  The meme appeared to liken Modi's alleged mismanagement of the economy over the past seven years to the swift manner in which super spy 007 (movie character James Bond) manages to kill his enemies. The meme had the PM's face morphed into that of 007 and read: "They call me 007. 0 - Development; 0 - Economic growth; 7 - years of financial mismanagement."  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-satirical-post-derek-obrien-likens-pm-modi-to-james-bond-aka-007-1042355.html
20-10-2021||National Politics||Priyanka's '40% ticket to women' gambit and how women fared in last 3 UP elections||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday sounded the poll bugle in Uttar Pradesh and put forth the 'women's card' to help the grand old party gather momentum in the poll-pound state.  Priyanka, who has been actively participating in political issues in Uttar Pradesh lately, said that the party will field 40 per cent women candidates in the upcoming Assembly elections, setting straight the party's agenda. While with the 'women card', Priyanka seems to have put the ruling BJP, which cannot boast of exemplary action in crime against women, and others on the backfoot, whether the card would yield her party seats or not, only time can tell. However, going by the history and how women candidates have fared over the last three state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the road ahead looks hard.  Despite Uttar Pradesh being the first Indian state to have a female chief minister, -- Sucheta Kriplani from 1963 to 1967 -- prospects of women in elections have been limited.  However, the game changed when we look at seats reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates. According to the analysis, the proportion of women winning SC seats was more than double that of those winning general seats. In 2002, women won 11 of 314 seats (3.5 per cent) for general-category candidates, and 15 of 89 seats (16.9 per cent) reserved for SCs. By 2012, women won 22 of 318 general seats (6.9 per cent) and 13 of 85 reserved seats (15.3 per cent). So, women contesting from Scheduled Caste seats had a more than double chance of winning. However, one has to note that there was a larger voter turnout in general seats than reserved seats in the three elections and women had more competitors in general seats than they did in reserved seats. There were 314 general and 89 SC seats for the 2002 and 2007 Assembly elections, while in 2012 there were 318 general and 85 SC seats. The voter turnout in 2002 was 53.8 per cent, 45.95 per cent in 2007 and 59.52 per cent in 2012. Given that very few women have been able to win seats, political parties have often used it as one of the excuses to field fewer women candidates. However, over the last few years, the echoes of women empowerment have only gotten louder. And Priyanka's frequent visits to the state to meet families of Hathras rape case victim or Unnao rape case victim have laid down the foundation for the battle -- women's safety and their empowerment -- the Congress is gearing up for to take on the BJP in the upcoming polls.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyankas-40-ticket-to-women-gambit-and-how-women-fared-in-last-3-up-elections-1042361.html
20-10-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh a patriot, BJP open to alliance with all those who put nation first: Dushyant Gautam||Amarinder Singh is a patriot and the BJP is open to alliances with those who put national interests first, party general secretary and Punjab in-charge Dushyant Gautam said on Wednesday, a day after Singh announced he would launch his own political party. On his condition of resolving farmers' issues, the BJP leader said Singh did not talk about ending the farmers' agitation. "He talked about farmers' issues. We are committed to it and are working for the welfare of farmers. If the time comes, both will sit together and discuss farmers' issues," Gautam told PTI. As far as the agitation is concerned, it is politically motivated, he alleged. "Our main agenda is nationalism and keeping the nation first. All those parties who want to form alliances with us on this agenda are welcome," he said. Amarinder Singh was once a soldier and his stand on the issues of national security should be praised, the BJP leader said. "....He (Amarinder Singh) was a soldier. He knows about the threats to the country and how to secure it is. He is patriotic. And whenever it was a matter of national security and security at the borders, we have appreciated his stand,"  Gautam said, adding that nationalists are not "untouchables" to the BJP. The BJP leader also said that his party has often been critical of Singh on social issues of Punjab. Gautam, however, indicated that nothing has been finalised yet as "Amarinder Singh still needs to form his party and put forward his views". Singh resigned as the chief minister of Punjab last month after a bitter feud with Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu and infighting in the state unit. The party replaced him with Charanjit Singh Channi. After resigning, Singh had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-a-patriot-bjp-open-to-alliance-with-all-those-who-put-nation-first-dushyant-gautam-1042387.html
20-10-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh an 'opportunist', betrayed Punjab, says Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa hit out at Amarinder Singh on Wednesday, calling him an "opportunist", a day after the former chief minister announced he would launch his own political outfit. Randhawa also accused Singh of betraying Punjab for the last four and a half years. The two-time chief minister added that he will not rest until he secures the future of "my people and my state". Reacting to this, the deputy chief minister said, "Captain Amarinder Singh is an opportunist leader who only thinks about himself, his family and his friends." Referring to Singh's meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah last month, Randhawa asked he did not attempt to resolve the ongoing farmers' stir. He also blamed Amarinder Singh for the enhancement of the BSF's jurisdiction in Punjab. "He (Amarinder Singh) says Punjab is a border state. I want to remind Captain Sahib that if it was a border state then why were tiffin bombs and drones coming (from across the border). Why smuggling of arms and drugs could not be stopped,” he asked. Randhawa accused the former chief minister of betraying Punjab and siding with those who never thought about the welfare of the state. "Punjab does not fear Pakistan or China. If Punjab today faces any threat, then it is from Amarinder Singh," he said. Randhawa further said when Amarinder Singh did not get the power he desired, he got upset with the Congress. Amarinder Singh resigned as the chief minister of Punjab last month after a bitter feud with Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu and infighting in the state unit. The party replaced him with Charanjit Singh Channi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-an-opportunist-betrayed-punjab-says-deputy-cm-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-1042402.html
20-10-2021||National Politics||Samajwadi Party has moved from samajwad to pariwarwad, says Modi||In a dig at the Samajwadi Party, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said it has moved away from the ideology of Ram Manohar Lohia with its leaders practising 'Pariwarwad' instead of 'Samajwad'. The prime minister made the jibe while addressing a rally after inaugurating the Uttar Pradesh fourth international airport at Kushinagar near the site of Gautam Buddha's Mahaparinirvana, besides laying foundation stones of several projects. UP is not limited to giving a maximum number of PMs but being the birthplace of Lord Rama, Lord Krishna, and many other legendary figures, it has a pristine history, the prime minister remarked in his address. Highlighting benefits of 'double engine' government in UP, he said over Rs 80,000 crore has been transferred in bank accounts of farmers in the state so far. Modi also praised the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh for dealing sternly with criminals and land grabbers and also facilitating vaccination of more than 12 crore people so far. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/samajwadi-party-has-moved-from-samajwad-to-pariwarwad-says-modi-1042414.html
20-10-2021||National Politics||Modi seeks to douse farmers' anger, counter Cong's 'women card' in UP||Apparently wary of the possible electoral fallout of the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district a few days back in which the son of a union minister is the prime accused, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday sought to douse the farmers' anger by listing the initiatives taken by his government for their benefit. Addressing a public meeting at Kushinagar after inaugurating the Kushinagar International Airport, Modi also sought to counter Congress's 'women card' by claiming that women had gained most in the BJP regime in the state as they were provided pucca houses and gas cylinders. "The Centre and the state government have created a record in purchasing the farmers' produce....so far Rs 80,000 crore has been transferred into the accounts of the farmers in UP against purchases of their produce. More than Rs 37,000 crore has reached the accounts of the farmers of the state in the form of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi," he said. In a bid to neutralise the Congress's announcement of 40 per cent reservation for women in ticket distribution in the forthcoming assembly polls in UP, PM Modi said that the state government had taken a number of steps for the welfare of the women. "A majority of registration of new homes in UP has been in the names of women. If the poor get a pucca home, toilets, power connection and gas cylinders, their confidence increases," Modi added. He also launched a veiled attack on the rival Samajwadi Party (SP) and the BSP, saying that the previous governments in the state never bothered about the people and patronised the mafia elements. "Under Yogi Adityanath, the mafia elements are begging for their lives. Their ill-gotten wealth is being destroyed," he said. Modi said that the state had a rich history and referred to Lord Rama and Krishna, who "were born on this land". "As many as 18 of the 24 tirthankaras of Jainism were born here," he added. PM Modi also presided over a function on the occasion of the 'Abhidhamma Day'. He also paid obeisance at the Mahaparinirvana Temple. Buddhists believe that Lord Buddha had attained mahaparinirvana after his death at Kushinagar. A flight from Sri Lanka carrying a delegation of over one hundred Buddhist monks and others arrived at the airport on Wednesday. The visitors also brought Holy Buddha relics for exposition. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-seeks-to-douse-farmers-anger-counter-congs-women-card-in-up-1042440.html
20-10-2021||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi bats for preventive action to curb corrupt practices||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asked officials of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) to take preventive steps to curb corruption by use of technology. In a message to the joint conference of CBI and CVC officials, also attended by Lokpal Chairman Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose, Modi said the investigative agencies should not spare anyone engaged in corrupt practices. “However powerful one may be, stern action should be taken against those who work contrary to the national interest or of our people. We should continue our work in the national interest,” he said. The Prime Minister urged the officials to explore ways to take preventive steps to curb corrupt practices through use of technology. "Usually you come into the picture when there is some scam, corruption or any irregularity. I want to share a thought with you. Why can't it be that we work on preventive vigilance,” he said. “If we remain alert then this can be done easily. You can further strengthen this system through technology and your experience. Along with technology and alertness – simplicity, clarity, transparency in the processes will go a long way for preventive vigilance,” Modi said. He said after independence, the mindset of the governments was to keep everything under their control. Those governments kept maximum control with themselves and due to it, the system witnessed many wrong practices, he said. “Maximum control, be it at home, in family or in the country, causes maximum damage,” Modi said. “We started as a mission to simplify the life of people by reducing controls, we believe in minimum government and maximum governance,” he said. The prime minister listed various initiatives taken by his government to curb corruption in the last seven years by using technology and trusting people. “You all are witnessing how we used trust and technology to make people free which has stopped corruption in many ways,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-bats-for-preventive-action-to-curb-corrupt-practices-1042481.html
20-10-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi allowed to proceed to Agra by UP police||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was stopped by the Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday from going to Agra to meet the family members of a man who died in police custody, was allowed to proceed in the evening. The police have allowed Priyanka Gandhi to go and she has left for Agra, Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi said. The Lucknow police has allowed four people, including UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam, to accompany Priyanka Gandhi, Awasthi said. Police said the Congress general secretary was stopped at the Lucknow-Agra expressway as the Agra district magistrate had requested not to allow any political personality to go there following the man's death. "She was neither taken into custody nor arrested. Because of the massive crowds, the traffic movement was being hampered and she was first asked to either go to the party office or her residence but when she did not agree, she was sent to the police lines," Lucknow Police Commissioner D K Thakur said. A Congress spokesperson had claimed that Priyanka Gandhi was taken into custody while she was going to Agra. To a query from reporters in Kushinagar on the Congress leader being stopped from going to Agra, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said, "Law and order is supreme and no one will be allowed to play with it." While being taken to the police lines, Priyanka Gandhi told reporters that she will definitely go to Agra. A similar confrontation had occurred earlier this month when the Uttar Pradesh police had prevented the Congress leader from visiting the families of the farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri. She was taken into preventive custody for over 48 hours before being allowed to visit the families along with Rahul Gandhi and other Congress leaders. "Do I need someone's permission whenever I move out of Lucknow? Is there a problem? Why am I not being allowed to go to Agra? Is there a law-and-order issue?" Priyanka Gandhi asked the policemen who stopped her cavalcade. "Someone has died, how can it be a law-and-order issue? Ask the DM by calling him. It is too much that I cannot go out anywhere and should remain confined to a guesthouse in Lucknow," she told the policemen when they showed her the Agra district magistrate's message. Congress workers who had reached the spot in large numbers raised slogans against the Uttar Pradesh government after Priyanka Gandhi was not allowed to proceed to Agra. In a tweet in Hindi, the Congress general secretary asked if beating anyone to death in police custody was any kind of justice. "The incident of Arun Valmiki's death in police custody in Agra is condemnable. On the day of Valmiki Jayanti, the Uttar Pradesh government has acted against his messages. A high-level investigation should be held and action taken against the policemen, and the victim's family should be compensated," she said. In another tweet after being stopped from going to Agra, the Congress leader said, "Arun Valmiki died in police custody. His family is seeking justice. I want to visit the family. What is the Uttar Pradesh government afraid of? Why am I being stopped? Today is Valmiki Jayanti, the prime minister spoke a lot about Buddha but is attacking his messages." Close on the heels of a Kanpur-based businessman's death allegedly after being thrashed by police in a Gorakhpur hotel, a man accused of stealing Rs 25 lakh from a police station in Agra died in police custody after his health deteriorated during interrogation. Senior Superintendent of Police (Agra) Muniraj G said the accused, Arun, suddenly fell sick on Tuesday night while a raid was being carried out at his house to recover the stolen money. He was taken to a hospital where doctors declared him dead, the officer said. Manish Gupta (36), a businessman from Kanpur, died due to alleged police thrashing in a Gorakhpur hotel last month. The Uttar Pradesh police has already recommended a CBI probe into the incident. Arun was accused of stealing the money on Saturday night from the "malkhana" (a storage house where items confiscated by police are kept)" of the Jagdishpura police station, where he worked as a cleaner. Following the theft, six police personnel, including the station house officer, were suspended by the additional director general (ADG) of police of the Agra zone. During the investigation, police rounded up several suspects. Arun was one of them as he had access to the "malkhana". He was arrested from the Taj Ganj locality in Agra on Tuesday. According to the police, Arun had shaved his head to hide his identity. "Police teams were questioning several suspects in connection with the theft. On Tuesday evening, a man named Arun, who is a resident of the Lohamandi area, was taken into police custody," the SSP said. "During interrogation, Arun admitted that he had committed the theft and informed us that the stolen money was kept at his home," he added. Police recovered Rs 15 lakh during the raid at his house before his health deteriorated and he died. The SSP said the body was sent for a post-mortem examination and suitable action will be taken after the report comes. A complaint has also been filed by Arun's family in connection with his death, he added. People from the Valmiki community gathered at Arun's house and demanded a fair probe into his death. Local leaders of the community said they would not observe "Maharishi Valmiki Jayanti" on Wednesday until a fair investigation is launched in the matter. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-allowed-to-proceed-to-agra-by-up-police-1042484.html
20-10-2021||National Politics||Any person from outside Gandhi family should become next Congress chief, not Rahul Gandhi: Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Wednesday suggested Congress should pick a person from outside the Nehru-Gandhi family as its next president instead of Rahul Gandhi. The Congress, currently led by its interim president Sonia Gandhi, had last week announced that the election of its new president will be held between August 21 and September 20 next year. “Congress is not able to find a president. Rahul Gandhi resigned as the AICC president after his party lost the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Rahul should not become the party president again. Instead, any person from outside the Gandhi family should be made a Congress chief,” Athawale told reporters. He also defended the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the cruise ship drug case in which the agency had arrested Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan. Athawale said Aryan Khan was not arrested because he or his father is a Muslim. “Hindus were also arrested along with him. He (Aryan) was arrested in connection with the use and possession of drugs and not because he is the son of Shah Rukh Khan or is a Muslim. Whoever is caught in a drug case has to face action,” said Athawale, who hails from Maharashtra. The Union minister alleged drugs are supplied in huge quantities to some actors and directors of Bollywood. “There are several people consuming drugs in the film industry. The NCB is not arresting anybody deliberately," he claimed. Speaking about the ongoing agitation against the three agriculture laws, the Rajya Sabha MP said farmers are being misled by their leaders about the new laws. "The farm laws are meant for the benefit of farmers. They should take a step forward as the government is ready for a dialogue with them," he said. He blamed Pakistan for the recent spurt in terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir and reiterated that India should not play its scheduled T20 World Cup match against Pakistan. He said the Centre is preparing a strategy to combat terrorism. "There is a need to conduct another surgical strike against Pakistan, which needs to vacate PoK and stop terror activities," he said. Talking about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Athawale said the son of his cabinet colleague Ajay Mishra has been arrested and strict action would be taken against the guilty after the investigation. Athawale said the Republican Party of India (RPI) faction headed by him is in favour of the caste-based Census. "But the Centre thinks such an exercise will increase casteism in the country", he added. Asked about the rising fuel prices, the Union minister said oil prices are going up in the entire world and the Centre and state governments should take note of this issue. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/any-person-from-outside-gandhi-family-should-become-next-congress-chief-not-rahul-gandhi-athawale-1042499.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||Punjab barber siblings turn heads into canvasses by giving unusual haircuts||In a small salon in a nondescript town in northern India, a haircut is not just a trim or a crew cut but an opportunity to get some art embossed on the back of your head. Brothers Rajwinder Singh Sidhu and Gurwinder Singh Sidhu in Dabwali town in India's Punjab state are now famous in their small part of the world for giving haircuts shaped in images of the customer's choice. From the Taj Mahal, complete with its many turrets and towers, to a lifelike portrait of pop star Michael Jackson, the brothers use a range of trimmers, scissors and pencils, among other tools, to get every minute detail of hairdos correct. "In the beginning we used to give anyone we could get hold off free haircuts so that we could practice our skills on them. Some days we used to practice till 2.00 a.m., because during the day we used to run the regular salon," Rajwinder, the younger of the two brothers, told Reuters in an interview. These days the brothers, aged 29 and 31, charge anywhere between Rs 1,500- 2,250 for their special hairdos, and say they have plans to take their business outside of India as well. From requests of images of Bollywood stars to popular sportspersons and even an impression of Mickey Mouse, the brothers' salon is seeing a steady stream of customers who want to draw attention to themselves at social gatherings or events but do not want something lasting, like traditional tattoos. "Today, I got a tattoo of the Taj Mahal. The monument is very beautiful and with this tattoo, I will stand out in the crowd," said salon customer Darbar Singh, showing off his brand new haircut. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-barber-siblings-turn-heads-into-canvasses-by-giving-unusual-haircuts-1042289.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Dhami visits rain-hit areas of Kumaon||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday toured rain-hit areas of Kumaon which bore the brunt of the last three days of incessant rainfall that has led to the loss over 40 lives in the state. Dhami has already visited affected areas in Rudraprayag, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar districts. On Wednesday, he will be visiting his constituency Khatima, Champawat and Almora. Almora and Champawat districts have accounted for the highest casualties in Kumaon division after Nainital. Dhami has instructed officials to prepare an estimate of the damage caused by the heavy rainfall. The chief minister said that so far, 46 people have died in rain-related incidents, while 11 are still missing. Union Home Minister Amit Shah is also coming to Dehradun on Wednesday evening to take stock of the situation, officials said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-dhami-visits-rain-hit-areas-of-kumaon-1042321.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||NIA conducts raids at 11 places in Jammu and Kashmir||NIA conducted raids at 11 places in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday in a recent terrorism conspiracy case. Searches are underway in Srinagar, Baramulla, Pulwama, Awantipora, Sopore and Kulgam, news agency ANI reported. More to follow... Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-conducts-raids-at-11-places-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1042326.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||Encounter in J&K's Shopian: Two LeT militants killed, three security personnel injured||A Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militant involved in the killing of a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur recently was among two utltra killed, while three security personnel were injured in an encounter in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, officials said.  IGP, Kashmir zone, Vijay Kumar, said one of the slain ultras has been identified as Adil Wani, who was involved in the killing of the carpenter Sageer Ansari on Saturday last. Giving details of the encounter, officials said security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Dragad area of Shopian district following information about presence of militants there.  The search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces who retaliated. The officials said two ultras of The Resistance Front (TRF) , a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Toiba, have been killed while three security force personnel sustained injuries in the operation. In a tweet, the IGP said, "One of the killed #terrorists has been #identified as Adil Ah Wani, active since 7/2020... So far, 15 terrorists have been #neutralised in 2 weeks". "Killed #terrorist Adil Wani was #involved in #killing of a poor carpenter namely Sakir Ah Wani S/O Gulam Kadir Wani R/O Saharanpur UP. Adil Wani was District Commander Shopian of proscribed #terror outfit LeT(TRF)," Kumar tweeted.  However, in another tweet, the Kashmir Zone Police clarified that the name of the carpenter was Sageer Ahmad Ansari. "Kindly read, Sageer Ahmad Ansari S/O Bindo Hussain Ansari R/O Saharanpur, UP. Inconvenience regretted.@JmuKmrPolice," it said in the tweet. Ansari was gunned down on Saturday in a south Kashmir village where he had been working as a carpenter for the last couple of years. Kashmir has witnessed a spate of targeted civilian killings that has triggered an exodus of migrant labourers who are queuing up outside bus and train stations to return home. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-in-jks-shopian-two-let-militants-killed-three-security-personnel-injured-1042334.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||9 held, cases registered against over 100 people after stone-pelting, clashes in MP: Minister||A day after incidents of stone-pelting and clashes were reported in Madhya Pradesh's Dhar, Jabalpur and Barwani districts, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Wednesday said four persons were arrested, five were detained and cases were registered against more than 100 people in connection with the violence. Talking to reporters here, the minister said anybody making a malicious attempt to disturb the peace in Madhya Pradesh will face "harshest action". In Dhar city, there was a ruckus on Tuesday after members of a procession, held on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, deviated from the permitted route. While eyewitnesses had claimed that mild force was used to disperse people after a dispute over the route, the police denied using lathi-charge at the gathering. In Rajpur town of Barwani, some people including a police official were injured in stone-pelting following a dispute over an `objectionable' song being played during a religious procession, officials said. In Jabalpur, police used lathi-charge and lobbed teargas shells after some persons threw firecrackers and stones at them while gathering for prayers to mark Milad-un-Nabi, they said. Asked about Tuesday's incidents, Mishra said, "The situation is under control in Dhar, Barwani and Jabalpur. Four persons were arrested and 85 named in different FIRs registered by police in Dhar. Besides, five people were detained in Jabalpur and 24 named in an FIR registered there." The police are on alert and monitoring the situation, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-held-cases-registered-against-over-100-people-after-stone-pelting-clashes-in-mp-minister-1042366.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||Decision on Air India will give new energy to aviation sector: Modi||With Air India set to be acquired by Tata group, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the decision on the national carrier will give new energy to the country's aviation sector. His comments come weeks after Tata group emerged as the winning bidder for Air India paving the way for disinvestment of the loss-making carrier. In an address after inaugurating the Kushinagar International airport, Modi said the decision on Air India will give new energy to the aviation sector of India. Tata group has emerged as the winning bidder for Air India, and on October 11, a letter of intent (LoI) was issued to the group. Earlier this month, the government accepted an offer by Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of Tata group, to pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and takeover Rs 15,300 crore of Air India's debt. After Tatas accept the LoI, the share purchase agreement (SPA) for the sale will be signed. Along with Air India, Tatas will acquire low-cost carrier Air India Express and Air India's 50 per cent stake in equal joint venture AISATS. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/decision-on-air-india-will-give-new-energy-to-aviation-sector-modi-1042389.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||Situation still serious in flood-hit Uttarakhand: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday expressed sympathy for the Uttarakhand flood victims and urged people to follow safety norms as the situation in the state was still serious.  He also asked Congress workers to extend all possible help in the relief work in the flood-hit state. "My condolences to the Uttarakhand flood victims. The situation is still serious. Do follow the safety norms. My appeal to my Congress colleagues is to extend all possible help in the relief work," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. At least 34 people have lost their lives in the Uttarakhand floods that hit the hill state after flash floods inundated several towns. Nainital district was the worst hit. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/situation-still-serious-in-flood-hit-uttarakhand-rahul-gandhi-1042394.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||UP farmers protest against Haryana govt’s order of banning paddy from other states||Farmers blocked the Uttar Pradesh-Haryana border at Bidoli and Kairana here in protest against Haryana government's ban on paddy from other states, police said on Wednesday. The farmers blocked the Karnal-Meerut Highway at Bidoli border and Kairana on the Panipat Khatima Highway on Tuesday for not allowing them to take their paddy crops for sale in Haryana mandis, police outpost in-charge Satpal Singh said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-farmers-protest-against-haryana-govt-s-order-of-banning-paddy-from-other-states-1042398.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi detained on way to Agra to meet family of youth who died in police custody||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had yet another brush with the Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday while trying to proceed to Agra to meet the family of a youth from SC community, a sanitation worker, who died in police custody there on Tuesday. Priyanka was detained at the toll plaza on the entry point of the Lucknow-Agra Expressway after she insisted on going to Agra despite being told by the cops that section 144 had been promulgated there and that her visit could cause law and order problems there. "They (cops) want me to remain confined to the guest house....it suits the government politically...do I have to take their permission every time I want to go to someplace?....how can my visit to the family which has lost one of its members be a law and order issue?," Priyanka told reporters. "Today is the birth anniversary of Valmiki...the youth (Arun Valmiki) died in police custody.......his family wants justice....I am going to meet his family...why is the UP government scared?," the Congress leader said in a tweet later. She also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the teachings of Lord Buddha at Kushinagar but his teachings were not being followed in the state. According to the sources, Arun Valmiki was taken into custody by the police in Agra on charges of stealing Rs 25 lakh from the Jagadishpura police station in Agra. The police said they recovered some cash from his possession. Police said that Arun suddenly fell sick while being in custody and was rushed to the hospital but died there a little later. His family alleged that he was tortured to death by the cops. Earlier this month also, Priyanka had a clash with the police when she tried to reach Lakhimpur Kheri on the day eight people, including four farmers, were killed during a protest by the farmers against union minister of state for home Ajai Mishra. Mishra's son Ashish was arrested on charges of mowing down four farmers with his SUV. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-detained-on-way-to-agra-to-meet-family-of-youth-who-died-in-police-custody-1042399.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||No harm to Congress: Harish Rawat comments on Amarinder's new party, seat-sharing plans with BJP||Congress on Wednesday made light of Captain Amarinder Singh's announcement about launching his party, saying the former Punjab Chief Minister has "destroyed himself" by talking about plans to enter into a seat-sharing with the BJP that has earned the ire of farmers. Congress General Secretary Harish Rawat, who is also party in-charge of Punjab, said Singh's statement was "really shocking" and it seemed that he has killed the "secular Amarinder within him". "If he wants to eat crow and go with the BJP, he can. Who can stop him if he cannot stay with his old commitment to secularism? He was considered a symbol of 'Sarvdharm Sambhav' AND connected to Congress' traditions for long. If he wants to go, he should," Rawat said. Referring to Singh's statement that his new party hopes to enter into a seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP if the farmers' protest is resolved, he said, "who can forgive the BJP that has kept farmers at the borders for 10 months? Can Punjab forgive them for the manner in which farmers' agitation has been dealt with?" Rawat expressed confidence that the Congress would "not suffer any loss" and it would actually divide the votes of the party's rivals. "Congress will not be affected. Our votes will depend on performance of Channi government, the way Channi has started, it has created a good impression before Punjab and the entire nation," he said. Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder S Randhawa said Amarinder has destroyed himself with this announcement. "BJP should hold an enquiry on Amarinder Singh over his whereabouts after the resignation in 1984 and his relation with Pakistan," he alleged. Randhawa claimed that there must be some pressure on him. "We have no fear of Amarinder's decision," he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-harm-to-congress-harish-rawat-comments-on-amarinders-new-party-seat-sharing-plans-with-bjp-1042479.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||AAP sees BJP hand in Amarinder's decision to float new political party||In a video message, the co-in charge of AAP's political affairs in Punjab, Raghav Chadha, claimed that Singh's move to form his own political party is part of the BJP's agenda to stop the Arvind Kejriwal-led party from winning the Punjab Assembly election, which is due early next year. The AAP is the main opposition party in Punjab. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is making all possible efforts to stop the Aam Aadmi Party from winning the Punjab Assembly polls next year and forming its government in the state. Amarinder Singh is forming his own party on the instructions of Modiji," Chadha alleged. He also accused Modi of "remote-controlling" the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Punjab unit of the Congress to ensure that the AAP does not win the upcoming state Assembly polls, claiming that there was a similar effort by the BJP during the 2017 Punjab election. "After he (Modi) understood that his three parties -- BJP, Akali Dal and Congress -- would not be able to stop the AAP from winning the 2022 Punjab Assembly election and forming its government, Modiji is fielding a fourth party through Amarinder Singh to join the fray," Chadha claimed. He asserted that the AAP will form its government in Punjab next year, despite all efforts by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Modi. "Even after coming together, they will not be able to change the mood of the people of Punjab. The people are ready to give their mandate to AAP in the upcoming Assembly polls and make Punjab a prosperous state," Chadha said. Days after resigning as the Punjab chief minister after a bitter feud with Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu and infighting in the party's state unit, Singh on Tuesday said he would soon float his own political party. He also said he is hopeful of a seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP if the farmers' issue is resolved in their interest. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-sees-bjp-hand-in-amarinders-decision-to-float-new-political-party-1042489.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||Security agencies probing larger conspiracy in Kashmir killings including Pakistan's role||The security agencies probing the recent civilian killings in Kashmir have also been looking at the possible involvement of Pakistan's nefarious Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), the sources in the intelligence grid said here on Wednesday. According to the sources, the killings of the civilians in Kashmir indicated a definite pattern where innocent people were killed to spread panic among the locals. They also indicated that recently decoded encrypted messages of the new terror outfits like HARKAT 313, United Liberation of J&K, The Resistance Front (TRF) suggest the possible hand of Pakistan's ISI behind these killings. These new terror outfits are considered as the fronts of terror organizations like the Lashkar-e-Taiba, Hizbul Mujahideen, they added. Another source close to the security establishment said that these Pakistan-based terrorist groups are using the hybrid terrorists who have not been involved in terror activities in the past to avoid detection. They are from among the common masses. The sources in the agencies said that the intercepted messages originating from Muzaffarabad in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) also suggest that the attack on individuals in a lone wolf manner could have been executed at the behest of the ISI. Though the security agencies had inputs that the terrorists would be targeting people from political parties, Kashmiri Pandits, Sikhs and pro-government voices but they did not have a hint of innocent civilians being killed. Earlier, the security experts had apprehended that the ISI would use the Afghan mercenaries against India after the Taliban took over in Afghanistan. Apart from technical surveillance and intercepting chats, the Union Home Ministry has roped in officials from intelligence agency, National Investigation Agency (NIA) and officials from the central security forces who have earlier worked in the valley to nab these hybrid ultras. These officials have also been trying to pinpoint the terrorists by scanning the old cases and history of those involved in stone-pelting. The intelligence inputs and preliminary enquiries into these killings have revealed that these incidents were carried out in lone wolf attacks. Therefore, the team will scan the details of those youths who were pardoned in the stone-pelting incidents in the past. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-agencies-probing-larger-conspiracy-in-kashmir-killings-including-pakistans-role-1042491.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||Tension at Sankisa Buddhist pilgrimage site in UP after saffron flag pulled down from temple||Tension prevailed in the Sankisa Buddhist pilgrimage area here on Wednesday when some persons pulled down a saffron flag from a temple and hoisted the Buddhist 'panchsheel flag', sparking a violent protest. The incident occurred during the 'Dhamma Yatra' by Buddhist pilgrims. Some people scaled the temple of Bisari Devi, located on the disputed mound in the Sankisa Buddhist pilgrimage area, and pulled down the saffron flag and unfurled the Panchsheel flag in its place, police said Buddhist followers claim the disputed place as a Buddhist stupa having great religious significance for them, whereas the Sanatan Dharm followers claim it to be an ancient temple of Mother Bisari Devi, where an idol of Lord Hanuman is also installed. The dispute is in court for around 40 years. A group of Hindu activists protested after the flag incident and there was stone pelting between the two sides in which some people received minor injuries. Later, the Hindu activists blocked the main road, the police said. District Magistrate Manvendra Singh and Superintendent of Police Ashok Kumar Meena soon reached the spot with the police force and tried to pacify the agitated protesters. The road was cleared after some time and the situation was brought under control, they said. On the instructions of the District Magistrate, the SDM (Sadar) Anil Kumar gave a written assurance that any damage at the Bisari Devi temple will be repaired. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tension-at-sankisa-buddhist-pilgrimage-site-in-up-after-saffron-flag-pulled-down-from-temple-1042507.html
20-10-2021||North and Central||SC sets aside furlough to Asaram Bapu's son||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set aside the order of the Gujarat High Court granting a 14-day furlough to Narayan Sai, son of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu, undergoing life imprisonment in a rape case. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna allowed the appeal of the Gujarat government challenging the June 24 order of the High Court granting furlough to Sai. The top court said that furlough is not an absolute right and it depends on various factors. It said the jail superintendent has given a negative opinion for the grant of furlough to Sai as a mobile phone was found from his cell.  The court relied upon the report of the jail official order, listing a number of circumstances that cumulatively indicated that the release of the respondent on furlough may lead to a violation of public peace.  "The order refers specifically to the threat he and his followers pose to the complainant and other persons who deposed at the trial. An attempt has been made to threaten and suborn the investigating team and the witnesses. The respondent and his father have a mass following of persons who owe loyalty to them and there is a reasonable apprehension of a disruption of public peace and tranquillity," the bench noted.  The court also pointed out during the trial that attempts have been made to bribe public officials and the conduct after the trial in jail has not been shown to be above reproach. It also said the convict was released earlier to accommodate a genuine need to attend to his mother’s health. On August 12, the top court had stayed the Gujarat High Court order giving two-week furlough to Sai. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-sets-aside-furlough-to-asaram-bapus-son-1042512.html
20-10-2021||Oasis||Enjoy today, tomorrow may be too late||Dr Frederic Loomis was a busy man for twenty-one years, completely devoted to his patients and their problems with no time for a life of his own. One day he received a letter from one of his former patients stating that she had recovered completely under his care, but could not help noticing the time and energy he spent in the hospital. She advised him to take some time off to rejuvenate. The doctor thought about it seriously and decided to go on a vacation, still thinking that the activities in the hospital will be in disarray, his patients will suffer and there will be utter chaos. But on his return, he found that there were just as many patients as there were when he left, many of them had recovered fast or faster, and most of them were not even aware of his absence. He felt it very humiliating to find how quickly and completely one’s place is filled and, that no one is indispensable in this world. He wrote the book In a Chinese Garden: Enjoy yourself, it is later than you think, explaining how it altered his way of life. With this, he influenced the lives of those around him. Zac Poonen, in his sermon ‘Recognise that you are not indispensable’, says: “No one is indispensable in Christ’s church. God’s work can easily carry on without us. In fact, it can carry on much better without the help of those conceited folk who consider themselves indispensable! I once read of a prescription to humble the soul of anyone who considers himself “indispensable” It was suggested that he fill a bucket with water and put his hand in it up to his wrist — and then pull it out. The hole that remains in the water will be a measure of how much he will be missed when he is gone! Our gifts are useful to the church, but no one is indispensable.” Let us realise that no one is indispensable and, fade graciously into the background to allow someone else who may do better than us to take over. Meanwhile, take the time off for fulfilling those small dreams, which we had been putting off for later and may never materialise. Therefore, enjoy yourself today, as tomorrow may be too late.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/enjoy-today-tomorrow-may-be-too-late-1042563.html
20-10-2021||Opinion||Roping in Nihangs: Another attempt at derailing farmers' stir fails||The murder of Lakhbir Singh at the farmers' protest site on the Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi had the potential to disrupt the movement by implicating its leaders. The incident, according to a report by The Tribune newspaper, is the latest in what now appear to be acts of deliberate provocation. Each such attempt in the last ten months has come unstuck pretty quickly. The first such attempt was to suggest that Khalistani separatists had infiltrated the farmers' agitation. It unravelled within hours of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sympathiser, Deep Sidhu, hoisting the Sikh religious flag (Nishan Sahib) on a flagpole meant for the national flag at Red Fort on Republic Day. The emergence of Sidhu's photographs with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP's Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol put paid to the canard that extremists were manipulating the agitating farmers. The Lakhimpur Kheri incident was also initially portrayed as lynching by violent farmers. This, too, was soon turned on its head by a series of videos establishing that it was the SUVs in the cavalcade of a Union minister's son that had run down peaceful protestors. The latest attempt to paint the agitators as unstable religious zealots has also failed miserably. One can be sure that further revelations in the days to come will shed more light on the murder at Singhu and the role of the Nihangs in it. A new spin on the crime has been put by a media expose that the leader of the Nihang Sikh group responsible for mutilating and murdering a Dalit Sikh, Lakhbir Singh, ostensibly for disrespecting the Sikh holy book, was part of 'behind the scene efforts' by the Centre to end the farmers' agitation. Prima facie, it seems to vindicate the position of the leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) that the crime was a conspiracy by government agencies to defame and derail the farmers' stir. The link between the government and the Nihang group responsible has been revealed by photographs published by The Tribune of the Nihang leader Baba Aman Singh with BJP leaders where he is being honoured with a saropa (scarf) by Union Minister for Agriculture, Narendra Singh Tomar. The meeting, ostensibly to end the farmers' stir, took place in late July this year at the residence of Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary in New Delhi. It was reportedly also attended by BJP Kisan Morcha leader Sukhminderpal Singh Grewal and a dismissed Punjab policeman and murder convict Gurmeet "Pinki". Baba Aman Singh is neither a farmers' leader nor has he ever been a part of their negotiations with the government. He is the head of one of many Nihang Sikh groups and also one based in Ontario, Canada. However, some members of his group have been camping at the protest site of their own accord. The Nihangs are groups of self-styled Sikh militia bands habitually armed with swords, daggers, spears, steel arrows, chakrams (war-quoits) and other sundry medieval weapons. They live off donations from the faithful to the gurudwaras they control. The weapons they carry make them intimidating, and their behaviour is unpredictable. Their presence at the site of protest could imaginably have been threatening to protestors. After the media expose, Baba Aman Singh has claimed that he was offered "Rs 10 lakh and horses for vacating the Singhu border site." Some of the farmers' leaders have claimed no sacrilege at the site, and the entire incident was engineered. The victim's presence at the Singhu border where he was staying with the Nihangs is itself inexplicable. His family claims that he was an alcoholic and a drug addict who never strayed far from home. The last they knew of him was that he left his village to look for casual work at the local grain market. People in his village are sceptical that he would go all the way to Singhu, near Delhi, to commit sacrilege or participate in the farmers' sit-in. They suspect that he was taken there rather than having gone by himself. Other questions also deserve credible answers. It is unclear why the agriculture minister and his deputy were hobnobbing with a Nihang leader who is neither a farmer nor associated with the farmers' agitation. Shouldn't they have re-engaged instead with the collective leadership of the farmers in a dialogue? At whose instance then was the Nihang leader there, and was the mutilation and murder of an innocent person a deliberate act of provocation to vacate the protestors forcibly? Unless he is lying, it is also unclear who among those present in the meeting allegedly tried to bribe Baba Aman Singh to vacate the site. The farmers' agitation is perhaps the longest such agitation in the world. A handful of Nihangs leaving the protest site would have made little difference to the ongoing agitation even if they had made the kind of noises that the establishment might have wanted them to make. Nothing would have worked short of implicating the SKM leaders in the gruesome murder. That, too, did not happen. It would, therefore, seem that using the Nihangs was one more attempt to somehow erode and discredit the farmers' agitation. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/roping-in-nihangs-another-attempt-at-derailing-farmers-stir-fails-1042363.html
20-10-2021||Opinion||Uttarakhand polls: Can AAP alter a bipolar polity?||Earlier this week, Congress leaders of all hues gathered at Haldwani near Nainital to pay tributes to N D Tiwari, the late three-time chief minister of the undivided Uttar Pradesh. Fresh from his recent Punjab exploits, Harish Rawat lit a joss stick in front of a garlanded picture of N D Tiwari, who had passed away on October 18, 2018. N D Tiwari also holds the record of being the only chief minister of Uttarakhand, the state carved out of UP in 2000, to complete a full five-year term in office. About a furlong or so from the venue of this remembrance meet, the new kids on the block -- Aam Admi Party (AAP) volunteers donning trademark inverted boat-shaped caps were knocking on the doors to canvass for their party. This would be AAP's first election in the hill state where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress have taken turns at power for the last two decades. In a state which has seen massive outward migration of its youth in search of jobs, the AAP seems to be focussing on this same voter group to make inroads. It has promised a dole of Rs 5,000 for all unemployed youth between 18 and 40. It is issuing employment guarantee cards to lay its hands on precious data and phone numbers of voters, which will come in handy for micro-messaging and targeted online campaigns closer to the elections early next year. The party has also declared its chief minister candidate in an army officer turned social worker Colonel Ajay Kothiyal. Freebie apart, does Uttarkhand offer space to a third-party intervention as is being attempted by Arvind Kejriwal, an encore of sorts after its success in replacing the Congress as the alternative to the BJP in Delhi? Like its treacherous terrain, the youngest hill state carved out of UP offers unique challenges -- both historical and contemporary -- to political hikers. To understand the complexities of this region as they have shaped up in post-Independence India, we may have to travel back in time by a good four decades and more. The demand for a separate hill state of Uttarakhand comprising the two administrative divisions of Kumaun and Garhwal was raised in 1979 when a small group of activists and intellectuals met in the hill station of Nainital. The then vice-chancellor of Kumaun University, Prof D D Pant, chaired this convention called in to discuss the socio-economic situation in the region. The Nainital conclave was the precursor to the formation of Uttarakhand Kranti Dal, or UKD -- a political party seeking to represent the political aspirations of the people of the hills. It was a time when the strong winds of change were blowing in other parts of the country. The Janata experiment, though on its last leg, had given a fillip to regional aspirations. It was also the year All Assam Students Union (AASU) was born out of public discontent against the influx of Bangladeshi migrants in the north-eastern state. It was also the same period when Shibu Soren mobilised tribals, trade unionists and others to consolidate the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha in south-Bihar. In retrospect, some of these experiments tapping regional and sub-regional experiments were highly successful in mobilising the masses and providing political alternatives to hegemonic power structures. In Uttarakhand, however, that was not to be. Why and how regional political identity has failed to take roots in the hill state is an interesting case study unto itself. Scholars who have studied the socio-economic and political landscape of the twin divisions of Kumaun and Garhwal as part of the undivided Uttar Pradesh provide a fascinating peek into the alienation experienced by the region in the first three decades after Independence. Though recognised as backward and under-developed, no planned strategies were initiated by either the Centre or the state to develop the region. After the 1962 China War, the sudden spurt in growth activities aimed primarily at securing borders complicated the situation further. The government acquired land, built roads, felled trees as skilled and semi-skilled workers travelled up the hills with private contractors. The development activity coinciding with the Third Five Year Plan was primarily confined to work taken up for strategic fortification of the borders. It did not benefit the local population by any stretch. The alienation was perhaps more accentuated and complete with the exclusive rights to forest resources granted to the non-local entrepreneurs and the promulgation of the New Forest Policy of 1976. The Chipko movement in Chamoli district was a direct reaction to the government's policies on forest management. So, the situation was just ripe for a player to step in to fill in the political vacuum against a well-entrenched Congress. The genesis of Uttarakhand Kranti Dal in 1979 was thus an impending event waiting to happen. Jaswant Singh Bisht was the first UKD MLA to enter the UP Assembly in 1980. The young and redoubtable Kashi Singh Airy followed suit, winning consecutive terms from the Didihaat seat. However, the UKD has remained on the fringes of state politics despite being the first political entity to demand a separate hill state. According to some scholars, the UKD's marginalisation is because Uttarakhand's inherent centripetal tendency gravitates towards the political centre and thus towards national parties. The reasons for this are both social and religious. Firstly, as a territorial segment of politically significant Uttar Pradesh, its integration with national politics was reinforced as a part of the large Hindi heartland belt. The fact that leaders from this region with less than 10 per cent representation in the undivided UP towered over the state and national politics underscores this fact. From Govind Ballabh Pant to N D Tiwari, the list is long. Paradoxically, while the region faced economic alienation in the initial years, a parallel cultural integration at the subconscious level was always on. Interestingly, Pant, the first chief minister of UP and hailed from the hills, contested and won elections from Bareilly in the plains. Conversely, Chandra Bhanu Gupta, the Congress CM of UP in the 1960s, who was from the plains, represented Ranikhet in the hills. Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna, from the hilly region, shifted base to Allahabad in the plains quite early in his political career. Secondly, integration of the hill region with the national mainstream is also on account of the annual pilgrimage lakhs of Hindus make to the religious places in the hills. The larger national identity and affinity to the political centre is reinforced by the state's characteristic demography overwhelmed by upper-caste Hindus. In 1994, the separate statehood demand gained ground as a reaction to the decision by the Mulayam Singh Yadav government to implement a 27 per cent OBC reservation in the erstwhile UP. The upper caste dominated hill divisions rose in protests which later crystallised into agitation for a separate hill state. Atal Bihari Vajpayee government created three states in 2000. Uttarakhand, along with Jharkhand and Chattisgarh, thus came into existence. Ever since, the two national parties, the BJP and Congress, have settled down to a cosy arrangement taking turns to govern the state. In 2021, the AAP is attempting to make the contest triangular. Apart from the novelty factor, it has a certain advantage vis a vis the UKD of the yore. Though confined to Delhi and Punjab, the AAP has sought to project itself as a national player or a party with a national outlook. Unlike the Congress, it has not conceded the right of the centre space to the BJP, which gives it enough elbow room to manoeuvre past attempts at polarisation. With Kothiyal as its chief ministerial candidate, it has tried to reach a large population where nearly every household sends a person or two to the armed forces. And finally, the AAP is willing to experiment both in content and form its campaign as the Congress tries to put its house in order. The Congress party's most significant challenge this election is to project itself as a credible alternative to the BJP, to convince its cadres and people that it has a chance to return to power. The AAP as a third player offers a choice and creates doubt in the minds of the electorate. A division in the anti-BJP votes will only make the Congress's task more difficult this election. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/uttarakhand-polls-can-aap-alter-a-bipolar-polity-1042416.html
20-10-2021||Panorama||Rahul seeks 'return to ideology and a left turn', but will Congress follow?||The most obvious takeaway from the October 16 Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting was Sonia Gandhi's “if you allow me to say so” message to the change-seekers, popularly known as the 'G-23' leaders who want an "effective and full-time" leadership in the party. Sonia was blunt when she said that she is a "full-time and hands-on" party president who appreciates "frankness" but who feels that there is no need to speak to her through the media. The last 186 words of Sonia’s 967-word introductory speech stamped the Gandhi family’s authority over the party and made clear her displeasure over the rebellion against Rahul Gandhi. But this nearly four-hour-long meeting was not just about pushing the rebels to a corner but also about setting the stage for the return of ‘ideology’ to the centre-stage. Rahul, the former party president, made a “brilliant” intervention during the meeting espousing the ‘ideology’ of the party, if at least three senior members of the CWC are to be believed. Soon after, the CWC finalised a “continuous” training programme for leaders and workers from “top to bottom” on “party ideology, policy, expectation from party workers, election management and countering propaganda” among others. A first-of-its-kind for the Congress! With Rahul indicating that he would consider returning to the hot seat, the fresh focus on ‘ideology’ assumes significance, as its successful roll-out would have a bearing on his authority. At the CWC meet, he emphasised the need for party functionaries to have “ideological clarity and firmness”. With the desertions to the BJP, including by Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada, who were close to him, apparently weighing on him, Rahul highlighted that the party workers need to be ideologically and intellectually equipped to counter the BJP/RSS. He told them that only the Congress could choose a Dalit or a woman or a minority community member to be a chief minister, a bridge the RSS would not dare to cross. Post-2014, the Congress has been in confusion on what course it should take to counter the Hindutva surge. There was a sort of identity crisis following the right-wing surge across the globe. The realisation that the majority community has tilted towards the BJP/RSS prompted a section in the Congress to temper its pro-minorities stance while some others wanted it to become a ‘Hindu party’, with the North Indian Hindu votes in mind, against the Sangh-sponsored Hindutva. Rahul himself did temple-hopping, was described as a ‘janeu-dhari’ Hindu and did not shy away from proclaiming himself a Shiva devotee. Priyanka Gandhi recently opened her speech at a rally in Varanasi with a Hindu hymn. With waning electoral success, many in the Congress were also seen less enthusiastic about countering the BJP/RSS, a perennial complaint Rahul had. Rahul himself provided an example of the differences of perception within the party at the CWC meeting. In October 2015, he had wanted to meet the family of Akhlaq, who was lynched by a mob on suspicion that he had stored beef at his home, but a section of senior leaders were against Rahul doing so. They tried to convince him against visiting the family, fearing that his visit could be politically counter-productive. But he did visit the family. This was not the first time that he expressed his dismay at the way the leaders thought the party should fight the BJP. His resignation letter after the 2019 Lok Sabha election debacle amplified his anguish: “At times, I stood alone, and am extremely proud of it,” he had written. While the party seeks to turn a new leaf, it may not be easy for the leadership to bring the focus back on what the Congress stands for. Its young supporters are unhappy at the drift in the party and impatient at the way the anti-BJP counter is designed, with many feeling that the seniors’ approach has passed its expiry date.  For long, the Congress has been a loose confederation of ideas where every thought has space. But with the political landscape changing drastically with the election of a government under Narendra Modi, a section in the Congress believes that it cannot remain the way it was. However, there is division within this group. One section feels that Rahul is pushing the Congress to the left from the centre, sometimes going a bit too far. They argue that Congress is a centrist party and it should not take a radical turn. They view Rahul’s dalliance with the left in the country suspiciously and detest the new presence of people like Kanhaiya Kumar in his circle. Many are also keenly watching to see what line the Congress will take on the economy. With the country’s exacerbating economic woes, especially after Covid-19, the Congress has tweaked its priorities. Rahul himself made a rare admission this September when he said that the economic reforms ushered in in 1991 had run their course by 2012 (the UPA lost power two years later) and that a new approach is needed to come out of the mess India is in. He said the Congress knows the way out but did not spell it out. An out-and-out left turn is not anticipated, but one cannot miss the party’s stand on the farm laws and labour issues in recent times, which a senior leftist parliamentarian says is very surprising as he had not expected Congress to take such a stand. The political situation requires out-of-the-box thinking. The Congress knows that winning is important but realises that ideology-less functioning with just elections in mind, which election strategists sell, will not work. The party’s focus recently shows that it realises that the fight is based on the political economy. However, it is aware of the role caste and religion play in Indian democracy. It also acknowledges that the BJP has taken the political space the Congress once held and added its majoritarian tinge to it. A challenging task stares the Congress in the face. If it has to win, it will have to ideologically equip the cadre to take on the BJP/RSS on the political economy while ensuring that it does not lose the plot on issues of caste and religion.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/rahul-seeks-return-to-ideology-and-a-left-turn-but-will-congress-follow-1042561.html
20-10-2021||Panorama||A new approach to rural healthcare||India’s villages are its veritable heart and home to more than two-thirds of its population. However, the second wave of the pandemic pierced a hole in it. According to a report, 53% of new cases of Covid-19 and 52% of deaths in India in May were recorded in rural districts. While targeted efforts were in place to improve the rural health infrastructure in the country, the pandemic has underscored its urgency. The public health expenditure in India has gone up from 1.2% to 1.8% of GDP between 2008-09 and 2019-21, and is quite low when compared with other countries such as China (3.2%) or the US (8.5)%. However, no verified estimate of potential investment requirements to improve rural health is available yet. This offers an opportunity to move away from the stock approach to address the specific needs of India’s rural healthcare system. The most common discussion around healthcare in India circles around either building or expanding tertiary capacity that offers highly specialised services. Such advanced treatments are necessary, but it risks overlooking the need for preventive and promotive healthcare and therefore the need to boost the capacity of primary healthcare. Some of the potential ways are explained below. Point-of-care diagnostics: The ground-breaking innovations which introduced point-of-care diagnostics facilities should be harnessed more in a rural setup. In the wake of Covid-19 where quick and reliable diagnostics played a crucial role in breaking the chain of transmission, those residing in villages often found themselves behind the curve. Since established laboratories find the rural areas and hinterlands unsustainable for their business, PoC facilities will become important in ensuring timely diagnosis of fatal conditions, especially for time-sensitive ones such as cancer. Awareness through women: Women in rural areas are a thread that ties the community together. Empowering them is as good as empowering the community. Communications pertaining to social and behavioural change must be targeted to women and self-help groups they run. Educating them with evidence-based findings will ensure that the knowledge spreads to the community. This will lead to more people coming forward for diagnosis and treatment at a stage when their disease can be cured. Focus on nutrition: During the peak of the pandemic, accredited social health activists (ASHA) ensured maximum healthcare coverage and access despite massive disruptions. They not only ensured timely care for expectant mothers and newborns but also brought requisite nutrition to them under the ICDS programme, in conjunction with the Anganwadis. With the threat of future waves looming, strategies must be devised to optimise their capacity and leverage for the health and wellbeing of rural Indians. Dedicated infectious diseases wing in PHCs: Unlike cities, villages are a close-knit community, so adhering to distancing norms can be difficult. Dedicated and separate sections in primary health centres can help isolate and treat people in case of fresh outbreaks of infectious diseases. The communicable disease surveillance and strengthening of health surveillance infrastructure with a proposed outlay of Rs 12,000 crore needs a more planned implementation in rural areas where the spread could be faster and wider. Common Service Centres: Upping the capacity of existing facilities is an effective way to help. The Common Service Centres, set up by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, played a wide-ranging role in the rural areas during the pandemic. They registered villagers for vaccination, extended banking services and ran district-level Virtual Learning Environment (VLE). It made telemedicine accessible and popular in rural India. Leveraging the capacity of CSCs can help India manage diseases in rural populations. Encourage CSR: After overcoming the initial disruptions caused by the lockdown, Indian corporates bridged the gap in their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) spending by contributing to the PM-CARES Funds and driving relief efforts in their community. Improving the existing healthcare facilities and augmenting auxiliary segments such as water, health, and sanitation will help improve preventive and promotive health in rural India. (The writer is CEO of a Delhi-based thinktank focussing on health)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-new-approach-to-rural-healthcare-1042567.html
20-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Cricket-tricks||My uncle R Krishna Murthy (nicknamed Kitta) was a leg spinner for Bengaluru’s Central College cricket team once upon a time. He played for one of the few private cricket clubs in the city at that time. Once his club arranged a match with a team from Tumkur. As the team travelled to Tumkur on the scheduled date, they were feeling good about their chances: a big city club taking on a small-town cricket team. It was a beautiful day. The Bengaluru team sported their white flannels, brimming with confidence. After team introductions, the Tumkur team won the toss and chose to field. It was a mat pitch, as was common then, so inspection of the pitch was deemed unnecessary prior to the match. The Bengaluru openers easily handled the Tumkur pacers bowling with the new ball. After the ball lost its shine, the Tumkur captain called in the leg spinner, a young man of slight build. Once he found his line and length, the batsmen found it extremely hard to play. Soon, wickets started falling and the Bengaluru team suffered a collapse. Even their best batsmen couldn’t hold the line. The team’s paltry score shocked everyone, and the already red faces of the English players on the Bengaluru team turned redder! During the lunch break, they concluded that the young spin bowler had played havoc with his leg spinners. So they turned to Kitta. They all agreed that he was their best chance if he could work out the same magic as the opposing team’s spinner. Tumkur started batting after lunch and their openers had no difficulty with the Bengaluru pacers. After the ball lost its shine, the captain handed the ball to Kitta. Kitta found his line and length soon, and the bowling turned deadly for the Tumkur batsmen! They just could not play him. Soon, they too collapsed and Bengaluru went on to win the match! The Bengaluru team was ecstatic, and they hoisted Kitta on their shoulders as they walked back to the pavilion! Kitta said with a twinkle in his eyes that he had only tried to imitate the Tumkur spinner, and picked the same spot to pitch the ball. When asked to explain, he led the team to the spot and lifted the mat. To their shock, they saw a hole in the ground filled with stones. This made the balls pitched there unpredictable and unplayable. The Tumkur club had tried to get an unfair “home ground advantage”! Notwithstanding their win, the Bengaluru team was apoplectic and reported the matter to the umpire. The umpire was shocked and the opposing team was embarrassed. The umpire calmed the two teams down and reminded them that cricket is a gentleman’s game and that such tricks were unsportsmanlike. Kitta went on to earn a spot on the Board of Honors at Central College Cricket Grounds, a point of pride for me, especially when I was in high school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/cricket-tricks-1042566.html
20-10-2021||Second Edit||Temples don’t need privatisation||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s demand that the operating rights of Hindu temples should be handed over to Hindus and their wealth should be utilised only for the welfare of Hindus is a misconceived and mischievous idea, aimed at political control and not any better management of temples. Though the RSS claims to be a cultural organisation, its core is religion and its operating system is political. The demand for management of temples by Hindus is driven by the idea that control of temples would give it and its allied organisations access to and sway over the minds of devotees. There are countless temples in India, big and small, and the expectation may be that they could serve as nodal political points for organisations that claim to represent Hindus. That is misuse and exploitation of the religious sentiments and devotion of the people. In any case, Hindus have not given any organisation or person the right to speak for them. It is significant that Bhagwat said temples in South India are fully controlled by state governments. It so happens that Sangh Parivar organisations have not been able to gain dominance in the South, and it may not be an accident that a campaign to “free” temples from government control was launched in Tamil Nadu before the Assembly elections there earlier this year. There is no case for governments to exit from managing temples and for handing them over to “devotees”. In many cases, temples have been traditionally managed by governments -- in olden times by kings, later by the British government, and still later by state governments, and administered by their representatives. When governments took over temples, it was because they were mismanaged by their owners — individuals, families or private institutions – or to overcome the caste barriers to temple entry. The management of temples by governments is done under relevant laws, and their right to do so have been upheld by courts. At the practical level, it is not clear who the “devotees” are to whom the temples have to be handed over. How are they to be identified? If governments step back, powerful and vested private interests will take over the temples. Some temples are very rich and will attract people who will make a business of them. It is also likely that some wrong and regressive social practices and customs that once prevailed in temples will come back. Some of these social evils and attitudes are already finding a resurgence in society. Bhagwat’s demand should be seen in that context. If indeed he wants temples to be privatised, perhaps he should begin by asking the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh to begin with the iconic Kashi Vishwanath temple. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/temples-don-t-need-privatisation-1042565.html
20-10-2021||South||Renovated Yadadri temple to be inaugurated next year||The renovated Yadadri temple would be inaugurated in March, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced on Tuesday. After inspecting the progress of works at the Lord Lakshmi Narasimha temple located about 65 km northeast of Hyderabad, Rao said that a Mahakumbha Samprokshana would be held on March 28 with Sudarshana Yagam commencing on March 20. Rao had, in his first term, initiated the grand project to redevelop the hill shrine on the lines of Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh. The mega-renovation is costing over Rs 1,000 crore. The reconstruction was originally planned to be completed by 2019. The project is nearing completion now. The chief minister said that on behalf of his family, a donation of 1.160 kg gold would be offered towards the 125 kg gold required for the aureate coating of the main sanctum’s gopuram. “There was discrimination in spiritual aspects too when Telangana was under united Andhra Pradesh. Even the Godavari Pushkarams were not held here. Our state has a very great religious heritage and to spread that glory we have taken up the reconstruction of Yadadri temple,” Rao told reporters. During his New Delhi tour in September first week, Rao had invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the renovated temple’s inauguration, and the PM, officials said, “gave assurance of his attendance.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/renovated-yadadri-temple-to-be-inaugurated-next-year-1042273.html
20-10-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh bandh: TDP leaders taken into preventive custody||Several leaders belonging to Telugu Desam Party were taken into preventive custody on Wednesday as the opposition party gave a bandh call protesting the alleged attacks on the party's offices at some places on Tuesday. Many senior leaders were put under house arrest to prevent them from participating in the bandh. A senior official of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation said as of 5 AM there was no disruption to normal bus services. The ruling YSR Congress Party cadre on Tuesday allegedly vandalised TDP's headquarters at Mangalagiri near here, offices at Visakhapatnam and other places, blaming that opposition party's spokesperson K Pttabhi Ram made objectionable comments against the Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in a press conference. Reacting to the attack, TDP supremo N Chandrababu Naidu had called for a state-wide bandh. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-bandh-tdp-leaders-taken-into-preventive-custody-1042316.html
20-10-2021||South||Modi congratulates BJP members elected in Tamil Nadu local body polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated BJP members who emerged victorious in the recent Tamil Nadu local body polls, and said the party will keep working for the state's betterment. Modi's tweet was in response to state BJP president K Annamalai's post on a meeting of the party's elected candidates as he noted that they included eight first-time union councillors, 41 village panchayat presidents, most of them first-timers, and 332 ward members. தமிழ்நாடு உள்ளாட்சித் தேர்தலில் தேர்ந்தெடுக்கப்பட்ட எங்கள் கட்சிக்காரர்களை நான் வாழ்த்த விரும்புகிறேன். எங்கள் மீது நம்பிக்கை வைத்த தமிழ்நாட்டின் சகோதர சகோதரிகளுக்கு நன்றி. "I would like to congratulate our fellow Karyakartas who have been elected in the Tamil Nadu local body polls. I thank the sisters and brothers of Tamil Nadu who reposed their faith in us," Modi tweeted. "We will keep working for the betterment of the wonderful state of Tamil Nadu," he added.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/modi-congratulates-bjp-members-elected-in-tamil-nadu-local-body-polls-1042319.html
20-10-2021||South||Kerala hotel owner kills self citing 'irrational' lockdown norms||A small-time hotel owner in Kerala's Kottayam district ended his life by jumping before a train, blaming Kerala government's "irrational" lockdown norms for his taking the ultimate step. Before his suicide on Monday night, Sarin Mohan, 38, posted on Facebook that until six months back, he had a flourishing hotel business, but lost everything due to the "irrational" lockdown norms. "The liquor shops were crowded, so were buses and shopping malls," he said, adding that marriages were allowed with 100 people, which was not the case with hotels where dining facilities were disallowed. Even the political parties could hold public meetings, he noted. "The lockdown norms finished me off, as I live under fear from private banks and money lenders. Now, even if I work hard for six years, I will not be able to repay the debts. With my death, I wish the state government ends the stupid lockdown norms. Please don't play with the lives of ordinary people. The Kerala government is solely responsible for my death. Mine is a classic case of how an ordinary man is trapped in debts and his life comes to an end." "I have a wife who only knows to love and two children. My younger son is autistic and he also has to live in this world and has a right to do so," he wrote, sharing his bank account details to seek financial help for his family. He also appealed to the finder of his mobile phone to return it to his family as his daughter needs it to attend online classes. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hotel-owner-kills-self-citing-irrational-lockdown-norms-1042350.html
20-10-2021||South||Relief to Kerala as IMD scales down rough weather alert||In a relief to Kerala, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday scaled down the rough weather alert sounded across the state for Wednesday and Thursday. Some parts of the landslide-hit Kottayam district in central Kerala and North Kerala district Kozhikode received heavy rains during the day. However, no untoward incidents were reported. Isolated heavy rainfall was forecast over the state for the next two to three days as a cyclonic circulation lies over south Tamil Nadu coast and neighbourhood Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a total of 42 Covid deaths were reported in the state from October 12 onwards in rain and landslide related incidents, while six persons were still missing. While the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front demanded an inquiry into the alleged lapses in weather alert systems and disaster management, the Chief Minister said that there were technological limitations for the weather alert systems. According to the latest forecast of the IMD, an orange alert was there only in Idukki, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts for Thursday. A yellow alert was issued in five districts. Earlier, an orange alert was issued in 11 of the 14 districts of the state for Wednesday and 12 districts on Thursday. As the water started receding in many flood-affected areas of Pathanamthitta and Kottayam districts, families started to return to their homes and start the cleaning process. Around 3,850 persons were still staying in over 300 relief camps across the state. "Extra care would be taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 through relief camps," said the Chief Minister. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/relief-to-kerala-as-imd-scales-down-rough-weather-alert-1042353.html
20-10-2021||South||Ham radios come to the rescue in rain-hit Kerala||Even as the incessant rains and resultant flooding disrupted lives across central Kerala, ham radio enthusiasts have quietly swung into action in Thrissur district, setting up their unique work stations to ensure a steady stream of communication in case nature's fury wreaked havoc on conventional systems of contact. The district administration here has sought the service of Ham radio operators to coordinate disaster relief operations in case the communication system gets cut off due to any rain-related incident. "Communication turns out to be a major challenge when natural calamities strike. During heavy floods, there are chances that the power supply will be down for days, which will affect the communication systems including the mobile phones," Sarachandran C S, a former merchant navy officer-turned-ham radio operator told PTI. He is one of the ten operators hired by the Thrissur administration to handle emergency communication in case of any untoward incidents. All the operators have the Amateur Station Individual Operator licence issued by the Union government. All the Taluks offices in Thrissur district are currently equipped with radio facilities so that even when all other communication systems are down, emergency services can be contacted and details can be shared. The services of ham radio operators were utilised during the 2018 August deluge when the whole state was ravaged. "As the state was flooded, power connection was lost in most parts. This affected mobile communication in many places. Our service was sought by the district administration. Over 40 ham radio operators worked and helped at least 2,000 people during the floods that year," Sarachandran said. Ham radio and its operations are considered as the "King of all hobbies" and amateur radio, as it is otherwise known, is internationally accepted as a means of emergency communication. HAM operators use high frequency signals to connect with other operators. "It is basically an amateur radio set that is used for non-commercial exchange of messages, private recreation, self-training, emergency communication, etc," he said. From remote places where people are stranded and are unable to communicate with the outer world as their mobile phones are not working, HAM radio operators can track the last location of their phone's signal, based on which they try to locate the person, another HAM operator said. The operator, who was involved in rescue operations in the 2018 floods, said they used to transmit the details of those in isolated areas to the state emergency operation centre in Thiruvananthapuram. "Thrissur, Aluva, Alappuzha, Chengannur and Ranni were the most affected last time. The details of people stranded there were collected through ham radio and were transmitted to the state emergency operation centre," the operator said. There are various types of ham radio depending upon on their battery capacity ranging from 10 W to 60 W. While 10 W radio set can transmit messages within a range of 10-15 km, the 60W can transmit messages up to a distance 100 km. The IMD has revised its rainfall alert and currently, Patthanamthitta, Kottayam and Idukki have been issued an Orange alert for Wednesday. However, the district administration has taken all precautions to deal with any untoward incidents. The heavy downpour on October 15 and 16 has resulted in numerous landslides in the hilly regions of Kottayam and Idukki districts resulting in at least over two dozen of people losing their lives. Various dams in the state have also been opened to release the surplus water and the government has issued warning to the people living downstream and shifted many to relief camps. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ham-radios-come-to-the-rescue-in-rain-hit-kerala-1042357.html
20-10-2021||South||Kerala Assembly pays homage to flood victims; death toll 39, says CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said a total of 39 people had lost their lives and 217 houses had been destroyed completely in the devastating landslides and flash floods that had occurred in the south-central districts of the state recently. At least six people were yet to be traced and 304 rehabilitation camps were opened after the heavy rains battered several areas of the southern state, he told the Assembly. After paying homage to the flood victims and pledging all support to the affected families, Speaker M B Rajesh declared the House adjourned today. The session, for the next two days, has been cancelled as the MLAs have to co-ordinate the flood relief programmes in their respective constituencies. The House was scheduled to be convened again from October 25. Expressing profound grief over the rain-related calamities, Vijayan said the unexpected tragedy was unbearable not only for the victims' family members but also for the entire state. "Thirty-nine people, who would have lived for many years, had been killed in the four days of torrential rains, floods and landslides. The tragedy has caused irreparable loss to their family members. The House is sharing their pain with a broken heart," the Chief Minister said in the Assembly. Assuring that the government would never abandon the grieving families, he said its care and consideration would be reflected in the rescue and relief measures and the restoration of their livelihood conditions. Kerala had been receiving excessive rains since October 11 and there was a slight dip in it's intensity on October 18 and 19, he said. The twin low-pressure areas, formed in the south-eastern Bay of Bengal and off the coast of Lakshadweep in the Arabian Sea from October 13-17, had caused heavy rains in several parts of the state, he said. "As of yesterday (October 19), the death toll in the state was 39 and the number of missing persons was six. As many as 3,851 families have been shifted to 304 rehabilitation camps opened across the state," Vijayan detailed. Stating that a total of 11 NDRF teams were camping in various districts, he said Indian Army personnel were also taking part in the rescue operations and the helicopters of the Air Force and the Navy were all set for any mission. As the India Meteorological Department has warned of heavy rains for two-three days in southern states including Kerala from October 20, alerts are being issued accordingly, he explained. In anticipation of this, water in dams was being released in a controlled manner after informing the district administration and the local people in the respective areas, he said and requested everyone's support in fighting the rain fury. Meanwhile, K Babu (Congress) who spoke in the House representing the opposition, urged the government to improve its disaster management system. Though natural disasters were recurring at frequent intervals, the warning system in the state was a failure, he alleged and wanted the government to provide adequate compensation to the affected persons. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-pays-homage-to-flood-victims-death-toll-39-says-cm-1042372.html
20-10-2021||South||A boy under focus as Idukki dam's shutters open||As the shutters of the Idukki dam at Cheruthoni were opened after three years on Tuesday, a six-year-old boy of Cheruthoni town was also under the focus. Soooraj, son of Vijayraj, was the little boy who was being carried by a rescue personnel who ran across the Cheruthoni bridge as it was getting submerged in the water that gushed in from the Idukki dam during the 2018 floods - a telling image of the 2018 floods that literally submerged Kerala. Sooraj, who was three then, was suffering from fever. The family was staying close to the bridge and they have to cross the bridge to go to the hospital. The entire locality was facing calamities. As Sooraj's father rushed him to hospital, the dam water already reached the top of the bridge. As he stayed helplessly, a NDRF personnel took the kid from him and ran across the bridge - a race against the gushing water. On Tuesday when the dam's shutters were being opened the Cheruthoni town was quite relaxed as, unlike in 2018, the authorities took adequate precautions and released the dam water gradually this time. Sooraj was among the scores of people who thronged to see the water coming. His father Vijayraj took him to the spot as the kid insisted on seeing it. The harrowing sight of the bridge being swollen by the dam water as soon as they cross it in 2018 still haunts Vijayaraj. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-boy-under-focus-as-idukki-dams-shutters-open-1042393.html
20-10-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan's sister Sharmila begins 4000 km foot march in Telangana to 'bring back YSR rule'||YS Sharmila, sister of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Wednesday began her 4,000 km padayatra in Telangana covering 90 assembly constituencies out of the total 119 in the state. Sharmila recently launched the YSR Telangana Party in the state. The march, 'Praja Prasthanam', began from Chevella near here, YSRTP sources said. "The aim of this Praja Prasthanam is to bring back YSR rule (former chief minister and her late father YS Rajasekhar Reddy) in the state. The aim is to ensure women and backward classes get their due share in Parliament and Legislative Assemblies," she said. She alleged that the state's youths are deprived of jobs pushing them into distress. Sharmila had earlier walked more than 3000 km as part of her padayatra during 2012-13 in undivided Andhra Pradesh in support of her brother. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagans-sister-sharmila-begins-4000-km-foot-march-in-telangana-to-bring-back-ysr-rule-1042455.html
20-10-2021||South||Kerala floods: Worn-out vehicles tubes come to the rescue||As Kerala faces devastating landslides and flash floods, youths came to the rescue of locals with worn-out vehicle tubes at Mundakayam in the hilly areas of Kottayam. Many people were rescued using worn-out vehicle tubes from the area where the water level rose to around 10 feet. Shamseer, who was among those who were involved in the rescue, told DH that it was a spur of the moment idea to use the tubes. "We rescued some cattle held up in the flood near the Manimala river when someone alerted that some people, including aged and children, were stranded on the first floor of houses. We noticed an air-filled tube that is used for fishing purposes and immediately rushed to the spot with the tube and managed to shift the stranded people," Shamseer told DH. Binu, who was among those rescued by the youths, said that the people of the locality never expected that water would go up to such a level. "The youths indeed did a brave act by rescuing us using tubes," he said. Meanwhile, in a tragic incident, Shahul, a native of the landslide-hit Kokkayar in Idukki district, not only failed in his attempts to save his younger son but also suffered serious injuries. He, however, managed to save his father, wife and two children. Shahul's house was also completely damaged in the landslide. His father suffered serious injuries. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-floods-worn-out-vehicles-tubes-come-to-the-rescue-1042483.html
20-10-2021||South||Telangana CM declares 'all-out' war against drugs menace||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has declared an all-out war against the drugs menace in the state. Rao instructed for the constitution of a special cell headed by a Director General of Police level officer to eradicate the problem, while assuring the police-excise officials of all the support in making “Telangana a drugs free state.” The CM held a high-level meeting on Wednesday with the two department officials to formulate a stringent strategy to control the illegal transport and sale of the banned drugs and other intoxicants. With reports showing that the use of cannabis (ganja) is on the rise, the CM instructed for a comprehensive action plan to totally eradicate its availability and consumption, “before the situation goes out of hand.” “We are making rapid development strides in agriculture, drinking water, and the power sector. We have also successfully controlled extremism in the state. Because of the excellent law and order situation we are able to attract huge investments,” the CM said while commending the Telangana police. “However, it is unfortunate that the availability of ganja, other banned drugs has increased in the state.” The CM's review comes in the wake of the opposition parties attacking the TRS government over the drug menace. Some localities like the Singareni Colony in Hyderabad have reportedly turned into hubs for ganja and drug addicts. Several Tollywood celebrities too were under probe for allegedly consuming drugs. Last month, Telangana Congress chief Revanth Reddy initiated “WhiteChallenge”, under which the opposition leader wants celebrities, politicians etc to undergo a test proving that they do not take drugs, and to send out a strong message to the public especially the youth against the menace. “I have convened this meeting with a lot of pain and concern. If we do not remove this malady, there is a danger of our achievements going to waste. The police and excise department officials should take serious note of these warning bells,” CM Rao said on Wednesday. The CM noted that WhatsApp groups are being formed by some youth to exchange information on drugs. “Innocent youth are falling prey to drug peddlers and damaging their health; some are even ending their lives,” Rao said, adding that de-addiction is a long, complicated process. The CM instructed the excise department to strengthen their enforcement wing and flying squads and keep a constant surveillance at educational institutions. The CM wants more check posts at the state borders to check ganja, drug transport, strengthening of the police-excise intelligence and communication network with provision of required vehicles too. “Officers showing good results in eradicating ganja-drugs will be given cash awards, rewards and special promotions. Our government is ready to provide anything to you to decimate this threat. Eradicate the ganja mafia and do not spare the criminals whoever they may be,” the CM assured the law enforcement officers. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-declares-all-out-war-against-drugs-menace-1042511.html
20-10-2021||South||Attacks on TDP offices: Chandrababu Naidu seeks central rule in Andhra Pradesh||Telugu Desam Party chief Chandrababu Naidu would sit on a 36 hour fast from Thursday morning, in protest of the attacks on the party offices and purported police inaction. In letters sent to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday, the former chief minister has alleged failure of law and order and breakdown of the Constitutional machinery in Andhra Pradesh and has sought the imposition of Article 356 – President's rule in the state. Naidu also asked for a CBI inquiry. The opposition party organised a state wide shutdown on Wednesday condemning the Tuesday attacks on its central office and other places by the YSRCP cadres. The TDP has been accusing YSRCP leaders and legislators of being involved in the ganja-drug trade in the state.  Objecting to some disparaging comments made by TDP leader Pattabhi Ram on Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy, the ruling party men allegedly went on rampage inside the TDP's Mangalagiri head office, damaging furniture, glass doors, other structures and cars, while also injuring a few TDP activists. Naidu termed the violent incidents as state sponsored terrorism and charged that the AP police acted in collusion with the attackers. Stating that there was a concerted and coordinated attack on the principal opposition's statewide offices and leaders, Naidu has asked for central police protection for TDP's offices and leaders. Naidu also spoke with Shah describing “the premeditated and politically motivated attacks” and vandalism on Tuesday at the TDP main and district offices. TDP sources said that Shah assured to look into the matter and the request of central agencies' security cover. On Wednesday, TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh said that Naidu's fast protest is aimed at “exposing the involvement of the ruling YSRCP leaders in the ghastly attacks on the TDP offices all over AP.” While no action was taken so far against the rioters, Lokesh stated that the police are filing false cases against the TDP leaders including him. Lokesh said that TDP, when it comes to power in 2024, would deal with Jagan and his men in the same manner. Lokesh appealed to AP people “to rise in revolt against the drug mafia which was becoming strong with support of the ruling YSRCP leaders.” “Hyderabad police commissioner clearly stated that ganja is being transported to Telangana mostly from Tuni, Narsipatnam, Paderu, Araku, Sileru and other places in AP. While Telangana CM Rao has called for an agitation against the ganja mafia, there is no such commitment here. In fact, drugs and ganja are becoming a legalized trade for the ruling party leaders in Andhra,” Lokesh accused. Naidu will begin his hunger deeksha at 8 am on Thursday and will end it at 8 pm on Friday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/attacks-on-tdp-offices-chandrababu-naidu-seeks-central-rule-in-andhra-pradesh-1042523.html
20-10-2021||South||IISc to give accident prevention tech to Kerala’s Silverline project||The Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and an institute-incubated startup signed an MoU on Thursday with Kerala Rail to enhance rail safety in vulnerable areas along that state’s high-speed ‘Silverline’ train project. L2M Rail, a startup incubated at IISc’s Society for Innovation and Development (SID), has developed a system to assess the strength of railway infrastructure. As per the MoU, the system will monitor the integrity of railway structures and infrastructure along Kerala’s 529 km-long ‘SilverLine’ between Thiruvananthapuram and Kasargod. The Structural Health Monitoring System (SHMS) uses Fiber Bragg Grating (FBG) sensing technology to provide real-time information about flood-prone areas, earth-slip locations, weak soil and heavy rainfall. The system is expected to usher in a transition to digital monitoring from physical inspections of the line. Sreenivasa Rao Ganapa, a former member of the Indian Railway Service of Signal Engineers (IRSSE) and co-founder of L2M Rail, said the system was developed to fill the lack of existing hardware to monitor trains and railway structures in real-time.  “Structural defects are generally identified only when an accident occurs. The preventive identification of weak links could have helped avoid mass casualties, like the recent Mexico metro rail structure collapse,” he said. The rail corporation will embed or attach sensors in rail structures, enabling both on-demand and continuous data, as well as 24/7 warning alerts in case of damage detection.  Ganapa said the FBG sensor technology can be applied to any field that requires constant, real-time monitoring and timely warning alerts to identify damages. Previously, a wheel impact load detector developed by the startup was deployed at two locations in Bengaluru, with the support of Indian Railways and IISc.  The MoUs were exchanged between the MD of Kerala Rail V Ajith Kumar and IISc registrar Capt Sudhir Warrier, in the presence of Prof Govindan Rangrajan, director, IISc, and Prof B Gurumoorthy, chief executive of SID, IISc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iisc-to-give-accident-prevention-tech-to-kerala-s-silverline-project-1042536.html
20-10-2021||South||Rains, minor landslides reported in some parts of Kerala||Heavy rains and minor landslides and landslips were reported from some parts of Kerala on Wednesday evening. There were no casualties. Landslides were reported from parts of Kottayam and Idukki, which already suffered major land slides that claimed 19 lives. Minor landslides were reported from Palakkad and Malappuram districts. Heavy rains were also reported from some parts of Wayanad, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Pathanamthitta districts. People at the calamity-prone areas were shifted to safe places. Isolated heavy rainfall was forecast over the state for next two to three days as a cyclonic circulation lies over south Tamil Nadu coast and neighbourhood. North East monsoon is also likely to commence by next week. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rains-minor-landslides-reported-in-some-parts-of-kerala-1042543.html
20-10-2021||State||Police detain group of youths for hurting religious sentiments||Rural Police detained a group of youths on charges of  hurting the religious sentiments by raising slogans in favour of Eid-Milad festival near Aghoreshwara temple at Ikkeri village in the taluk on Tuesday evening.  Villagers lodged a complaint at Rural police station alleging that a group of youths who came in an autorickshaw raised slogans in favour of Eid-Milad festival when puja was going on in the temple. Following it, police seized two autorickshaws and detained them for interrogation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-detain-youths-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-in-sagar-taluk-on-eid-1042274.html
20-10-2021||State||Quota hike: Will try my best to do justice, says Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday assured the Valmiki community that he would “try his best” to meet their demand for a hike in reservation while stressing that it was “not easy and full of challenges”.  Bommai was speaking at a function on the occasion of Maharshi Valmiki Jayanti.  The Valmiki (ST) community has demanded a hike in quota from the existing 3% to 7.5%. This, along with similar demands made by other communities, is being looked into by a 3-member committee headed by former High Court judge and Upa Lokayukta Justice Subhash B Adi.  “We are looking at ways to resolve this under the legal framework and an expert committee has been constituted. I will try my best to do justice to the aspirations of all communities. But, it’s not easy and full of challenges. I need everybody’s cooperation to arrive at a decision that will be unanimous in the interest of social justice,” Bommai said.  Bommai pointed out that all reservations should be under 50%. “With the increase in population and aspirations, we need to relook and re-examine this nationally,” he said.  The state government has earmarked Rs 7,600 crore for ST welfare, Bommai said. “In my first Cabinet meeting, we decided to create a separate secretariat for ST welfare,” he said. “There’s a land ownership scheme under which I have asked officials to give government land wherever available or purchase new land that can be given to SC/STs,” he said.  Bommai said his government is working on a new programme for the self-employment of SC/ST and OBC women. “We haven’t been able to encourage SC/ST women to the extent that they deserve. I’m talking to NABARD and in the coming days we will help women with self-employment. There will be social change only when SC/ST and OBC women become financially independent. We’re designing a programme keeping this aim in mind,” he said.  Valmiki community pontiff Prasanandapuri Swami urged Bommai to act on the reservation demand soon. “I don’t know how you’ll do it. There are challenges like you said, but it should be done as soon as possible,” he said.  On this occasion, the government gave the Maharshi Valmiki award to achievers from various walks of life.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/quota-hike-will-try-my-best-to-do-justice-says-basavaraj-bommai-1042434.html
20-10-2021||State||4 of Vijayapura family among 5 killed in accident||Four members of a Vijayapura family were killed after a car they were travelling by rammed into a stationary lorry at Honaganahalli in Babaleshwar taluk on Wednesday morning. Deceased are: Manjunath Mundewadi (42), a teacher, his wife Savithri (37) and their daughters Aaradhya (8) and Ayukta, residents of Saipark in Vijayapura. Lorry driver Thahir Pathan (33), a native of Beed district in Maharashtra, was also killed in the accident. Another child of Manjunath-Savitri couple Ashok has been admitted to a private hospital in the city with grievous injuries. The accident occurred when the Mundewadi family was returning home from Goa. The Vijayapura Rural police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/4-of-vijayapura-family-among-5-killed-in-accident-1042537.html
20-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on grand procession in Belagavi on Karnataka Rajyotsava after discussion with experts: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that demand for organising a grand procession on the occasion of Karnataka Rajyotsava in Belagavi on November 1 has come to his notice. The decision regarding the demand will be taken after talks with experts, he said.  Bommai told reporters on Wednesday that new cases of Covid-19 were on the downside in Belagavi but no decision has been taken regarding processions being allowed. Meeting with experts will be held regarding the demand from Kannada activists of the town. He said he will visit Kittur on October 23 for the inauguration of Kittur Utsav, celebrated to mark the victory of Rani Channamma over the British. Regarding the demand to rename the Mumbai Karnataka region as Kittur Karnataka, Bommai said the decision has to be taken at a Cabinet meeting. He expressed confidence that BJP candidates would emerge victorious in the by-elections for Sindagi and Hangal assembly constituencies. CM would be in Hangal and campaign for three days. Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-grand-procession-in-belagavi-on-karnataka-rajyotsava-after-discussion-with-experts-cm-1042313.html
20-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka advised to vaccinate 17-year-olds first after children's vaccine rollout||Once vaccinations for those aged between the age of 12- to 18-year-olds is given the green light, Karnataka is likely to vaccinate 16 and 17-year-olds first. Two vaccines — Zydus Cadila's ZyCoV-D and Bharat Bioech's Covaxin — are likely to be included in India's vaccination program for children soon. While ZyCoV-D received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India in August, Covaxin was recommended by the Subject Expert Committee close to a week ago. Karnataka has so far vaccinated 66.76 per cent of its adult population with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 33.23 per cent of its adult vaccination has received the second dose. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-advised-to-vaccinate-17-year-olds-first-after-childrens-vaccine-rollout-1042327.html
20-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai offers help to rain-hit Kerala||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said he has offered to help the neighbouring Kerala with support on relief and rehabilitation measures in the wake of heavy rains and landslides. “Spoke to Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan & expressed deep grief over the loss of lives due to heavy rains & landslides,” Bommai said in a tweet. “I have asked the Chief Secretary to be in touch with Kerala Chief Secretary for all support in relief & rehabilitation. Our prayers are with Kerala in this hour of crisis,” he said. At least 35 people have died due to floods and heavy rainfall that has disrupted life in Kerala. The southern state has received 135% excess rainfall from October 1 to 19. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-offers-help-to-rain-hit-kerala-1042465.html
20-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa objects to Kateel's 'drug addict Rahul' remark||Former Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday expressed disapproval over BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel's statement referring to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as a "drug addict and peddler".  "No one should speak like that about anyone. I will ask Kateel on what basis he said that. It is unnecessary," Yediyurappa told reporters on the sidelines of the Sindgi bypoll campaign. "Be it Rahul Gandhi or someone else, everybody has to be respected and no one should be disrespected." Kateel faced flak by the Congress for his comments, with Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar demanding an apology for the sake of keeping the political discourse civil.  Yediyurappa's disapproval came even as BJP spokesperson Ganesh Karnik defended Kateel.  According to Karnik, Kateel's statement on Rahul was based on BJP MP Subramanian Swamy's interview. "In that interview, [Swamy] said that in 2001 Rahul Gandhi was detained by the FBI for allegedly possessing contraband worth Rs 1.6 lakh dollars. Based on a request by the then Congress and UPA chief Sonia Gandhi, the then PM Vajpayee spoke to the then US president George Bush and got Rahul released. This was reported in the media. This is what Kateel was referring to," Karnik said, adding that Rahul and Sonia had not objected. "Those who are servile to one family are protesting," he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-objects-to-kateels-drug-addict-rahul-remark-1042480.html
20-10-2021||West||Will Aryan Khan get bail? NDPS court's verdict on Wednesday||An NDPS court in Mumbai is slated to deliver an order on Aryan Khan's bail plea in the crusie ship drugs case on Wednesday. Aryan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on October 3 after a dramatic cruise raid wherein at least eight people were detained and drugs seized. In the previous hearing held on October 14, the NCB, while opposing Aryan Khan's bail plea had told the court that he was a regular consumer of drugs. Since his arrest, the NCB has maintained that though nothing was recovered from him personally, Aryan's WhatsApp chats revealed his links with drug peddlers. The ASG further contended that drugs were seized from Merchant at the docks, and they were meant for consumption by both Aryan and him. The NCB also claimed that Aryan was in contact with members of an international drug racket. The NCB was in touch with the External Affairs Ministry to identify them, the ASG said.  Khan and two others — Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha — had sought bail from the court of V V Patil, special judge for cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. On Saturday, he assured NCB officials during counseling that he would work for the welfare of the poor and never do anything that would besmirch his name in the future, an official said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-aryan-khan-get-bail-ndps-courts-verdict-on-wednesday-1042303.html
20-10-2021||West||We want richest tourists, not those who consume drugs: Goa tourism minister||Goa Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Tuesday said the state does not want tourists "who consume drugs" and "spoil" Goa's name. He further added that they don’t want tourists "who come to Goa and cook food inside a bus".  "We don’t want tourists who consume drugs and who spoil Goa. We don’t want tourists who come to Goa and cook food inside a bus. We want richest tourists (sic). We welcome all tourists but they should enjoy themselves while respecting Goa’s culture," Goa Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said.  Two weeks back, an NCB team led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, had raided a Goa-bound Cordelia cruise off Mumbai coast and allegedly seized drugs. Several persons, including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, were arrested in connection with the case. Last Saturday, the NCB had conducted searches at film producer Imtiyaz Khatri's residence and office in suburban Bandra.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-want-richest-tourists-not-those-who-consume-drugs-goa-tourism-minister-1042305.html
20-10-2021||West||4 killed, 2 injured after van on way to temple overturns in Gujarat's Kheda||Four people were killed and two others seriously injured after their van overturned in Gujarat's Kheda district, police said on Wednesday. The accident took place around midnight in Mahudha town near Nadiad city when the six people were going to offer prayers at a temple in Malataj village of neighbouring Anand district, an official from Mahudha police station said. The van, which was on its way from Santrampur in Mahisagar district, overturned after its driver lost control over the wheels while trying to avoid collision with a truck coming from the opposite direction, he said. One van occupant died on the spot, two others succumbed during treatment at a civil hospital in Nadiad and another person died at the Ahmedabad civil hospital where he was referred for treatment, the official said. Two other persons received serious injuries in the accident and they were undergoing treatment at a hospital in Nadiad, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-killed-2-injured-after-van-on-way-to-temple-overturns-in-gujarats-kheda-1042311.html
20-10-2021||West||Maharashtra: Stone-pelting by mob in Osmanabad over social media post; 4 cops injured||A mob of over 150 people allegedly pelted stones on vehicles and hoardings on a road in Maharashtra's Osmanabad city to express their anger over an objectionable post against Mughal emperor Aurangzeb on Facebook, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place around 10.30 pm on Tuesday in Vijay Chowk area and four policemen were injured while trying to stop the violent mob, they said. "The mob vandalised a hoarding, a police vehicle and an auto-rickshaw in Vijay Chowk area. Four policemen, including an officer, were injured while they were trying to stop the mob," Osmanabad city police station's inspector Suresh Budhwant told PTI. A case was registered against 43 people, who were named, and 150 to 170 unidentified protesters under various IPC Sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty) public service, 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, another official said.  Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-stone-pelting-by-mob-in-osmanabad-over-social-media-post-4-cops-injured-1042343.html
20-10-2021||West||SC sets aside Gujarat HC order granting furlough to Asaram Bapu's son Narayan Sai||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set aside the order of the Gujarat High Court granting 14-day furlough to rape convict Narayan Sai, son of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna allowed the appeal of the Gujarat government challenging the June 24 order of the high court granting furlough to Sai. The top court said that furlough is not an absolute right and it depends on various factors. It said the jail superintendent has given a negative opinion for grant of furlough to Sai as a mobile phone was found from his cell. On August 12, the top court had stayed the Gujarat High Court order giving two-week furlough to Sai. The top court had issued a notice to Sai on the Gujarat government's plea challenging the high court's single-judge order of June 24 and stayed it till further orders. It had said that the proviso to Rule 3(2) of the Bombay Furlough and Parole Rules 1959, provides that a prisoner sentenced to life imprisonment may be released on furlough “every year” after he completes seven years actual imprisonment. The single-judge bench of the high court ordered the release of Sai on furlough for two weeks on June 24, 2021, but the division bench had stayed it till August 13 and thereafter the state has moved the top court challenging the June 24 order. The state government has contended that under the rules and even in a judgement of this court, it has been held that furlough is not an absolute right and it depends on various factors. It had said Sai and his father were arrested for offences under rape charges and they wield considerable influence with money and muscle power. On April 26, 2019, Sai was convicted under the Indian Penal Code sections 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences), 323 (assault), 506-2 (criminal intimidation), and 120-B (conspiracy) by a Surat court and sentenced to life imprisonment. In 2013, Asaram was arrested for allegedly raping a girl in Rajasthan after two Surat-based sisters had accused Asaram and his son of sexual exploitation. The elder sister had accused Asaram of sexual assaulting her between 1997 and 2006 when she lived at his Ahmedabad ashram. The younger sister had accused the godman's son of sexual assault when she lived at Asaram's ashram in the Jahangirpura area of Surat between 2002 and 2005. The incidents of multiple sexual assaults and unnatural sex with the victim had taken place between 2002 and 2005, but the case against Sai had been filed only in 2013. Sai was arrested from the Delhi-Haryana border in December 2013. When Sai was in jail, the Surat police had claimed to have unearthed elaborate plans to bribe police officers, doctors, and even judicial officers to weaken the case against him. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-sets-aside-gujarat-hc-order-granting-furlough-to-asaram-bapus-son-narayan-sai-1042347.html
20-10-2021||West||'Sex tourism' racket busted in Mumbai; 2 women held, 2 victims rescued||The Mumbai Police's crime branch on Wednesday said they have busted a 'sex tourism' racket with the arrest of two of its women operators at the city airport. The police also rescued two women, who were scheduled to go to Goa with dummy customers, after the racket was busted on Monday evening, a senior official said. He said the crime branch had specific information that a woman, who was rescued in a case of immoral traffic prevention last year, was in the business of sex tourism with other partners at various popular destinations in the country. Her modus operandi was to offer a client to take a woman along for sex to a tourist destination for two days, the official said. After fixing a deal with the client, the woman, who is the main accused in this case, used to give a choice of place in the country, he said, adding that Goa was the most preferred destination among customers. The accused would then send photographs of females to the client to select one out of them. The client would then book air tickets for both of them. The accused woman used to charge Rs 50,000 for the two-day schedule and other all expenses were to be borne by the client, the official said. Working on the information, unit-7 of the crime branch arranged two decoy customers to contact the accused, he said. Accordingly, a trip was organised to Goa along with two females by paying Rs 45,000 and Rs 40,000 for them, the official said. The police laid a trap at the Mumbai airport on Monday evening when a flight to Goa was scheduled from here. At the airport, a woman operator came along with the two females who were to go to Goa. They approached the client, who was actually a police officer and was supposed to go to Goa with them along with one of his friends. After the exchange of money between the two sides, the police officer, who was posing as a customer, alerted his team following which the woman operator and the other two females were apprehended, the official said. During their questioning, the crime branch team came to know that the main accused woman had already entered the flight departure gate at the airport and was getting herself a boarding pass, Deputy Commissioner of Police Datta Nalawade said. Police inspectors Manish Shridhankar and Priya Thorat, who led the team, then acted swiftly to nab her with the help of personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), he said. She was taken into custody and placed under arrest after an enquiry, he said. During questioning, the accused admitted to police that she used to run the racket, the official said. An FIR was registered against her and the other woman operator nabbed at the airport under relevant provisions of the the Indian Penal Code and the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. The two other females, who were to travel with clients to Goa, were sent to a shelter home, the official said. The two accused were on Tuesday produced before a holiday court which remanded them in police custody for a day, he added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sex-tourism-racket-busted-in-mumbai-2-women-held-2-victims-rescued-1042356.html
20-10-2021||West||Maharashtra colleges, universities resume physical classes||Colleges and universities across Maharashtra resumed physical classes on Wednesday, after being closed for over one-and-a-half years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the state government's directive, only fully vaccinated students are being allowed to attend the classroom sessions. For those who cannot attend the physical classes in the wake of the fully vaccinated criteria, most colleges have made the provision of broadcasting live lectures or continuing with the online lectures facility. Last week, Maharashtra Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said all the colleges and universities in the state can conduct physical classes from October 20 and students must be fully vaccinated in order to attend the classroom sessions. The decision comes in the wake of schools across the state resuming physical sessions for classes 5 to 12 on October 4 after being shut for more than one-and-a-half years due to the pandemic. The state government has allowed all non-agricultural colleges, state-run universities, deemed universities, self-financed universities and colleges affiliated to them to hold physical classes with effect from Wednesday. Minister Samant last week said every university should issue the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to the colleges affiliated to it. Acting on the government's directive, the Mumbai University on Sunday issued SOPs for all colleges affiliated to it. As per its SOPs, the classrooms can have only 50 per cent students of the total capacity. Also, colleges should give the students an option for online or offline sessions. The institutes should keep a record of the Covid-19 vaccination certificates of every student and staff attending the physical sessions, according to the Mumbai University's SOPs. On Tuesday, Maharashtra reported 1,638 new coronavirus cases and 49 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 65,94,820 and the toll to 1,39,865, while 2,791 patients recovered, a health department official earlier said. The total number of recoveries in Maharashtra rose to 64,24,547, leaving the state with 26,805 active cases, the official said. Maharashtra's COVID-19 recovery rate stood at 97.42 per cent, while the fatality rate was 2.12 per cent.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-colleges-universities-resume-physical-classes-1042358.html
20-10-2021||West||Drugs on cruise case: Aryan Khan's bail plea rejected||In a major jolt to Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, a special court in Mumbai on Wednesday rejected the bail application of his son Aryan Khan, who was arrested in a drugs-related case. Aryan Khan (23), was arrested on 3 October by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and booked under the stringent Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) after a raid on a cruise ship Cordelia, where a rave party involving high-profile people was busted. A total of 20 persons have been arrested by the anti-drugs agency in the case so far. Khan’s legal team moved the Bombay High Court challenging the order of the special NDPS court. Besides Aryan Khan, the NDPS court also rejected the bail pleas of two co-accused, Arbaaz Merchant, a social media influencer, and Munmun Dhamecha, a model and designer. “…Bail applications 2571/21, 2576/21 and 2583/21 stand rejected. Accordingly Bail applications are disposed off,” said Special Judge VV Patil, who last week heard Aryan Khan’s counsel Amit Desai and Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who represented the NCB. Judge Patil accepted the NCB’s contention that Aryan Khan was a regular consumer of drugs, dealing in narcotics and the case having international links as evident from his WhatsApp chats. In its order, the court said: “As argued by learned Additional Solicitor General, from WhatsApp chats of applicant no. 1 (Aryan Khan) it is reflected that he was indulging in illicit drug activities. Respondent (NCB) contended that since all the accused, including accused no. 1 are influential persons they are likely to tamper with evidence of prosecution if released on bail. Respondent claimed that accused no. 1 is in touch with foreign national and other drug dealers who appear to be part of an international drug network and investigations in this regard are going on and the respondent is tracing out the criminal antecedents of said persons.” Judge Patil also noted that if any of the accused is released on bail, it would tamper the entire investigation. “During interrogation applicant/accused no. 1 is the only person who could disclose the details of the said persons which are in the exclusive knowledge of accused no. 1,” the order said. Singh had argued that at least 5 out of the 20 arrested are drug peddlers and are somehow linked with the other co-accused which the NCB is trying to unearth. As soon as the bail plea was rejected and the defence got the copy of the order, Desai accompanied by lawyer Satish Maneshinde rushed to the Bombay High Court, however, the court hours ended by that time. The bail application in the Bombay High Court is expected to come up for mention on Thursday before the bench of Justice N W Sambre. The accused were booked for alleged conspiracy, possession, consumption, purchase and trafficking of drugs under sections 8(c), 20(b), 27, 28, 29 and 35 of the NDPS Act. While Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant are lodged in the Arthur Road jail, Munmum Dhamecha is the Byculla women’s prison. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-on-cruise-case-aryan-khans-bail-plea-rejected-1042381.html
20-10-2021||West||Maharashtra minister appears as gram sevak in CBSE textbook||The photo of a Maharashtra minister appeared as a gram sevak in the textbook of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). Minister of State for Home and Information Technology Satej Patil's photograph from a public function was printed with a caption calling him a gram sevak in the book. The picture was printed in a Class 3 Social Science book's lesson on the duties and importance of Gram Panchayats. Patil is a senior Congressman and the Guardian Minister of Kolhapur district. Patil's Personal Assistant Prashant Patil sent an email to CBSE Chairman Manoj Ahuja, demanding the immediate removal of the photograph. "It is surprising that the reputed central board has printed the photograph without any verification. Patil is a senior Congress leader and reputed politician from Maharashtra. He has been serving his second term as minister and has been a member of the Legislative Council,” an officer from the minister’s office said. According to him, wrong history should not be taught to the children of this country. "We hope the error is rectified by the board immediately," the officer said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-appears-as-gram-sevak-in-cbse-textbook-1042448.html
