21-10-2021||Comment||Time for SEBI to step in||Zindagi khwab hain, aur khwab mein jhoot kya aur bhala sach hain kya  — Shailendra, Jagte Raho Against the backdrop of its losses growing 30 times to Rs 280 crore, a prominent ed-tech company managed to raise a further Rs 1,800 crore last month on an increased valuation of Rs 1.35 lakh crore, purportedly to fuel acquisitions, and is now valued at three-fourths the market-cap of Titan Company (itself a stock market darling that is trading at an aggressive Price/Earnings or PE ratio of 100). The ed-tech company has seen a growth in value of Rs 38,000 crore in just six months in the backdrop of growing losses and three acquisitions worth Rs 15,000 crore. Its revenue grew by 80% last year, from Rs 1,306 crore to Rs 2,381 crore, with 70% of those revenues coming from the sale of tablets and laptops to students; and Rs 144 crore, or roughly 5% of revenues, came from tutorials, its flagship business. The company has raised Rs 15,000 crore over the past four years and has acquired 100 million users. And herein, between the breadth of two numbers, lies the purported justification of value -- the extrapolation made over the $100 billion education market in India, 500 million school- and college-going students, the country’s education spend to GDP ratio being half of the target, and so on! A booking app for hotels has applied to make an initial public offering (IPO) soon. Its ramshackle chain of lodges with oversized signboards (not to speak of its losses) is supposed to be valued at six times the market-cap of the Taj group of hotels. We are all fond of India’s “salt-to-software conglomerate”, but it, too, is trying to play catch-up to another corporate behemoth’s masterstroke to retire group debt by building its digital property. And here, too, the only rationale for a conservative business group to start picking up digital properties in a hurry seems to be to bundle this into an entity that can be IPO-ed in quick time. The valuation euphoria has perhaps prompted the group to get into the deep end of a new-age business and valuation play as a possible means to quickly retire group debt that now stands at Rs 2 lakh crore. Welcome to the Corporate Roulette Table! This is really money being made by a club of private equity funds and some HNIs on the back of an unfettered supply of money where money begets money. They are inter-connected in their eco-system from seed funds to Series F and G, by advisers and retired corporate executives who join their boards and advise for fees to lend respectability, by investment bankers who, too, get their gargantuan fees from buying and selling these companies, and by valuers who value these companies with an opaque valuation lens that has no bearing on how listed companies are valued, let alone evaluating actuals versus targets, profits, tangible assets, etc. They, too, are getting paid to be compliant and to stitch a fig leaf of diligence. “It’s a damn conspiracy, and everyone’s in on it!” – Jailor Norton, The Shawshank Redemption. Paper money is being made at every level by every player, where companies are bought and sold amongst themselves for paper value. They all gamble on a hypothetical future value and are, in effect, gaming the system by cashing in big-time before any real value is created. Have a look at the numbers in the table above for FY20/21. Has 2008 already been forgotten? Then, in the US, not a single player went behind bars – Lehman, Moodys, or the 10 named by CNN as the most culpable in the 2008 global financial crisis. In 2008, the cannonball fell on the main street, with an unsuspecting public, who lost the value of their homes or, worse, their homes themselves, along with investors who lost their wealth. Closer home, taken in by the hype of brand building, retail investors will subscribe to these IPOs, and be left holding the can for evermore while members of the roulette table offload their equity insidiously into the market, reaping exponential gains in the short term. There is something amiss when two million IPO subscribers, roughly 60% of the investing public of a recent app IPO, are less than 30 years of age, with 50% of them being first-time investors, while the employee quota is left unsubscribed by 32%. This while the issue is oversubscribed 40x with institutional investors hoping to make a killing at listing. Four months prior to the IPO, the company was valued at Rs 40,000 crore; at IPO, it was worth Rs 60,000 crore. Based on its FY21 numbers, its market-cap to operating revenue was 29 times, and it is now almost 66% higher than that, with a market-cap of Rs 1.02 lakh crore. In less than seven months, the value of this company has risen 2.5 times, with nothing to show to justify this rise. This is how off the mark all this is. You have simply to watch The Inside Job by Charles Ferguson or Matthew McConaughey’s Fugazzi scene in the Wolf of Wall Street to get some perspective. In the end, a business must make money by selling a good or service. Period. Valuation play is not sustainable in the long run. And when they are this off the mark, they slide into the world of Fugazzi! The only way this will stop is if the regulators step in and set the rules of the game. Maybe SEBI needs an offshoot that regulates non-listed companies that are externally funded and checks for valuations, valuers and anyone else who has a stake in the upside. Maybe SEBI should stop this insidious erosion of business basics and protect a naive public by ensuring that no investor can exit by selling shares to the public unless the company lists and then shows operating profit for two consecutive years in full public scrutiny. Maybe intermediate commissions and fees to investment bankers and valuing agencies must be delinked from the value of the deal and linked to an hour charge-out rate (as auditors and tax consultants charge, for example) to participate in a deal, with an upside granted only on the IPO and after two years of consecutive profits. (The writer is a former MD of a Tata Company and now runs a Corporate Finance practice headquartered in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/time-for-sebi-to-step-in-1042886.html
21-10-2021||First Edit||Non-Brahmin priests in Tamil Nadu: A progressive step||The DMK government in Tamil Nadu has taken a major progressive step by appointing a batch of non-Brahmin priests in temples managed by the state government. Chief Minister M K Stalin issued appointment letters to 24 non-Brahmins as priests and a woman as an odhuvar (singer of sacred hymns) recently, and they have started working. The priests have been selected from all backward communities, including scheduled communities, which have traditionally not been considered eligible for priesthood. The idea of appointing non-Brahmin priests in temples is not new and had been actively considered in the past. The then Karunanidhi government had taken a decision in 2006 and a number of archakas have been trained in government centres since 2007. But the appointments could not be made because of legal issues. The Supreme Court upheld the decision in 2015. Though one or two appointments were made later, it is only now that the government is taking the matter seriously and going beyond token gestures.  The appointments are a culmination of the struggle for social justice and equal treatment for all communities. The demand for priesthood rights for all communities has been an important part of the social justice movement of the last century. Backward communities and Dalits were not even allowed entry into temples. Justice and equality demand that everybody should have the right to worship and do priesthood in temples, irrespective of caste and community divisions. Priesthood has been a monopoly of Brahmins. But there is no right reason for this. The idea that other communities are not entitled to do priesthood is as wrong and untenable as other retrograde social customs like untouchability. The profession needs to be democratised and everyone who has the inclination and skill required to do priesthood should have the right and opportunity for that.  There is opposition to the idea from the conservative sections of society. There are also threats of legal action. But the Tamil Nadu government has done well to state that it will stick to the decision and will not be deterred by the opposition that arises from orthodoxy and vested interests. The opposition and the reservations among some sections will vanish over time. Progressive and pioneering measures usually take time for acceptance. The Kerala government had also taken a similar step by appointing 36 non-Brahmins as priests in temples in 2017. The Karnataka government should also do so. Former CM Siddaramaiah had said that the state government was ready to appoint non-Brahmin priests in muzrai temples. The Bommai government should do so as it is an important measure of social justice and equality.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/non-brahmin-priests-in-tamil-nadu-a-progressive-step-1042897.html
21-10-2021||In Perspective||Lanka’s Rajapaksas must walk the talk||Ever since Gotabaya Rajapaksa swept to power in November 2019, the Sri Lankan government has repeatedly said that it would follow an ‘India First’ approach and ensure that India’s strategic interests are safeguarded. Yet, despite its declarations about being mindful of India’s security interests and its desire to follow a “non-aligned” foreign policy, Colombo has done precious little to actually assuage New Delhi’s concerns about its tightening clinch with China. Anxiety about its strategically-located southern neighbour’s continuing embrace of China was clearly weighing heavily on New Delhi’s mind when Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla made a four-day visit to Sri Lanka in early October. Days later, Army Chief General M M Naravane travelled to the island-nation, security matters again topping the agenda.  With a “reset” in ties underway, India also recently hosted a huge Sri Lankan delegation, led by its youth and sports minister Namal Rajapaksa, the son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, who came for the inauguration of the Kushinagar airport.   Several ministers and a hundred Buddhist monks were part of the delegation as India redoubles its efforts to use its ‘soft power’ to counter China's growing influence in Sri Lanka and other countries where Buddhism holds sway. Indeed, Sri Lanka’s China tilt under the ruling Rajapaksa clan has been a cause of concern for New Delhi.  Shringla’s visit to Sri Lanka earlier this month had set the ball rolling for relations to get back on track after the frostiness that had set in following the abrupt cancellation of the tripartite East Container Terminal (ECT) deal by Colombo in February.  Notably, the visit saw Shringla urging Colombo to get going on India-funded projects, progress on which has been excruciatingly slow. This is perceived as Sri Lanka’s cold-shouldering of Indian interests while welcoming Chinese funding with open arms.  While India and Japan have been booted out of the ECT project, ostensibly under pressure by ports unions and “nationalist” elements opposed to foreign investments in a “strategic asset”, there has been no similar backing off from the China-funded Colombo Port City project.  Work on the $1.4 billion Port City project, launched when Mahinda Rajapaksa was President, continues apace despite concerns in Sri Lanka that the project will reduce the nation to a Chinese colony and compromise its sovereignty. Clearly, the Rajapaksas have learnt little from the Hambantota experience that left Sri Lanka in a huge debt to the Chinese. The project, seen as aiding China’s hegemonic ambitions in the Indian Ocean region, will allow a huge Chinese presence virtually at India’s doorstep. Unfazed by criticism, the Rajapaksa government has got the Lankan parliament to pass a controversial law allowing the setting up of a Colombo Port City Economic Commission which can even have foreigners on it. There are apprehensions that this would enable Chinese nationals to be a part of the panel.  China is also the elephant in the room for India in its bid to retain control over oil tank farms in Trincomalee in Sri Lanka’s north-east. India fears that if it were to let go of these tanks, China may step in, thus gaining a strategic foothold not far from the Indian coastline.  By making noises about taking back ownership of these oil tanks, the Rajapaksa government has only fuelled New Delhi’s anxieties. Signalling to Colombo its vital strategic stakes in Trincomalee, New Delhi made sure to include a visit to the oil farms in Shringla’s itinerary and pointedly noted that they were “a symbol of the potential and strong energy partnership between India and Sri Lanka.”   Sri Lanka isn’t the only country in our periphery where India has been working hard to counter growing Chinese footprints. Be it the Maldives, Nepal or Bangladesh, China is aggressively wooing these nations with its resources and infrastructure-building might. This has made Delhi’s engagement with its immediate neighbours tricky as it seeks to fend off the Chinese challenge in countries once under the Indian sphere of influence. It also has to walk the tight-rope between protecting its own strategic interests while not being seen as the neighbourhood bully. What has queered the pitch further for India is the fact that the leadership of its neighbourhood is not at all averse to pitting Delhi against Beijing. Nepal, Sri Lanka and the Maldives have intermittently seen China-leaning governments smitten by Beijing’s charms even at the risk of accumulating huge debts.  While things appear to be looking up on the India-Sri Lanka bilateral front, for now, Delhi cannot afford to let its guard down. The Lankan government had said that it would keep India’s security interests in mind soon after Gotabaya Rajapaksa was elected President. He repeated this assurance when Shringla called on him. But the Rajapaksas will need to walk the talk. Else, efforts to bridge the “trust deficit” and reset ties will go in vain.  (The writer is a Delhi-based senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/lanka-s-rajapaksas-must-walk-the-talk-1042895.html
21-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Road atop Chamundi Hill damaged after heavy rainfall||A portion of the road atop Chamundi Hill has collapsed following incessant rainfall last night. The landslip occurred on the road leading to Nandi from the view point. Police have restricted vehicle movement on the stretch. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/road-atop-chamundi-hill-damaged-after-heavy-rainfall-1042679.html
21-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||150 black spots get artistic look in Udupi||The initiative of Udupi Zilla Panchayat to clear black spots in the district as part of ‘Namma Ooru, Swaccha Ooru’ initiative has received a good response from the public. The initiative was taken under the Swacch Bharat Mission with the help of citizens. The public has informed the Zilla Panchayat about the black spots that had come up by the side of the road, bus stands, on the banks of river, on vacant plots and in public places. Over 150 such spots were identified and garbage was cleared from the spot, said Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Y Naveen Bhat. The public had informed Zilla Panchayat via the WhatsApp number 9483330564, on 55 black spots. Of which, 42 black spots were under Zilla Panchayat limits. The black spots that were coming under urban local bodies (ULBs) were brought to the notice of the respective ULBs for initiating steps to clear them. The Gram Panchayats had identified over 100 black spots in their jurisdiction and steps were taken to clear them. After clearing the black spots, saplings were planted. A few black spots have turned into mini garden and banners have been mounted at the spot to dissuade people from dumping the garbage. Beautiful gardens with artifacts have come up on black spots at Koteshwara, Kodibettu and Bommarabettu Gram Panchayat limits. The CEO said apart from slapping fine on those who dumped garbage, steps had been taken to clear the spot. A fine of Rs 1,000 was slapped on a man who had dumped garbage at a crematorium in Siddapura gram panchayat limits. While Rs 2,000 each were slapped on those who had dumped garbage in Sanoor and Bada GP limits. The Zilla Panchayat had also taken measures to reward those who had clicked the photo of the vehicles or people who dumped garbage in public places and had sent the same to the WhatsApp number. After cleaning up the garbage, the administration put up banners and nets in all of the cleaned-up areas. The names of the informers will be kept confidential. The CEO has called upon the public to join hands with the administration in freeing the district from the black spots. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/150-black-spots-get-artistic-look-in-udupi-1042731.html
21-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Success or failure of NEP-2020 in teachers' hands, not govt: Drafting committee member||Andhra Pradesh-based Central Tribal University Vice-chancellor and National Education Policy-2020 Drafting and Implementation Committee member T V Kattimani opined that the Bommai-led government should have implemented NEP-2020 at primary and secondary education-level initially and it could have been done at the higher education level later. During an exclusive chat with DH on Thursday, he said, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh is making sincere efforts to implement it. People associated with higher education are active and they have taken the lead and so, it is being implemented in the higher education level in the state, he said.  He also noted that the success or failure of NEP-2020 is in the hands of teachers and not the politicians or the government. He said over 2.5 lakh people had been consulted across the country for NEP including religious leaders, non-government organisations, political organisations and people from various backgrounds. "We consulted all stakeholders in various parts of the country including Surat, Kutch, (Gujarat) Mumbai, Ahmedabad. I personally interacted with over 400 vice-chancellors of various universities in the country out of 800." He also maintained that debate on NEP at a public forum is a much-needed activity. He said the major objective of NEP is to impart technology-driven education to students of all disciplines. Citing an example, he said though America's involvement in the manufacturing sector is limited, it runs businesses in many sectors through technology. "For example, roti is prepared by our people, cars are driven by our drivers, fuel stations are run by our people. But Americans run business across the world through technology. Uber Technologies, Inc, commonly known as Uber, American mobility as a service provider based in San Francisco, is the best example for it. The owner of Uber has no car at all but he used technology to earn crores of rupees. NEP aims to teach technical skills to students so that they become employable." On resources, he said, till now, students and teachers of one institute can avail its infrastructure. Under NEP, resources available in any institute can be used by all students. If a physics laboratory in a government first-grade college in the city is not used by students of that institute, other colleges or schools can use them at their convenient time.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/success-or-failure-of-nep-2020-in-teachers-hands-not-govt-drafting-committee-member-1042885.html
21-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Complaint against Siddaramaiah for poll code violation||BJP Legal Cell state convener S S Mittalkod on Wednesday submitted a complaint to Hangal Legislative Assembly election officer against opposition leader Siddaramaiah for allegedly making baseless allegations against party leader late C M Udasi and thus, violating the election code of conduct.  Mittalkod has charged that Siddaramaiah, while speaking at an election rally at Mulagund village on October 16, has misled that voters by charging that Udasi was engaged in corruption when he was the chairman of the Sangur Sugar Factory. "This amounts to showing disrespect to the departed leader. Siddaramaiah, who is a lawyer himself, has intentionally made false charges despite the knowledge of the election code of conduct," he has said in the complaint.  He has sought legal action against Siddaramaiah.  "Siddaramaiah did not utter a word about corruption when he was the chief minister and did not even order a single inquiry. He has now given the statement for electoral gains and embarrassing the BJP candidate," Mittalkod has claimed in the complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/complaint-against-siddaramaiah-for-poll-code-violation-1042587.html
21-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Campaigning turns nasty as bypolls near in Karnataka||The campaign for the October 30 bypolls to Sindagi and Hanagal Assembly constituencies in Karnataka is witnessing unprecedented personal attacks by leaders cutting across party lines. Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah and state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel have all been making stinging comments against each other while campaigning. After Kumaraswamy's recent scathing attack on the RSS, BJP leader Nalin Kumar Kateel had asked him to "visit the RSS units so that his illusions regarding the organisation may disappear". Reacting to this, Kumaraswamy said that he should visit "the RSS unit to watch blue (porn) films". Kumaraswamy made the remark in view of the alleged sex CD scandal involving BJP's former minister Ramesh Jarakiholi. Kumaraswamy was also referring to some BJP ministers obtaining stay orders from the court on the media broadcasting their private videos. After this, the BJP ridiculed Kumaraswamy with a personal jibe. The party said he (Kumaraswamy) should be "careful with bigamy and breach of trust" as they are considered as offences by the law. Kumaraswamy, who is always in the forefront to mock others' mistakes, should be careful about these things, a social media message read. The BJP also ridiculed Kumaraswamy's comment that his life was an open book. "We congratulate for his courage. He must know that an open book is as dangerous as an open well," a BJP tweet said. Kumaraswamy reacted by saying that he was not disturbed by the personal attacks. "Mistakes do happen in one's life" and he had rectified his mistake, the formetr Chief Minister said. He also warned that he could target all the BJP leaders at a personal level. Kateel claimed that media reports suggested that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi "was a drug addict and drug peddler". Though former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa condemned the statement and asked him not to issue such statements, BJP General Secretary Ashwath Narayan held a press conference and defended Kateel's statement. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson M. Lakshman stirred up another controversy by alleging that Kateel was "involved with a married woman and blackmailed her husband". In the latest attack, the BJP told state Congress President D K Shivakumar not to strain himself by asking too many questions. "How much black money have you minted? What is the background of your arrest and your trip to Tihar jail," it asked. Siddaramaiah also called Kateel a 'mental' case for his remarks. He along with Shivakumar alleged that the BJP is distributing Rs 2,000 per vote. Reacting to this, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that "both have experience in distributing money and are only sharing their experiences". Meanwhile, Hanagal in Haveri district and Sindhagi in Vijayapura district witnessed high voltage campaign activity with former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, Kumaraswamy, Yediyurappa, Bommai and Shivakumar campaigning for their respective party candidates. The results of the October 30 bylolls are crucial for Bommai, as they are being held in the heartland of north Karnataka, which has a prominent Lingayat vote base. Kumaraswamy wants to retain the Sindhagi constituency as it was earlier won by JD(S) candidate M.C. Managuli. However, the Congress managed to put M C Managuli's son Ashok Managuli as its candidate from Sindhagi. The JD(S) has given tickets to the minority candidates in both constituencies. The Congress has alleged that the JD(S) is helping the BJP to win by fielding minority candidates. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/campaigning-turns-nasty-as-bypolls-near-in-karnataka-1042796.html
21-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||RSS turns favourite poll-time bugbear for Siddaramaiah, HD Kumaraswamy||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has found itself at the receiving end of a persistent barrage by two former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy, forcing BJP leaders to spend much of their time defending their ideological parent.   The targeting has intensified in the wake of the October 30 Hanagal and Sindagi bypolls, which may look like rambling that is common during an election. But, the Congress and the JD(S) have their own reasons for attacking the RSS.  Fronting the Congress’ attack on the RSS is Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. Earlier this year, Siddaramaiah told party workers that it is the RSS, and not BJP, that the Congress should fight, a narrative handed down by former AICC president Rahul Gandhi who has made it his main offensive. Siddaramaiah, who has dubbed the NEP as ‘Nagpur Education Policy,’ on Thursday justified his attack on the RSS. “We’re targeting RSS because of their mistakes,” he said. “RSS people go to a police station in Vijayapura and make policemen wear saffron shawls on Ayudha Puja. Shouldn’t we scold them? Who are they to do that?”  With Kumaraswamy, it started with him referring to journalist Dinesh Narayanan’s book ‘The RSS and the making of the Deep Nation,’ to say that the RSS was trying to control the bureaucracy through IAS and IPS officers it has trained. Kumaraswamy even wondered if the RSS taught its members to watch pornography at its ‘shakhas’ (camps).  On Thursday, too, Kumaraswamy subtly attacked the RSS. “Those in the BJP trained by the RSS... I can reveal their true colours,” he said.  Kumaraswamy and the JD(S) have had their ‘secular’ credentials questioned. Attacking the RSS may be an attempt to keep the party’s secular tag intact, with the JD(S) having fielded Muslim candidates in Hanagal and Sindagi.  “I don’t see a difference between the Congress and JD(S) in why they are targeting the RSS. There’s an increasing realisation that a lot of what BJP does is linked to RSS,” political analyst Sandeep Shastri said. “It’s like using a shoulder to snipe at the BJP. The BJP-RSS alliance is out in the open now and that’s why they find it convenient to target the RSS.” Former Congress minister Priyank Kharge said the political threat caused by the RSS is now real. “If all MLAs don’t wake up, they’ll lose their constituencies in five years because of the RSS,” he said. “All this while, we’ve been fighting the beast’s shadow. We have to fight the beast, which is the RSS.” A senior RSS functionary from Karnataka said the attacks were not new. “We are an easy target. But, our image isn’t hurting. Not even a minuscule percentage (of votes) will change with these attacks.”  Shastri concurred that attacking the RSS will not lead to gains in votes of the minorities. “The minority vote is very much linked to how they perceive where their interests lie.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rss-turns-favourite-poll-time-bugbear-for-siddaramaiah-hd-kumaraswamy-1042877.html
21-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai hits back, says DKS has 'gunny bag' experience||Rubbishing the allegations by the Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar that BJP was paying Rs 2,000 per vote in the bypoll-bound Hangal and Sindagi constituencies, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said the KPCC president has that experience of bringing money in gunny bags during the elections. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of his campaign in Hangal, Bommai said, “D K Shivakumar, when the Congress was in power, we have seen his experience with sacks (with money), during bypolls to Kundgol, Gundlupet and Nanjangud.” “The voters will give a fitting reply to the Congress. We are fighting the bypolls in Hangal and Sindagi on the issue of development. I am overwhelmed by the love and trust shown by the people of both the constituencies on us,” Bommai said. “The Congress is not concerned about the development of north Karnataka. When the BJP was in power, it had sanctioned a medical college to Haveri district. But it didn’t take off as the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government showed no interest. It (college) went to another district,” he charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-hits-back-says-dks-has-gunny-bag-experience-1042878.html
21-10-2021||Mysuru||Injured tiger rescued, shifted to Mysuru for treatment||The forest department personnel were successful in rescuing the injured tiger at Ganjikatte forest area in Bandipur Tiger Reserve in Gundlupet taluk in Chamrajanagar district on Thursday. The tiger had turned weak and was not in a condition to move. As the rescued tiger was in need of immediate medical attention, it has been shifted to the Mysuru Zoo's Rehabilitation Centre at Koorgalli. The severely injured male tiger has been suffering from fatigue. The department personnel were monitoring the tiger through a camera trapping method. As the veterinarians felt that it was difficult for the tiger to recover normally, they decided to capture it and provide treatment. The tiger was darted and captured on Thursday. As the injuries on the tiger's body were deep, it is suspected that the tusk of an elephant might have pierced the body while fighting. "The injured tiger was found at Bandipur safari range on Wednesday. As there were signs of recovery, it has been shifted to Mysuru," according to a press release from Tiger Project Director S R Natesh. Veterinarian Dr Wasim Mirza, Dr Mujeeb, Assistant Conservator of Forest K Paramesh and others took part in the rescue operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/injured-tiger-rescued-shifted-to-mysuru-for-treatment-1042849.html
21-10-2021||National||Speak Out: October 21, 2021||Ousted as Punjab chief minister by the Congress last month, Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday night announced that he will launch a new party and hopefully enter into a "seat arrangement" with the BJP in the next year's Assembly elections if the saffron party manages to resolve the farmers' protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-october-21-2021-1042626.html
21-10-2021||National||DH Toon | FabIndia's secular fabric||BJP leader Tejasvi Surya, on Monday, slammed clothing brand Fabindia’s ad campaign referring to Diwali as ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’. He said that it was “deliberate misadventure”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-fabindias-secular-fabric-1042629.html
21-10-2021||National||No respite for common man as petrol, diesel prices hiked yet again||Petrol and diesel prices on Thursday were hiked by 35 paise per litre each, the second consecutive day of increase that took pump rates across the country to record high levels. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 106.54 a litre and Rs 112.44 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 103.26 a litre; while in Delhi, it costs Rs 95.27 per litre. This is the second consecutive day of price hike. There was no change in rates on October 18 and 19, prior to which prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each on four straight days. While petrol has already hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all major cities of the country, diesel has touched that level in over a dozen states and is treading towards that mark in places from Srinagar to Chennai. Diesel costs Rs 99.14 a litre in Srinagar while it is priced at Rs 99.59 in Chennai. The costliest fuel was in the border town of Ganganagar in Rajasthan, where petrol comes for Rs 118.59 a litre and diesel for Rs 109.41 per litre. Since the ending of a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision in the last week of September, this is the 18th increase in petrol price and the 21st time that diesel rates have gone up. Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes. International benchmark Brent crude on Thursday was trading above $85 per barrel, $11 more than last month. Being a net importer of oil, India prices petrol and diesel at rates equivalent to international prices. The surge in international oil prices ended a three-week hiatus in rate revision on September 28 for petrol and September 24 for diesel. Since then, the diesel rate has gone up by Rs 6.85 per litre and the petrol price has increased by Rs 5.35 a litre. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 per litre during this period. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-for-common-man-as-petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-yet-again-1042632.html
21-10-2021||National||India reports 18,454 Covid-19 cases, 160 deaths||A single-day rise of 18,454 fresh cases pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 3,41,27,450, while the number of active infections rose to 1,78,831, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll from the pandemic climbed to 4,52,811 with 160 new fatalities, showed the data updated at 8 am.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 27 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 116 consecutive days now. The number of active cases has increased to 1,78,831, comprising 0.52 per cent of the total infections -- the lowest since March 2020 -- while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.15 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. An increase of 733 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. Also, 12,47,506 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the cumulative number of tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 59,57,42,218.  The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.48 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 52 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 118 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,95,808, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 100 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore novel coronavirus cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 160 new fatalities include 82 from Kerala, 21 from Maharashtra and 20 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 4,52,811 coronavirus-linked deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,886 from Maharashtra, 37,976 from Karnataka, 35,948 from Tamil Nadu, 27,084 from Kerala, 25,090 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,007 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-18454-covid-19-cases-160-deaths-1042648.html
21-10-2021||National||Historic milestone! India hits 100-crore vaccination mark||India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark on Thursday. Hailing the vaccination milestone as a triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the country has scripted history. The prime minister also visited the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi after the milestone was achieved and interacted with hospital officials. He was accompanied by Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. In a tweet, Mandaviya congratulated the country on achieving the feat, and said it was the result of the able leadership of Prime Minister Modi, whom he described as a visionary. बधाई हो भारत! Congratulating the country for the vaccination landmark, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO, South-East Asia, said it was not possible without strong political leadership. "Huge congratulations to India for marking yet another milestone- a billion Covid-19 vaccine doses administered. This extraordinary feat in a short span was not possible without strong leadership, inter-sectoral convergence, dedicated efforts of the entire health and frontline workforce and the people themselves," she said. India's progress must be viewed in the context of the country's commendable commitment and efforts to ensure that these life-saving vaccines are accessible globally, she said. According to official sources, around 75 per cent of India's all eligible adult population has been administered at least the first dose and around 31 per cent has received both the doses of the vaccine. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country took 24 days to reach the 40-crore mark from 30-crore doses and then 20 more days to surpass the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6. It then took 76 days to go past the 100-crore mark. The top five states which have administered the highest number of doses are Uttar Pradesh followed by Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. To mark the completion of administering of 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, the largest khadi tricolour in the country, weighing around 1,400 kg, will be displayed at the Red Fort on Thursday, official sources said. The same tricolour with dimensions 225 feet by 150 feet was unfurled on October 2 – Gandhi Jayanti – in Leh, they said.    Mandaviya had on Wednesday appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated without delay and contribute to the historic vaccination journey of India. To mark the milestone on the Covid-19 vaccination exercise, a series of events have been lined up. Mandaviya will launch a song by singer Kailash Kher and an audio-visual film at the Red Fort. "The country is close to making a vaccine century. To be a part of this golden opportunity, I appeal to the citizens who are yet to be vaccinated to contribute to this historic golden vaccination journey of India by getting vaccinated immediately," he had said in a tweet in Hindi. SpiceJet will unveil a special livery at the Delhi airport to celebrate the 100 crore vaccine milestone on Thursday. The health minister, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and SpiceJet CMD Ajay Singh will be present on the occasion. Speaking about the flag, a source said, “The same 1,400-kg handwoven khadi tricolour, the largest in the country, which was unfurled in Leh to mark Mahatma Gandhi's 152nd birth anniversary and the 75th year of Independence will also be displayed at the Red Fort to mark the occasion (100 crore doses).” The flag is the largest handwoven and handspun cotton khadi flag ever manufactured in India and it measures 225 feet by 150 feet, the source said Mandaviya had earlier said that announcements will be made on airplanes, ships, metros and at railway stations when India achieves its target of administering 100 crore doses. Celebrations will also be held at central government hospitals in the city to mark the occasion. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with health care workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged over 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing all above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/historic-milestone-india-hits-100-crore-vaccination-mark-1042658.html
21-10-2021||National||India scripts history: PM Modi on 100-crore Covid-19 vaccinations||"India scripts history," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted as India on Thursday morning crossed the milestone of 100-crore Covid-19 vaccinations.  "We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians," Modi said.  India scripts history. We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. He took the opportunity to show gratitude to doctors, nurses and all those people who were part of the achievement.   PM Modi also visited the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here after the milestone was achieved. The prime minister interacted with hospital officials and was accompanied by Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. Modi has frequently lauded health workers for spearheading the vaccination drive. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore milestone on Thursday Check out the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-scripts-history-pm-modi-on-100-crore-covid-19-vaccinations-1042662.html
21-10-2021||National||IAF's trainer aircraft crashes in Madhya Pradesh's Bhind; pilot safe||An Indian Air Force (IAF) plane crashed in Madhya Pradesh's Bhind district on Thursday morning, officials said. "An IAF Mirage 2000 aircraft experienced a technical malfunction during a training sortie in the central sector this morning. The pilot ejected safely. An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident," the IAF said in a tweet. The pilot ejected safely before the aircraft crashed in Mankabagh village of the district, Bhind Superintendent of Police Manoj Kumar Singh told PTI. The plane caught fire after the crash, he said, adding that the pilot was rescued. The aircraft had taken off from the Maharajpura airbase at Gwalior in the morning, the official said. Bhind district administration and IAF officials reached the spot soon after getting information about the crash. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iafs-trainer-aircraft-crashes-in-madhya-pradeshs-bhind-pilot-safe-1042671.html
21-10-2021||National||PM Modi pays homage to police personnel who laid down lives in line of duty||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday praised police forces for their outstanding efforts in preserving law and order and assisting others in times of need. Modi posted a tweet on the Police Commemoration Day, which is observed to pay tributes to police personnel who laid down their lives while discharging their duties.  The prime minister said, "On Police Commemoration Day, I would like to acknowledge the outstanding efforts by our police forces in preserving law and order, and assisting others in times of need. I pay homage to all those police personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-homage-to-police-personnel-who-laid-down-lives-in-line-of-duty-1042672.html
21-10-2021||National||Let's give govt credit: Tharoor on feat of administering 100 cr Covid-19 vaccines||Senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Thursday gave credit to the Narendra Modi government for crossing the one billion mark in Covid-19 vaccination on a day his party found fault with the dispensation over handling of the pandemic with a spokesperson chiding him that it is an "insult" to families who suffered due to the pandemic mismanagement. Tagging a news report about the country crossing 100 crore Covid-19 vaccination, Tharoor said it was a "matter of pride for all Indians" and "let's give the government credit". However, he acknowledged that there was "severe mismanagement" of the Covid-19 second wave and "botching" the vaccination orders that could have prevented it but the "government has now partly redeemed itself". He added, "it remains accountable for its earlier failures." Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera responded to Tharoor, who had signed the letter by 23 Congress leaders seeking "full-time leadership" in the party last year, saying that giving credit to government was an "insult to millions of families who suffered and are still suffering from the after effects and side effects of widespread Covid mismanagement." "Before seeking credit, the Prime Minister must apologise to those families. Credit belongs to scientists and the medical fraternity," he said. Congress Deputy Leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi did not mention Tharoor but tweeted that it was "disappointing" to see the political leadership of India "pretend as if the second wave never happened". "The pain, struggle and trauma of millions of Indian citizens has been completely glossed over in today’s celebrations. There should have been an acknowledgement of the loss," he said. It is disappointing to see the political leadership of India pretend as if the second wave never happened. The pain, struggle and trauma of millions of Indian citizens has been completely glossed over in today’s celebrations. There should have been an acknowledgement of the loss. Addressing a press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala sought to tear into the Modi government, claiming that it failed in tackling the pandemic and questioned whether it would be able to vaccinate all people by this year-end as announced earlier. Surjewala said only around 42 crore adults have been vaccinated once while 29 crore adults have got two doses of Covid-19 vaccines. This leaves around 32 crore adults, who have never been vaccinated. He said the government would need 106 crore vaccinations in the next 70 days to achieve the target of vaccinating all adults in the country. He also said that it was due to the Modi government's "inability, incompetence and sheer ignorance" that the Covaxin, a Covid-19 vaccine, could not get the clearance from European countries and from the World Health Organisation. He said the government failed to provide adequate information and persuade them in this regard. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said, "a billion vaccinations is a landmark. But celebrations? The Modi government has abandoned its own target of fully vaccinating all adults by year end. Only 21% are fully vaccinated. Unless this reaches 2/3rd of India dangers loom large. Accelerate vaccinations." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lets-give-govt-credit-tharoor-on-feat-of-administering-100-cr-covid-19-vaccines-1042695.html
21-10-2021||National||Delhi hospitals at breaking point as dengue cases rise; patients occupy ward floors, corridors||The growing dengue cases have stressed Delhi's medical system, with visuals coming out of hospitals across the national capital flooded with patients, their attendants and visitors.  According to Dr BK Tripathi, Professor, Department of Medicine, and former head of the department, patients sharing beds or lying on the floor at the hospital is not new, though dengue cases have been stressing the system further.  In the ward, patients were on the floor in the corridors, some with bystanders accompanying them. Patients’ blankets and belongings were scattered around. Incidents of doctors crouched on the floor attending to the patients, families and visitors both inside and outside the ward, wanting to bring in food were also reported.  The hospital does not yet have a separate ward for dengue and other viral fevers, and ward 13 has patients with other ailments as well. “We have opened a separate ward for dengue in the past when cases arose to around 40 to 60 patients daily. In the next one or two weeks, if cases keep rising, we will have to open a separate ward for dengue,” Tripathi told IE.  Dengue patients from nearby districts of Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh also come to this hospital.  The capacity of each of the three wards in the medicine department is only for around 52 to 54 patients. “One-third of dengue patients who report to an emergency is likely to be admitted and shifted to regular wards,” the doctor added. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hospitals-at-breaking-point-as-dengue-cases-rise-patients-occupy-ward-floors-corridors-1042699.html
21-10-2021||National||100-crore Covid-19 vaccinations: Journey so far & challenges ahead||On Thursday, India became the second country after China to achieve the milestone of administering 100-crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. The demand for the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine has overtaken the demand for the first dose since October 13 and the trend has continued, indicating another phase in the vaccination drive that is set to protect over a billion people from the deadly virus. Congratulating the country for the achievement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "India scripts history. We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians." While India has managed to achieve a remarkable milestone, challenges still remain. Countries like the US and Israel have moved their focus to booster shots for the vulnerable and have also begun vaccinating children. India is still yet to decide on either of those fronts. Besides, the government's target of vaccinating all adults by the end of the year appears ambitious. Journey so far  India approved the emergency use of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca-Oxford University on January 3 this year. The vaccine is manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India under the brand name Covishield, a two-dose regime. Another tool in the arsenal is Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, an indigenous vaccine that has failed to ramp up production to be on par with Serum's jab. Covaxin has reportedly only contributed 10-11 per cent of total vaccinations.  Hailed as the world's biggest vaccination drive by the Modi government, health workers on January 16 became the first group to receive the much-needed protection against a virus that has claimed the lives of over 49 lakh people worldwide. And in February, a category of frontline workers was formed to make them eligible for the vaccine.  India approved the third vaccine in April. Russia's Sputnik V was given a go-ahead amid rising Covid-19 cases and deaths in the country. The surge of cases snowballed into a massive second wave of the pandemic in the country with half of all Covid-19 deaths reported during the summer.  As patients filled the blocks of hospitals and ICUs across the country, the government was cornered to open vaccinations for all on May 1. But India also saw an acute shortage of vaccines as a large number of fear-driven people drove to the vaccination centres.  The month of May saw a massive dip in vaccinations, mainly owing to crunch in supplies while many states maintained restrictions to stop the spread of the virus. On June 12, India marked the completion of 25 crore vaccine doses -- 148 days after the vaccination drive began. Next 25 crore vaccinations came on August 26, taking 56 days this time  August also saw the approval of Zydus Cadila's Covid jab, a three-shot system that can be administered to children as young as 12. The vaccine is expected to hit the markets soon. By the end of August, half of adults in the country had received at least one dose of the vaccine. 75 crore vaccinations came on September 13, indicating steady progress in the drive. And then, on September 17, India administered a record of over 2 crore Covid-19 vaccines. The day also marked Modi's birthday.  In between, the Centre, along with civic and social groups, launched various initiatives to eradicate vaccine hesitancy in the country and encouraged people to get inoculated. Among other things, a drone delivery system was introduced to ensure vaccine delivery to remote areas of the country.  Challenges ahead  While administering 100-crore vaccine doses was not an easy task to achieve, the yawning gap between the number of people fully vaccinated and those who have received just one dose is massive. Only a third of the century figure have received both doses, while the three-month gap between the two does of Covishield continues to be in place.  And worryingly, as schools across the country slowly reopen, millions of children are yet to receive a single shot of the vaccine. Experts have also warned of complacency in the vaccination drive as Covid-19 cases in the country plateau at around 13,000 cases.  Vaccine hesitancy continues to be prevalent in pockets of rural areas, and with effectively all restrictions eased, the government faces the challenge to continue incentivising vaccinations.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-crore-covid-19-vaccinations-journey-so-far-challenges-ahead-1042700.html
21-10-2021||National||Country now has strong 'protective shield' of 100 crore vaccine doses against pandemic: PM Modi||The country now has a strong "protective shield" of 100 crore vaccine doses to combat the biggest pandemic in 100 years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark on Thursday. Speaking via video conferencing after inaugurating the Infosys Foundation Vishram Sadan at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) on the Jhajjar Campus of New Delhi AIIMS, Modi said, "This day of October 21, 2021, has been recorded in history. India has crossed the 100 crore vaccine doses mark sometime back." "To combat the biggest pandemic in 100 years, the country now has a strong protective shield of 100 crore vaccine doses. This achievement belongs to India, every citizen of India," the prime minister said. Modi also expressed gratitude to all the vaccine manufacturing companies of the country, workers engaged in vaccine transportation and health sector professionals engaged in administering the vaccines. On the inauguration of the Vishram Sadan, Modi said the Infosys Foundation has constructed the building of Vishram Sadan, while the cost of land and electricity and water has been provided by AIIMS Jhajjar. "I express my gratitude to AIIMS Management and Sudha Murthy ji's team for this service," he said. India's corporate sector, private sector, and social organisations have continuously contributed in strengthening the health services of the country, the prime minister noted. Private sector will have a key role in our efforts to have at least one medical college in every district, Modi said. The 806-bed Vishram Sadan has been constructed by the Infosys Foundation as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. It is aimed at providing air-conditioned accommodation to the attendants of cancer patients, who often have to stay in hospitals for a long duration, the PMO had said in a statement. Built at the cost of about Rs 93 crore, it is located in close proximity to the hospital and OPD Blocks of the NCI. Union Health & Family Welfare Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, and Infosys Foundation Chairperson Sudha Murthy attended the inauguration, conducted via video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/country-now-has-strong-protective-shield-of-100-crore-vaccine-doses-against-pandemic-pm-modi-1042703.html
21-10-2021||National||WHO chief congratulates PM Modi, health workers as India hits 100 crore Covid vaccine milestone||WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the scientists, health workers and citizens of India for equitable vaccine distribution as the total Covid vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 100-crore mark on Thursday. India took 279 days to administer 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. "Congratulations, Prime Minister @narendramodi, the scientists, #healthworkers and people of #India, on your efforts to protect the vulnerable populations from #COVID19 and achieve #VaccinEquity targets," he said in a tweet. Congratulating the country on the vaccination landmark, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO, South-East Asia, said it was not possible without a strong political leadership. "Huge congratulations to India for marking yet another milestone- a billion Covid-19 vaccine doses administered. This extraordinary feat in a short span was not possible without strong leadership, inter-sectoral convergence, dedicated efforts of the entire health and frontline workforce and the people themselves," she said. India's progress must be viewed in the context of the country's commendable commitment and efforts to ensure that these life-saving vaccines are accessible globally, she said. According to official sources, over 75 per cent of India's all eligible adult population has been administered at least the first dose and around 31 per cent has received both the doses of the vaccine. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-chief-congratulates-pm-modi-health-workers-as-india-hits-100-crore-covid-vaccine-milestone-1042715.html
21-10-2021||National||Police Commemoration Day: VP Naidu pays homage to police personnel who laid down lives||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday paid tributes to police personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty. "On Police Commemoration Day, I join the nation in remembering the bravery, dedication and sacrifice of our police personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Naidu.  The day is observed to pay homage to 10 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel who were killed while retaliating a Chinese onslaught in 1959 in Ladakh's Hot Springs area. The nation will remain forever indebted to the police personnel and their families, the vice president said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-commemoration-day-vp-naidu-pays-homage-to-police-personnel-who-laid-down-lives-1042722.html
21-10-2021||National||PM Modi will attend Glasgow climate conference: Bhupender Yadav||Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the UN climate summit in Glasgow, the country's environment minister said on Thursday, in a boost for global efforts for steeper emission cuts to fight global warming. India is the world's third-biggest emitter of greenhouse gases after China and the United States, and Modi's participation at the COP26, beginning later this month, was considered critical amid uncertainty over whether Chinese President Xi Jinping would attend. "PM is going to Glasgow," Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav told Reuters in an interview. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-will-attend-glasgow-climate-conference-bhupender-yadav-1042724.html
21-10-2021||National||PM interacts with beneficiaries, healthcare workers as India crosses 100 crore Covid vaccinations||From discussing beneficiaries' hobbies to talking about the experience of healthcare workers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi touched upon various subjects during his visit to the RML Hospital here on Thursday as India completed administering 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. The prime minister also visited the vaccination centre at the Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital after the milestone was achieved. "Today, when India has achieved a #VaccineCentury, I went to a vaccination centre at Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. The vaccine has brought pride and protection in the lives of our citizens," he tweeted. During his visit, Prime Minister Modi held interaction with beneficiaries, healthcare and frontline workers. He asked a wheelchair-bound beneficiary, who had come to get her vaccine dose, about her hobbies. "The PM asked me what are your hobbies and I told him I like singing, then he asked me to sing two lines of a song which I did," she said. For the beneficiary's mother, it was "like a dream that the prime minister of India is meeting us". "He asked me how I take care of her and why there was a delay in her vaccination. He also asked my daughter about her routine and we feel proud in such a country where the prime minister is so humble and is connected to the people," she said. Arun Rai, who is differently abled, said the prime minister has honoured them by calling them 'Divyang'. "I told the prime minister that by calling us Divyang, you have given us so much respect and we feel so good about it. He said look at the paralympic players and the laurels they are bringing to the country. I told him that I used to be cricket player as well," Rai said. PM Modi stood beside Rai as he was administered his first vaccine dose. Prime minister Modi also interacted with healthcare workers. Jasmeet Singh, a healthcare worker, said the prime minister asked him of his experience. "I told him about my experience and my duty at the vaccination centre. I told him how we explain to people that vaccination is an important tool in our fight against Covid-19," Singh said. Another healthcare worker, a nurse, said it was like a "dream come true for us that the prime minister has visited us". "The PM asked me how my journey has been and I told him that I have administered 15,000 vaccine doses to the beneficiaries. He asked me of my experience and how beneficiaries have reacted while being administered vaccine doses," she said. The prime minister also met a guard who was on duty at the hospital. "He asked how did I do my duty in Covid times and that my family must be worried. I told him that they used to stop me but I wanted to serve my country. The guard also referred to the PM calling himself a chowkidar (watchman). "I also told him that once you said you are the chowkidar of the country. It boosted our morale and we have respect because of that. He also patted me on my back," he said. Modi has often described himself as a 'chowkidar' who would neither allow corruption nor get corrupted himself. India took 279 days to administer 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with health care workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged over 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing all above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-interacts-with-beneficiaries-healthcare-workers-as-india-crosses-100-crore-covid-vaccinations-1042728.html
21-10-2021||National||Adult population in nine states, UTs received first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Over 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, with nine states and UTs administering the first dose to all its 18-plus population. More than 31 per cent of the country's adult population has been administered both the doses, according to Union Health Ministry officials. So far, all adult people in nine states and union territories --  Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Dadra and Nagar Haveli  -- have received at least one dose of the vaccine. The top five states which have administered the highest number of doses are Uttar Pradesh followed by Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. "After 100 crore doses are administered, we will go in mission mode to ensure that those who have taken their first dose take their second dose too to ensure they are protected against Covid-19," Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had earlier said.  More than 103.5 crore (1,03,53,51,045)  Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs, the ministry said on Thursday. Over 10.85 crore balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, it stated. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with health care workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged over 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing all above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adult-population-in-nine-states-uts-received-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-1042733.html
21-10-2021||National||Modi govt subscribes to pluralism in world, supports majoritarianism in India: Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday alleged that the Modi government subscribes to pluralism in the world but supports majoritarianism in India. He said the new Quad consists of four countries that reflect the pluralism of the world with the US (secular, but mainly Christian), India (secular, but mainly Hindu), Israel (Jewish) and the UAE (Islamic). In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the Quad to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. "If pluralism can be harnessed for the good of the world, can it not be harnessed for the good of India," Chidambaram asked on Twitter. "The Modi government subscribes to pluralism in the world but supports majoritarianism in India," he charged. If pluralism can be harnessed for the good of the world, can it not be harnessed for the good of India? The Modi government subscribes to pluralism in the world but supports majoritarianism in India! Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-subscribes-to-pluralism-in-world-supports-majoritarianism-in-india-chidambaram-1042735.html
21-10-2021||National||If taking photos with me a crime, punish me: Priyanka to Yogi||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday claimed that the Yogi Adityanath government is planning to take action against some Uttar Pradesh policewomen who had posed for a photograph with her, adding that if that is the case, she should be punished, too. “The news is coming that Yogi ji got so upset with this picture that he wants to take action against these policewomen,” Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi along with the picture which is said to have been clicked on Wednesday while she was on her way to Agra to meet the family of a Dalit sanitation worker who had died in police custody. “If it is a crime to take pictures with me, then I should also be punished as it does not suit the government to spoil the career of these hardworking and loyal policewomen,” Priyanka added. The Congress leader was stopped on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway while she was on her way to meet the family members of Arun who was accused of stealing Rs 25 lakh from Jagdishpura Police Station in Agra and died in police custody after his health deteriorated during interrogation. According to a senior Lucknow Police official, an inquiry has been ordered into the matter of the women police personnel posing with the Congress general secretary to see if there is any violation of service rules.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-taking-photos-with-me-a-crime-punish-me-priyanka-to-yogi-1042753.html
21-10-2021||National||100 heritage monuments lit in colours of Indian flag to mark 100 crore Covid vaccinations||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has lit up 100 of its heritage monuments in colours of the national flag to mark the 100-crore Covid-19 vaccination milestone achieved by the country, the Ministry of Culture said on Thursday. The illuminated sites include UNESCO World Heritage Sites like the Red Fort, Qutub Minar, Humayun's Tomb, Tughlaqabad Fort and Purana Qila in Delhi; Fatehpur Sikri in Agra; Ramappa Temple in Hampi; Dholavira in Gujarat; ancient Leh Palace; Currency Building and Metcalf Hall in Kolkata; Khajuraho temples in Madhya Pradesh and Golconda Fort in Hyderabad. "To express gratitude towards corona warriors -- vaccinators, sanitation staff, paramedics, auxiliary workers, police personnel -- who have worked beyond their call of duty to help the country face the pandemic effectively and for their selfless service to the humankind, the 100 monuments will remain lit in tricolour on the night of October 21 as India achieved the landmark 100-crore vaccination mark," the ministry said in a statement. The officials said it is a part of activities being organised to celebrate the landmark achievement across the country. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India crossed the 100-crore milestone on Thursday. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya congratulated the country on achieving the feat, and said it was the result of the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. According to official sources, around 75 per cent of India's all eligible adult population has been administered at least the first dose and around 31 per cent has received both the doses of the vaccine. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-heritage-monuments-lit-in-colours-of-indian-flag-to-mark-100-crore-covid-vaccinations-1042759.html
21-10-2021||National||35,000 Indian entrepreneurs left India between 2014 and 2020 under Modi govt: Bengal FM||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Thursday alleged that 35,000 Indian entrepreneurs of high net worth left the country between 2014 and 2020 during the tenure of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. He wondered whether this was due to "fear psychosis", and demanded that PM Modi must place a white paper in parliament on "massive flight of Indian entrepreneurs during his regime". "Under Modi Govt 35,000 Indian Entrepreneurs of High Net Worth LEFT India between 2014-2020, as NRI/Immigrants. India RANKED No 1 IN EXODUS IN THE WORLD. WHY? ‘Fear psychosis’?? "PM must place WHITE PAPER to Parliament on massive flight of Indian entrepreneurs during his regime," Mitra said on Twitter. Under Modi Govt 35,000 Indian Entrepreneurs of High Net Worth LEFT India between 2014-2020, as NRI/Immigrants. India RANKED No 1 IN EXODUS IN THE WORLD. 😭. WHY? ‘Fear psychosis’?? PM must place WHITE PAPER to Parliament on massive flight of Indian entrepreneurs during his Regime Citing a study, he claimed 23,000 high net worth entrepreneurs left India during the 2014-18 period, the worst in the world. "In 2014-2018, 23,000 High Net worth entrepreneurs left India ( Morgan Stanley study) Worst in the World. 7,000 left India in 2019 (AfrAsia Bank). 5,000 left India in 2020.(GWM Review)," he said. "Recall 19 minutes of TIRADE against Indian business by Piyush Goel (Goyal), reportedly saying business practices of Indian Industry went against national interest - short of calling them "anti national’. Breeds 'fear psychosis', motivating exodus? But the PM did not rebuke Goel (Goyal). Why?" Mitra also said on the microblogging site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35000-indian-entrepreneurs-left-india-between-2014-and-2020-under-modi-govt-bengal-fm-1042763.html
21-10-2021||National||India to sell half of Mangaluru strategic oil reserves by December||India has started selling crude oil from its strategic reserves to state refiners with a view to soften the blow from surging global crude prices, while also creating space for leasing out to private and international companies. "We have started selling to oil marketing companies. This will help to create space that we will then offer for leasing," Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd (ISPRL) CEO H P S Ahuja said on Thursday. As much as 0.3 million tonnes of Upper Zakum crude stored at the Mangaluru cavern has already been emptied and the remaining 0.45 million tonnes will be sold by the end of the year. ISPRL will lease out Mangalore cavern of 0.75 million tonnes capacity to state-owned Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL). "MRPL has bought the crude the government had stored at Mangaluru at market rate," he said adding that MRPL wants to store Saudi crude at Mangaluru SPR. Mangaluru strategic petroleum reserve (SPR) has two caverns of 0.75 million tonnes capacity each. ADNOC of the UAE has stored Upper Zakum crude at Mangaluru second cavern, Ahuja‎ said. About 0.15 million tonnes of crude oil from Vizag cavern has also been sold to HPCL. The sale follows the government decision earlier this year to liberalise its oil policy by allowing ISPRL to commercialise up to 50 per cent of its reserves -- under which ISPRL can use 20 per cent of the volumes for trading and lease out the remaining 30 per cent of the capacity. The government had bought the crude when international oil prices had crashed in April/May last year to USD 19 per barrel and it is now earning a profit on selling it when prices have risen to USD 80. In its first phase, India set up SPRs at three locations with a combined capacity of 5.33 million tonnes -- 1.33 million tonnes at Visakhapatnam, 1.5 million tonnes at Mangaluru and 2.5 million tonnes at Padur in Karnataka. In the second phase, a storage capacity of 6.5 million tonnes of SPRs at two locations: 4 million tonnes at Chandikhol in Odisha and another 2.5 million tonnes at Padur will be built. It will be set up on a public-private partnership model, Singh said. The first phase can cater to almost 9.5 days of India's crude oil requirements. The second phase will add another 12 days of requirements. He said the second phase will cost USD 1.4 billion and will take 6-7 years to build.‎ Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-sell-half-of-mangaluru-strategic-oil-reserves-by-december-1042770.html
21-10-2021||National||Women's presence in Indian journalism declining: Study||Women's presence as journalists and subject or source for news is on the decline in India, though the trend in TV media showed preference for more women at work that could be pegged as "sexism at work reinforcing the notions of glamour and fashion", a new study has said. The sixth edition of the study by the Global Media Monitoring Project, which was carried out in India in partnership with Network of Women in Media in India (NWMI), showed the presence of women in news as subjects and sources "dropped sharply" in the country last year to 14% across print, TV and radio as against 22% in 2010 and 21% in 2015. Last year, men dominated the coverage as subjects and sources ranging from 68% to 89% across all news categories. Amplifying the bias against women in news coverage, the study showed that women figured as sources mainly in 'gender and related' category (32%) and least in 'politics and government' category (11%). Even in the gender and related category, men figured more often as subjects and sources (68%).  The other category in which women figured in large numbers is Celebrity, Arts and Media, Sports' (25%) followed by Social and Legal (17%), Crime and Violence (15%) and Science and Health (14%), Economy (12%). "The fact that more women figured as subjects and sources in the gender and related category indicates that while women are under-represented in news in all categories, they are more likely to appear in news if they are victims of gender-based violence," it said. Not just as subjects or sources, even the number of women journalists are on the decline. Between 2015 and 2020, there has been a sharp drop in the number of women reporters in print from 43% to 13% and from 60% to 52% in TV. Though radio was not monitored in 2015 for the study, radio had 20% women reporters last year. Continuing the trend over the last decade, the highest proportion of women as journalists is in TV news. More women (52%) were seen working as reporters, announcers and presenters on TV than in print (13%) or in radio (20%). "The preference for women of a younger age group in visual media like TV could be hidden sexism at work, reinforcing the notions of glamour and fashion, and attractive young women drawing audiences based on their looks rather than the content of the news," the study said. If one examines the age profile, older women were featured less in visual media compared to the print. More women (45%) from a younger age group (19-34) were news subjects on TV than in print (38%). In print media, there are 19% female news subjects in the age group of 65-79, and in the 19-34 age group. According to the study, women news sources continued to be drawn from occupations outside the core of the power structure, such as the entertainment sector and the social work or social activism sector. Only 10% of female news sources were politicians or MPs while 60% were from the celebrity, artist, actor, writer, singer, etc., category. Activists comprised 36% of women news sources, while 57% belonged to the health workers, social workers and care workers category. Globally, women’s presence as spokespersons rose to 24% in 2020 from 19% in 2015 while in India, women’s function as spokespersons dropped to 8% in 2020 from 15% in 2015. "In 2020, female news subjects were found in 18% of the stories, but they were spokespersons and experts in only 8% of the stories. This marks a decline from 2015 across the board – five years ago, women appeared as news subjects in 27% of the stories, as spokespersons in 15% and as experts in 12%," it added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/womens-presence-in-indian-journalism-declining-study-1042772.html
21-10-2021||National||BJP MP Anantkumar takes dig at Aamir Khan's ad, says it's creating 'unrest among Hindus'||Firebrand BJP MP Anantkumar Hegde has shot off a letter to CEAT chief executive Anant Vardhan Goenka rebuking the company’s latest advertisement featuring Bollywood star Aamir Khan for creating “unrest among Hindus”. Hegde, the Uttara Kannada MP and former union minister, is referring to the latest CEAT ad for its SecureDrive tyres that shows Khan advising people not to burst crackers on roads. Hegde’s letter comes days after another firebrand BJP MP Tejasvi Surya and others targeted clothing brand Fabindia for its Jashn-e-Riwaaz collection, which was attacked for being anti-Hindu. “...your company’s advertisement has created an unrest among the Hindus. I hope in future your organization will respect the Hindu sentiment and will not hurt it directly or indirectly by any means (sic),” Hegde has stated in his October 14 letter that has come to light now. Hegde starts off his letter telling Goenka that the ad contained “a very good message” for its concern on public issues. “In this regard, I request you to address one more problem faced by people on the roads, i.e blocking roads in the name of Namaz on Fridays and other important festive days by Muslims,” he stated. According to Hegde, it is common in many Indian cities for Muslims to “block busy roads and perform Namaz”, which he said obstructed ambulances and firefighting vehicles “causing grave losses”. Hegde also urged Goenka to make ads on noise pollution caused by mikes used at mosques. “Every day, loud noise is emitted from mikes arranged on the top of mosques in our country when Azan is given. That sound is beyond the permissible limits,” he stated. “On Fridays, it is prolonged for some more time,” he wrote, adding that this caused “great inconvenience to people suffering from different ailments”. Identifying Goenka as a fellow Hindu, Hegde wrote: “I am sure you feel the discrimination done to the Hindus since centures. Nowadays, a group of anti-Hindu actors always hurt the sentiments whereas they never try to expose the wrongdoings of their community.” During the day, #ShameonYouCeatTyres was trending on Twitter. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-anantkumar-takes-dig-at-aamir-khans-ad-says-its-creating-unrest-among-hindus-1042778.html
21-10-2021||National||Mandaviya launches song, film as India hits Covid vaccination milestone||As the cumulative vaccine doses administered in India surpassed the 100-crore mark, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday launched a song and a film describing the efforts that went behind the launch of the world's largest Covid inoculation programme. The Union Health minister launched the song and the film at the iconic Red Fort where the country's largest khadi tricolour, weighing around 1,400 kg, has been displayed. The same tricolour (225 feet by 150 feet) was unfurled on Gandhi Jayanti at Leh. "Today India created history. It's a story of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Sankalp'. 100 crore vaccine is a story of Atma Nirbhar Bharat," Mandaviya said at the event. The song has been sung by singer Kailash Kher. The audio-visual film is about how the entire process of vaccination was initiated and what efforts it took to launch the world's largest Covid inoculation programme. The film also thanks doctors, nurses and everyone else who contributed in the largest vaccination drive and made it a success. The flag was displayed at a raised slant platform at the lawn right in front of the ramparts of the Red Fort. Over 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, while over 31 percent have been administered both the doses, according to Union health ministry officials. To mark the milestone on the Covid-19 vaccination exercise, a series of events have also been lined up. The Archaeological Survey of India will light up 100 of its heritage monuments in colours of the national flag to mark the milestone which will be a tribute to health professionals, frontline workers, scientists, vaccine manufacturers and the citizens of the country who bravely fought the pandemic, officials said on Thursday. SpiceJet will unveil a special livery at the Delhi airport to celebrate the 100 crore vaccine milestone on Thursday. "After 100 crore doses are administered, we will go on a mission mode to ensure that those who have taken their first dose take their second dose too to ensure they are protected against Covid-19," Mandaviya had earlier said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-launches-song-film-as-india-hits-covid-vaccination-milestone-1042781.html
21-10-2021||National||SpiceJet unveils special livery to celebrate 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine||SpiceJet on Thursday unveiled a special livery on its Boeing 737 aircraft at the Delhi airport to celebrate India's reaching the historic milestone of administering 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. The livery bearing an image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and healthcare workers adorned three Boeing 737 aircraft of SpiceJet. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya was also present during the unveiling. SpiceJet Chairman and Managing Director Ajay Singh -- who was also present on the occasion -- said the reaching of a 100-crore-dose milestone in mere 279 days was a testament to the efforts of health workers and the cooperation of citizens. “The exceptional contribution of our frontline workers and corona warriors including those from SpiceJet and SpiceHealth deserves special mention and should be applauded,” he said. "Our aircraft livery is a small tribute to the success of India's vaccination mission and a celebration of its never-say-die spirit,” he added. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore milestone on Thursday. Around 75 per cent of India's all eligible adult population has been inoculated with at least one dose and around 31 per cent has received both doses of the vaccine. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with health care workers getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers started on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged over 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive allowing all above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spicejet-unveils-special-livery-to-celebrate-100-crore-covid-19-vaccine-1042783.html
21-10-2021||National||India poised to become $5-trillion economy by 2024-25: Hardeep Singh Puri||Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday exuded confidence that India will become a $five-trillion economy by 2024-25 and $10-trillion by 2030. Speaking at a virtual conference of PAFI India, Puri said, "Economic growth is accelerating. India is poised for growth to become a $5 trillion economy by 2024-25 and $10 trillion economy by 2030". On Bharat Petroleum Corporation divestment, he said: "All feedback is proceeding well..." The petroleum and urban development minister also hailed the recent Air India divestment. There are reports that after the Air India deal, the government intends to close the disinvestment of BPCL this fiscal only. About the vaccination drives in the country, he said, "We are celebrating one billion doses of vaccines administered today". On economic growth momentum, he said petrol consumption is 16 per cent higher than pre-Covid levels, while diesel consumption is 10-12 per cent higher. "Even the stock market has registered a growth of 250 per cent since March 2020," he added. Puri mentioned that the pandemic has led to a different set of growth drivers -- revival of health sector, exports, global manufacturing risk index, increased economic activity, achieving renewable energy target and initiative like Gati Shakti, Foreign exchange reserve. On high energy and oil prices, Puri said the supply curve has been kept below the demand curve, which leads to high prices. "High price of energy undermines global economic recovery. The ideal is to release increased production in the market and that will be in the interest of the producing country also. For India, Centre and state in the spirit of cooperative federalism need to pool their resources to keep prices in check," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-poised-to-become-5-trillion-economy-by-2024-25-hardeep-singh-puri-1042787.html
21-10-2021||National||Cabinet approves PM GatiShakti National Master Plan||The Union Cabinet on Thursday approved PM GatiShakti National Master Plan, including implementation, monitoring and support mechanism, for providing multi-modal connectivity. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on October 13, had launched a Rs 100 lakh crore national master plan for multi-modal connectivity to develop infrastructure to reduce logistic costs and boost the economy. It targets to cut logistic costs, increase cargo handling capacity and reduce the turnaround time. An Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) headed by the Cabinet Secretary and secretaries of 18 ministries as members, among others, will be set up. Briefing the media regarding the decision, Union Minister Anurag Thakur said a Multimodal Network Planning Group (NPG) will be constituted with representation from the heads of the Network Planning Division from various ministries and departments. The NPG will be supported by a technical support unit (TSU) located in the Logistics Division of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The TSU will have domain experts from various infrastructure sectors, such as aviation, maritime, public transport, rail, roads and highways, ports, power, pipeline, GIS, ICT, finance/market PPP, logistics, data analytics, among others. The EGOS has been mandated to review and monitor the implementation of the PM GatiShakti NMP to ensure logistics efficiency. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-pm-gatishakti-national-master-plan-1042791.html
21-10-2021||National||33 Goa beaches affected by tarball menace since 2015: Minister||As many as 33 beaches in Goa have been affected by floating tarballs, a product of oil weathered by heat and seawater since 2015, according to the Goa government, which has now urged the Director General (Shipping) for a more coordinated effort by state and central government agencies to rein in the menace. According to documents tabled by the state Environment Minister Nilesh Cabral in the recently concluded two-day session of the state legislative assembly, among the beaches which have been impacted by the annual menace include those which are extremely popular with tourists namely Baga, Calangute, Candolim, Sinquerim, Morjim, Arambol, Ashwem in North Goa and Varca, Cavelossim, Betalbatim, Benaulim in South Goa In September this year alone, 12 beaches have been impacted by the tarballs phenomenon, a factor which has concerned the travel and tourism industry stakeholders in the state, which is popular for its beach tourism. "The state has its own State Oil Spill Disaster Contingency Plan. The Board had communicated the same to the Department of Environment and Climate Change, Goa regarding the publications of NIO Scientist indicating the source tracing of tarballs to Bombay High region," Cabral told the Goa legislative assembly in a written reply to a question by Opposition MLA Rohan Khaunte. Tarballs are formed due to a reaction of oil or oily ballast dumped by seagoing vessels, which then reacts with the saline water, creating the formation of tarballs, which then wash ashore. Tarballs regularly wash ashore along the Western coastline causing pollution of beaches and the coastal environment, especially during the monsoons, when the phenomenon peaks. The state government is now mulling roping in both state and central agencies to tackle the menace, with the Goa State Pollution Control Board advising the state government to "to keep a check on spillages during transportation, waste/burnt oil from DG sets used on vessels leakages from fishing trawlers as mentioned above within the jurisdiction of the state government and also direct the Indian Coast Guard, Goa to keep strict vigil of waters within their jurisdiction". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/33-goa-beaches-affected-by-tarball-menace-since-2015-minister-1042803.html
21-10-2021||National||UK Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss to visit India from October 22 to 24||British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss will visit India from October 22 to 24 during which she will hold talks with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to deepen strategic ties in key sectors such as defence, trade and health. Truss' visit will be an opportunity to review the 'Roadmap 2030' launched during the virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his UK counterpart Boris Johnson earlier this year, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. The visit will also be an opportunity to further deepen the partnership across various sectors like trade, science and technology, innovation, defence, climate, education and health, it said. During her stay in New Delhi, Truss will hold talks with Jaishankar on Friday on bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual interest, the MEA said. As part of the visit, Truss will also travel to Mumbai on October 23. During the India-UK Virtual Summit between the two prime ministers held on May 4, 2021, the bilateral relationship between the two nations was elevated to Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. The ties have been marked by regular high-level exchanges and growing cooperation in diverse areas, the MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-foreign-secretary-elizabeth-truss-to-visit-india-from-october-22-to-24-1042813.html
21-10-2021||National||CBI chief Jaiswal is 'potential accused' in case against Deshmukh: Maharashtra govt to HC||CBI director Subodh Jaiswal himself should be considered a "potential accused" in the central agency's probe against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, the state government told the Bombay High Court on Thursday. Senior counsel Darius Khambata, who appeared for the Maharashtra government, told a bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S V Kotwal that from 2019 to 2020 when Jaiswal was the state Director General of Police (DGP), he was also part of the Police Establishment Board. The senior IPS officer was thus involved in decisions on transfers and postings of police officers which the CBI is now probing, the lawyer said. The Maharashtra government has challenged before the high court summons issued by the CBI to state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and present state DGP Sanjay Pandey to record statements in connection with the agency's probe against Anil Deshmukh. Recommendations for transfers and postings were approved by Jaiswal in his capacity as DGP during Deshmukh's tenure, Khambata said. "A CBI probe is ongoing into transfers and postings of state police officers made during former home minister Anil Deshmukh's tenure. Then the next in line (to be probed) is the Director-General of Police, who is the fulcrum, who is at the heart of the issue of transfers and postings. So having the former DGP head the investigation is like having Anil Deshmukh investigate it himself," the state's lawyer said. The CBI is probing allegations of corruption made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh, an NCP leader. Following an order of the Bombay High Court on April 5, 2021, the CBI conducted a preliminary inquiry into the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh and later registered an FIR. In September this year, the CBI summoned Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and the present DGP Sanjay Pandey for recording statements in the case. The Maharashtra government has moved the HC challenging the summons. Advocate Khambata also pointed out that the HC's April 5 order had said that whoever was part of the alleged corruption, even the complainant himself, must be investigated. He showed the court the minutes of meetings where Jaiswal, as part of the police establishment board, had approved transfers of several police officers. Jaiswal was present at every meeting on transfers, Khambata claimed. "So shouldn't the CBI ask Jaiswal why he recommended these transfers? But to do this, a CBI officer will have to summon and question his own director. "Even, in theory, it is absurd. It is the very antithesis of a fair investigation when the CBI director is a potential accused," the state's lawyer added. Jaiswal, who was known to be an "upright officer," must himself state that the CBI cannot go on with its probe, Khambata said. "It will be absurd if a junior CBI officer will have to put these questions to his director. And it boggles my mind that a potential accused is heading the agency," he said. Khambata urged the HC to appoint a retired judge or some other suitable person to head the probe against Deshmukh and monitor it. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor Generals Aman Lekhi and Anil Singh, who appeared for the CBI, opposed the state's plea. "The state's stand is disingenuous. It is a misconceived petition to delay and derange the investigation," Lekhi claimed. The court said it could not grant an interim stay to the summons as it would mean making comments on the merits of the case. It granted liberty to the CBI to file a reply and posted the matter for further hearing on October 28. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-chief-jaiswal-is-potential-accused-in-case-against-deshmukh-maharashtra-govt-to-hc-1042822.html
21-10-2021||National||Revisit Rs 8 lakh criteria to determine EWS for NEET admissions: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday questioned the Union government for adopting criteria similar to OBC creamy layer of Rs eight lakh annual income for granting reservations under the Economic Weaker Sections, though this category suffered from no social and educational backwardness. The bench sought to know from Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj if the government had collected some demographic or sociological or socio-economic data before fixing the EWS criteria uniformly and if it had accounted for the differences in urban and rural purchasing power. "You just cannot pull out eight lakh from thin air. You are making unequal equals by applying the Rs eight lakh limit," the bench told the law officer. The court asked the Centre if it undertook any exercise before arriving at the criteria and if it was based on the Sinho commission report.  The court also expressed its displeasure over the failure of the government to file an affidavit in this regard, despite its direction on the last date of hearing on October 7. It was hearing a batch of petitions by Neil Aurelio Nunes and others challenging the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC and EWS reservation in NEET-All India Quota from the current academic session in Post Graduate courses in medical colleges across the country. As many as 15% seats in MBBS and 50% seats in MS and MD courses in medical colleges are filled through all India quotas from the candidates selected in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test. The court, which warned to stay the notification, finally gave time to the Centre to file its response and posted the matter for consideration on October 28.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/revisit-rs-8-lakh-criteria-to-determine-ews-for-neet-admissions-sc-1042828.html
21-10-2021||National||SC to start physical hearings on large scale after Diwali||The Supreme Court on Thursday indicated it may start physical court hearings on a larger scale from next month after the Diwali break, amid the strong demands from the lawyer's bodies for it. The top court started full physical hearings on Thursday as per its October 7 notification to have mandatory physical hearings on Wednesdays and Thursdays every week. Senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi and Ranjit Kumar thanked the CJI for starting physical courts. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave said the development has come as a great relief for the young advocates. A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud, told a group of lawyers, "We are happy to see you all. You cannot imagine how lonely it is to see the screen every morning." "It is so good to see all the faces who bring joy and sunshine intellectually. Let us hope that we keep seeing the faces physically," he added. It was also learnt that a meeting was also convened by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, where Attorney General K K Venugopal, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, senior advocates Kapil Sibal and CU Singh favoured continuing with the hybrid model of hearings on all days. Bar Council of India Chairman Manan K Mishra and the Supreme Court Advocates-on-record Association and the SC Bar Association asked the CJI to start physical hearings on all five days. The top court had adopted a virtual mode of hearings since March 2020 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-start-physical-hearings-on-large-scale-after-diwali-1042844.html
21-10-2021||National||After 100-crore vaccines mark, focus now on the unvaccinated, second dose beneficiaries||After India achieved the significant milestone of administering 100 crore Covid-19 vaccines on Thursday, the focus will now shift to the unvaccinated citizens and those who have only received the first dose.  According to V K Paul, member (health) Niti Ayog and Chairman of the government's Covid Task Force, the focus of the immunisation drive would now shift to ensure vaccination of the maximum number of the 94 crore eligible beneficiaries. A little over nine months after launching the immunisation drive on January 16, nearly 75 per cent of India's 94 crore adult population has received at least one dose of the Covid-19, while 31 per cent of the total eligible beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated. Paul said about 10 crore individuals due for their second dose of the vaccine were yet to turn up for immunisation. “It is now unfinished work that we must accomplish and send reminders to those individuals to take their second dose,” he said. “India scripts history. We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said shortly after the 100-crore milestone was crossed around 9:50 am on Thursday. Modi visited the RML Hospital in the national capital to acknowledge the contribution of healthcare workers who played a crucial role in the fight against Covid-19 that had crippled the world economy. “The country now has a strong protective shield of 100 crore vaccine doses. This achievement belongs to India and its citizens,” the Prime Minister said. India has relied on Serum Institute produced Covishield, indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech and Russian-made Sputnik V for the vaccination drive. Covishield has emerged as the mainstay of the vaccination drive, accounting for 88.58 per cent of the total doses administered and Covaxin has been given to 11.46 per cent of beneficiaries. Sputnik V has been given to a miniscule number of beneficiaries. “It took us 279 days to reach here. Only 52 per cent of Indians have received at least a single dose so far. 70 million people aged 45+ are yet to get even a single dose. Miles to go,” said Rijo M. John, Adjunct Professor, Rajagiri College of Social Sciences. India celebrated the 100-crore vaccination milestone in style with ships blaring horns at various ports, public announcements being made at airports, train stations and bus terminals. The Archeological Survey of India illuminated monuments under its care to celebrate the occasion. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-100-crore-vaccines-mark-focus-now-on-the-unvaccinated-second-dose-beneficiaries-1042845.html
21-10-2021||National||MP CM announces 8% DA hike for govt employees||In a Diwali gift to state government employees, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced an eight per cent hike in the Dearness Allowance (DA). The decision took the total DA component paid to government employees to 20 per cent. Earlier in the day, the Union Cabinet hiked the dearness allowance and dearness relief by 3 per cent for the central government employees. “The employees of my state are `Karma-yogi' in the true sense. The service they have rendered during the coronavirus period is certainly commendable," Chouhan said in a statement. In the last one and a half years, the state had to face two "horrific waves of coronavirus" which led to increasing in expenditure and also hit the revenues, he said. "This is why for some time we had to postpone salary increase of the employees. Now we have decided to increase the dearness allowance," said the CM. The employees will get increased DA with the salary of October 2021, to be disbursed in November 2021. The total DA of officers and employees of the state government will increase from 12 per cent to 20 per cent, the chief minister added. The salary hike due in July 2020 and January 2021 had been postponed because of the impact of the pandemic on the state's finances, and the government has now decided that 50 per cent of this pending increment too will be provided with the salary of October 2021, he said. The remaining amount will be paid with the salary for February 2022, to be paid in March 2022, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-cm-announces-8-da-hike-for-govt-employees-1042846.html
21-10-2021||National||Drugs case: NCB records actor Ananya Panday's statement; to call her on Friday again||While Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan visited his son in the high-security Arthur Road undertrial prison as he failed to secure bail in the Cordelia cruise rave party case, the Narcotics Control Bureau widened its net and called actor Chunky Pandey’s daughter Ananya Pandey for investigations.  Ananya (22), who has acted in films like ‘Student of the Year 2’ and ‘Pati Patni aur Woh’, was grilled for two-and-a-half-hours at the NCB’s Ballard Estate office on Thursday and has been asked to appear once again on Friday.  A team of NCB visited her home in Bandra and took some electronic devices and summoned her - apparently based on the WhatsApp chat with Aryan Khan (23).  In fact, Aryan Khan’s sister Suhana Khan is known to be friends with Ananya Pandey. Ananya was seen entering the NCB office along with her father Chunky Pandey, an actor who has made a mark in Bollywood as well as Bangladeshi film industry.  “Just because anyone is being questioned does not mean that he or she is an accused…even suspects and witnesses are called for investigations,” said a NCB official as a NCB team left the home of Pandeys.  Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 by the NCB after a rave party on board cruise ship Cordelia was busted while it was cast off from Mumbai for a voyage to Goa. Maneshinde mentioned the plea before a single bench of Justice N W Sambre, seeking an urgent hearing on Friday. However, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared on behalf of NCB, sought time. “The hearing would now be next Tuesday,” Aryan Khan’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde told reporters in Mumbai. A total of 20 persons have been arrested so far in this cruise ship case.  All the accused have been booked under the stringent Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). Aryan Khan’s appeal for bail has been rejected by the Esplanade Magistrate Court and the Special NDPS Court.  Meanwhile, a team of NCB visited Mannat, the residence of Shah Rukh Khan at Bandra.  However, when the news of the raid on SRK’s home spread like wildfire, NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede came out with a clarification. “A team of NCB visited Mannat seeking certain material related to the investigation of the case involving Aryan Khan by following due procedure of notice. It wasn’t a raid as erroneously reported in certain sections/channels of media,” he said.  The developments come a day after a Special NDPS Court rejected the bail plea of Aryan Khan. Meanwhile, the Esplanade Magistrate’s Court extended his judicial custody till October 30. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-case-ncb-records-actor-ananya-pandays-statement-to-call-her-on-friday-again-1042847.html
21-10-2021||National||India among 11 'countries of concern' on climate change for US spy agencies||Afghanistan, India and Pakistan were among 11 countries singled out by US intelligence agencies on Thursday as being "highly vulnerable" in terms of their ability to prepare for and respond to environmental and societal crises caused by climate change. In a new National Intelligence Estimate, the Office of Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) predicts that global warming will increase geopolitical tensions and risks to US  national security over the next four decades, a senior intelligence official involved in drafting the report said. Such estimates are broad US  intelligence community assessments. Thursday's report identifies as particular "countries of concern" Afghanistan, India, Pakistan, Myanmar, Iraq, North Korea, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua and Colombia. Heat, drought, water availability and ineffective government make Afghanistan specifically worrying, the official said. Water disputes are also a key "geopolitical flashpoint" in India and the rest of South Asia. The report identifies two additional regions of concern to US  intelligence agencies. Climate change is "likely to increase the risk of instability in countries in Central Africa and small island states in the Pacific, which clustered together form two of the most vulnerable areas in the world." The report notes disparities around global approaches to tackling climate change, saying countries that rely on fossil fuel exports to support their economies "will continue to resist a quick transition to a zero-carbon world because they fear the economic, political, and geopolitical costs of doing so." The report also notes the likelihood of increasing strategic competition over the Arctic. It says that the Arctic and non-Arctic states "almost certainly will increase their competitive activities as the region becomes more accessible because of warming temperatures and reduced ice." It predicts international competition in the Arctic "will be largely economic but the risk of miscalculation will increase modestly by 2040 as commercial and military activity grows and opportunities are more contested." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-among-11-countries-of-concern-on-climate-change-for-us-spy-agencies-1042850.html
21-10-2021||National||World leaders laud India on 100-crore Covid vaccinations milestone||World leaders applauded India as the Covid-19 vaccination drive crossed the 100-crore doses milestone, saying it had brought the world closer to defeating the global pandemic and achieving vaccine equity. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, Bhutan Prime Minister Lotay Tshering, WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus were among those who congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the landmark achievement. “I applaud India’s successes in fighting Covid-19 at home and for its efforts to help end the pandemic in the Indo-Pacific region and well beyond,” said Antony Blinken, US Secretary of State. Maldives president Ibrahim Mohamed Solih thanked India for supporting the Maldives in its fight against Covid-19 and vaccination efforts. “Congratulations to @narendramodi on leading India's successful Covid-19 vaccination campaign that has now administered more than 1 billion vaccines to the Indian people,” Bennett said. Bennett said these life-saving vaccines were helping all defeat the global pandemic. Ghebreyesus congratulated Modi, scientists, health workers and people of India on their “efforts to protect the vulnerable populations from Covid-19 and achieve vaccine equity targets”. Tshering said the feat was a “huge accomplishment” not just for India, but the world. India thanked Bhutan for his wishes and his appreciation for the Vaccine Maitri initiative. Under ‘Vaccine Maitri’ India has so far delivered around 66.3 million doses of vaccines to 95 countries, including Canada, Britain, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Brazil, Nepal, South Africa, Ukraine and Bahrain. Rajapaksa congratulated Modi, the medical community and frontliners of India “for achieving this mammoth task”. “The way forward & adjusting to the new normal while staying safe is highly dependent on a successful vaccination drive. Congratulations on reaching this milestone,” he said. Seychelles President Wavel Ramkalawan and Malawi President Dr. Lazarus Chakwera also congratulated India on its achievement of administering 1 billion vaccination doses. “Congratulations, India, on this historic milestone! This impressive achievement brings the world closer to overcoming the pandemic. I salute the efforts of doctors, nurses and all frontline workers,” Emmanuel Lenain, Ambassador of France to India said. Malawi President Lazarus Chakwera said vaccine accessibility was the key to building back better and stronger. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-leaders-laud-india-on-100-crore-covid-vaccinations-milestone-1042853.html
21-10-2021||National||Russia's 'joint statement' on Taliban causes unease for India||A “joint statement” issued by Russia after it hosted a meeting of India, Pakistan, China and other nations on Afghanistan has caused unease in New Delhi as it has stopped just short of granting legitimacy to the interim government set up by the Taliban in Kabul. New Delhi has not yet officially dissociated itself from the “joint statement”, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian government issued after the meeting in Moscow and which recognised the Taliban leaders attending the conclave as “a high-level delegation of the interim Afghan government”. A source, however, said that the document released in Moscow was in fact not a “joint statement”, but a summary of the discussion prepared by the chair – Russian President Vladimir Putin’s special representative for Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, who hosted the meeting on Wednesday. Two senior diplomats represented the government of India in the meeting, which was also attended by the representatives of China, Pakistan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. “It was stated in the meeting that further practical engagement with Afghanistan needed to take into account the new reality, that is the Taliban coming to power in the country, irrespective of the official recognition of the new Afghan government by the international community,” according to the document the Russian government released as a “joint statement”. The document caused unease in New Delhi as its wordings were not in sync with the position India took on the new dispensation in Afghanistan. The Taliban on September 8 announced an interim government for Afghanistan with no representation of women and the ethnic minorities of the country. New Delhi called out the Taliban dispensation in Kabul for lack of inclusivity with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, himself, on September 17 urging the global community to tread cautiously on recognising it. New Delhi had some back-channel engagements with the Taliban before the militant organisation took over power in Kabul on August 15. The Modi government on August 31 for the first time publicly acknowledged its engagement with the Taliban as New Delhi’s envoy to Doha had a meeting with Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the militant organisation’s political office in the capital of Qatar. The two diplomats, who attended the meeting in Moscow on Wednesday, also had a separate meeting with Abdul Salam Hanafi, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Taliban’s interim government for Afghanistan. Hanafi led the delegation of the Taliban in the meeting in Moscow. Though the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi has avoiding making any public statement about the meeting yet, a source said that the diplomats once again conveyed to the Taliban New Delhi’s expectation that Pakistan would not be allowed to use the territory of Afghanistan to export terror to India. The source told DH that New Delhi was not living in denial about the reality of the Taliban coming to power in Kabul and had started engagements with the militant organisation to counter Pakistan’s bid to gain a strategic advantage against India in Afghanistan. But the Modi government was still not ready to recognise or grant legitimacy to the Taliban regime in Kabul and that was why the wordings of the document released by the Russian government after the meeting in Moscow on Wednesday caused unease in New Delhi. India, however, did not publicly dissociate itself from the “joint statement” apparently to avoid straining its ties with Russia. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russias-joint-statement-on-taliban-causes-unease-for-india-1042865.html
21-10-2021||National||Gauri Lankesh murder: Supreme Court restores organised crime Act against accused||The Supreme Court on Thursday restored the Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA) charges against one of the accused in the 2017 murder case of journalist and social activist Gauri Lankesh. The court held that the stringent provisions can be invoked against a member of the crime syndicate involved in organised crimes without two previous charge sheets against him. A three-judge bench, presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar, allowed separate appeals filed by filmmaker Kavitha Lankesh, sister of slain activist Gauri Lankesh, and the state government against the High Court’s decision of April 22 to quash the charges against the accused Mohan Nayak N. “Offences, punishable under Section 3(2), 3(3), 3(4) or 3(5) of the KCOCA, can proceed against any person sans such previous offence registered against him if there is material to indicate that he happens to be a member of the organised crime syndicate who had committed the offences in question and it can be established that there is material about his nexus with the accused who is a member of the organised crime syndicate,” the bench said. With Thursday’s order, the possibility of the accused getting bail would become difficult during the pendency of the trial. The top court had earlier ordered that the plea for bail moved by accused Nayak, a resident of Dakshina Kannada district, after quashing the KCOCA charges, cannot be allowed until it decided the instant matter. The court noted the investigation by SIT has revealed that Nayak, arrested on July 18, 2018, had “intimate nexus with the brain behind the entire event being none other than Amol Kale and master arms trainer Rajesh D Bangera who are part and parcel of a crime syndicate and committed organised crimes as such”. In its judgement, the court declared if the role of the offender is merely that of a facilitator or of an abettor, the requirement of the named person being involved in more than two charge sheets registered against him in the past is not relevant. An accused need not be a person who had a direct role in the commission of an organised crime for invoking the charges, the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar, said. It said the HC’s order was “manifestly wrong and cannot be countenanced”. The HC exceeded its jurisdiction in quashing the charge sheet filed against Nayak. According to the petitioners, Nayak was part of the syndicate led by Amol Kale which has committed multiple organised crimes apart from the murder of Gauri. The plea said charge sheets have been filed with respect to the murders of Dr Narendra Dabolkar in 2013, Govinda Pansare in 2015, Dr M M Kalburgi in 2015 and conspiracy to murder Prof Bhagavan in 2018. “Accordingly, the condition of at least two charge sheets having been filed against the syndicate in the last 10 years along with cognisance by competent court stands fulfilled,” it contended. Gauri Lankesh, a leading journalist, was killed on September 05, 2017, outside her house at Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bengaluru. Kavitha is a complainant in the case. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gauri-lankesh-murder-supreme-court-restores-organised-crime-act-against-accused-1042873.html
21-10-2021||National||Don't underestimate China, Beijing tells Nicholas Burns, Biden's pick for US Ambassador||China's Foreign Ministry on Thursday lashed out at Nicholas Burns, President Joe Biden's nominee to be the next US ambassador to Beijing, for his sharp criticism of the Communist giant's hardline policies over Xinjiang, Tibet, Hong Kong and Taiwan, saying he should not underestimate China's strong resolve to defend its rights. Burns took a tough stand on America's ties with China during his Senate Foreign Relations Committee's confirmation hearing on Wednesday. Burns said the US was right to continue its "one-China policy" but that Washington was also right to oppose China’s unilateral actions that undermine the status quo and undermine the stability of the region. Reacting to his comments, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said, “We advise Burns to be keenly aware of the overall trend of world development and people's aspiration, learn the real situations of China objectively, view China and China-US ties in a rational manner and avoid underestimating the strong resolve, determination and capability of the Chinese people to defend their rights." “We hope he will speak and act in a more constructive manner, and play a constructive part in promoting China-US relations and the friendship between the two peoples," Wang said. Burns told members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee during his confirmation hearing that reports of China building up its nuclear arsenal are concerning, and called on Beijing to halt its "genocide in Xinjiang, its abuses in Tibet, its smothering of Hong Kong's autonomy and freedoms, and its bullying of Taiwan." If confirmed, Burns would fill the ambassador role, which remained vacant for a year amid ongoing tensions between US and China, a relationship he called "complicated and consequential." Burns, who served as the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs from 2005 to 2008, said the "Chinese genocide in Xinjiang and abuses in Tibet, its smothering of Hong Kong's autonomy and freedoms, and its bullying of Taiwan are unjust, and must stop". Beijing's recent actions against Taiwan are especially objectionable and the US is right to continue to adhere to its one-China policy, he said. "We are also right to support the peaceful resolution of disputes, and to oppose unilateral actions that undermine the status quo and stability in the Indo-Pacific," Burns said. Taiwan considers itself a sovereign state but China views the self-ruled island as a breakaway province. Beijing has not ruled out the possible use of force to achieve unification. Burns told lawmakers that the US will compete and compete vigorously with China where it should, including on jobs and the economy, critical infrastructure and emerging technologies and cooperate with Beijing where it is in its interest, including on climate change, counter-narcotics, global health and non-proliferation. Slamming Burns for his remarks, Wang said his comments "smack of Cold War zero-sum mentality and run counter to facts. China firmly rejects them” “We oppose defining China-US ties as competitive. Even when there is competition between the two sides in such pragmatic areas as economy and trade, it is healthy competition with each other for excellence”, he said. “Issues related to Taiwan, Xinjiang and Hong Kong are purely China's internal affairs that brook no foreign interference. The accusation of the so-called "genocide" in Xinjiang is an outrageous lie fabricated by a few anti-China scholars in Western countries and US politicians, with the true intention of oppressing and containing China's development," he said refuting Burns comments. On Taiwan, Wang said the US should honour its comments to 'One China policy', which is a political foundation of China-US relations. He also took exception to allegations against China over the origins of coronavirus which emerged in Wuhan in December 2019. “Origins-tracing is a scientific issue, but a handful of US politicians are obsessed with politically-motivated studies. Their malicious intention of denigrating and stigmatising China is evident to all," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-underestimate-china-beijing-tells-nicholas-burns-bidens-pick-for-us-ambassador-1042889.html
21-10-2021||National Politics||After 40% reservation in tickets for women, Priyanka promises smartphones, scooters to girls in UP||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday promised smartphones and electric scooters to girls in Uttar Pradesh if her party formed the next government in the state. Priyanka, who was also the state party in-charge, made the announcement through a post on Twitter. "I met some girl students on Wednesday...they told me that they needed smartphones for study and security purposes...I happy to announce that the UP Congress, with the consent of the manifesto committee, has decided that all girls, who have cleared Intermediate, will be given smartphones...those who have cleared graduation, will be given electronic scooty," the Congress leader said in the post. Priyanka had a few days back declared that her party would give 40 per cent nomination to the women in the next year's assembly polls in UP. She had then appealed to women to 'defeat' the "caste-ridden politics" being practised in the state by her rivals. UP Congress sources said that Priyanka would chair a meeting of the state unit of the party to discuss the preparation of the election manifesto and strategy in the forthcoming assembly polls. "Women issues are on top of Priyanka's agenda.....she has made it clear that Congress will harp on the issues concerning welfare and safety of the women in the state," said a senior UP Congress leader here while speaking to DH. Priyanka had rushed to Agra late on Wednesday night to meet the family of the youth, who had allegedly died in police custody on Tuesday night. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-40-reservation-in-tickets-for-women-priyanka-promises-smartphones-scooters-to-girls-in-up-1042709.html
21-10-2021||National Politics||Centre specially brought in Sameer Wankhede to NCB after Sushant Singh Rajput's death: Nawab Malik||In a stunning development, high-profile NCP leader Nawab Malik on Thursday dropped a bombshell saying that top NCB official Sameer Wankhede would be arrested and dismissed from service in a year’s time.  Malik is a close aide of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and the minority affairs minister in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra. It may be recalled, Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB in a drugs case, however, he has been given bail by a special NDPS court - and since then the senior politician has launched an expose against Wankhede, who is posted as NCB’s Mumbai zonal director.  “I am going to expose the officer….he will be arrested in six months and in a year’s time he will be out of a job in one year,” claimed Malik, the chief spokesperson of NCP. "A special officer (Sameer Wankhede) was brought in to the NCB after Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide. The CBI is investigating the case but the mystery over whether it is a  suicide or murder remains unresolved. But the NCB is now after the film industry,” he said,  adding that Rhea Chakraborty - the live-in partner of the actor was booked in a fake case "Attempts were made to implicate certain people in false cases. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire film industry was in Maldives. What was the officer and his family doing in Maldives and Dubai? This has to be clarified by Sameer Wankhede," the NCP spokesperson said. Dozens of film personalities were being paraded before the NCB office, he said.  "We are very clear. All this ‘vasuli’ (extortion) took place in Maldives and Dubai and I will release those photos," Malik said, and also posted some photos on his Twitter account. “Along with some BJP people, Wankhede is threatening the film industry people… I am repeating again, he keeps filing false cases and arresting people based on WhatsApp chats and without any evidence… I am going to reveal more on this,” warned Malik. He released photos of Wankhede’s sister Jasmeen Wankhede, ostensibly shot in the Maldives with captions and tagging her friends, including Fletcher Patel who had called her “The Lady Don’. Wankhede, however, refused to comment. “I fail to understand why the attacks on me, my sister, my retired father, my deceased mother when I am merely doing my duty… The cases are sub-judice. I will give a fitting reply later.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-specially-brought-in-sameer-wankhede-to-ncb-after-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-nawab-malik-1042718.html
21-10-2021||National Politics||Navjot Singh Sidhu calls Amarinder Singh 'architect' of Centre's farm laws||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday called former chief minister Amarinder Singh the "architect" of the Centre's three farm laws against which farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders. Sidhu's remark came two days after Amarinder Singh said that he would launch his own political party and that he was hopeful of a seat arrangement with the BJP, provided the ongoing farmers' stir against farm laws was resolved in the agriculturists' interest. Amarinder Singh, who faced an unceremonious exit from the state government last month, had also said that he was looking at an alliance with like-minded parties such as breakaway Akali groups. "The architect of three black laws… Who brought Ambani to Punjab's kisani… Who destroyed Punjab's farmers, small traders and labour for benefiting one-two big corporates," Sidhu tweeted in an apparent reference to farmers' allegations that big corporates will dictate terms to agriculturists with the passage of these laws. Amarinder Singh had resigned as the Punjab chief minister last month amid a bitter power tussle with Sidhu. Charanjit Singh Channi replaced him as the chief minister. Hundreds of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi borders since November 26 last year, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/navjot-singh-sidhu-calls-amarinder-singh-architect-of-centres-farm-laws-1042808.html
21-10-2021||National Politics||Congress should stop talking about secularism: Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday hit back at the Congress for targeting him over his plans to align with the BJP, saying it should stop talking about secularism as it took several saffron party leaders, including Navjot Singh Sidhu, into its fold, and questioned its alliance with Shiv Sena. Singh's response came as Congress General Secretary Harish Rawat, who is in-charge of Punjab, attacked Singh on Wednesday saying who can stop him if he cannot stay with his old commitment to secularism. Responding to this, Singh was quoted by his media adviser Raveen Thukral, "stop talking about secularism Harish Rawat-ji. Don't forget Congress took in Navjot Singh Sidhu after he was with the BJP for 14 years. And where did Nana Patole (Maharashtra) and Revnath Reddy (Telangana) come from if not RSS? And Pargat Singh was with Akali Dal for four years." Referring to Congress' alliance partner in Maharashtra, he said, "and what are you doing with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra? Or are you saying Harish Rawat-ji that it is okay to join forces with so-called communal parties as long as it suits Congress' purpose. What is  this if not sheer political opportunism?" He said Rawat was accusing him of helping the rival Akali Dal but he added, "is that why you think I have been fighting court cases against them for the last 10 years? And why I have won Congress all elections in Punjab since 2017?" He said Rawat apprehends that he would damage the Congress' interests in Punjab but the "fact" is that the party has "damaged its own interests" by not trusting him and giving Congress into the hands of an "unstable person" like Sidhu "who is only loyal to himself." Singh on Tuesday night announced that he will launch a new party and hopefully enter into a "seat arrangement" with the BJP in the next year's Assembly elections if the saffron party manages to resolve the farmers' protest. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-should-stop-talking-about-secularism-amarinder-singh-1042815.html
21-10-2021||National Politics||BJP always engrossed in festival-like celebrations, even during calamity: Akhilesh||The BJP is always engrossed in "festival-like celebrations", even during a calamity like the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed several lives, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Thursday, as events were organised to mark the administering of 100-crore Covid doses in the country. He also said the BJP only knows politics of lies and deceit, and alleged that it has done nothing for the people, who are facing problems due to inflation and corruption. "The BJP is a strange party. Whatever may be the calamity and even in deaths, the BJP is always engrossed in festival-like celebrations. It's a habit that even in a calamity, it finds the opportunity for celebrations," Yadav said in a statement issued. "The BJP celebrated record vaccinations. When people were dying due to the coronavirus, the BJP was celebrating with beating of 'thalis' (plates)," he said. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said the Kushinagar international airport was his government's plan, "but the BJP itself has started celebrating it by taking credit for it". Similarly, the Purvanchal Expressway was given by the Samajwadi Party government to the state, but the BJP has no problem in "celebrating" this too, he said. "The truth is that the BJP only knows the politics of lies and deceit. In its entire tenure in Uttar Pradesh and at the Centre, it has not done anything in public interest. During its tenure, the problems of the people have increased, the public is suffering from inflation, corruption. BJP will not mind celebrating these too," he said. This time people will celebrate in 2022 by bidding farewell to the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. The Samajwadi Party will form government in the state, Yadav said. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are due next year. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-always-engrossed-in-festival-like-celebrations-even-during-calamity-akhilesh-1042863.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand struggles with rain aftermath: 52 dead, 5 still missing||Landslides blocked roads, many villages went without electricity and the death toll climbed to 52 as authorities on Wednesday faced the aftermath of the rains that had battered Uttarakhand for over two days. Six more bodies were pulled out from the rubble of collapsed houses. Five people are still missing and 17 injured, according to official data. The weather cleared on Wednesday morning after the incessant rains since Sunday night that had triggered floods which washed away bridges and landslides which blocked access to towns like Nainital for hours. Most of the deaths were due to house collapses –- an official statement said 46 of them suffered damage. Twenty-eight of the deaths were in Nainital district alone. The official count of people missing in rain-related incidents does not include a trekking team of 11 people that left Uttarkashi but had not reached its destination Chitkul in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh. In an unrelated incident, three porters accompanying an ITBP patrol near the India-China border were buried in snow and are presumed dead. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said it has rescued hundreds from the flood-affected areas of Uttarakhand. The federal force has deployed 17 rescue teams in the state. "So far, NDRF rescuers have evacuated more than 1,300 stranded people from Udham Singh Nagar and Nanital. They are also distributing relief material in flood-affected areas of Uttarakhand," a spokesperson said. Six NDRF teams are deployed in Udham Singh Nagar, two teams each are stationed in Uttarkashi, Chamoli and one each in Dehradun, Champawat, Pithoragarh and Haridwar. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami toured rain-hit areas in Kumaon region, assessing the damage. Accompanied by Union Minister of State for Defence and Nainital MP Ajay Bhatt and State Disaster Management Minister Dhan Singh Rawat, Dhami boarded a tractor to cross waterlogged fields in Udham Singh Nagar district. "Standing crops have been damaged extensively, water has gushed into homes. I am moving from door to door in the affected areas to share the woes of the people," he told reporters. His constituency Khatima is a part of the district. The CM travelled by road as his helicopter could not take off from Haldwani due to a technical problem, he tweeted. Union Home Minister Amit Shah was expected to arrive in Dehradun late Wednesday night, and may undertake an aerial survey of the affected areas on Thursday morning, officials said. Tourist town Nainital was returning back to normalcy on Wednesdsay. A furious Gaula river has damaged the tracks at Kathgodam railway station in Nainital, which experienced a record 445 mm rainfall on Tuesday. The damaged tracks in Kathgodam could take four or five days to be repaired, DGP Ashok Kumar told PTI. In Nainital, tourists woke up to a bright morning without a trace of rain and were out on the streets for shopping and sightseeing. Taxis had begun running through the town. "It was suffocating to be locked up inside our hotel rooms due to the incessant rains on Tuesday,” a young tourist from Uttar Pradesh said. He added that the scenic beauty of the place had made up for what they suffered over the last two days. At most places in Nainital, the water had receded from the streets. Taxis were running again. Electricity supply and telephone connections, badly hit by the rains, have been restored in the townl. But villages on the outskirts remain affected, officials said. The rescue and restoration work was likely to pick up with the improvement in the weather, Nainital District Magistrate Dhiraj Garbiyal said. The Haldwani and Kaladhungi roads have been opened partially, restoring connectivity to Nainital which remained cut off on Monday and most of Tuesday. The Haldwani-Nainital national highway is open for light vehicles only because of landslide-prone zones at some spots. As the weather cleared across Uttarakhand on Wednesday, the authorities allowed stranded pilgrims to proceed towards the Chardham destinations of Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Gangotri. But the national highway leading to Badrinath was still blocked by landslides at several points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-struggles-with-rain-aftermath-52-dead-5-still-missing-1042598.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||9 tourists from Aland safe in Haridwar||A total of nine people from Bhusanur in Aland taluk of the district  who were on a Uttarakhand tour escaped devastating floods in Gowrikunda near Kedharnath and reached Haridwar safely on Wednesday.  Chidananda Swamy, Lakshmikanta Patil, Anantharaj Jugati, Nagaraj Jugati, Lakshmiputra, Kittu Gowdappagol, Vaijanath, Veeresh Patil and Mahadev Pattane had gone on a Kedharnath tour on October 14. "As it rained heavily for the past three days, they checked in a small room at Gowrikunda. Due to power disruption, their mobile phones were switched off. With the help of local police, all pilgrims reached Haridwar in a private vehicle. They will leave Haridwar today night and will reach Delhi. From where, the pilgrims will arrive to Kalaburagi on Friday", said Ramesh Jugati, the relative of Anantharaj Gujati.   BJP leader Bhimashankar Patil informed the chief minister's office about the nine pilgrims stranding in Uttarakhand floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-tourists-from-aland-safe-in-haridwar-1042599.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi visits Delhi's RML hospital as India's vaccination programme crosses 100-crore landmark||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday visited the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here as the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore milestone. Modi interacted with hospital officials and was accompanied by Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. The prime minister has frequently lauded health workers for spearheading the vaccination drive. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-visits-delhis-rml-hospital-as-indias-vaccination-programme-crosses-100-crore-landmark-1042661.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Gauri Lankesh murder case: Supreme Court restores KCOCA charges against accused||The Supreme Court on Thursday restored the Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA) charges against one of the accused in the 2017 murder case of activist Gauri Lankesh. It held that the stringent provisions can be invoked against a member of the crime syndicate involved in organised crimes without two previous charge sheets against him.  A three-judge bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar allowed separate appeals filed by filmmaker Kavitha Lankesh, sister of slain activist Gauri Lankesh, and the state government against the High Court's decision of April 22 to quash the charges against the accused Mohan Nayak N.  "Offences punishable under Section 3(2), 3(3), 3(4) or 3(5) of the KCOCA, can proceed against any person sans such previous offence registered against him if there is material to indicate that he happens to be a member of the organised crime syndicate who had committed the offences in question and it can be established that there is material about his nexus with the accused who is a member of the organised crime syndicate," the bench said. With today's order, the possibility of the accused getting bail would become difficult during the pendency of the trial. The top court had earlier ordered that the plea for bail moved by accused Nayak, a resident of Dakshina Kannada, after dropping of stringent charges, cannot be allowed until it decided the instant matter. The court noted the investigation by SIT has revealed that Nayak, arrested on July 18, 2018, had "intimate nexus with the brain behind the entire event being none other than Amol Kale and master arms trainer Rajesh D Bangera who are part and parcel of a crime syndicate and committed organised crimes as such". In its judgement, the court declared if the role of the offender is merely that of a facilitator or of an abettor, the requirement of the named person being involved in more than two charge sheets registered against him in the past is not relevant. An accused need not be a person who had a direct role in the commission of an organised crime for invoking the charges, the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C T Ravikumar, said. It said the HC's order was "manifestly wrong and cannot be countenanced". The HC exceeded its jurisdiction in quashing the charge sheet filed against Nayak. According to the petitioners, Nayak was part of the syndicate led by Amol Kale which has committed multiple organised crimes apart from the murder of Gauri. The plea said that charge sheets have been filed with respect to the murders of Dr Narendra Dabolkar in 2013, Govinda Pansare in 2015, Dr M M Kalburgi in 2015 and conspiracy to murder Prof Bhagavan in 2018.  “Accordingly, the condition of at least two charge sheets having been filed against the syndicate in the last 10 years along with cognisance by competent court stands fulfilled," it contended.  Lankesh, a leading journalist, was killed on September 05, 2017, outside her house at Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bengaluru. Kavitha is a complainant in the case. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gauri-lankesh-murder-case-supreme-court-restores-kcoca-charges-against-accused-1042675.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah to undertake aerial survey of rain-hit areas in Uttarakhand||Union Home Minister Amit Shah arrived in Dehradun late on Wednesday to take stock of the situation in the rain-ravaged parts of Uttarakhand. Three days of incessant rains have left a trail of death and devastation in the state killing 52 people, damaging roads, bridges and railway tracks besides destroying standing crop. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, Union Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt and Uttarakhand BJP president Madan Kaushik received Shah at the Jollygrant Airport on his arrival around midnight on Wednesday. Shah will undertake an aerial survey of the rain-hit areas on Thursday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-to-undertake-aerial-survey-of-rain-hit-areas-in-uttarakhand-1042684.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||IED detected, defused in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla||An improvised explosive device (IED) was detected and defused by the security forces on Thursday in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir thereby averting a major tragedy. Police said troops of 32 Rashtriya Rifles recovered an IED from a passenger shed near Saidpora village in Rafiabad area of Baramulla district on Thursday. Police said, "An IED planted by militants near Saidpora village was recovered and the bomb disposal squad was deployed to defuse it. "Timely action by the alert security forces has helped in averting a major tragedy as the passenger shed is often used by security forces for security purposes". To target convoys of the security forces and the VIP cavalcades, militants have been using remote triggered IEDs in J&K. Road opening parties (RoPs) of security forces equipped with metal detectors and sniffer dogs are deployed with the first light to secure highways and roads used by security force convoys and VIP cavalcade. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ied-detected-defused-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-baramulla-1042702.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Farmers have right to protest but they can't block roads indefinitely: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that the farmers — who have been opposing the three agriculture reforms laws — have a right to protest even though the matter was sub judice, but can't block roads indefinitely. Taking up a petition seeking a removal of the road blockade, a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said, "We are not against the protest, even when the legal challenge is still pending (before this court), but roads cannot be blocked, like this, indefinitely." The court had previously made similar observations that roads could not stay occupied perpetually. This was however in contrast to what another bench led by Justice A M Khanwilkar had said on October 1. It had then orally said once farmers had approached the court, they cannot continue their protests. It was then dealing with a plea filed by 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' for permission to hold 'Satyagrah' at Jantar Mantar here. On Thursday, the bench, also comprising Justice M M Sundresh was hearing a petition filed by a Noida resident, Monicca Agarwaal who sought the top court's directions to the government to remove protesters at the borders, as it causes a lot of inconveniences to the people travelling to and fro Delhi for various purposes. She also relied upon the top court’s judgement in the Shaheen Bagh case, which held that one can't hold protest at a public place indefinitely. During the course of the hearing, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for one of the farmer unions, contended that it was the police and not the protesting farmers there who have blocked the roads. He said permission must be granted to farmers to organise their protests at Ramlila Maidan here. He also cited a January 12 order by a three-judge bench which while staying implementation of the three farm laws had said the farmers can continue their protests peacefully. He also asked the court to refer the matter to a three-judge bench. The bench, however, said, "The law is clear. You have a right to agitate but the roads cannot be blocked like this. Why the blockage has taken place? How has it taken place? The matter has to be resolved."  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta contended that the Republic Day incident took place despite the farmer unions giving an undertaking that there would be no violence during the tractor rally on January 26. He also said only a few of the farmer unions have appeared before the court. "The law has already been laid down. There's nothing more to be laid down. You can tell them (agitating farmers) that their cooperation will help in resolving the issue," the bench said. The court asked farmer unions, including Samyukta Kishan Morcha (SKM), to file their detailed responses within three weeks. It posted the matter for further hearing on December 7. On October 4, the court had issued notice to 43 leaders of various farmer organisations, including Rakesh Tikait, and Yogendra Yadav, who have been protesting the three farm laws, at the Delhi-NCR border since November 2020. The court had sought a response from the leaders on an application by the Haryana government. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-have-right-to-protest-but-they-cant-block-roads-indefinitely-sc-1042704.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal hails frontline workers as India achieves Covid-19 vaccination milestone||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal congratulated the countrymen and saluted the frontline workers as India crossed the 100-crore mark in administering Covid vaccine doses on Thursday, saying the pandemic will be defeated unitedly. According to official sources, over 75 per cent of India's all eligible adult population has been administered at least the first dose and around 31 per cent has received both the doses of the vaccine. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with health care workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged over 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing all above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-hails-frontline-workers-as-india-achieves-covid-19-vaccination-milestone-1042707.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi showers praise on Khattar in big boost to Haryana CM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday praised Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, saying the state has after decades got a government under his leadership that works with absolute honesty and that it will be evaluated as the best in the last five decades. Noting that he has known Khattar, an RSS pracharak drafted into the BJP like Modi, for many years, the prime minister said his talent has come to the fore as a chief minister and added that he works with dedication and innovation, with even the central government adopting the model of some of the Haryana government's programmes. Modi's public praise of the low profile chief minister has come at a time when the BJP leadership's decision to remove three chief ministers, two in Uttarakhand and another in Gujarat, has prompted speculation about the fate of the CMs of other party-ruled states. The prime minister's strong endorsement of Khattar, whose leadership has come under the scanner a few times and who has his share of detractors within the state party unit, is likely to silence his critics in the BJP and will be a strong boost to his morale. Speaking at the inauguration of the Infosys Foundation Vishram Sadan at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) on the Jhajjar Campus of AIIMS, New Delhi, Modi noted that he had worked for many years in Haryana as a BJP leader and seen many state governments closely. “After many decades Haryana has under the leadership of Manohar Lal Khattar got a government which works with absolute honesty. It has got a government which thinks day and night about the state's bright future,” he said.  The media, Modi added, has not paid much attention to this positive and constructive matter but this government will be considered the best whenever an evaluation is done. He lauded the Khattar government for its innovative approach and foresight. The “BJP team” under Khattar has laid down a foundation for Haryana with its long term vision, and this is going to be a big strength for the state, he added. Modi later tweeted, "The coming years will always remember and cherish the pro-people work being done by@mlkhattar Ji and his team for the progress of Haryana." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-showers-praise-on-khattar-in-big-boost-to-haryana-cm-1042726.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Three held after woman stabbed 7 times in Delhi's Dwarka||Three people have been arrested in connection with a murder case in which a woman was stabbed to death on Matiala Road in Delhi's Dwarka area, an official said on Wednesday. Furnishing details about the incident, Deputy Commissioner of Police Shankar Choudhary said the incident happened in the wee hours of Tuesday when the deceased girl identified as Dolly Bindra was partying with the three accused people identified as Ankit Gaba, Himanshu and Manish Sharma. Family sources said the victim left the house before 12 am, informing her parents that she will stay at her friend's place. However, she went to the party. During the party, a heated verbal exchange took place between Ankit and Dolly over some personal issues which turned into a fight and later culminated into Dolly being stabbed to death by Ankit in the presence of his friends. After that at about 2.15 am, an area patrolling ERV (Emergency Response Vehicle) of Bindapur police station was informed by a Zomato delivery boy that a girl was lying in a pool of blood in a narrow street near Gurudwara Sewa Simran at Gali No. 1, Uttam Nagar, Delhi. The ERV staff reached the place and immediately informed the area police station about the incident. As the police reached the spot, they rushed the grievously injured girl to DDU hospital where she was declared brought dead. The police registered a case under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code at Bindapur police station and an investigation was initiated. The police with the help of CCTV footage identified all the three accused and deployed several teams to nab them. The accused had fled to Chandigarh by bus and from Chandigarh they left for Patiala. Meanwhile, police carried out raids at several places in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. Later, on specific information about their hideouts in Dwarka Mor, Himanshu and Manish were apprehended and based on their information Ankit was caught from the area of Sector-23 police station. The weapon of offence was also recovered. The prime accused Ankit Gaba who stabbed the woman 7 times was injured while he was being apprehended. "He was hiding in an under construction building and when we reached there to nab him, Ankit jumped from the building and fractured both his legs," DCP Choudhary said. As per CCTV footage of the crime accessed by IANS, the accused could be seen stabbing the woman multiple times. In the video, two men were also seen trying to save the woman, however, their efforts were futile. Sources said the woman and the accused were earlier in a relationship. However, they broke up some time ago. The victim was working in an event management company before the lockdown along with Himanshu and Manish while Ankit Gaba was running a pharmacy in the Dwarka area. According to recent data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the national capital recorded the highest number of crimes against women among all metropolitan cities in the country. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-held-after-woman-stabbed-7-times-in-delhis-dwarka-1042730.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||UP elections: Akhilesh Yadav seals deal with Rajbhar ||Samajwadi Party (SP) and Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP), an outfit representing the electorally influential 'Rajbhar' community, would be contesting the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh in an alliance. SBSP president and former UP minister Om Prakash Rajbhar made the announcement at an event in the state's Mau town on Wednesday. SP too later confirmed the alliance through a post on its official Twitter handle on Thursday. Rajbhar, whose party enjoyed support among the 'Rajbhar' (an OBC) community, who formed around 4 per cent of the electorate in the state and was deciding factor on over two dozen assembly seats, especially in the eastern UP region, said that the alliance had been forged to defeat the BJP. ''We have joined hands to oust the BJP from power.....BJP has promoted the politics of hatred during its rule in the state in the last four and half years....it can be defeated only if all the opposition parties come together,'' he said. Although Rajbhar did not reveal the number of seats to be contested by his party, according to the sources, SP was likely to accommodate the former on as many as 14 seats in the eastern UP districts of Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia, Ghazipur among others. Rajbhar, whose party had contested the 2017 assembly polls in the state in alliance with the BJP, was a minister in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet. He was, however, sacked two years ago after he turned a bitter critic of the saffron party following latter's refusal to accede to his demand of two Lok Sabha seats in UP in 2019 general elections. Despite parting ways, BJP continued attempts to strike an electoral alliance with Rajbhar in the next year's assembly polls. Several senior BJP leaders had met the SBSP chief. Talks, however, failed allegedly after Rajbhar demanded around a dozen seats. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-elections-akhilesh-yadav-seals-deal-with-rajbhar-1042739.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Centre to ramp up security forces in J&K amid surge in civilian killings: Report||Amid the rising number of targeted killings of civilians and minorities in Jammu and Kashmir, the Centre has decided to send extra forces to the state, to ramp up security. The CRPF troops will be sent in a phased manner. In the first phase, 10 companies will be sent, and in the next two phases, 15 companies will be sent.  The report also stated that this decision was taken in a high-level meeting.  “Almost two dozen CRPF companies will be moving to Jammu and Kashmir from different parts of the country in view of the current situation. Soon, an official communication will be released to move these troops," the media outlet reported, quoting sources.  Arrangements for the accommodation, transportation have already begun and the process of informing which companies will be going has also begun. CRPF DG Kuldiep Singh is already in the state monitoring the situation and is expected to remain there till Union Home Minister Amit Shah reaches J&K for his visit from October 23 to 25. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-to-ramp-up-security-forces-in-jk-amid-surge-in-civilian-killings-report-1042745.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||It's time sections in Kashmir overcome selective dementia, condemn civilian killings: Army officer||Amid a spate of targeted killings by terrorists, a senior army officer has said the time has come for some sections in Kashmir to overcome "selective dementia" and condemn the killing of civilians so that future generations are saved and there is an end to people's sufferings. Lt Gen K J S Dhillon, Director General of Defence Intelligence Agency and Deputy Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, said the perpetrators of such attacks on innocent civilians are targeting the roots of the society and that such people can never be friends of Kashmir. Addressing a seminar here on Wednesday, Lt Gen Dhillon said, "Over the past three decades, the Kashmiri society suffered and the very base and root of Kashmir suffered.... We have the right to (have own) feelings but whenever there is a killing by terrorists, selective dementia happens." "Anyone not speaking against this (killing of innocents), that man or woman has lost the right to speak about everything else. The world would later ask when you were silent on innocent killings, why should you be heard now," he said and urged people to overcome the syndrome of "selective dementia". Lt Gen Dhillon, who was also heading the strategic Kashmir-based XV Corps of the army during the crucial phase of abrogation of Article 370, highlighted that 66 per cent of the population of Kashmir is below 32 years of age and they could be referred to as "children of conflict" and "we need to understand their psychology". He said there is a need to understand the psychology of the younger population and the pain of the mothers. "The 2011 census puts the population of Kashmir below 32 years of age at 62 per cent and today it would have been around 66 per cent, which means that 66 per cent of the population were born during these three decades (of militancy) and are the children of conflict. "They were born and brought up during the gun culture, strikes, curfews and crackdowns. They have grown up with a scar on their psychology. They have grown through radicalization and propaganda...so there is a problem and we need to understand their psychology," he said. "Who's to be blamed and who is the loser? The loser is a Kashmiri wife, loser is a Kashmiri mother...Kashmiri mother because her child could not go to proper school, did not get proper education, whose child was pushed into madrassa and was indoctrinated, joined the rank and file of a terror group and lost his life within a day or a year, leaving her grieving for the entire life. "The grief of that mother stems from the rot of terrorism and we need to address it as a society," said Lt Gen Dhillon, who during his tenure had initiated "Operation Maa" to educate mothers about the ills of terrorism and prevent their children from joining terror groups. Citing an instance during security checks at airports abroad, Lt Gen Dhillon said that "calling someone Paki (Pakistani) in the western world is an abuse and do you (Kashmiris) want to be a society like that." "Are we heading that way? We have a rich history of 5000-plus years which is peaceful, based on coexistence, Kashmiriyat, insaniyat and Sufiyat," he said. He said the economic side of the recent killing of innocents by terrorists was to trigger panic to prompt prospective tourists to cancel hotel bookings so that common people suffer and become fodder for their terror groups. "The mainstay of young Kashmiri is tourism, it may be yatra (pilgrimage), trekking, skiing in Gulmarg...the tourists come and contribute to the economy, whether in Indian or foreign currency. If peace is not there, who will come? We have seen seasons in the past when there were no tourists and the local people suffered," Lt Gen Dhillon said. "We need to understand that we are being attacked at the very root -- be it education, business, livelihood -- and those doing it cannot be a friend of mine. This has to be understood by a common Kashmiri," said Lt Gen Dhillon, who served as a captain in north Kashmir during 1990 and went on to head the XV Corps overlooking security along the Line of Control as well as hinterland. Referring to the period he was posted as a captain in north Kashmir's Kupwara district in January 1990 when Pakistan-sponsored terrorism erupted in the valley, he said the percentage of the people affected by it and those involved in it were both in single digits, but 80 to 90 per cent of the population remained silent to the happenings. "Kashmiri Pandits were made to leave Kashmir. It is not just Kashmiri Pandits, but a part of the soul of Kashmir left. Kashmiri Pandits were the mainstay of the education system in the valley. What happened in 1989-90 when terrorism started, the first casualties were the schools that have been burnt down," he said. He said the people who were doing this did not want an education system in the Kashmiri society and wanted to crush the spirit of “Kashmiriyat”. He also added that terrorists ensured that Jammu and Kashmir lacked behind the rest of the country and the main reason for it was the eruption of militancy in the erstwhile state. "When the benefits of global economy accrued and India started getting its benefits, it was the same time when terrorism started in the valley in 1990 as a result Jammu and Kashmir lost this opportunity to be part of the global economy and avail its benefits," he said. Kashmir has witnessed a spate of targeted civilian killings in the past few weeks. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/its-time-sections-in-kashmir-overcome-selective-dementia-condemn-civilian-killings-army-officer-1042748.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||BJP's policies have taken J&K back by decades, says Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday alleged that the BJP government's policies on Jammu and Kashmir have taken the union territory "back by decades". The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister made the remarks in response to photographs and videos on social media in which security forces are seen frisking women and minors during surprise checking in Lal Chowk and other commercial areas of the city. "Sums up the current situation in Kashmir where women & even children are suspects now. This is what BJP has brought J&K to. Their policies have taken us back by decades," she said in a tweet.  The checking was intensified in the city and elsewhere in the valley after the recent killings of civilians including non-local labourers by militants.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-policies-have-taken-jk-back-by-decades-says-mehbooba-mufti-1042765.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah conducts aerial survey of rain-ravaged areas of Uttarakhand; relief, rescue ops continue||Union Home Minister Amit Shah undertook an aerial survey of the rain-ravaged areas of Uttarakhand on Thursday as relief and rescue operations continued in the worst-hit Kumaon region amid efforts to restore connectivity and evacuate people from vulnerable areas. Accompanied by Uttarakhand Governor Lt Gen (retd) Gurmit Singh, Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, Union Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt, and state Disaster Management Minister Dhan Singh Rawat, Shah left for an aerial survey of the affected areas in a helicopter from the GTC helipad here. He will return to Jollygrant airport and hold a meeting with officials in the presence of the chief minister. Three days of incessant rains in the state have caused damages worth Rs 7,000 crore, Dhami who has been touring the affected areas since Tuesday told reporters at the Pantnagar Airport. Restoring the network of damaged roads and bridges at the earliest and evacuating people to safety is the priority at the moment, he said. Meanwhile, the toll in rain-related incidents in the state has risen to 54 while 19 people are injured and five still missing, the state Emergency Operation Centre said in its latest report. Nainital district has reported the maximum number of 28 deaths. Due to the heavy downpour and flooding of the Naini lake, the area around Dhobi Ghat in Nainital is experiencing major landslides, District Magistrate Dhiraj Singh Garbiyal said. This area is right at the base of Nainital and is believed to be the foundation of the town. About a 100 families living in Dhobi Ghat have been shifted, he said.             Garbiyal said relief camps have been set up at a number of places. Twenty-five people were airlifted and six others rescued with the help of rafts in Ramnagar while 30 families from Sundarkhal and Ramnagar were airlifted and moved to safe locations, he said. Relief camps have also been set up in Puchdi area which was flooded. Fifty-four people of 10 families living in Puchdi Nai Basti have been accommodated in a relief camp set up at Government Girls Primary School Poochri, he said. A total of 150 people were brought to Ramnagar safely in roadways buses and sent to their destinations free of cost while 97 families affected by floods in Lalkuan have been shifted to a gurdwara and relief camps, he said. Meanwhile, the chardham yatra which was halted temporarily on October 18 due to the heavy rain alert issued by the Met department has resumed with pilgrims leaving for Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri from Rishikesh Chardham bus terminal and Haridwar bus stand. Heli services for Kedarnath have also resumed as the weather at the Himalayan temples is chilly but there is no rain.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-conducts-aerial-survey-of-rain-ravaged-areas-of-uttarakhand-relief-rescue-ops-continue-1042767.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||95% of people don't need petrol, says BJP MLA Upendra Tiwari as fuel prices hit fresh highs||Dismissing criticism over the rising fuel prices, Uttar Pradesh minister Upendra Tiwari on Thursday said 95 per cent of people have no use for petrol. Tiwari also argued that fuel prices had not really risen in real terms when the per capita income now is compared with that in 2014, referring to the year when a BJP-led government first came to power at the Centre. “Today, there are just a handful of people who travel in four-wheeler vehicles and use petrol. At present, 95 per cent of people don’t need petrol,” Tiwari told reporters in Jalaun. Higher fuel costs, however, impact virtually every citizen. For example, they lead to an increase in the price of all commodities -- including foodgrain, fruit and vegetables -- that are transported from one part of the country to another. The minister’s remark comes when petrol prices have crossed Rs 100 per litre in most parts of the country, and diesel hovers close to that mark. He claimed that the opposition doesn’t have any real issue to attack the government. “You see the data before 2014. What is the per capita income after the formation of the Modi and the Yogi governments?” he said, referring to the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh. “Today, the per capita income is double," he claimed. He also referred to free schooling and the coronavirus vaccination offered by the government. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/95-of-people-dont-need-petrol-says-bjp-mla-upendra-tiwari-as-fuel-prices-hit-fresh-highs-1042862.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal slams Punjab govt over Congress MLA beating up a youth||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday targeted the ruling Congress in Punjab over the thrashing of a youth by its legislator and asked whether its party leaders would slap anyone who question the government's performance. Pal, an MLA from the Bhoa assembly seat in Pathankot district, on Tuesday had slapped the youth when the latter asked, "Tu ki kita (what have you done?)" SAD chief Badal on Thursday tweeted, “Bhoa MLA Joginder Pal's slapping of a poor boy who questioned him over his govt's failure exposes the frustration of Cong leaders.” Badal asked how far Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress party leaders “run away.” “Will they slap everyone who asks them - 'What have you done for Punjab,” asked Badal. Meanwhile, members of the SAD and its youth wing Youth Akali Dal held a protest in Pathankot demanding the immediate arrest of Joginder Pal for beating up the youth. They also burnt an effigy of the MLA on the occasion. The protesters demanded from CM Channi to take exemplary action against Pal including seeking his resignation and suspending him from the Vidhan Sabha. Pathankot YAD president Jaspreet Singh said the chief minister should take decisive action in the matter or else it will seem that he is only indulging in photo-ops and has no intention of ensuring justice to the people of the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akali-dal-chief-sukhbir-singh-badal-slams-punjab-govt-over-congress-mla-beating-up-a-youth-1042882.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand rains: Five tourists killed, toll rises to 65; state pegs its losses at Rs 7,000 crore||Five tourists have died in Kapkot in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon, officials said Thursday as the death toll in the state battered by the recent rains rose to 65. The confirmation about the death of tourists stranded near Kapkot’s Sunderdhunga glacier in Bageshwar district came on a day when Union Home Minister Amit Shah conducted an aerial survey of the rain damage, pegged by the state government at Rs 7,000 crore. Earlier, the official count of the dead was 60. Apart from the five dead, one tourist was missing, officials said. Four were rescued. About 65 tourists had been trapped on the higher reaches of Bageshwar and rescue teams ere at work to bring those still remaining there to safety, officials said. Amit Shah told reporters at the Jollygrant airport here that the alertness of the Central and state government agencies helped contain the damage in Uttarakhand. Relief and rescue operations continued in the worst-hit Kumaon region amid efforts to restore connectivity and evacuate people from vulnerable areas. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said that three days of incessant rains – which began Sunday night -- have caused damage of Rs 7,000 crore in the state. Restoring the network of damaged roads and bridges and evacuating people to safety is the priority at the moment, he said. At 28, Nainital district has reported the maximum number of deaths. Shah said a heavy rain alert was issued well in advance and led to precautionary steps like halting the Chardham Yatra. "The damage could have been more if this was not done. Timely mobilisation of search and rescue teams and arrival of IAF helicopters to assist in rescue operations helped minimise the potential damage," the home minister said. He did not announce any immediate relief package for Uttarakhand and said a detailed estimate of the loss needed to be made first. He said the state was given Rs 250 crore a month ago considering its vulnerability to natural disasters and that can take care of the relief and rescue measures currently underway. The Centre is with the state government and will give all support to Uttarakhand in its rehabilitation efforts, the Union minister said. He said all blocked roads in the affected areas have been cleared, except three which suffered nearly 25-metre breaches. Shah said 80 per cent telephone connectivity has been restored and availability of 60 per cent electricity has been ensured so far in the affected areas. At a high-level meeting with officials and state ministers after surveying the rain-hit areas, Shah asked the Uttarakhand government to send medical teams to the affected areas to prevent the spread of disease. Damaged power lines should be repaired at the earliest and the good coordination between central and state agencies, which was evident during the spell of heavy rains in the state, should be kept up, he said. He also sought the state government's suggestions on better disaster management. He said 3,500 people were rescued and 16,000 others were evacuated to safe locations. Seventeen teams of the National Disaster Response Force, seven teams of the State Disaster Response Force, 15 teams of the Provincial Armed Constabulary and 5,000 police personnel are engaged in the relief and rescue operations in the state. Uttarakhand Governor Gurmit Singh, Dhami, Union Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt and state Disaster Management Minister Dhan Singh Rawat had accompanied Shah during the aerial survey. Due to the heavy downpour and the flooding of the Naini lake, the area around Dhobi Ghat in Nainital is experiencing major landslides, District Magistrate Dhiraj Singh Garbiyal said. Around 100 families living there have been shifted, he said. Garbiyal said relief camps have been set up at a number of places. Twenty-five people were airlifted and six others were rescued with the help of rafts in Ramnagar, while 30 families from Sundarkhal and Ramnagar were airlifted and moved to safe locations. Relief camps have also been set up in Puchdi area, which was flooded. Fifty-four members of 10 families living in Puchdi Nai Basti have been accommodated in a relief camp set up at the Government Girls Primary School, Poochri, he said. Altogether 150 people were brought to Ramnagar safely in roadways buses and sent to their destinations, while 97 families affected by floods in Lalkuan have been shifted to a gurdwara and relief camps, he said. Meanwhile, the Chardham Yatra, which was temporarily halted on October 18 due to the heavy rain alert issued by the meteorological department, resumed with pilgrims leaving for Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri from Rishikesh Chardham bus terminal and Haridwar bus stand. Heli services for Kedarnath have also resumed. The weather at the Himalayan temples is chilly but there is no rain. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-rains-five-tourists-killed-toll-rises-to-65-state-pegs-its-losses-at-rs-7000-crore-1042883.html
21-10-2021||North and Central||Was offered Rs 300-crore bribe to clear deals of 'Ambani', 'RSS-linked man': Ex-J&K Guv||Former Jammu and Kashmir Governor Satya Pal Malik has claimed that he was told he would get Rs 300-crore bribe if he cleared two files belonging to "Ambani" and an "RSS-affiliated man" during his tenure but he cancelled the deals and praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for supporting his decision by saying there is no need to compromise on corruption. Malik, who currently holds the gubernatorial post in Meghalaya, also supported the ongoing farmer agitation against the Centre's farm laws and said he is ready to leave his post and stand with them if their protest continues. "After going to Kashmir, two files came to me (for clearance), one belonging to Ambani and another to an RSS-affiliated man who was a minister in the previous Mehbooba Mufti-led (PDP-BJP coalition) government and claimed to be very close to the prime minister. "I was informed by secretaries in both the departments that there is a scandal involved and I accordingly cancelled both the deals. The secretaries told me that 'you will get Rs 150 crore each for clearing the files' but I told them that I have come with five kurta-pyjamas and will leave with that only," Malik told a gathering at an event in Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan. A video of his speech has gone viral. Malik did not elaborate on the two files, but he was apparently referring to a file related to the roll-out of a group health insurance policy for government employees, pensioners and accredited journalists, for which the government had tied up with Reliance General Insurance, part of the Anil Ambani-led Reliance Group. In October 2018, Malik who was then the governor of J&K had cancelled the tie-up with Reliance General Insurance Company for providing the group health insurance to employees as there was "some bungling" in it. Two days later, the governor approved foreclosure of the contract with Reliance General Insurance and referred the matter to the Anti-Corruption Bureau for examining the entire process to see whether it was conducted in a transparent and fair manner. "As a precaution, I took time from the prime minister and briefed him about the two files and the scandal as the people involved were taking his name. I straight away told him (PM) that I am ready to leave the post but if I stay back, I am not going to clear the files," he claimed and praised Modi for saying that there is no need to compromise on corruption. Malik also alleged that Kashmir is the most corrupt place in the country. "In the whole country, four to five per cent commission is sought, but in Kashmir 15 per cent commission is demanded," he said without explaining but added that under his leadership, there was no big case of corruption reported in J&K and that he even declined a favour to his relatives in the valley. He said after his return from Kashmir, he made a statement in favour of the agitating farmers. He said that being poor is his strength and he can fight any powerful man in the country. "If the farmer agitation continues, I will leave my post and stand with them without caring for anyone. It is possible when I have done no wrong and do not have any wrong item in my wardrobe. I am satisfied that I have not done anything wrong," he said. Advising newly recruited officers not to budge under pressure and work honestly for the betterment of society, he asked them to remain alert against their wives who "spoil everything" by demanding more and prompting their husbands to indulge in corrupt practices. "The pressure will come and you will also feel good (by taking bribe).... In Jaipur, there are officers who did not even have thatched houses in their native places have built palatial houses. But if you remain steadfast and honest, you can fight anyone,” Malik said. The former J&K governor said he does not have a house to live in after his retirement but "I do not have any worry that I have no house." Malik said he had been an MLA, an MP, a union minister but the people from Rajasthan who have a lot of money would come to his place and be surprised on seeing his small accommodation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/was-offered-rs-300-crore-bribe-to-clear-deals-of-ambani-rss-linked-man-ex-jk-guv-1042884.html
21-10-2021||Oasis||Another new day||Life, I write to you from the other side, called death. Aren't we the two sides of the same coin? Your absence is termed death, and my absence is termed life! We do co-exist like conjoined twins tied in the hips. When I look around, people across age groups are not cognizant of my existence. They bask and celebrate each minute in your glory. I do not blame them; you are meant to be lived ‘happily-ever-after!’ I deserve some respect. Did they plan their life when they came on earth? Did they know at birth this was a journey with its own travails? They grew up and pushed me into obscurity. Do you recognise this quandary? They enjoy or endure what you shower upon them. They are aware of me but in their daily rigmarole choose to ignore me. When the day arrives for me to embrace them, their unpreparedness lands them in a predicament — hesitation and trepidation writ large on their face. Such is my presence, or do I call it absence, that it creates existential uncertainty. Why do they celebrate your presence and my absence but then mourn my presence and your absence? They plan throughout their life for financial well-being, mostly for the rainy day which suggests they recognise my presence. This relegates homo sapiens with the intellect to discern into a state of flux, given their predisposition towards your presence. You treat them with disdain and differently every single day. I take pride in the way I treat them — impartially embracing them at that final moment, whether they are happy or sad or in pleasure or pain. Aren’t you biased? You let one drive an expensive car while you make the neighbour suffer by making it a challenge to earn two square meals. I believe in inclusive thinking and embrace them, unequivocally. Can I share a secret? The ones I embrace are happy in my warmth and travel further peacefully. Unfortunately, the kith and the kin in your kinship slip into a morose mood and sulk. But your steadfastness to gracefully step in to soothe their nerves is appreciated. Like it is said, time is the best healer; we both are forgotten when time ticks along. It is sunrise and another new day!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/another-new-day-1042899.html
21-10-2021||Opinion||Ill-effects of being a couch potato||After exercising for about 30 minutes or so, do you enjoy lounging and watching your favourite web series? You might end up watching one episode or two, or maybe five. You spend most of your day sitting in front of your computer, another electronic device, or just on the couch. If this sounds like you, then you are spending too much time being sedentary. That could mean a possible heart disease in the making. Aren’t you alarmed yet? As per World Health Organisation (WHO), approximately 2 million deaths are attributed to sedentary lifestyles, also labelled as ‘sitting disease’ or ‘couch potato syndrome’. Sedentary behaviour refers to a sitting or lounging state, like sitting in a car on your way to work, sitting in meetings, or watching TV on the couch for an extended amount of time. It is defined as ‘waking behaviour’ characterised by an energy expenditure less than or equal to 1.5 Metabolic Equivalents (METS) while sitting, lying, or reclining. This has many damaging effects. Obesity (3,00,000 premature deaths are attributed to this disease; higher incidence is seen in those who sit for more than 5 hours/day) The risk of cardiovascular disease doubles Blood pressure increases Chances of metabolic diseases leading to heart disease and diabetes increase Chances of clotting in the leg veins leading to Pulmonary Embolism increase Cholesterol-related disorders increase  Increased risk of chronic conditions, Piles, etc.   A sedentary lifestyle is a cause of many premature heart attacks. It, coupled with poor posture, aggravates osteoporosis and causes spine issues. Anxiety and depression are significant complications of being sedentary. The past eighteen months of Covid-19 have aggravated sedentary lifestyle, causing more obesity and cardiovascular diseases. The truth is, even if you are physically active, being sedentary is still detrimental to your health. Working out doesn’t offset the consequences of sitting all day. What can you do? It can be hard to change habits but try some of these tips. A little goes a long way when it comes to better health and can help in reducing your risk factors.  Standing is better than sitting. Get up every 30 mins from your chair, and take a walk. Preferably, use the staircase, avoid elevators. Walk while taking a phone call. Use technology like fitness tracking apps, on a cell phone or wearing a fitness watch. We need significant behavioural changes, especially in children and young adults, as they spend more time on gadgets than play. It is the parent’s prerogative to find out which activity interests the child and inculcate the habit in them. Whether it is cycling, playing tennis, or dancing, nothing is taboo to keep the metabolism on a high. Chores like tending to the garden, cleaning up the house, taking the dog for a walk will expose the children to physical work, which is essential to keep laziness away. Sugar-laden foods cause rapid spike and fall of blood sugars, which can cause a lack of appetite, so foods that are gradually digested are ideal for any metabolism and need to be encouraged. (The writer is a senior consultant at a hospital in Kalyan)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ill-effects-of-being-a-couch-potato-1042901.html
21-10-2021||Panorama||What is COP26? What is at stake in Glasgow?||A United Nations global warming conference beginning this month in Glasgow is considered a crucial moment for efforts to address the threat of climate change. About 20,000 heads of state, diplomats and activists are expected to meet in person starting Oct. 31 to set new targets for cutting emissions from burning coal, oil and gas that are heating the planet. The conference is held annually but this year is critical because scientists say nations must make an immediate, sharp pivot away from fossil fuels if they hope to avoid the most catastrophic impacts of climate change. The goal is to prevent the average global temperature from rising more than 1.5 degrees Celsius compared with levels before the Industrial Revolution. That’s the threshold beyond which scientists say the dangers of global warmings — such as deadly heatwaves, water shortages, crop failures and ecosystem collapse — grow immensely. But China, Australia, Russia and India have yet to make new pledges to cut their pollution, and it’s not clear that they will before the summit. Meanwhile, only a few wealthy countries have allocated money to help poor and vulnerable nations cope with the impacts of climate disasters that they have done little to cause. Those two factors make the likelihood of success at the conference, known as COP26, uncertain. What is COP26? COP stands for “Conference of the Parties.” In diplomatic parlance, the parties refer to 197 nations that agreed to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change at a meeting in 1992. That year the United States and some other countries ratified the treaty to combat “dangerous human interference with the climate system” and stabilize levels of greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere. This is the 26th time countries have gathered under the convention — hence, COP26. So, what happened in the previous 25 years? The first COP was held in Berlin in 1995 after a critical mass of nations ratified the climate convention. It was a milestone and set the stage for the Kyoto Protocol two years later, which required wealthy, industrialized nations to curb emissions. That accord had its problems. Among them, the United States under former President George W Bush rejected it, citing the fact that it did not require China, India and other major emerging economies to reduce their greenhouse gases. Fast forward to 2015. After more than two decades of disputes over which nations bear the most responsibility for tackling climate change, leaders of nearly 200 countries signed the Paris Agreement. That deal was considered groundbreaking. For the first time, rich and poor countries agreed to act, albeit at different paces, to tackle climate change. The United States withdrew from the Paris Agreement under former President Donald J Trump but rejoined under President Biden. While leaders made big promises in Paris, countries have not done enough to stave off the worst impacts of climate change, which brings us to COP26 in Glasgow, where the pressure is on for leaders to be more ambitious. Where is COP26? The meetings will be held at the Scottish Event Campus, Glasgow’s largest exhibition centre. In addition to the more than 20,000 people expected to attend the formal talks and side events, large marches are expected around the city. Saturday, Nov. 6 has been designated the Global Day for Climate Justice and advocacy groups are expecting about 100,000 protesters. About 10,000 officers a day are planning to patrol the event, and Scottish law enforcement officials have promised that their approach will be “welcoming, friendly and proportionate.” Who will attend? President Biden said recently that he will “be there with bells on.” He is among about 100 heads of state who have said they will attend, including Queen Elizabeth, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain, and Nicola Ferguson Sturgeon, the first minister of Scotland. Among those who so far have not RSVP’d in the affirmative: President Xi Jinping of China, the world’s largest emitter. Thousands of diplomats from nearly 200 countries will conduct the nuts and bolts of the negotiations, while business leaders, academic experts and activists, including Greta Thunberg, plan to monitor the proceedings and in many cases will advocate the most ambitious outcome. What will happen? The UK and UN hosts have said they want to “keep hope alive” of constraining global temperature rise to under 1.5 degrees Celsius. Meeting that goal means all countries must commit to cutting emissions faster and deeper than they already are doing. There is also an expectation that wealthy countries will significantly boost financial support to help the most vulnerable nations adapt to the impacts of warming and build economies that don’t depend on fossil fuels. What is at stake? For every fraction of a degree of warming, scientists say, the world will see more intense heatwaves and drought, and more deadly floods and wildfires. Humans have already heated the planet by roughly 1.1 degrees Celsius, or 2 degrees Fahrenheit, since the 19th century. Countries have less than 10 years to reduce emissions enough to keep the planet below 1.5 degrees of warming. So if leaders don’t commit to bold steps now, when so much global attention is focused on Glasgow, many fear the world will barrel toward dangerous levels of warming. So far 17 countries and the European Union have made new pledges, including the United States. President Biden has said that America will cut emissions 50 to 52% below 2005 levels in the next decade. As of now, though, few policies are in place to make that happen. Whether other countries come on board, and whether the United States can actually make good on its promise, will determine the trajectory of the planet. The annual summit was delayed last year because of the pandemic. Despite calls from environmental organizations to delay again, organisers have been adamant about holding this year’s event in person. The British hosts have offered to help any delegates who need a Covid-19 vaccination obtain one, but they are not mandating that attendees be vaccinated. Instead, they will require that delegates show a negative coronavirus test every day in order to be admitted to the conference centre. Attendees from countries that Britain has placed on its “red list” because of high infection rates must quarantine upon arrival. International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-is-cop26-what-is-at-stake-in-glasgow-1042894.html
21-10-2021||Second Edit||New Quad opens up opportunities||India, Israel, the US and the UAE have decided to form a new quadrilateral grouping in West Asia. While there is little clarity regarding the shape and scope of the ‘new Quad’ or the ‘2nd Quad’ as it is being referred to, the other Quad being the India, US, Japan, Australia grouping in the Indo-Pacific region, early statements suggest expansive economic and technology co-operation, drawing on the strengths of the four participating countries, are likely to be important items on its agenda. Unlike its older counterpart, which was envisaged as a ‘quadrilateral of democracies’ that came together in response to an increasingly assertive and aggressive China, the four members of the new Quad do not share a similar political system; the UAE is a monarchy, the other three are democracies. Neither do they share security threat concerns. So far, there is little to suggest that the new Quad envisages a strategic or security role for itself. Still, the new Quad is a historic development. This is the first time that India is entering a regional cooperation arrangement in West Asia. Given the bitter conflicts in this region, India had hitherto avoided getting into any arrangements here as it did not want to be seen to be joining one side against another. Hence, it preferred to develop relations with countries bilaterally. Thus, India had strong relations with Israel and Iran, as well as Saudi Arabia. By deciding to form the new Quad that includes Israel and the UAE, India appears to have overcome earlier inhibitions. The Abraham Accords and the normalisation agreements of 2020 that bridged the gulf between Israel on the one hand and the UAE and Bahrain on the other dramatically redrew diplomatic relations and strategic ties in West Asia, paving the way for India to consider joining hands with regional powers. India’s already strong energy, technology and economic ties with West Asian countries will grow once the new Quad gathers momentum. However, there are minefields that India must stay clear of. India must not get drawn into the region’s conflicts. Importantly, India must ensure that the new Quad’s decisions do not adversely impact its relationship with Iran. India should help the new Quad build bridges with Iran, just as Israel should use its good offices with Beijing to rein in China. India is increasingly shedding its inhibitions over joining groupings and this is good, so long as it is not bound into exclusive relationships. Being a part of the new Quad should not restrict India’s outreach to Iran. China manages strong parallel ties with both Iran and Israel. India should be able to do so, too. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/new-quad-opens-up-opportunities-1042896.html
21-10-2021||South||Karnataka: 50% drop in RTI case hearings, pending cases breach 30,000-mark||The Karnataka Information Commission (KIC), known for hearing close to 50 cases a day per bench over the last decade, seems to have reduced its pace. Hearings of pending Right to Information (RTI) cases in Karnataka have seen a drop by 50 per cent and the disposal of pending cases has reached the 30,000-mark.     Comprising 11 benches including that of the chief commissioner, the KIC was known for hearing around 50 cases a day per bench for over a decade. This has come down to around 20 to 30 cases now the report added. The chief commissioner himself disposes of only 400-odd cases a month according to documents accessed by the newspaper. The remaining benches, of which three are vacant, clear just 100 to 200 cases a month. This has resulted in a massive backlog, disappointing thousands of RTI applicants. An analysis by the Right to Information Study Centre, for the month of September 2021, showed the commission heard a total of just 3,968 cases in 30 days. Out of the 3,968 cases, the KIC disposed of 1,409 cases and the remaining 2,559 cases were either adjourned or judgement orders were reserved.  The analysis revealed the delay in hearing and disposing of cases cost a lot. The commission’s average expenditure to hear a single case has gone up to Rs 1,209. The expense to dispose of a case is Rs 3,406. The costs were arrived at after calculating the salaries and other benefits of the commissioners and supporting staff the report added. BH Veeresh, a trustee of the centre, claims the commission has become useless. “What is the point of getting information after a delay of two years? The commission does not pass orders on a simple case where the applicant has only sought a work order issued to a particular project. Ideally, this piece of information should have been on the website,” he told Bangalore Mirror. He added that the delay protects the corrupt officials.  RTI activist Amaresh has stopped filing appeals. “The commission has been picking the cases it wants; not going by seniority of the appeals. It takes as much as 6-8 months just to issue show-cause notices to the relevant officers. The unholy nexus of the commission and corrupt officials is quite clear,” he said. Chief Commissioner NC Srinivasa, however, reasoned ‘poor quality’ of staff and lack of manpower for the delay in case hearings. “It’s not enough that the commission has a good building and enough benches. We do not have good typists and stenographers as all of them are outsourced. Of the sanctioned staff strength of 141, more than 30 posts are vacant,” he clarified. “We have prepared a draft of the Cadre and Recruitment (C&R) rules for the KIC. Once the government approves it, we will hire professionals and dispose of the 30,000-odd pending cases,” Srinivasa added.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-50-drop-in-rti-case-hearings-pending-cases-breach-30000-mark-1042660.html
21-10-2021||South||Woman's easy virtue, sex life no reason to absolve rape accused: Kerala HC||A woman or girl being of easy virtue or habituated to sexual intercourse cannot be reasons to absolve someone of rape, especially a father who is expected to be the "fortress and refuge" of his daughter, the Kerala High Court has said convicting a man for repeatedly raping his daughter which also resulted in her becoming pregnant. The high court noted that when a father rapes his daughter, it was worse than a gamekeeper becoming a poacher or a treasury guard becoming a robber. The observations by Justice R Narayana Pisharadi came after the victim's father claimed that he was being falsely implicated in the case as his daughter has admitted that she had sexual relations with another person. Rejecting his claims of innocence, the high court further said that DNA analysis of the baby, born in May 2013 as a result of the sexual assault, reveals that the victim's father was the biological father of the infant also. The high court said, "Even in a case where it is shown that the victim is a girl of easy virtue or a girl habituated to sexual intercourse, it may not be a ground to absolve the accused from the charge of rape. Even assuming that the victim is previously accustomed to sexual intercourse, that is not a decisive question." "On the contrary, the question which is required to be adjudicated is, did the accused commit rape on the victim on the occasion complained of. It is the accused who is on trial and not the victim." The high court further said that the father "was duty-bound to provide the victim girl protection and support." "But, he perpetrated sexual assault and rape on her. One cannot even imagine the trauma the victim would have suffered. The indelible imprint which the incestuous act has left in her mind cannot be ignored. She may feel the mental agony and pain for years to come," it said. The high court also observed that "There can never be graver and heinous crime than the father committing rape on his own daughter. The protector then becomes the predator. The father is the fortress and refuge of his daughter. "Charged of raping his own daughter under his refuge and fortress is worst than the gamekeeper becoming a poacher and treasury guard becoming a robber." In the instant case, the high court also noted that due to the rape committed by her father, the victim delivered a male child and therefore, the sufferings endured by her "would be beyond imagination". "In such circumstances, the accused is not entitled to any leniency in the matter of punishment," it added. The high court while convicting the man for rape and sentencing him to 12 years in jail, set aside the trial court's decision to sentence him to 14 years imprisonment under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act on the ground that the prosecution was unable to prove the victim was a minor when the rapes occurred between June 2012-January 2013. The high court also set aside the man's conviction and sentence for criminal intimidation of the victim, saying the prosecution has not proved that she was being threatened with dire consequences by her father. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/womans-easy-virtue-sex-life-no-reason-to-absolve-rape-accused-kerala-hc-1042734.html
21-10-2021||South||Kerala CPI(M) leader booked for kidnapping after daughter's complaint||A 23-year old woman, daughter of a senior leader of the ruling CPI(M) here, has accused her parents of forcefully having taken away her new-born child from her soon after its birth a year ago and approached the police seeking to get the baby back. Anupama S Chandran, daughter of CPI(M) local committee member P S Jayachandran, alleged that though she had lodged a complaint with the police several times since April, they were reluctant to register a case against the family members. However, Peroorkkada police said a case was registered on Tuesday against six people including her parents, sister and husband and father's two friends, and said the delay was happened as they were waiting for the legal opinion. Multiple charges, under IPC Section 343 (wrongful confinement), 361 (kidnapping from wrongful guardianship), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and so on, were imposed against the accused, they said. A former leader of the Students' Federation of India (SFI), a feeder organisation of the CPI(M), Anupama alleged that though she had submitted her complaint to the senior Marxist party leaders including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, no one had helped her to get her baby back. "Is this the way the how the police should react when a woman approaches them with the missing complaint of her child? Do they seek legal opinion for every such case? I strongly feel that the delay was made deliberately to protect my father and family members," she told a TV channel. According to Anupama's complaint, her parents did not like her relationship with Ajith, who was also a youth federation leader of the Left party. As the child was born out of wedlock, they had forcefully taken away the boy child, three days after she got discharged from the hospital post delivery. She left her home in April and has been living with Ajith since then, she said. Police, however, said, her father Jayachandran admitted that the child was separated from his daughter by them but claimed during the interrogation that it was done with her consent. "The father claimed she had given her consent in a signed stamp paper that she has no objection to hand over the child as she was not able to take care of the infant. However, the complainant said that the family had made her sign on the paper by force," a police officer told PTI. As per the father's statement, the child was placed in the "Ammathottil", the electric cradle located in front of the state-run Child Welfare Centre at Thycaud here in October last year, he said. As per the rules of the centre, when they receive a child in the cradle, they would keep the baby with them for the next two months. he said adding that if no one comes claiming the child's ownership, they would allow the public to adopt the infant. "We have contacted the Welfare Committee authorities...they have admitted that they received a child on the same day but not ready to reveal anything further as it is against their rules and norms regarding adoption," the police officer added. The investigation is still going on to collect more details and trace the baby, the official added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cpim-leader-booked-for-kidnapping-after-daughters-complaint-1042768.html
21-10-2021||South||Heavy rainfall with thunderstorm lashes several parts of Kerala; Orange Alert for 8 districts||Weather alerts in Kerala continued to fluctuate on Thursday, with the IMD sounding Orange alert in eight of the 14 districts by evening. The districts put on Orange alert are Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur. Heavy rains were reported from some parts of the state, including the landslide-hit Kottayam and Idukki districts during the day. Heavy rains were also reported from the hilly parts of the Thiruvananthapuram, causing damage to houses, but no casualties were reported in the state during the day. "Southwest monsoon has been active over Kerala. Rain occurred at most places in the state and at a few places in Lakshadweep," an IMD statement said here. Parambikulam in Palakkad district received 12 cm rains while Palluruthy in Ernakulam and Enamakkal (Thrissur) and Mannarkkad (Palakkad ) received 11 cm and 9 cm each rainfall respectively, according to the statement. Fishermen were advised not to venture into the sea in the state as squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph is likely to prevail over Kerala coast on Thursday, it added. Yellow alert was also sounded in various districts across the state for the next few days. On Wednesday, orange alert which was sounded in 11 districts in the state was withdrawn in the morning. But by evening, minor landslides were reported from Palakkad and Malappuram districts. State revenue minister K Rajan said that owing to the fluctuating weather alerts, the disaster management systems would continue to remain on high alert. With PTI inputs Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rainfall-with-thunderstorm-lashes-several-parts-of-kerala-orange-alert-for-8-districts-1042771.html
21-10-2021||South||Very egalitarian people outside liquor outlets: Kerala HC||People standing in queues outside liquor outlets in the state are "egalitarian" with "no poverty" and no one seeking any subsidy or reservation, the Kerala High Court said on Thursday and added customers can be seen lining up patiently and calmly at such shops. "There is no poverty outside the liquor shops. No one wants any subsidy or reservation. It is very egalitarian. Everyone stands in the queue calmly and patiently," Justice Devan Ramachandran observed. The court said the only option to reduce queues outside these outlets was to have walk-in shops. "Unless you have proper shops, like that for other commodities, things will not get better. Make it like any other shop. Instead you have numerous small dingy shops on roadsides," the court said. It further said that there was a liquor outlet close to the high court where people can still be seen lining up on the footpath, despite several directions from the court to prevent the same. The court said it is due to the long queues outside the shops that people do not want such outlets near their homes or business. Justice Ramachandran said the latest memo filed by the Excise department does not mention why walk-in shops cannot be set up to sell liquor and asked it to file a report on this aspect before the next date of hearing on November 9. The court was hearing a contempt plea which was filed claiming non-compliance of its 2017 judgment directing the state government and BEVCO to ensure that no nuisance is caused to businesses and residents of an area in Thrissur due to a BEVCO outlet there. The court, on Thursday, said that in its 2017 judgement it had said that liquor outlets can be made walk-in to remove the queues outside them, but no action with regard to that has been taken till date. The high court on September 2 had said that had it not intervened to reduce queues outside BEVCO liquor outlets, "we would have been sitting on a catastrophic time bomb".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/very-egalitarian-people-outside-liquor-outlets-kerala-hc-1042782.html
21-10-2021||South||Priest held for sexual abuse on four-year-old girl||A 32-year-old priest in Kerala was held on charges of sexually abusing a four-year-old girl in Ernakulam district. Sibi Varghese, a native of Varappuzha near Ernakulam, was accused earlier this year. Sources said that Sibi initially developed acquaintance with the girl's mother and later sexually abused the girl. Her mother filed a police petition against Sibi in March. Sibi, who was then working as an assistant priest at a church absconded after the police registered a case under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He surrendered before the police. He was produced before a court and remanded to judicial custody. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/priest-held-for-sexual-abuse-on-four-year-old-girl-1042816.html
21-10-2021||South||Political parties in Kerala spar over disaster management flaws||As Kerala recovers from ravaging rainfall in the past week, a political spat is brewing in the state with the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) accusing the CPM-led Left Democratic Front government of lapses in disaster alert and management systems. More embarrassing to the Left Front was criticism from within over the delay in implementing various flood mitigation projects mooted in the state after a visit by a delegation led by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to the Netherlands in 2019. As CM Vijayan Wednesday flayed the opposition for blindly criticising the disaster management systems, opposition leader V D Satheesan Thursday stepped up the attack by stating that Vijayan was following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's line of terming those criticising the government as anti-nationals. The chief minister was being carried out by the versions of those praising him. Satheesan also made specific allegations over delay in rescue teams reaching the spot where landslides occured in Idukki on Saturday morning. Even as MLAs and MPs could reach the disaster spots, rescue teams couldn't. Despite back-to-back calamities, no efforts were made to improve the weather alert system, the opposition leader said. CPM state secretary in-charge A Vijayaraghavan accused Satheesan of making personal attacks on Vijayan, despite effective steps taken by his government. Left-front leader Cheriyan Philip stated that the Netherland's model of flood mitigation proposed by the state government had not yet happened. A delegation headed by the CM had toured the Netherlands in 2019 but no one knows about the flood mitigation project, he criticised. Meanwhile, Philip's criticism against the Left Front was also said to be a prelude to his plans of returning to Congress camps. He had left the Congress around two decades ago. The opposition will be stepping up the demand for a comprehensive review of the disaster alert and management systems of the state in the Assembly next week.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-parties-in-kerala-spar-over-disaster-management-flaws-1042834.html
21-10-2021||South||Kerala HC raises questions over virtual Sabarimala queue||The Kerala High Court on Thursday raised questions over the virtual queue system of Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. Considering a petition against the virtual queue system, the court asked whether the state government or police had the powers to set up the virtual queue system for restricting pilgrims to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple as the temple was under the Travancore Devaswom Board. The court also asked whether it was informed before implementing the virtual queue system. At present, darshan to the temple is allowed only through the virtual queue system in view of Covid-19. The petitioners maintained that the virtual queue system managed by a private firm was getting access to information regarding the devotees. Since pilgrims are allowed only through the virtual queue, on some days there would not be even the permissible number of devotees at the temple as many who take the virtual queue token did not turn up. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-raises-questions-over-virtual-sabarimala-queue-1042869.html
21-10-2021||South||Impose President's rule and save AP, Chandrababu Naidu appeals to Centre||Telugu Desam Party chief Chandrababu Naidu has appealed for the Narendra Modi government's intervention “to save people of Andhra Pradesh from the drug mafia and fascist regime”. The former chief minister began a 36-hour hunger strike on Thursday morning at the party's central office in Mangalagiri which was vandalised allegedly by YSRCP men on Tuesday. Addressing the party leaders and cadres, Naidu said that CM Jaganmohan Reddy is growing impatient “over the widening public resentment against the atrocities, all-round corruption and attacks on the constitutional institutions under his regime”. “The attack on TDP's offices was not a sporadic, isolated incident but a culmination of two and half years of lawless, anarchic and oppressive regime,” Naidu said while reiterating his demand to invoke Article 356, central rule, in Andhra Pradesh. “The AP ganja mafia business is not limited to the state but has spread to Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka. There is a need to save our youth from these drug-peddling gangs. The future of this state and the country is at stake now,” Naidu said. The TDP has been accusing YSRCP leaders and legislators of being involved in the ganja-drug trade. The AP police on Wednesday night arrested Pattabhi Ram, the TDP leader whose disparaging comments on CM Reddy were said to have provoked the ruling party men to go on a rampage inside the TDP's Mangalagiri head office on Tuesday, injuring few TDP activists. The TDP chief stated that the Reddy regime was responsible “for the organised mafia gangs dealing with drugs, sand, liquor, lands, mines and all other resources in AP.” “About 3,000 kg of heroin, costing about Rs 10 crore a kg, was seized at Mundra port when it was being transported in the name of a Vijayawada firm. But Vijayawada Police Commissioner states there were no AP links. Wherever ganja was seized in the country, its origins are traced to Andhra. Ganja worth about Rs 8,000 crore is being cultivated in over 25,000 acres in AP,” Naidu said adding that Jagan was causing irreparable damage to the state. CM Reddy refuted the allegations while speaking at the Police Commemoration Day event in Vijayawada on Thursday “Crime is taking new forms of late with political elements trying to stall welfare activities. They have gone to the extent of using the most vulgar words against the Chief Minister,” said Reddy, adding that such elements are creating rifts among castes and religions. “Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Andhra Pradesh DGP, and Vijayawada Police Commissioner have all clarified that the state has no links with the drugs case and yet some vested interests are raking up the issue to defame our government. They are trying to brand Andhra Pradesh youth as drug addicts,” the CM said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/impose-presidents-rule-and-save-ap-chandrababu-naidu-appeals-to-centre-1042874.html
21-10-2021||State||Owner of chicken shop which remained open during Navaratri hurt in mishap||The chicken shop owner from Yamanpur suburb, who had been allegedly assaulted recently for keeping the shop open during Navaratri, was injured in an accident after two persons on a bike knocked his vehicle at Sri Nagar here on Tuesday. Chicken shop owner Hasansab was proceeding towards Yamanapur on his vehicle. While he was crossing Sri Nagar with his wife Afsana, two persons came on a motorcycle, hit his vehicle, and fled the spot. Afsana said she and her husband sustained injuries in the incident. The couple reached the district hospital for treatment with the help of people who gathered at the spot. The incident took place in the jurisdiction of Traffic North police station. Earlier, a Hindu boy was assaulted, while Muslim girls were threatened by removing the burqa worn by them, by a section of auto drivers here who took exception to the boy talking to the girls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/owner-of-chicken-shop-which-remained-open-during-navaratri-hurt-in-mishap-1042593.html
21-10-2021||State||KCET counselling delay affecting other schedules||It’s been a month since the results of Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) 2021 were announced, but the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has not yet published the schedule for counselling, which could affect the academic calendar. This delay is also causing inconvenience to all other institutions, including the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMEDK) and private universities, which wait for the KEA’s schedule to decide their counselling dates. KCET 2021 results were announced on September 20 and the KEA is still verifying candidates’ documents. According to the KEA schedule, document verification will be completed on October 28. KEA has identified 28 engineering colleges in the state for physical verification of documents. Meanwhile, COMEDK is planning to start the registration process from November 18 and is waiting for the KEA to announce the counselling schedule. “If we conduct counseling before KEA, then there are chances of students surrendering seats and opting through KCET due to the fee factor. This is why we prefer to allot seats after the first round of KCET seat allotment,” said Dr S Kumar, executive secretary, COMEDK. Prof M R Doreswamy, chancellor PES University, who has written to the principal secretary of Higher Education Department demanding speeding up the counselling process, told DH, “Students and parents will benefit if KCET begins counseling. The delay may disrupt the 2021-22 academic calendar of professional and degree courses.” However, the commencement of the academic activities for the first year engineering students has already been delayed.  According to information available from Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), the academic year was supposed to begin from September. “Even if the counseling begins from November 1, it would take at least a week’s time for the first round to end and we could expect our classes to begin only from mid-November,” said an official source from VTU. Meanwhile, VTU vice chancellor Prof Karisiddappa has decided to write to KEA authorities. “I will write to KEA authorities requesting them to announce the schedule for option entry. According to the earlier discussions, the option entry would begin from October 28,” said the VC. According to directions from All India Council for Technical Education, VTU has to conduct an induction programme for the first 21 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kcet-counselling-delay-affecting-other-schedules-1042597.html
21-10-2021||State||Minister directs to repair damaged road atop Chamundi Hill immediately||Minister in-charge of the district S T Somashekar has directed Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham to take up repair works of the damaged road atop Chamundi Hill. In a communication, the minister has directed the DC to conduct spot inspection immediately and to take measures to start repair works. It has to be noted that a portion of the road atop Chamundi Hill had collapsed following incessant rainfall last night. The landslip had occurred on the road leading to Nandi from View Point.  The police have restricted vehicle movement on the stretch. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minister-directs-to-repair-damaged-road-atop-chamundi-hill-immediately-1042785.html
21-10-2021||State||Bypolls: BJP paying Rs 2,000 per vote, says Siddaramaiah||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday claimed that the ruling BJP is doling out Rs 2,000 for every vote in the Hangal and Sindgi assembly segments where bypolls are scheduled on October 30.  “They’re making money flow,” Siddaramaiah told reporters. “There’s news there that [BJP] is paying Rs 2,000 per vote. On what basis will they ask for votes anyway? Let me know,” he said.  Lashing out at the BJP government, Siddaramaiah said the saffron party has no achievements to speak of. “They mismanaged Covid-19, they did not provide relief or pay compensation, they even fudged Covid-19 death figures and made money from equipment procured to fight the pandemic,” he charged.  Citing the example of housing, Siddaramaiah said, “You’ll not believe it, but it’s been 3.5 years since the Congress-JD(S) coalition government went, but not a single new house has been sanctioned. Why will people vote for them?”  The Hangal and Sindgi bypolls were necessitated due to the deaths of MLAs CM Udasi (BJP) and MC Managuli (JD-S), respectively. The Hangal bypoll is seen as a matter of prestige for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who represents the Haveri district where this seat is located.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bypolls-bjp-paying-rs-2000-per-vote-says-siddaramaiah-1042858.html
21-10-2021||State||All 96 travellers from Karnataka safe in Uttarakhand: Minister||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Thursday said all the 96 people from Karnataka who are stranded in rain and flood ravaged Uttarakhand are "completely safe". "We have identified all the 96 people from 10 families and got in touch with them. All of them are safe. We have taken all possible measures to ensure their safety and their safe return," Ashoka said. The state government on Tuesday had established a help desk for assisting stranded people like passengers, pilgrims, tourists and visitors from Karnataka at various places in Uttarakhand. On the tremors felt at Gadikeshwar in Kalaburagi district, Ashoka said, he has personally visited the spot and interacted with the families staying there, and the government has taken up measures to construct temporary sheds for the affected families. "The scientists have given a preliminary report and the study will go on for one more month. We have been in touch with the district administration. Sufficient funds have been allocated to the deputy commissioner's account for taking up relief works," he added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-96-travellers-from-karnataka-safe-in-uttarakhand-minister-1042866.html
21-10-2021||State||Karnataka UG medical, dental fee likely to go up by 15%||The fee for undergraduate medical and dental courses in the state is likely to go up by 15% this academic year. Sources in the Department of Medical Education said the government was mulling continuing the previous year's decision on fee hike. This means 15% hike for government seats and 25% for private seats.  A meeting on the issue between the Medical Education minister and the private medical college representatives on Thursday was cancelled last minute as the minister was busy with his pre-scheduled engagements  "It was the first meeting convened and it got cancelled. We have not officially received any requests from them about the fee hike, but the same will be discussed in the meeting with the minister and we are planning to decide on it in the first sitting itself," said an official from the Department of Medical Education.  According to the sources, the private medical college managements are demanding  a hike of 25% to 30%. Speaking to DH, a representative of a private medical college from Bengaluru said, "The deemed-to-be universities and private universities have the privilege to charge around Rs 12 lakh to Rs 15 lakh. We want the fee to be increased on par with them." Officials told DH that this is the last year that the state government will bargain with the medical colleges. "From next year, the matter would be left to all-India level counseling by the Directorate General of Health Services, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Since this is the last year, in all probability, we are doing this, we might consider their demand and increase the fee in line with the previous year's agreement," added an official. Existing fee  The existing fee structure for medical courses for government quota seats at a private medical college is Rs 1,28,746 and for private quota seats is Rs 9,81,956. This is as per the hike made during 2020-2021 academic year.  Similarly, the fee in private dental colleges stands at Rs 83,356 and Rs 6,66,023 for government and private quota seats, respectively.  It can be recalled that the fee for undergraduate medical courses has increased by 200% in the last 10 years. The fee charged during 2006-07 academic year for government quota seats at private medical colleges was Rs 42,000.  In the academic year 2018-19, even the fees at government medical colleges increased significantly from Rs 16,700 to Rs 59,800.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-ug-medical-dental-fee-likely-to-go-up-by-15-1042872.html
21-10-2021||State||No bar on furnishing 'B' report after conclusion of probe: HC||The High Court has said that once the investigation is completed, there is no bar on furnishing the closure report (‘B’ report) pertaining to a case if it is sought from the police department under the Right to Information Act, 2005. The court passed this order while disposing of a petition filed by the Director General of Police, Criminal Investigation Department (CID), who is also the Public Information Officer. The petitioner had challenged the order passed by the Karnataka State Information Commission on March 18, 2021, directing to furnish the ‘B’ report and other enclosures relating to a case of alleged accidental death. The applicant before the Information Commission had previously filed a protest petition on the ‘B’ report filed by the CID into the death of an engineering student. His application seeking a copy of the ‘B’ report was rejected by the CID, informing him to approach the magistrate court for the same. The State Information Commissioner noted that there is a bar on providing information only when the matter is under investigation. The commission directed the CID to furnish the ‘B’ report with enclosures since the investigation is already completed. Dismissing the petition filed by the CID, Justice N S Sanjay Gowda said that the order of the State Information Commissioner was justified, especially when the investigation in the matter had been concluded. “The contention of the learned counsel for the petitioners that it was open for respondent no 1 (the applicant before the Information Commission) to secure B-report and enclosures from the Magistrate cannot be a ground to deny the information sought for under RTI. Therefore, no grounds are made out to entertain this petition,” the judge said.  The CID had concluded that the deceased, who was an engineering student in 2005, having consumed excess alcohol and having lost control over his mind had fallen from the second floor through the window of a hotel room at Kundapur town in Udupi district. However, an investigation into charges of murder was pressed, after the father of the deceased raised apprehensions of foul play.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-bar-on-furnishing-b-report-after-conclusion-of-probe-hc-1042876.html
21-10-2021||State||Survey only to collect information, says Goolihatti Shekhar||BJP legislator and member of the Legislature Committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Goolihatti Shekhar on Thursday said that there is no malice in the survey of mosques, dargahs and churches in the state.  "The survey is to only collect information to ensure adequate distribution of funds," Shekhar told reporters.  "Officials told us that some people raised objections when surveys of churches were carried out. We are only doing it to ensure proper distribution of funds," he said. He said that several state-run programmes such as construction of Shaadi Mahals are discussed by the Committee in its meetings. "Survey data is essential to ensure distribution of funds," he said, adding that revenue and backward classes officials will conduct the survey. Shekhar also said that he was ready to apologise to born Christians if they were hurt by his remarks. "We are with the community. However, our fight against those involved in forced conversions will continue," he said. He added that though everyone was allowed to practice their religion, forced conversions are not allowed. Get quota report before bypoll: Panchamasali seer  Kudalasangama Panchamasali Peetha pontiff Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami on Thursday said the government should get a report from the Backward Classes Commission on, including the Panchamasali Lingayat community under Category 2A reservation, before the October 30 bypolls to Hangal and Sindgi Assembly segments. "This isn't political pressure, but we're just expressing the sentiments of the community," he said. "There are 46,000 voters in Hangal and 36,000 in Singdi who belong to the Panchamasali community."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/survey-only-to-collect-information-says-goolihatti-shekhar-1042879.html
21-10-2021||West||Shah Rukh Khan visits Arthur Road Jail to meet son Aryan||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan on Thursday met his son Aryan Khan at the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai where the latter has been lodged following arrest in a case of seizure of drugs on board a cruise ship off the city coast, an official said. The actor reached the prison located in Mumbai Central around 9 am and left at 9.35 am, the official said. He met his son for about 10 minutes, according to sources. A large number of mediapersons and local residents had gathered outside the prison when the actor arrived. Heavy police security was also deployed outside the jail premises. So far, family members of the prisoners were not being allowed to visit the jail in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The prison authorities started allowing the family members of prisoners to visit them from Thursday morning, the official said. Aryan Khan (23) was arrested with a few others on October 3 after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. A special court here on Wednesday denied bail to Aryan Khan, observing that 'on the face of it', he was indulging in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis". His WhatsApp chats also showed, prima facie, that he was in touch with drug peddlers, the court noted. Aryan Khan has now moved the Bombay High Court to challenge the lower court's order. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shah-rukh-khan-visits-arthur-road-jail-to-meet-son-aryan-1042655.html
21-10-2021||West||Bombay High Court to hear Aryan Khan's bail plea on October 26, says his lawyer||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said it would hear on October 26 the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, in connection with a case of seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Aryan Khan's advocate Satish Maneshinde mentioned the plea before a single bench of Justice N W Sambre, seeking urgent hearing on Friday. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), however, sought time till next week. Justice Sambre then posted the plea for hearing on October 26. On that day, the HC will also hear the bail plea filed by co-accused Munmun Dhamecha. Aryan Khan (23) moved the HC on Wednesday evening after a special NDPS court here rejected his bail plea in the afternoon. The special court, while refusing bail, had observed that Aryan Khan was involved in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis" and had a nexus with drug peddlers and suppliers. The lower court had also rejected the bail pleas of Aryan Khan's friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha. The three were arrested on October 3 by the NCB after it raided the Goa-bound ship and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. They are now in judicial custody. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison, Dhamecha is lodged at the Byculla women's prison in the city. The trio and others were held in the case for alleged conspiracy, possession, consumption, purchase and trafficking of drugs under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-to-hear-aryan-khans-bail-plea-on-october-26-says-his-lawyer-1042663.html
21-10-2021||West||NCB visits Shah Rukh Khan's 'Mannat'; Ananya Panday summoned||A team of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) visited the residence of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, Mannat, at Bandra in Mumbai to collect some documents related to Aryan Khan.  NCB's Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede clarified that no raids were conducted at Mannat.  Mumbai | NCB team visited Shah Rukh Khan's residence to collect some documents related to Aryan Khan. No raids were conducted at 'Mannat: NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede In a related development, an NCB team also visited the home of actor Ananya Panday, the daughter of Chunky Panday. Aryan Khan’s sister Suhana Khan is known to be friends with Ananya Panday. The anti-drugs agency has summoned Ananya Panday for questioning today in a drugs-related case, according to ANI.  The agency is investigating WhatsApp chats between Aryan Khan and Pandey.  Earlier, Shah Rukh Khan visited his son in the high-security Arthur Road undertrial prison even as the Bombay High Court posted the bail application plea of the 23-year-old for hearing on October 26.  Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 by the NCB after a rave party on cruise ship Cordelia, on its way from Mumbai to Goa, was busted. “The hearing would be on Tuesday,” Aryan Khan’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde told reporters in Mumbai. Maneshinde mentioned the plea before a single bench of Justice N W Sambre, seeking an urgent hearing on Friday. However, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared on behalf of NCB, sought time. A total of 20 persons have been arrested so far. All the accused has been booked under the stringent Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). Aryan Khan’s appeal for bail has been rejected by the Esplanade Magistrate Court and the Special NDPS Court.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-visits-shah-rukh-khans-mannat-ananya-panday-summoned-1042692.html
21-10-2021||West||Mumbai police arrest 'hawala' operator in extortion case against Param Bir Singh||Mumbai Police have arrested a 42-year-old 'hawala' operator from Gujarat in connection with an extortion case registered against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, an official said on Thursday. The accused, identified as Alpesh Patel, was apprehended on Tuesday by a team of the Mumbai Police's crime branch unit-11 from Mehsana in Gujarat, he said. Hawala denotes illegal transaction of funds by skirting the legal banking channels. Patel's role came to light during an investigation into the extortion case, which was filed a few months back by businessman Bimal Agrawal at Goregaon police station here against IPS officer Param Bir Singh, the official said. Accordingly, the Mumbai police launched a search for Patel. Acting on an information, a police team went to Mehsana and arrested Patel, the official said. He was on Wednesday produced before a court which sent him in police custody till Friday, the official said, adding that a probe is underway into the case. Multiple cases of extortion have been registered against Singh at various police stations in Mumbai and neighbouring Thane. A lookout notice had also been issued against the IPS officer, but investigation agencies have not been able to trace him so far. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-arrest-hawala-operator-in-extortion-case-against-param-bir-singh-1042708.html
21-10-2021||West||Mumbaikars will soon be able to visit Mangrove Park in Gorai||In a big leap towards conservation, a Mangrove Conservation Centre and Mangrove Park would come up in Gorai in the suburbs of Mumbai. The Mumbai Mangroves Conservation Unit (MMCU) of the Mangrove Cell would lead the project. It would be spread over eight hectares and built at a cost of Rs 26.97 crore. The project is expected to be completed by January 2023. “Mumbai is the only megacity that has over 50 km of mangroves stretch. We are committed to its conservation and to the creation of awareness of this natural wealth. Furthering this goal, we commenced works for the first-ever mangrove park in Gorai,” Minister of Environment, Tourism and Protocol Aaditya Thackeray said. The project has been conceptualised on the themes of attracting, engaging and educating various stakeholders of the society. The main aim of developing a Mangrove Park at Gorai is to educate the citizens of Mumbai about the significance of the mangrove ecosystem and to make the visitors understand the importance of the mangrove ecosystem. The components of the park include a Nature Interpretation Centre (NIC), a Mangrove Trail along with various Pause Points, a Bird Observatory, a Kayak Trail connecting the Pause Points through the Mangrove Trail and the development of a dedicated app-based destination information System. The park will offer a Touch-based Information System with information in virtual reality on the flora and fauna of mangrove ecosystems. The Mangrove Trail comprises an 800 mts long walkway, proposed for taking visitors right into the mangroves.   The project has been approved by the Maharashtra State Eco-Tourism Board and has been designated as an ‘Eco-Tourism Project'. It has been granted CRZ clearances by the Environment Department and is being funded by the DPDC of the Mumbai Suburban district. IIT Bombay is being appointed as the third-party technical auditor for the project to ensure proper design and construction of the same. Visitors to the Mangrove Conservation Centre and Mangrove Park can understand how a mangrove ecosystem is beneficial to us, the need to conserve the same and the measures and policies for mangrove conservation. The project is designed such that there will be no mangrove tree cutting. This will make people help contribute to the ecosystem in a positive way to conserve the mangroves. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbaikars-will-soon-be-able-to-visit-mangrove-park-in-gorai-1042723.html
21-10-2021||West||Doctors body urges govt to make vaccination more across India as December deadline nears||Hailing India’s vaccination programme on the day it surpassed the 100-crore mark, the Organized Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG) has urged the government to make the drive more even across the country.  While states like Himachal Pradesh and Sikkim are the best-performing ones, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand are still lagging behind with a lower rate of either single-dose or fully vaccinated people in their population than the average national single-dose rate of 51 per cent and fully vaccination rate of 20 per cent of population, OMAG stated. OMAG,  a federation of 15 professional associations of post-graduate doctors in India, said time is of prime essence because all eligible people should be fully vaccinated worldwide within a limited time.  The World Health Organization (WHO) is aiming for all countries to fully vaccinate 70 per cent of their population by June 2022, India plans to do that in the next 70 days and the speed chosen is 2 crore vaccines per day. “Vaccines should round the clock, maybe in two shifts of total 16 hours, 8 am till midnight. It should be available all days of the week irrespective of holidays. On public holidays, they should work overtime with a higher workforce. Mobile vaccination vans should come handy,” OMAG Secretary General Ishwar Gilada and president Suneela Garg said in a press statement. Garg called on NGOs to help people who do not have access to digital services and also asked to simplify the walk-in process. According to OMAG, the Centre has 70 days to fully vaccinate the adult population and the administration needs to gear up to achieve that goal. There are six vaccines currently approved in India from mid-2021 onwards but only three vaccines are being currently administered, led by Covishield which has been administered to 89 per cent of the beneficiaries. “We need to ensure production of all vaccines approved in India matches scale as well and all those approved are being rolled out in the Covid vaccination programme,” Gilada said. “Doing so will also help India have a much bigger stock of Covid vaccines for its “Vaccine Maitri” programme to help other nations. That will also generate foreign capital via exports for our domestic manufacturers,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctors-body-urges-govt-to-make-vaccination-more-across-india-as-december-deadline-nears-1042792.html
21-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs case: Aryan Khan's judicial custody extended, Bombay HC to hear bail next week||Along with Aryan Khan, the son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, the other seven accused - arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on October 3 after the October 2 raid on a rave party aboard a cruise ship - were also sent to judicial custody till October 30 by the court. They are: Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Satija, Ishmeet Singh Chadna, Mohak Jaswal, Gomit Chopra and Vikrant Chhoker. Twelve others were arrested by the NCB during the subsequent investigations. Aryan Khan's judicial custody was set to expire on Thursday. Earlier on Thursday, Justice N W Sambre of the Bombay High Court posted to October 26 the hearing of the bail application of Aryan Khan, who was declined bail by the Special NDPS Court on Wednesday. The matter came up before Justice Sambre with Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde seeking an urgent hearing on Friday or Monday. However, Justice Sambre decided to take up the matter on Tuesday next only. Following a swoop on a cruise ship by the NCB, Aryan Khan, along with Merchant and Dhamecha and the five others, was detained and arrested on October 3, and has since remained in custody for the past 20 days. He was sent on a day's NCB remand by Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R M Nerlikar till October 4, and this was extended till October 7. He was then sent to two weeks' judicial custody, till October 21. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-case-aryan-khans-judicial-custody-extended-bombay-hc-to-hear-bail-next-week-1042805.html
