22-10-2021||Comment||Whatever happened to the Constitution, Mr CM?||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai must be considered a towering intellect compared to many ministers and chief ministers belonging to his party who are not just lacking in education but make a brazen show of it each time they open their mouths. Bommai, after all, grew up in the intellectual milieu of his father S R Bommai, Ramakrishna Hegde, J H Patel and others of the Janata Parivar, broadly aligned with the ‘Left of Centre’ ideology and apparently the radical humanism of M N Roy. Trained as an engineer and exposed to this intellectual upbringing, Bommai should be able to analyse social phenomena with a ‘humanist’ and ‘progressive’ approach and give them ‘rational’ explanations. How such a mind can accept the illogic and unreason of his current ideological home, Hindutva, a toxic religiosity used for political purposes,is an unresolved puzzle. But such ideological compromises produce some bizarre formulations, as Bommai has demonstrated.  Recently, while defending the vigilante forces of Dakshina Kannada district, Bommai came up with a strange explanation that moral policing occurs “when moral values in society diminish.” What he said, in effect, was that the goon squads of Mangaluru and Dakshina Kannada threatening and assaulting the local youth are, in his view, the guardians of our morality, and that their victims were lacking in “morality” and deserved to be censured, threatened or beaten up. That formulation reflects a rather disturbing mindset.  To put the Chief Minister’s statement in context, it must be noted that “in recent days, Dakshina Kannada district has seen several cases of young people belonging to different faiths, travelling together or socialising, being confronted, threatened or attacked by right-wing activists” as one newspaper reported on October 14.  To that, Bommai said that these incidents were to be seen through the prism of “action and reaction”. He argued that “moral values are needed in society” and that it is “improper for young people to act in a way that affects social values.”  The “action” in this case was boys and girls of different faiths travelling together or socialising, which is certainly not an offence under any law. And the “reaction” was threats and attacks by right-wing activists. That clearly is an offence, and the vigilantes should have been booked under any of the sections of IPC ranging from Sections 319 to 324 or 504, 506 and 509. Instead, they are being extolled by the Chief Minister as ‘Dharma Rakshaks’, like the ‘Gau Rakshaks’ in Uttar Pradesh who go around lynching Muslims.   Firstly, since when did the government or a political party or its goons become the custodians of our morals? When we vote a party to power, we certainly do not grant them the power to legislate on who our daughters should marry or who our children should fraternise with, do we? Such encroachments into our personal and social lives can only be seen in totalitarian systems. As far as I know, we are not yet in a totalitarian system and those we have elected to govern us have to do so in a constitutional democracy wherein “We, the people… have solemnly resolved to secure to ourselves Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity” as the foundational principles on which the accountability of all governance rests. This lofty ideal – ‘Fraternity, assuring the dignity of the individual and (unity and integrity of the nation)’ was inserted at the insistence of Babasaheb Ambedkar precisely to prevent the division and polarisation of our society on religious and caste lines. It’s a sad turn that those who have taken the oath of office to “bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India” are working to wreck it. Secondly, how has the government determined that our “moral values” have diminished or are diminishing? From what standards have they fallen and who sets those standards? Thirdly, has the government outsourced the task of upholding our “moral values” to a bunch of vigilantes? And what exactly are they upholding -- Manu Smriti and unquestioned patriarchy that subjugates women? The vigilantes must have been put behind bars. Instead, a BJP MLA goes to the police station and receives them on their release, just as Jayant Sinha, a former Union minister went and garlanded eight persons convicted of lynching a Muslim man to death when they were released on bail in Hazaribagh in July 2018. Are our elected representatives being directed by some authority other than their oath to uphold the Constitution to go and express solidarity with self-appointed custodians of our “moral values”?  Apparently, members of the Sangh Parivar believe that they are the chosen ones to protect our “Dharma”. And the RSS Sarsanghachalak Mohan Bhagwat seems to think this is the moment for them to fulfill their “mission”. The very confused man goes about one day exhorting Muslims to integrate into the larger Hindu community “as their DNA is the same” and on another day rages against Muslims whose population, according to him, is outgrowing Hindu population, or exhorting Hindu girls not to defy their patriarchal diktat in marrying outside their religion. Not only are these men now above the law but they are shaping the law of the land – the ‘Love Jihad’ laws in many BJP states, for instance.  As if to assure the Sarsanghachalak, the Chief Minister has reiterated that “a law against religious conversion in Karnataka is being contemplated and will be framed soon.” He is, no doubt, looking to the example set by his counterpart in UP, Yogi Adityanath. Here Bommai will do well to remember that voters in Karnataka did not take warmly to the election campaigns of Amit Shah and Yogi Adityanath and that probably was one of the factors for BS Yediyurappa’s failure to win a majority in 2018.  Note also, Chief Minister, that this is a land ruled by both the Wadiyars and Tipu Sultan; shaped by the philosophy of both Basavanna and Shishunala Sharifa.  Let not Nagpur, Lucknow or the Gujarat model guide our policymaking here in Karnataka. They have nothing to offer except a toxic brand of religious polarisation. Let us be true to our own history, culture and genius. Let the Constitution be our guide.  (The writer is a former Cabinet Secretariat official)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/whatever-happened-to-the-constitution-mr-cm-1043228.html
22-10-2021||First Edit||A milestone, but a long way to go still||The administration of 100 crore Covid-19 vaccines to the population is an important milestone on a road paved with difficulties, and the country has done well to achieve it. The credit for it should go to a wide range of stakeholders -- primarily the Covishield vaccine-maker Serum Institute of India, the country’s health workers, central and state governments and, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, the people of the country. There were serious problems and missteps related to strategy and implementation in the initial months. The programme started tardily on January 16, with inadequate orders placed for vaccines, concerns over hasty approvals given to them, shortages, and an unseemly politics over it between the central and state governments, all adding to vaccine hesitancy. It was the experience of the devastating second wave of the pandemic in April-May that catalysed the programme. The vaccine-makers ramped up production, enabling vaccinations to all adults. The Supreme Court’s intervention forced the Centre to own up responsibility and supply vaccines to the states, speeding up the programme. Nine months later, a major part of the population has been covered with at least one dose.  While the achievement is commendable, the empty part of the glass should not be lost sight of. Only 75% of the eligible population has been given one dose of the vaccine and just about 30% has received both doses considered necessary for good protection. The increase in the number of first dose jabs was achieved by increasing the gap between the two required doses, but that has resulted in slowing down the pace of the second dose jabs. The second dose jabs need to be expedited now, but that may be possible only after the first dose reaches everyone. Even at a higher pace of vaccination, this can take many more months.  India’s achievement should be seen against the performance of countries like China and the US. China has fully vaccinated over 75% of its population and the US has approved booster doses and started giving them to those who need it. Vaccine-makers in India have increased production, so their availability is not a problem. But it is unlikely that the country will be able to achieve 100% coverage with the first dose by the end of the year. After that, more months may be needed to deliver the second dose. It is not yet clear how long the immunity induced by vaccines will last. The efficacy of the vaccines against the variants of the virus is also not fully tested. So, self-congratulation and complacency are not warranted. While the milestone is fine, it should be noted that we have not yet covered half the distance on the road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-milestone-but-a-long-way-to-go-still-1043231.html
22-10-2021||In Perspective||On e-cigarettes, follow the science||In 2019, the Indian government announced a ban on e-cigarettes to contain the threat they posed to future generations. The decision might as well have been scripted by the WHO, which continues to insist that all tobacco products are the same, despite mounting evidence to the contrary. For a country that is home to almost 267 million tobacco users, this decision is, to be blunt, shameful. About a million people die each year in India from tobacco-related causes, and research shows e-cigarettes, although not risk-free, may lessen the risk of developing diseases like lung cancer and COPD by up to 95% because they contain no tar and significantly fewer chemicals than that make up the toxic stew of smoke in combustibles. One of the latest studies to weigh in on the risks and benefits of e-cigarettes is a measured, sober look in the American Journal of Public Health that is signed by no less than 15 former presidents of the Society for Research into Nicotine and Tobacco, a leading international proponent of evidence-based science. It acknowledges the concern about the attraction e-cigarettes hold for young people, but they urge the health community, media and policymakers to more carefully consider vaping’s potential to reduce the number of tobacco-related deaths. Now, we have the US Food and Drug Administration’s decision to allow the sale of British American Tobacco’s Vuse Solo closed electronic nicotine delivery system, along with three tobacco-flavoured cartridges. This marks the third time in less than two years that the agency has used peer-reviewed scientific evidence to approve tobacco harm reduction (THR) products. The FDA determined that the help the products offer adult smokers outweighs the attraction such products may hold for youth. In the past two years, evidence, carefully compiled, weighed and debated, is how the FDA reached its decisions to provisionally authorise the sale of Swedish Match’s Snus and Philip Morris International’s IQOS heat-not-burn sticks as modified risk tobacco products (MRTPs), subject to regular review. The Indian ban on e-cigarettes has simply led to a burgeoning black market that prices these products out of reach of many of the disadvantaged communities who could use them most. The fact is, the most favoured tobacco control measure in India is tax increases, with the government steadily increasing its tobacco tax revenues over the last 10 years, from Rs 15,286 crore in 2011 to Rs 35,600 crore in 2020. This has served to exacerbate the difference between the rich and the poor, for the latter group must turn to cheaper, even more dangerous products such as bidis, thin cigarettes composed of unprocessed tobacco that are hand-rolled in leaves and contain higher concentrations of nicotine, tar, and carbon monoxide than conventional cigarettes sold in the United States. According to an in-depth survey conducted last year for the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World, there is little understanding amongst smokers in India about nicotine, the addictive substance in combustible cigarettes that keeps them coming back for more but has not been linked to tobacco-related diseases. Nor were they aware of the existence of THR products in the first place, a necessary step to lessening health risk. As evidenced by the e-cigarette ban, there is no measured sense on the part of the government or health authorities that THR may help, never mind that it can work. There is a yawning gap in homegrown product research in LMICs overall, and, in India’s case, at least, a concomitant dependence on outside organisations with political agendas – organisations such as the WHO, which was enacted 21 years ago and still refuses to amend its Framework Convention on Tobacco Control to more fully define the concept of THR and the proportionate risks and benefits of products that have come onto the market in the interim. Like the WHO, the Indian government, a signatory to the FCTC, professes to have the interest of people at heart, even as it owns, through state-run insurance companies and a bank, about 28.5% of the India Tobacco Company (ITC) – a conflict of interest that remains unresolved. This brings us back full circle to the example set by the FDA, and by countries such as the UK, which actively promotes e-cigarettes as a way to lessen the health risk from combustible smoking and has the statistics to back up its decision.  It is time for India, along with other countries around the world, rich, poor and in-between, to stop treating all nicotine products as the same and recognise that there is a continuum bracketed on one end by never smoking and combustible cigarettes on the other. And to start saving up to four million lives a year as the battle – our battle – continues to eradicate combustible tobacco for good. (The writer is president of the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/on-e-cigarettes-follow-the-science-1043229.html
22-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Despite sensitisation sessions, Kalaburagi remains Karnataka's least performing district in Covid vaccinations||As the state and the country celebrate a vaccination milestone, there is only one district in Karnataka that has achieved less than 70 per cent first dose vaccination: Kalaburagi, which is also the least performing district when it comes to Covid vaccination in the state. Ironically, the district was in the limelight when it reported the first Covid death in India. The district's vaccination coverage at 68.55 per cent (first dose) is less than the state (84.86 per cent) and the national average for first dose coverage. Out of eight districts in the state with more than 15 lakh adult population: Dakshina Kannada (17.15 lakh), Vijayapura (16.34 lakh), Belagavi (35.66 lakh), BBMP (91.70 lakh), Mysuru (24.38 lakh), Tumakuru (19.99 lakh), Ballari (20.68 lakh) and Kalaburagi (18.51 lakh), Kalaburagi has emerged as the worst performing one. Even on Lasika Utsava days like the last one held on PM Modi's birthday on September 17, while the state administered 31,43,598 doses, Kalaburagi managed to jab only 76,489 people. Kalaburagi District Health Officer Dr Sharanabasappa Ganajalkhed attributed their inability to vaccinate the district's population to migration of its people for work and their unavailability in villages. "Vaccination coverage is poor, only 30 per cent, in towns and areas like New Rehmat Nagar, Khanapur with a population of 50,000, and Hirapur. We are now identifying village-wise areas where vaccination is poor across all 11 taluks of Kalaburagi, Aland, Afzalpur, Jewargi, Sedam, Shahabad, Kalgi, Kamalapur, Chitapur, Chincholi and Yedrami," he said. Aland Taluk Health Officer Dr Susheel Ambure told DH the taluk ranks fifth in vaccination coverage among the rest of the 11 taluks. "We have 64 per cent coverage. Some communities believe that vaccination leads to infertility. Since there were two or three deaths here, they're linking it with vaccination, which is not the case," he said. Another piece of misinformation plaguing the taluk administration is the assumption of the working class that they cannot consume alcohol for 15 days post vaccination. "Labourers don't want to get jabbed because they think they cannot drink alcohol for days after vaccination," Ambure said. "We have reached out to religious leaders and have reached out to devotees during prayer time. There are some gram panchayat leaders themselves who haven't got themselves vaccinated despite being elected leaders. Even in Afzalpur taluk, the reasons for hesitancy are the same," he added. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, when asked about Kalaburagi's vaccination performance, had told DH, "It looks like there is vaccine hesitancy in the district. When I spoke to Kalaburagi DC V V Jyothsna, she said despite sensitisation sessions and awareness programmes, there is a lot of hesitancy. Even then we are confident of vaccinating everybody across all districts by December 31." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/despite-sensitisation-sessions-kalaburagi-remains-karnatakas-least-performing-district-in-covid-vaccinations-1042921.html
22-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Strict action against those who disrupt peace in Dakshina Kannada: Angara||Minister for Fisheries, Port and Inland Water Transport S Angara said that the police and the district administration have been directed to take stringent action against those who attempt to disrupt peace and harmony in the district. "The police are given free hand in taking legal action against culprits. There is no question of interference in the investigation process. Without a free hand, how will the police function?" he said while answering a query during a press meet in Mangaluru on Friday. "All the departments are given free hand in administration and have been asked to work as per the law. There are allegations against elected representatives interfering in the police department. We have to see the truth and react," he reacted. On increase in illegal sand extraction and transportation in Dakshina Kannada district, he said that the mines and geology minister had convened a meeting at the state level recently. "The officials from mines and geology have been asked to take steps against illegal sand extraction in the district as per the law. About 32 contractors have obtained permission from the court to engage in extraction and transportation." Vaccines A total of 22,93,151 doses of vaccines have been administered in Dakshina Kannada district so far. About 88% of the targeted beneficiaries have availed the first dose and 51% of the beneficiaries have availed the second dose in the district. Officials from the health and family welfare department, along with Asha and Anganwadi workers, are reaching out to the targeted beneficiaries who had failed to get inoculated so far. Steps have been taken to convince people to get inoculated and create awareness on the need for getting vaccinated in the district. In the Sullia assembly constituency, awareness on vaccines is created in all the 48 booths by the volunteers. “It was true that there was hesitancy over vaccines in the district during the initial stage. Now, people are coming forward to get themselves inoculated,” said Angara. School reopening To a query on school reopening, the Minister said that steps have been taken to supply sanitisers to the schools. The classrooms will be sanitised before the classes commence for primary school children. The district administration has taken enough measures to tackle the third wave of Covid-19 in the district. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/strict-action-against-those-who-disrupt-peace-in-dakshina-kannada-angara-1043042.html
22-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka rolls out free pneumococcal conjugate vaccine programme for infants ||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday launched pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) for infants as part of the universal vaccination programme. "This vaccine, which protects children from pneumonia and other infections, will be administered on a war footing," he said. Health Minister K Sudhakar stated that the PCV will be administered to children in three doses (one-and-a-half month, three-and-a-half month, ninth month) and it would be given free of cost. 'Increase vax coverage' Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai also stated that the Health and Family Welfare Department has been given a target of increasing the anti-Covid vaccination coverage of first dose from existing 83 per cent to 90 per cent, and of second dose from existing 38 per cent to 70 per cent for eligible persons in the state by December 31. Speaking at a programme organised to mark the administration of 100 crore doses in the country at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi, he stated that more mega vaccination drives should be conducted. 'Don't neglect second dose' Health Minister K Sudhakar told media persons that the due date for the second dose of the vaccine is over for 52 lakh people, and the government is trying to get them vaccinated fully by contacting them. Some persons feel that first dose would bring sufficient immunity, while they show negligence about getting the second dose as the number of fresh Covid-19 cases at present is very less. However, such persons are prone to infection if the third wave comes. The state has at present a stock of 60 lakh vaccines, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-rolls-out-free-pneumococcal-conjugate-vaccine-programme-for-infants-1043066.html
22-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Raid govt employees association president's premises to seize BSY's amassed wealth: Ex-Belur MLA||Dropping a bombshell during a press conference in Shivamogga on Friday, KPCC Spokesperson and former MLA Belur Gopalakrishna stated that money worth crores of rupees looted by former chief minister B S Yediyurappa's younger son B Y Vijayendra is in the house of State Government Employees Association President C S Shadakshari. He said the officials of the Income Tax Department must raid the premises of Shadakshari at the earliest. Referring to the recent raid by the officials of Income Tax on the premises of B S Yediyurappa's former personal assistant in Bengaluru, he said, "Yediyurappa's amassed wealth is in the house of Shadakshari, close aide of his family. So, the officials must raid the premises of the government employees association president immediately and seize the money which might become useful for the state's exchequer". He alleged that state BJP Vice-President B Y Vijayendra looted money by transferring government officials in the state during Yediyurappa's tenure as chief minister. He kept it in the house of Shadakshari. The former Belur MLA also stated that Shadakshari is making preparations to face the next assembly polls from Bhadravathi as BJP had not won it so far. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/raid-govt-employees-association-presidents-premises-to-seize-bsys-amassed-wealth-ex-belur-mla-1043083.html
22-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sniffer dog 'Margi' to detect forest crimes in Bandipur soon||As the sniffer dog Rana was on the verge of retirement, the forest department had purchased two Mudhol hound breed dogs to train under Rana to detect forest crimes in Bandipur. Out of the two canines, one has completed its training and will soon be a part of the forest squad. Rana, a German Shepherd, is nearing retirement. Hence, the officials brought two, dogs one male and female, from Mudhol Dog Research centre at Thimmapur near Mudhol in Bagalkot district. As the male puppy was found to have issues with one of its limbs, it was handed over to the Veterinary department, according to officials. The female dog was named Margaret and responds when called Margi. It was trained at the Police Dog training centre in Bengaluru for seven months. It returned to Bandipur after training five days ago and is learning the nuances of detecting the crime with Rana. Rana was successful in tracing several important forest crimes at Banidpur in 2015. It is still actively involved, though it is near-retirement. Bandipur officials want Margi to learn all the techniques from Rana. Speaking to DH, Bandipur Tiger Project Director S R Natesh said, "Rana is training Margi, who has completed proper training for seven months. Rana will be used till it is in service along with Margi." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sniffer-dog-margi-to-detect-forest-crimes-in-bandipur-soon-1043109.html
22-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Elephant enters Tibetan settlement in Hunsur, creates panic among residents||A wild elephant that entered the Tibetan settlement in Hunsur created panic among the residents. The elephant was camping in a banana plantation for the last two days and had damaged crops. When the villagers chased away the elephant from there, it entered the settlement. According to the officials, the elephant might have come from Nagarahole National Park and entered the settlement through Sollepura in Veeranahosahalli forest. However, the forest department officials managed to drive away the elephant. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/elephant-enters-tibetan-settlement-in-hunsur-creates-panic-among-residents-1043065.html
22-10-2021||National||PM Modi to address the nation at 10 am today||PM Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10 am on Friday. India on Thursday crossed the 100-crore vaccination mark for coronavirus. Modi on Friday described India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive as a journey from “anxiety to assurance” that has made the country emerge stronger, and credited its success to people’s trust in the vaccines despite “various efforts to create mistrust and panic”. In an opinion piece a day after the cumulative vaccine doses crossed the landmark figure of 100 crore, Modi noted that the feat was achieved in nine months despite many doubting the country’s capability, and asserted that his government ensured that, like its other schemes, there is no “VIP culture” in the vaccination drive either. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-at-10-am-today-1042960.html
22-10-2021||National||PM Modi lauds India’s vaccination drive as journey from ‘anxiety to assurance’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday described India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive as a journey from “anxiety to assurance” that has made the country emerge stronger, and credited its success to people’s trust in the vaccines despite “various efforts to create mistrust and panic”. In an opinion piece a day after the cumulative vaccine doses crossed the landmark figure of 100 crore, Modi noted that the feat was achieved in nine months despite many doubting the country’s capability, and asserted that his government ensured that, like its other schemes, there is no “VIP culture” in the vaccination drive either. There was a lot of pressure from different interest groups to give preferential treatment to them in vaccination, he said, while giving credit to Indian scientists and entrepreneurs for rising to the occasion to make the country “aatmanirbhar” (self-reliant) in producing vaccines. Outlining the enormity of the challenge, from producing the vaccine in plants of Pune and Hyderabad to ensuring last mile delivery across the country with seamless logistics, Modi said the drive has been an unprecedented effort in the history of independent India. “When everyone takes ownership, nothing is impossible. Our healthcare workers traversed hills and crossed rivers across difficult geographies to vaccinate people. Our youth, social workers, healthcare workers, social and religious leaders, all deserve credit for the fact that India faces minimal vaccine hesitancy when compared to even developed nations,” he wrote in the piece “Team India-Responding to Adversity with Achievement”. Administering 100 crore doses of vaccines in just about nine months since the vaccination started has been a tremendous journey in dealing with the disease, the prime minister said, noting that humanity was dealing with such a pandemic after 100 years and no one knew much about the virus following its outbreak in early 2020. “We remember how unpredictable the situation appeared then, as we were faced by an unknown and invisible enemy mutating rapidly. The journey from anxiety to assurance has happened and our nation has emerged stronger, thanks to the world’s largest vaccination drive,” he said. “One of the reasons for the success of the campaign was the trust that people developed in the vaccine and the process followed, despite various efforts to create mistrust and panic,” he added. Describing the exercise as “bhagirath” (gigantic) effort involving multiple sections of society, he pointed out that if it is assumed that a healthcare worker took just two minutes for every vaccination then at this rate it took around 41 lakh man days or approximately 11 thousand man years of effort to reach this landmark of 100 crore doses. “There are some among us who only trust foreign brands, even for simply everyday necessities. However, when it came to something as crucial as the COVID-19 vaccine, the people of India unanimously trusted ‘Made in India’ vaccines. This is a significant paradigm shift,” he said. India’s vaccine drive, Modi added, is an example of what the country can achieve if the citizens and the government come together with a common goal in the spirit of “Jan Bhagidari” (people’s participation). Noting that only a handful of countries have developed their own vaccines so far, he said more than 180 countries are dependent on an extremely limited pool of producers and dozens of nations are still waiting for the supply of vaccines while India has crossed 100 crore doses. “Imagine the situation if India did not have its own vaccine,” he said. He expressed hope that the success of the vaccination drive will further spur India’s youth, innovators and all levels of government to set new benchmarks of public service delivery which will be a model not only for our country, but also for the world. “When India started its vaccination programme, there were many people who doubted the capabilities of 130 crore Indians. Some said India would take 3-4 years. Some others said people will not come forward to get vaccinated. There were those who said there will be gross mismanagement and chaos in the vaccination process,” he said. Some even said that India will not be able to manage supply chains, he added, asserting that like the ‘Janta Curfew’ and subsequent lockdowns, people of India showed how spectacular the results can be, if they are made trusted partners. Modi said people used to see governments as a roadblock to forward movement but his government has instead been an accelerator and enabler of progress. All ministries of the government came together to facilitate the vaccine makers and remove any bottlenecks as a result of our ‘whole of Government’ approach, he said. All these efforts, he said, were complemented by a robust tech platform in CoWIN. “It ensured that the vaccine drive was equitable, scalable, trackable and transparent. This ensured that there was no scope for favouritism or jumping the queue. It also ensured that a poor worker could take first dose in his village and the second dose of the same vaccine in the city where he works, after the required time interval,” he said, adding that there are hardly any examples of such efforts not only in India but also the world. “Our vaccination drive has yet again showed the power of this ‘Team India’,” the prime minister said, recalling his Independence Day speech in 2015, and asserted that India’s success in its vaccination drive has also demonstrated to the whole world that “democracy can deliver”. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lauds-india-s-vaccination-drive-as-journey-from-anxiety-to-assurance-1042965.html
22-10-2021||National||India among select few countries developing hypersonic missiles: US Congressional report||India is among the select few countries which are developing hypersonic weapons, an independent Congressional report has said, amidst a media report which claimed that China recently tested a nuclear-capable hypersonic missile which circled the globe before missing its target, demonstrating an advanced space capability that caught US intelligence by surprise. The independent Congressional Research Service (CRS), in a latest report this week, said that although the US, Russia and China possess the most advanced hypersonic weapons programmes, a number of other countries, including Australia, India, France, Germany and Japan, are also developing hypersonic weapons technology. While Australia has collaborated with the US, India has collaborated with Russia on this, the CRS said in its report. India has collaborated with Russia on the development of BrahMos II, a Mach 7 hypersonic cruise missile, the CRS report said. “Although BrahMos II was initially intended to be fielded in 2017, news reports indicate that the programme faces significant delays and is now scheduled to achieve initial operational capability between 2025 and 2028. “Reportedly, India is also developing an indigenous, dual-capable hypersonic cruise missile as part of its Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle programme and successfully tested a Mach 6 scramjet in June 2019 and September 2020,” the CRS said. India operates approximately 12 hypersonic wind tunnels and is capable of testing speeds of up to Mach 13, said the Congressional report which is prepared by independent subject area experts for members of the US Congress. The Financial Times this week reported that China has tested hypersonic missiles. However, China denied it, saying it tested a hypersonic “vehicle” and not a nuclear-capable hypersonic “missile” as reported by the leading British newspaper which also said that the missile missed its target by about two-dozen miles. The report said that China tested the nuclear-capable hypersonic missile in August that circled the globe before speeding towards its target, demonstrating an advanced space capability that caught US intelligence by surprise. According to the CRS, since 2007, the US has collaborated with Australia on the Hypersonic International Flight Research Experimentation (HIFiRE) programme to develop hypersonic technologies. The most recent HIFiRE test, successfully conducted in July 2017, explored the flight dynamics of a Mach 8 hypersonic glide vehicle, while previous tests explored scramjet engine technologies, it said. HIFiRE’s successor, the Southern Cross Integrated Flight Research Experiment (SCIFiRE) programme, is to further develop hypersonic air-breathing technologies. SCIFiRE demonstration tests are expected by the mid-2020s. In addition to the Woomera Test Range facilities, one of the largest weapons test facilities in the world, Australia reportedly operates seven hypersonic wind tunnels and is capable of testing speeds of up to Mach 30, the report said. Like India, France has also collaborated and contracted with Russia on the development of hypersonic technology. And Japan is developing the Hypersonic Cruise Missile (HCM) and the Hyper Velocity Gliding Projectile (HVGP), it said. The CRS said that in recent years, the US has focused such efforts on developing hypersonic glide vehicles, which are launched from a rocket before gliding to a target, and hypersonic cruise missiles, which are powered by high-speed, air-breathing engines during flight. The Department of Defence (DOD) is currently developing hypersonic weapons under the Navy’s Conventional Prompt Strike programme, which is intended to provide the US military with the ability to strike hardened or time-sensitive targets with conventional warheads, as well as through several Air Force, Army and DARPA programmes, the CRS said. According to the CRS, unlike programmes in China and Russia, US hypersonic weapons are to be conventionally armed. “As a result, US hypersonic weapons will likely require greater accuracy and will be more technically challenging to develop than nuclear-armed Chinese and Russian systems,” it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-among-select-few-countries-developing-hypersonic-missiles-us-congressional-report-1042977.html
22-10-2021||National||India's Covid-19 cases rise by 15,786; 231 deaths reported in last 24 hours||India saw a single-day rise of 15,786 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,41,43,236, while the active cases have declined to 1,75,745, the lowest in 232 days, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,53,042 with 231 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 28 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 117 consecutive days now. The active cases have increased to 1,75,745 comprising 0.51 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.16 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 3,086 cases has been recorded in the total active number of Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 13,24,263 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 59,70,66,481 . The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.19 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 53 days Weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.31 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 119 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,14,449, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 100.59 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 231 new fatalities include 118 from Kerala and 39 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,53,042 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,925 from Maharashtra, 37,984 from Karnataka, 35,968 from Tamil Nadu, 27,202 from Kerala, 25,090 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,021 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-cases-rise-by-15786-231-deaths-reported-in-last-24-hours-1042981.html
22-10-2021||National||Vaccine feat silenced critics, Covid-19 fight not over yet: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said India’s vaccination drive against Covid-19 was “science-born, science-driven and science-based” and its speed and scale had silenced critics – globally and at home. In an address to the nation a day after India crossed the 100-crore milestone in vaccination, Modi also cautioned against lowering of guard in the fight against the pandemic. “No matter how good the armour is, no matter how modern the armour is, even if the armour gives complete guarantee of protection, weapons are not given up while the battle is on,” he said, urging people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and make wearing of masks a habit just like wearing shoes before stepping out of homes. Modi said questions were raised about India’s capability in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and the ability to vaccinate enough people to stop the disease from spreading. “This 100 crore figure answers every such question…. This is the picture of the new India which knows how to set difficult goals and achieve them,” the prime minister said. Hitting out at the opposition, Modi said initiatives such as ‘taali-thaali’ and lighting of lamps (diyas) were a reflection of peoples’ participation and unity. “Vaccine hesitancy remains a major challenge even today in many major developed countries of the world. But the people of India have answered such critics by taking 100 crore vaccine doses,” he said. The prime minister various strata of the society were brimming with confidence with Indian companies attracting investments, creation of new job opportunities and start-ups turning into unicorns. “Along with the increasing coverage of the vaccines, positive activities have intensified whether it is economic-social activities, sports, tourism or entertainment. The forthcoming festive season will give it more momentum and strength,” Modi said. Modi said the government had made public participation the first line of defence in the country's fight against the pandemic. “Just like the 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan' is a mass movement, buying things made in India, buying things made by Indians, being 'Vocal for Local', has to be put into practice in the same way,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-feat-silenced-critics-covid-19-fight-not-over-yet-pm-narendra-modi-1043000.html
22-10-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices soar for third straight day||Petrol and diesel prices on Friday touched an all-time high across the country after rates were hiked for the third consecutive day by 35 paise per litre each. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 106.89 a litre and Rs 112.78 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 103.63 a litre, while in Delhi, it costs Rs 95.62 per litre. This is the third consecutive day of the price hike. There was no change in rates on October 18 and 19, prior to which prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each on four straight days. While petrol has already hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all major cities of the country, diesel has touched that level in over a dozen states and is treading towards that mark in places from Srinagar to Chennai. Diesel costs Rs 99.49 arates were hiked for the third consecutive day by 35 paise per litre each litre in Srinagar, while it is priced at Rs 99.92 in Chennai. Prices differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of local taxes. Petrol price has been hiked on 19 occasions since September 28, when a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision ended. In all, prices have gone up by Rs 5.7 a litre. Diesel rates have been increased by Rs 7 per litre in 22 hikes since September 24. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. The diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 per litre during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-soar-for-third-straight-day-1043008.html
22-10-2021||National||Ghaziabad assault case: SC issues notice to former Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from then Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari on a plea by the Uttar Pradesh government against quashing of personal appearance notice in a viral video case. The state government led by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta questioned the jurisdiction of the Karnataka High Court to quash the notice issued to Maheshwari by Ghaziabad police for probe into circulation of the video wherein a Muslim man claimed to have been beaten up and asked to chant "Jai Shri Ram". The police claimed the video was made viral to cause communal unrest. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli issued notice to Maheshwari, saying the court would examine the matter. Senior advocates A M Singhvi and Sidharth Luthra appeared for Maheshwari. In his submission, Mehta said that there was a question of law that needs examination. It is on the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court.  The UP government has filed a special leave petition against the Karnataka High Court's order of July 23, quashing the notice as mala fide. Maheshwari has been transferred to the US as a senior director in the Revenue Strategy and Operations department of the social media company.  On June 24, the Karnataka High Court had granted protection from arrest to Maheshwari in the June 15 FIR lodged by Loni Police in Ghaziabad. The police had booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India, news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, besides Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi. They were accused of circulating a video in which the elderly man, Abdul Shamad Saifi, claimed that he was allegedly thrashed by some young men who also asked him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The police have maintained the assault took place because the accused were unhappy about the ''tabeez'' (amulets) sold to them by Saifi, a resident of adjoining Bulandshahr district, and ruled out any communal angle in the case. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ghaziabad-assault-case-sc-issues-notice-to-former-twitter-india-md-manish-maheshwari-1043010.html
22-10-2021||National||India likely to reach next billion Covid doses in 3 to 4 months: Vaccine panel head||As India made a milestone on Thursday by achieving one billion vaccine doses in nine months, experts have said that the country will clock in the next billion doses in about three to four months. "How do I reach 100 per cent of the population by the end of the year? At least one dose we should be able to give most of the adults by the end of the year and within the next 4-6 weeks second doses will also be given," Dr NK Arora, who heads the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration told NDTV. Around 75 per cent of India's all eligible adult population has been administered at least the first dose and around 31 per cent has received both doses of the vaccine. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Thursday, congratulated the country and called it "the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians". Narendra Modi visited the RML hospital in Delhi on Thursday to mark the 1 billion jabs milestone. He congratulated the country and called it "the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians". Uttar Pradesh has administered the highest number of doses so far, followed by Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh. India's Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on 16 January 2021. Initially, the vaccination was opened for Health Care Workers only and from 2 February, front-line workers too were made eligible for vaccination.  The vaccination drive was expanded from 1 March to include people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with specific comorbidities. It was further expanded to all people above 45 years of age from 1 April. From 1 May, all people above 18 years of age were made eligible for Covid-19 vaccination. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-reach-next-billion-covid-doses-in-3-to-4-months-vaccine-panel-head-1043011.html
22-10-2021||National||All regional languages kept in minor subjects category for first term exams for class 10, 12: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday clarified that all regional languages have been kept in the category of minor subjects for first term exams for class 10 and 12. The clarification by the CBSE came following objection by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to keeping Punjabi out of the main subjects. "I firmly oppose the CBSE's authoritarian decision to keep Punjabi out of the main subjects. This is against the federal spirit of Constitution, violating the right of Punjabi youth to learn their native language. I condemn this biased exclusion of Punjabi," Channi had tweeted. Responding to his objection, a senior board official said, "As it is known, the CBSE has declared the date sheet of the major subjects of classes 10 and 12 for term – I Examinations." "It is clarified that the classification of subjects has been done purely on administrative ground for the purpose of conduct of first term exams based on the number of candidates appearing in the subject and in no way reflects the importance of subjects as major or minor. "Every subject is equally important from academic point of view. Punjabi is one of the regional languages being offered. All the regional languages have been put under the minor category for the purpose of administrative convenience in relation to the logistics required for the conduct of examinations," the official added. The board had on Monday announced that the first term board exams for class 10 will begin from November 30, while the exams for class 12 are scheduled from December 1. While the exams for minor subjects for class 10 will be conducted from November 17 to December 7, those for class 12 will be conducted from November 16 to December 30. Bifurcating the academic session, holding two term-end exams and rationalising the syllabus were part of the special assessment scheme for class 10 and 12 CBSE board exams for 2021-22, which were announced in July in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The CBSE is offering 114 subjects in class 12 and 75 subjects in class 10. Out of these, 19 are major subjects in class 12 and nine in class 10. The exams will be objective and the duration of the tests will be 90 minutes. The exams will start from 11.30 am instead of 10.30 am in view of the winter season. The exams for the minor subjects will be conducted by schools, though the question paper will be provided by the board. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-regional-languages-kept-in-minor-subjects-category-for-first-term-exams-for-class-10-12-cbse-1043025.html
22-10-2021||National||Sudhaa Chandran's request to PM after being asked to remove prosthetic limb at airport security check||Actor and dancer Sudhaa Chandran who created history for showcasing her extraordinary talent with a prosthetic limb on Thursday sppealed to the Prime Minister and state governments to change the process of security checks at airports after she being repeatedly stopped and asked to remove her artificial limb for checks. "I am Sudhaa Chandran, an actress and dancer by profession, who has danced with an artificial limb and created history and made my country feel very proud of me," she said in a video on Instagram, appealing to the prime minister to review the situation since it was not "humanly possible" and not "the respect a woman gives to another woman in this society". "“Totally hurt ....each time going thru this grill is very very hurting....hope my message reaches the state and central govt authorities....and expecting a prompt action," she wrote on Instagram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sudhaa-chandrans-request-to-pm-after-being-asked-to-remove-prosthetic-limb-at-airport-security-check-1043032.html
22-10-2021||National||Government's 'Make in India' slogan doublespeak: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the government of doublespeak over the 'Made in India' slogan, which he dubbed as a mere 'jumla' (rhetoric). His remarks came after Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla expressed concern over the growing trade deficit with China as India's trade with it grew by 49 per cent in the first nine months of this year. He also tagged a media report that said the trade with China grew by 49 per cent with Shringla red-flagging the deficit. The report said in the first nine months of this year, India's trade with China touched $90 billion, an increase of 49 per cent. The trade, however, remains unbalanced with a large trade balance in favour of China, Shringla had said. "Our trade deficit concerns are two-fold – the first is the actual size of the deficit. The trade deficit for the nine months period stood at $47 billion. This is the largest trade deficit we have with any country. Second, is the fact that the imbalance has continuously been widening," the foreign secretary had said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/governments-make-in-india-slogan-doublespeak-rahul-gandhi-1043043.html
22-10-2021||National||Many Indians unlikely to be fully vaccinated by year-end despite ample Covid shots||Tens of millions of Indian adults are unlikely to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 by the end of 2021, despite ample supplies, due to an unusually large gap between the doses of the most widely-used vaccine and growing complacency as cases fall. The locally-produced AstraZeneca vaccine which is known as Covishield has a 12 to 16 week gap between doses, in contrast to the 8 to 12 week gap recommended by the World Health Organization. Based on current trends, the Covishield dosage gap means more than 20 crore people will be eligible for their second dose only in late January even if all of them were to get their first shot on Friday. Meanwhile, people are growing increasingly complacent about getting inoculated as infections and deaths have fallen sharply in the past month. The government wants to vaccinate all of the country's 94.4 crore adults by December but some 23 crore of them have yet to get even a single dose. "It is likely that the milestone may be missed by several weeks," said Rajib Dasgupta, head of the Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health at New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University. "Reducing Covishield dosage interval is certainly a possibility to consider." While the health ministry did not respond to requests for comment on Friday, it told Reuters on Monday that its immunisation experts were "actively considering the matter of dose interval between Covishield doses". Not a 'major concern' India's immunisation campaign has slowed this month despite the country amassing record stockpiles of vaccine. It comes as cases have fallen to multi-month lows in India after a record rise in infections and deaths in April and May. India doubled the dosage interval for Covishield in May when supplies were scarce and because government experts felt a longer duration would provide better protection. Serum Institute of India, which produces Covishield, has nearly quadrupled its capacity since April and can now produce up to 240 million vaccine doses monthly. But health experts are not too worried about the fact that many people will not get their second doses in 2021, even though they say it would be safer for the population to be fully inoculated as soon as possible. A government study in July estimated that more than two-thirds of Indians already had Covid-fighting antibodies, mainly through natural infection. That gave them substantial protection even with one dose, unless more infectious variants emerge. Not achieving full vaccination by December "will not be of any major consequence as recent serosurveys show a high degree of protection," epidemiologist Dasgupta added. About 75 per cent of India's adult population have received at least one Covid-19 dose, while 31 per cent are fully vaccinated, according to government data. Only people aged 18 and above can currently be vaccinated in India. "At least one dose we should be able to give to most of the adults by the end of the year," N.K. Arora, who leads a government group on immunisations, told NDTV late on Thursday. "Within the next 4-6 weeks after that, second doses will also be given." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-indians-unlikely-to-be-fully-vaccinated-by-year-end-despite-ample-covid-shots-1043046.html
22-10-2021||National||SC asks Centre to explain insurance scheme for Covid-19 victims||The Supreme Court has decided to examine a scheme formulated under the 'Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana' to provide insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh to health professionals who died of Covid-19 but were not specifically offering their services to coronavirus patients. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to render his assistance on the interpretation of the scheme so that its wholesome object and underlying intent was duly fulfilled. "The issue here raises a matter of significant public importance since it has a bearing on the assured cover of insurance which is sought to be provided by the Union Government to health professionals who have served the nation in the course of the Covid-19 pandemic," the bench said. The court issued notice to the Centre on a batch of petitions filed by surviving heirs of medical professionals and doctors, who died due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The matter was first raised by Kiran Bhaskar Surgade, whose spouse, Dr Bhaskar Surgade died on 10 June 2020, during the course of the Covid-19 pandemic. She was denied the insurance cover as the Bombay High Court found that Dr Surgade, though kept his private clinic open on instructions of the Maharashtra government, his services were not requisitioned for Covid-19 duties. "Prima facie, the object of the scheme is to provide a measure of social security to the health professionals because of the exposure to the Covid-19 virus which they are liable to suffer in the course of the discharge of their medical duties both in public and private institutions," the court noted. The court allowed several other petitioners to join in the proceedings before it, saying the matter raises an issue of nationwide concern. The insurance scheme was notified by the Union Government in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on March 28, 2020.  Formulated under the auspices of the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package' and labelled as the 'Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting Covid-19', it offered a personal accident cover by New India Assurance Company Limited extending to a number of Rs 50 lakhs.  However, the scheme said only those drafted under the Covid-19 responsibilities would be covered by it. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-explain-insurance-scheme-for-covid-19-victims-1043051.html
22-10-2021||National||India can become world's edtech capital: Niti Aayog||Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Friday said India can become the edtech capital of the world, with the private sector playing a key role and the public sector acting as a facilitator. Speaking at a virtual conference of the Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI), Kant also said India needs to significantly improve its learning outcomes, and technology can help the country leapfrog in a big way. "I am confident that India can become the edtech capital of the world with the private sector playing a key role and the public sector acting as a facilitator," he said. Kant said affordable internet connectivity and technology-based infrastructure are the only ways to enhance the education sector in the country. "Relying only on physical infrastructure will not be sufficient," he noted. According to the Niti Aayog CEO, the Indian edtech ecosystem has great growth potential. "But more importantly, the country will progress, students will learn, and learning outcomes will improve," he said, adding that comprehensive edtech architecture will help with better access to education, especially to disadvantaged groups. Also speaking at the event, Byju's founder and CEO Byju Raveendran said through edtech, there is an opportunity for students to learn, but India can also become a global talent pool for teachers. "We talk about the democratic dividend on the one hand, but if they don't have access to education, it's not of much use. "On the other hand, if we do provide it, it's a huge opportunity for India," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-can-become-worlds-edtech-capital-niti-aayog-1043064.html
22-10-2021||National||UK Navy chief Tony Radakin arrives in India on three-day visit||UK Navy Chief Admiral Sir Tony Radakin arrived in India on Friday on a three-day visit during which he would visit the Indian Navy's Western Naval Command, according to an official statement. Admiral Radakin met Indian Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh here on Friday and laid a wreath at the National War Memorial as a tribute to fallen soldiers. The Indian Navy said in its statement, "He is also scheduled to visit Indian Navy's Western Naval Command (in Mumbai) wherein he would interact with Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Naval Command." Radakin will also embark on aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, flagship of the UK's Carrier Strike Group 21, which is at the Mumbai coast currently for joint exercises with the Indian Navy, it stated. Sharing a modern partnership bound by strong ties, the bilateral relationship between India and the UK was upgraded to a 'Strategic Partnership' in 2004 and further strengthened through reciprocal visits by the prime ministers. Subsequently, during the virtual summit between the prime ministers of both the countries on May 4 this year, 'Roadmap 2030' was adopted towards elevating the bilateral ties to a 'Comprehensive Strategic Partnership'. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-navy-chief-tony-radakin-arrives-in-india-on-three-day-visit-1043072.html
22-10-2021||National||SC agrees to hear plea seeking setting up of community kitchens across nation||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to list for an urgent hearing the plea seeking directions to all states and union territories (UTs) to formulate a scheme for setting up of community kitchens across the country to combat hunger and malnutrition. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli was urged by lawyer Ashima Mandla that the issue becomes more important in view of the ongoing Covid pandemic in the country. "I was heading the bench which had issued a notice on it," the Chief Justice of India said while fixing the PIL for hearing on October 27. The apex court, on February 17 last year, had imposed an additional cost of Rs 5 lakh each on six states for not complying with its directions to file their affidavits on the PIL, which sought formulation of the scheme to set up community kitchens for the poor. The additional cost of Rs 5 lakh each was imposed on Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Odisha, Goa and Delhi. Advocate Ashima Mandla, appearing for the PIL petitioners, was asked by the bench to prepare a chart of all the states who have filed their replies to the PIL. She had said 69 per cent of children under the age of five have lost their lives due to malnutrition and it is high time that states take steps to set up community kitchens. The apex court had on October 18, 2019, favoured setting up of community kitchens, saying the country needs this kind of a system to tackle the problem of hunger. It had issued notices to the Centre and all states asking for their responses on a PIL seeking directions to all the states and union territories (UTs) to formulate a scheme for community kitchens to combat hunger and malnutrition. The plea had claimed that many children under the age of five die every day due to hunger and malnutrition and this condition was violative of various fundamental rights, including the right to food and life of citizens. The PIL, filed by social activists Anun Dhawan, Ishann Dhawan and Kunjana Singh, had also sought a direction to the Centre for creating a national food grid for people falling outside the purview of the public distribution scheme. It had also sought issuance of an order to the National Legal Services Authority (NLSA) for formulating a scheme to mitigate hunger-related deaths. The plea referred to the state-funded community kitchens being run in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Jharkhand and Delhi that serve meals at subsidised rates in hygienic conditions. The plea also referred to the concepts of soup kitchen, meal centre, food kitchen or community kitchen in other countries where food is offered to the hungry usually for free or sometimes at below-market price rates. The petition had said that the Centre and its various ministries have initiated and implemented various schemes to combat hunger, malnutrition and the resulting starvation, although in reality, effective implementation of the schemes was "unclear and fairly limited". The statistics on starvation deaths in the country are unavailable and starvation as the cause of death can only be ascertained upon autopsy after death, the plea said, adding that global agencies report that more than three lakh children die every year in India because of hunger, whereas 38 per cent below the age of five are stunted. "Community kitchens funded by state or in association with corporate social responsibility by a public-private partnership (PPP) may be implemented to complement the existing schemes," it said. "Article 21 embarks that the right to life does not mean mere existence, but life with dignity and on the other hand the Centre and state governments as well as ministries in the present grim scenario have failed to fulfil their obligations for effectively providing food security in the country," the plea said. It said that a 2010 report by the World Food Programme on the state of food insecurity in India indicates that increasing urban inequality, significant under-investment in urban health and nutrition infrastructure, workforce in casual or contract employment or even less remunerative self-employment, growth of slums and slum populations lacking in most basic health and hygiene infrastructure has resulted in a permanent food and nutrition emergency in India.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-agrees-to-hear-plea-seeking-setting-up-of-community-kitchens-across-nation-1043076.html
22-10-2021||National||Mehbooba Mufti sends legal notice to Satya Pal Malik over his 'defamatory' remarks||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti Friday sent a legal notice to former Jammu and Kashmir governor Satya Pal Malik seeking Rs 10 crore compensation for his alleged "defamatory" remarks against her. The notice comes days after Malik, who is now the governor of Meghalaya, allegedly said that Mehbooba Mufti was a beneficiary of the now-abandoned Roshni scheme which aimed to grant proprietary rights to occupants of state land for charges. "Although no amount of money can compensate my client for the loss of reputation and good name which has been caused by your aforesaid conduct, yet my client has decided to sue you for compensation," Mehbooba's counsel Anil Sethi wrote in the legal notice. The notice asked Malik to pay Rs 10 crore within 30 days as compensation or face legal proceedings. It said the compensation money will not be used by Mehbooba for any personal gains but for the public good. Earlier on Wednesday, Mehbooba had asked Malik, who was the last governor of Jammu and Kashmir before it was bifurcated, to withdraw his comments. "False & unsavoury utterances of Satya Pal Malik about me being a beneficiary of Roshni Act is highly mischievous. My legal team is preparing to sue him. "He has the option to withdraw his comments failing which I will pursue legal recourse," Mehbooba said in a tweet two days ago. Mehbooba shared a video in which Malik is seen claiming that National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar Abdullah and the PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti got land plots under the Roshni scheme. The Roshni Act was brought in by the Farooq Abdullah government with the aim of granting proprietary rights to occupants of state land in lieu of charges. The money thus generated was to be used for setting up hydro-power plants in the state. However, the scheme was disbanded after the Jammu and Kashmir High Court declared it illegal and directed the CBI to investigate the beneficiaries of the scheme. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehbooba-mufti-sends-legal-notice-to-satya-pal-malik-over-his-defamatory-remarks-1043099.html
22-10-2021||National||DVAC sleuths conduct searches in assets case against ex-AIADMK minister||Searches were held on Friday by vigilance sleuths here and in Salem in connection with a case of Rs 27.22 crore disproportionate assets against C Vijayabaskar, who was the Health Minister in the previous AIADMK regime. In Chennai, the searches were held in the residence of a former personal assistant to Vijayabaskar, in the office of a property developer, and another person. The raid was conducted in a hospital in Salem, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption said. The searches were carried out after obtaining a warrant from a court in Pudukottai, the agency added. A case was filed by the DVAC on October 17 against Vijayabaskar, for possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 27.22 crore. The following day, searches were held in 50 locations in the state.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dvac-sleuths-conduct-searches-in-assets-case-against-ex-aiadmk-minister-1043102.html
22-10-2021||National||RBI Deputy Guv cautions against NBFCs coercive recovery practices||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is inundated with complaints of harsh recovery practices, breach of data privacy, increasing fraudulent transactions, cybercrime, excessive interest rates and harassment of consumers, said deputy Governor M Rajeshwar Rao cautioning NBFC players against coercive recovery practices.  "My ask here is that we should not compromise on the ethos of the finance for mercurial or ephemeral gains. These gains would anyway accrue to the institutions over the long term if and when it is built on an edifice of trust and mutual benefit," he said, adding such recovery practices have dented the credibility of the whole system.  The deputy was speaking at the NBFC Summit organised by CII.  The challenge, therefore, is to restore trust in the sector by ensuring that few entities or activities do not generate vulnerabilities that go undetected and create shocks and give rise to systemic risk through their inter-linkages with the financial system, he added. NBFC sector including housing finance companies have assets worth more than Rs 54 lakh crore or equivalent to about 25% of the asset size of the banking sector. He said that NBFCs are at an inflexion point and added that from here the entities which put the interest of the customer above everything else, are responsible while innovating and have strong governance culture, will thrive while others will fade with the passage of time. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-deputy-guv-cautions-against-nbfcs-coercive-recovery-practices-1043104.html
22-10-2021||National||State can't withdraw consent for CBI probe by omnibus order, Centre tells SC||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that a state government cannot claim a right to issue omnibus, sweeping and overarching directions to withdraw consent for a CBI probe into any matter. "The power to take a decision not to grant consent in any case to the central agency and / or power to pass a sweeping order withdrawing consent in all cases is an ultra vires exercise of power and is non-est," it said. The Centre maintained the statutory power conferred upon the state government to grant consent to the CBI is always coupled with a responsibility to exercise that power on a case-to-case basis with an inbuilt condition of exercising it in larger public interest and not to shield any accused or purely on political consideration. The Centre was responding to an original suit filed by the West Bengal against CBI probe into a number of cases, including those related post poll violence and coal pilferage case allegedly involving Abhishek Banerjee, TMC MP and nephew of CM Mamata Banerjee. After the WB government's decision November 16, 2018, the Centre denied that the CBI was always required to obtain the prior consent of the state before registering and investigating cases in the state's territory. On Friday, after taking the response into record, a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai put the matter for detailed hearing on November 16. In its affidavit, the Union government maintained that it was undeniable that despite the federal principles, the unitary bias of Constitution is well recognised. "From a combined reading of the Constitution, the relevant entries in the List I, List II and List III, the Delhi Police Establishment Act and the relevant precedents of this court, it cannot be stated that there is a complete embargo on any investigation by the Delhi Special Police (CBI) in all situations irrespective of the factual scenario," it said. The Centre said the Union government has itself not registered any case in West Bengal, nor has it been investigating any case. "Yet, as is evident from the prayers, each and every one in the present suit is directed either towards restraining the Union government from investigating any case or towards quashing cases where the Union government has allegedly registered FIRs," it said. On the other hand, it is the CBI, which has registered FIRs and investigated cases, but strangely, it has not made a party to the suit, it added. The Centre further said it is inconsequential whether the concerned state government has accorded its consent or not in conducting investigation into offences, committed in ‘Railway Areas’, or those relating to cross border international illegal trade, or those having multi-state ramifications or offences relating to employees under the direct administrative control of the Union government. Of 12 cases listed by the WB government with regard to CBI probe, the Centre said six cases were pending adjudication before the top court separately. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-cant-withdraw-consent-for-cbi-probe-by-omnibus-order-centre-tells-sc-1043105.html
22-10-2021||National||Month-long Winter session of Parliament likely from fourth week of November||The Winter Session of Parliament is expected to begin in the last week of November with both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha holding simultaneous sittings observing Covid-19 protocol. The Session is likely to have 20 sittings between November 29 and December 23 with the opposition seeking to corner the Modi government on issues such as the Lakhimpur Kheri killings, price rise, privatisation of Air India and the tensions with China. As many as eight bills are pending in the Rajya Sabha and six in the Lok Sabha that include the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, The Personal Data Protection Bill, the DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill among others. Last year, the Winter Session of parliament could not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent sessions – Budget and Monsoon – had to be cut short due to the second wave of the pandemic. Though both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will sit simultaneously, the members will follow social distancing norms. In the first few sessions, both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha had separate sittings as chambers of both the Houses were used for seating members keeping social distancing norms in mind and ensuring that not many people were present inside the Parliament complex. The Winter session is set to be acrimonious as it will be held just months before the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/month-long-winter-session-of-parliament-likely-from-fourth-week-of-november-1043106.html
22-10-2021||National||Big new Covid wave unlikely but too early to say India in endemic stage: Scientists||India is unlikely to see a Covid wave like the devastating second one unless there is a new immune escaping variant but the lower number of cases does not necessarily mean the pandemic is now endemic, several experts said on Friday. Giving hope and also injecting a note of caution as the festive season peaks with Diwali just days ahead, they said a dipping Covid graph is only part of the picture and pointed to factors such as the mortality rate, the need for a larger vaccination cover, and examples of countries such as the UK where numbers are again rising. A day after India reached the milestone of 100 crore Covid vaccine doses, virologist Shahid Jameel said vaccination rates have improved significantly but more needs to be done.  “I am not sure we are in the endemic state yet… As we celebrate this (100 crore) landmark, there is still some distance to go. We are going towards endemicity, but are not there yet,” Jameel, a visiting professor at Ashoka University in Haryana, told PTI in an email interview. He also noted that daily confirmed Covid cases in India have been decreasing slowly over the past three months from about 40,000 per day to about 15,000 per day now. According to Union Health Ministry data on Friday, there were 15,786 new Covid-19 cases, marking 28 straight days of a daily rise of less than 30,000. The death toll climbed to 4,53,042 with 231 deaths. Jameel, one of India’s best-known virologists, also pointed out that the mortality rate in the country remains steady at about 1.2 per cent.   “This tells me that the vaccine coverage in India still needs to increase,” he added.   A disease is described as endemic when it continues to be present within a given geographical area but its impact is manageable.   “There have been some confusing claims about this recently… Low cases for some time do not necessarily mean endemicity. It is possible that endemicity is close in some parts of the country, but the data needed to confirm this is not easily available,” added Murad Banaji, senior lecturer in mathematics at UK’s Middlesex University who has been closely tracking India’s Covid graph and has done several model studies.   “For example, we do not know how many current infections are occurring amongst people who have been vaccinated or infected before,” Banaji told PTI. He added that nobody knows what an “endemic future” would look like or what levels of Covid to expect. What is likely is that measures to control transmission will still be needed for some years to come.   Epidemiologist Ramanan Laxminaryan concurred, saying there can be periodic flare-ups even with an endemic disease as is being observed in the UK. “I believe we should wait for another two months before determining whether Covid-19 poses a significant future threat to the country,” Laxminarayan, director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy in Washington, told PTI in an email interview. In the UK,  Jameel noted, the caseload has increased from about 30,000 cases per day in mid-September to almost 50,000 cases per day. However, the mortality rate has fallen from 2 per cent in mid-July to about 0.2 per cent now.   In the US, after reaching almost 200,000 cases per day in early September, the cases are now down to about 80,000 per day. However, the mortality rate remains the same as earlier in the year. The experts said that India will continue to experience local increases in Covid cases even though it is unlikely to see another overwhelming surge in infections like it did during the second wave when the country’s healthcare system was overwhelmed and thousands died. Banaji said there have been a large number of recent infections, and vaccination has been proceeding at a reasonable pace.   “…These both reduce the likelihood of a major new wave in the next few months,” he explained.   “New variants could potentially still pose a challenge. Any new variant which spreads much more easily, especially amongst people who are vaccinated or have been previously infected, could lead to new surges.”  Hopefully, he added, India will not see a wave on the scale of April-June 2021 ever again, although there could be some increase in transmission during festival season.   Jameel agreed. A large third wave is unlikely unless a new variant emerges that evades existing immunity and spreads faster but small localised increases after Diwali can be expected just as there was in West Bengal after Durga Puja. The focus, in his view, should be on ensuring that all those with one dose get the second dose quickly.    While the milestone of 100 crore vaccinations is an achievement for any country, India also has a large population and many remain to still be vaccinated, he said. According to Co-WIN portal data, over 71 crore vaccine doses were administered as the first dose and over 29 crore as the second dose. More than 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and more than 31 per cent of the country's around 93 crore adults have got both doses.  Banaji said as long as there are vulnerable people, for example, those who remain unvaccinated, or who have a weakened immune system, a major surge will mean more deaths.   “For these reasons, local authorities should plan how to keep transmission low for the foreseeable future.”   “Children need to go to school, and people need to work and earn a living. But there are plenty of measures which reduce risk without bringing life to a halt,” the scientist stressed. Terming the expansion of vaccination coverage a "huge success", Laxminarayan said this one measure alone will contribute to India being less vulnerable to Covid than many other countries.  “Official figures show only a small part of the picture. We know that recorded cases are a tiny fraction of infections, and recorded Covid-19 deaths are a small fraction of total pandemic deaths,” said Banaji.   “What is worrying is that in some parts of the country surveillance is so poor that if a new surge started we might not see it in official data,” he added.   The scientist said it is very important to encourage transparency and better surveillance, holding up states such as Kerala and Maharashtra as examples of better surveillance rather than criticising them for their higher numbers. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/big-new-covid-wave-unlikely-but-too-early-to-say-india-in-endemic-stage-scientists-1043140.html
22-10-2021||National||If govt does not want them, abolish consumer fora: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday expressed its anguish over delay in appointment of presidents and members in consumer fora, saying the government can do away with those if it is not keen for them to function. "If the government does not want then abolish the Act. We are stretching our jurisdictions to see the vacancies are filled in. It is unfortunate that judiciary is called upon to look into this issue. This is not a very happy situation," a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said. Taking up a suo motu matter, the bench said its directions issued on August 11 for filling up vacancies in consumer courts should be complied with. Senior advocate Gopal Sankarnarayanan, acting as amicus curiae pointed out that the Bombay High Court had struck down Rules 3(2)(b), 4(2)(c) and 6(9) of the Consumer Protection (Qualification for appointment, method of Recruitment, procedure of appointment, term of office, resignation and removal of President and member of the State Commission and District Commission) Rules, 2020. As Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi submitted that Centre as well as the Maharashtra government were in the process of filing an appeal, the court clarified the HC's judgement would not impede the process of appointments. The court asked states to provide details of infrastructure available to consumer fora to the amicus curiae within a week, failing which concerned secretary would be personally present before it. The bench fixed the matter for further consideration on November 10. On August 11, the top court had pulled up the states for "defeating the laws enacted for the benefits of people," as it directed them to fill up around 800 vacancies in consumer courts across the country within eight weeks. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-govt-does-not-want-them-abolish-consumer-fora-supreme-court-1043144.html
22-10-2021||National||Now showing: Cinema halls, theatres reopen in Maharashtra||Cinema halls, drama theatres, and auditoriums reopened in Maharashtra after several months on Friday with 50 per cent seating capacity and Covid-19 protocols as the second wave of the pandemic appears to be ebbing in the state. These establishments, shut after the second wave hit the state, have reopened just ahead of Diwali in line with the state government's policy to ease coronavirus-related curbs. Earlier, the state government had allowed the reopening of religious places and schools for Classes 8 t 12. However, according to sources in the entertainment industry, at least 70 per cent of single-screen movie halls in the state did not reopen, while a majority of multiplexes commenced operations during the day. The state government had last week issued guidelines for reopening cinema halls, drama theatres, and auditoriums by allowing them to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity. As per the guidelines, only people who have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccines and those showing safe status on the Aarogya Setu app will be allowed entry at these establishments. Nitin Datar, who heads the Single Screen Cinema Exhibitors Association, said 70 per cent of the single screens in the state did not open on Friday. "This was primarily because there was no picture flow and the SoPs are not ready. Most of the theatre owners wish to wait and watch. Some movies that released in multiplex screens had only 10 per cent occupancy," Datar said. Exhibitors hope that by Diwali, cinema halls will be allowed to operate with full capacity, he said. "If the occupancy is not good, we will have more expenditure and less income," Datar said. Speaking in Pune, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said a decision on allowing 100 per cent occupancy in drama theatres, cinema halls, and auditoriums will be taken after assessing the situation post-Diwali. Meanwhile, Prakash Chaphalkar, a top office-bearer of the Multiplex Association of India, said a majority of the multiplexes have opened in the state. Cinema halls, drama theatres, and auditoriums had downed their shutters following the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020, but reopened briefly in November before the onslaught of the second wave, and had stayed shut since. With these new guidelines, the state government has made the use of masks and social distancing compulsory. As per the norms, show timings will have to be staggered, and the sale of only packaged food items and beverages will be allowed. Moviegoers will be required to wear masks, and hand sanitisers will be made available at the establishments and washrooms, it was stated. Spitting will not be allowed and thermal screening at entry points will be mandatory, the guidelines state. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-showing-cinema-halls-theatres-reopen-in-maharashtra-1043146.html
22-10-2021||National||No drug-related chats between Aryan Khan, Ananya Panday: NCB sources||Despite the uproar over Ananya Panday's grilling by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), official sources hinted on Friday that there is apparently no evidence of any 'drug-related exchanges' in her alleged WhatsApp chats with Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood megastar Shah Rukh Khan. The sources reluctantly divulged that there are 'no traces or references' of any Marijuana (Ganja) or weed-related chat in the two star kids' WhatsApp communication being scanned in-depth by the NCB. More likely, Ananya is being questioned for her version by the NCB for some different leads it has collected in the case, but the officials declined to elaborate. The latest disclosure comes in the wake of certain unconfirmed media reports claiming the emergence of at least three purported WhatsApp chats between the two star-kids allegedly discussing drugs, etc. which the NCB was probing now. In a surprise addition to the ongoing investigations into the October 2 rave party raid aboard a cruise ship, the NCB 'visited' the home of Ananya Panday and slapped her with a summons. Acting promptly on Thursday, accompanied by her father and veteran actor Chunky Panday, Ananya went to the NCB and was questioned for over 2 hours by half a dozen officials, and has been summoned again this day (October 22). The developments came even as a Special NDPS Court Judge VV Patil extended the judicial custody of Khan and 7 others arrested on October 3, till October 30. Khan's bail plea will come up before the Bombay High Court on October 26. Earlier on Thursday, Shah Rukh Khan had visited Aryan in the Arthur Road Central Jail where he spent a few minutes with him, and later an NCB team 'visited' his Bandra bungalow. This prompted the veteran Bollywood actress and TV hostess Simi Garewal, 75, to come out in indirect support of Aryan, Ananya and others vide a cryptic tweet: "In a population of 1,397,642,731 - they can only find these 6 or 8 young Bollywood stars to target for drugs??" Meanwhile, after nabbing at least 20 people to date in the cruise ship raid case, the NCB has not ruled out making further arrests as the investigations widen and progress. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-drug-related-chats-between-aryan-khan-ananya-panday-ncb-sources-1043148.html
22-10-2021||National||CBI arrests six people for derogatory posts against judiciary||The CBI on Friday arrested six persons in connection with its probe into alleged derogatory social media posts against the members of the higher judiciary, officials said. The central agency had registered a case on November 11 last year against 16 people, taking over 12 FIRs on the orders of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, they said. The CBI took into custody Sridhar Reddy Avuthu, Jalagam Venkata Satyanarayana, Guda Sridhar Reddy, Sreenath Suswaram, Kishore Kumar Darisa alias Kishore Reddy Darisa and Sudduluri Ajay Amruth. "It was alleged that the key personnel occupying posts of prominence in the State of Andhra Pradesh, by intentionally targeting the Judiciary, made derogatory posts on social media platform against Honourable Judges and Judiciary following some Court verdicts delivered by the Judges of High Court of Andhra Pradesh," CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said. The agency is using available channels such as MLAT (mutual legal assistance treaty), INTEROL to collect evidence from abroad, he said. "During the investigation, CBI had earlier arrested five accused and also filed five separate chargesheets against them. The investigation is continuing," he said. The CBI also got a lot of objectionable posts removed from the social media platforms, public domains, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-six-people-for-derogatory-posts-against-judiciary-1043157.html
22-10-2021||National||Centre hopeful of some states imposing stock limits on edible oils next week: Food secy||The Centre on Friday said it was hopeful that key oilseeds and edible oil-producing states will start imposing stock limits from the next week, which will further help in cooling down their prices and give relief to consumers during the festival season. Already, Rs 3-4 per kg reduction in edible oil prices has been passed on to consumers with the recent measures taken to improve the domestic availability and check price rise, it said. "Despite international commodity prices being high, interventions taken by the central government along with state governments' proactive involvement have led to cooling down of prices in India much more than the international market," Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said in a press conference. About Rs 3-4 per kg reduction on retail prices of edible oils could not have happened had the government not intervened with proactive steps, he said. "Edible oil prices are higher than the year-ago period but from September onwards, there was a declining trend," said Pandey adding that the recent steps taken will further start showing the impact on rates. Asked if any state has imposed stock limits on edible oils or oilseeds, the secretary said: "Now, (self) disclosure is happening. States are discussing with edible oil processors and traders, and we are hopeful that stock limits will be imposed from next week onwards." The Centre does not want to impose stock on its own, the reason is that few states produce oilseeds and others depend on imported edible oils, he said. "We are taking data of importers from DGFT but exporters have been kept under self-disclosure and not under the stock limit, so that there is no impact on prices. "Now, the states have got clarity and can impose stock limits based on their earlier orders in which quantity was specified," he said. Between 2011 and 2018, states had imposed stock limits on edible oils or oilseeds on their own considering the ground situation, he added. Pandey further said the states have been asked to enforce the Essential Commodities Act, impose stock limits and take action against violators. "In the coming weeks, we will impress on states to enforce this," he added. On Friday, the average retail price of mustard oil was ruling at Rs 185.55 per kg, groundnut oil at Rs 182.86 per kg, sunflower oil at Rs 168.21 per kg, soya oil at Rs 154.91 per kg, vanaspati at Rs 138.31 per kg and palm oil at Rs 132.64 per kg. Asked about reasons for a rise in mustard oil prices, the secretary said: "The mustard seed stock is getting over, and only 2-3 per cent seed is kept for sowing. Mustard oil prices are expected to cool down with the arrival of the fresh crop in February." He added that mustard oil prices have been impacted due to a rise in global prices of other edible oils that the country imports. The country imports palm oil the most, followed by soybean; while the mustard oil share is only 11 per cent, he said. However, the government is taking steps to improve the production of secondary edible oils, especially rice bran oil and reduce dependence on imports. There is a potential to increase production of rice bran oil to Rs 18-19 lakh tonnes from the current level of 11 lakh tonnes, he said adding that states like Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have committed to set up rice bran plants. To check the prices of edible oils, the government has rationalised import duties on palm oil, sunflower oil and soyabean oil. It has suspended futures trading in mustard oil on the NCDEX and imposed stock limits, besides launching a web portal for self-disclosure of stocks of oilseeds and edible oils. So far, 2,000 stakeholders like refiners, millers, solvent extractors and wholesalers have registered on the portal and are uploading the stock regularly. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-hopeful-of-some-states-imposing-stock-limits-on-edible-oils-next-week-food-secy-1043162.html
22-10-2021||National||India condemns abuse of UN platform by Pakistan to propagate false, malicious propaganda against it||India strongly hit out at Pakistan for yet again propagating “false and malicious propaganda” against it at a UN platform, where Islamabad spoke in favour of its close ally China’s “protection of ethnic and religious minorities” in Xinjiang. At the meeting of the Third Committee of the UN General Assembly that deals with Social, Humanitarian & Cultural issues, Sharma spoke after Pakistan’s delegate again raked up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir in her intervention at the meeting. “At the outset, we condemn the abuse of a UN platform by Pakistan to propagate its false and malicious propaganda against my country. We dismiss and condemn all such efforts with the contempt they deserve,” First Secretary in India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Ashish Sharma said on Thursday. Sharma said India is a multi-religious, multi-ethnic, and multilingual country of continental proportions and is guided by the principles of democracy, pluralism, and rule of law. He also said that in the specific reference made by the Special Rapporteur in his report regarding statelessness, “we are disappointed that this issue is being wrongly and repeatedly linked with the issue of minority rights. Minorities in India enjoy all fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution, which are justiciable. Sharma added that the Government of India has ensured the extension of all progressive legislation to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, and to resume the pace of socio-economic development. “The residents enjoy more freedom and fundamental rights since all union laws now apply there. Women in particular relish greater rights and freedom than ever before. We strongly object to any attempt to politicise development issues.” While raking up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan’s delegate started her intervention by saying that “we reject the unwarranted statement delivered by some states to undermine China's independence, territorial integrity, and sovereignty. "We commend China's model of inclusive development, social protection, equal treatment and protection of ethnic and religious minorities.” Human Rights Watch noted that at the Third Committee, 43 governments from all regional groups strongly condemned the Chinese government’s widespread human rights abuses against Uyghurs and other Turkic Muslims in the resitve province of Xinjiang. Louis Charbonneau, UN director at Human Rights Watch, said the “global condemnation of China’s horrific rights abuses in Xinjiang should give the Chinese government cause for concern – and Uyghurs and other Turkic Muslims reason for hope. For the first time, all UN regional groups joined in calling for the violations in Xinjiang to stop and UN investigators to get immediate access. UN member states should establish an international commission of inquiry to formally investigate alleged crimes against humanity in Xinjiang and recommend avenues for holding those responsible to account.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-condemns-abuse-of-un-platform-by-pakistan-to-propagate-false-malicious-propaganda-against-it-1043167.html
22-10-2021||National||39 women officers to be granted permanent commission, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that it has cleared 39 women officers after having found them eligible for permanent commission, but it rejected pleas of 25 officers. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain and senior advocate R Balasubramanian, representing the Centre, submitted before a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud that out of 64 officers, 39 officers have been found to be eligible for the grant of PC upon upon re-consideration of their cases. The bench, also comprising Justice B V Nagarathna, asked the Centre to scrupulously comply with the statement before November 1. The government said a comprehensive exercise was carried out once again to re-determine the entitlement of seventy-one Women Short Service Commissioned Officers (WSSCOs). The officers had secured more than 60% marks and fulfilled all the conditions for the grant of PC, but one officer has applied for release and seven officers were declared medically unfit, it said. Jain submitted that twenty-five officers were left out, as they were not found to be eligible on disciplinary grounds and, in certain cases, on other issues, such as, integrity or disobedience of lawful orders and operational weak reports. The bench, however, said that after the exercise of the grant of PC is completed, it would be necessary for the government to apprise the court of the grounds which have resulted in the denial of PC to the remaining officers in the contempt proceedings. “If any of the officers forming part of the group of 36 WSSCOs in the present batch of contempt petitions are not found eligible for the grant of PC, a statement shall be tendered before this court in a tabulated form indicating the reasons why each of the officers who are not found eligible are being denied PC," the bench said in its order. The court passed its order on a plea by 36 women officers seeking contempt proceedings against army chief and other officers, who had declined them PC, in violation of the top court's judgment of March, this year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/39-women-officers-to-be-granted-permanent-commission-centre-tells-sc-1043180.html
22-10-2021||National||China's tech advances in cyber, space domains most worrisome: Bipin Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Friday said India faces a myriad of external security challenges and most worrisome are China's technological advances in the cyber and space domains. He was speaking at the three-day Indian Air Force Conclave, that was inaugurated by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh at Yelahanka Air Force Station here, to commemorate 50-years of victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, which is being celebrated this year as 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh'. "India faces a myriad of external security challenges with deep regional interlinkages, marred by legacy of unresolved boundary disputes, culture of competition, and challenge to undermining India's strategic space," Rawat said. He said India is also witnessing geo-strategic competition in the Indo-Pacific, including race for strategic bases in the Indian Ocean region, and increasing militarisation of Belt and Road outposts in the region by northern adversary China. "Most worrisome are China's technological advances in the spheres of cyber and space domain, which often transcend beyond the military, to include critical national infrastructure as well," he said, adding that the recent incidents on the northern borders along with aggressive posturing will remain a cornerstone of China's expansionist foreign policy of which India has to always be wary about. On Pakistan, the CDS said that its continued sponsoring of cross border terrorism, a vicious anti-India rhetoric on social media, and efforts to create social disharmony within India, makes the trust gap between India and that county appear to be "unbridgeable". Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar, and Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka, among others, were present at the event. Pointing at how things have changed in the world since 1971, Ajay Kumar stressed the need to be prepared "manyfold more", to face today's security scenario. Noting that the situation in Galwan was effectively controlled by prompt and effective action by India's armed forces, he, however, said the position on the LAC continues to be tense, and the fact that India's adversary continues to ramp up both infrastructure and assets across the border remains a matter of concern. "We continue to see increased activities of China and disputes which it is unilaterally claiming to be its own in the South China sea," he said, as he also spoke about cross border proxy war and facilitation of terrorism, particularly in Jammu and Kashmir, by Pakistan, and the situation in Afghanistan having potential for new challenges which could happen at any point of time. Kumar, also highlighting that China has moved towards jointness and theatre commands, said, it has spelt out in its operational doctrine that it wants to be "no more a regional power, but a world class military power." China has aimed for itself to complete military modernisation by 2035 and to be a world class military by 2049, he said. Pointing out at the changes in the way war is fought with new technologies by influencing cyber and space, he said, "today we have non-conventional ways of fighting war and we need to be prepared for it." The Defence Secretary also said "Air Force has been taking up modernisation in the last 4-5 years. In the last 5 years Rs 2.5 Lakh crores has been spent on modernisation of the Indian Air Force." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinas-tech-advances-in-cyber-space-domains-most-worrisome-bipin-rawat-1043188.html
22-10-2021||National||NCB 'misinterpreting' WhatsApp chats to implicate me in drugs case: Aryan Khan to HC||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, in his plea in the Bombay High Court seeking bail, has said the NCB was "misinterpreting" his WhatsApp chats to implicate him in the case of seizure of banned drugs aboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month. Aryan Khan, currently in jail, on Wednesday moved the HC after a special court rejected his application for bail. The HC will hear his bail plea on October 26. In his appeal in the HC against the special court order, Aryan Khan said the Narcotics Control Bureau's "interpretation and misinterpretation" of the WhatsApp chats collected from his mobile phone was "wrong and unjustified". The 23-year-old claimed no contraband was recovered from him after the NCB raided the ship and maintained he has no connection with any of the other accused in the case except Arbaaz Merchant and Aachit Kumar. So far, the anti-drugs agency has arrested as many as 20 people in connection with the case. The appeal further said the WhatsApp chats that are being relied upon by the NCB are "ex-facie (on the face of it) of a period prior to the incident". "By no stretch of imagination can those purported messages be linked to any conspiracy for which the secret information was received," it said. "The interpretation of the WhatsApp messages is that of the investigating officer and such interpretation is unjustified and wrong," the appeal said. Aryan Khan also questioned the special court's contention while refusing him bail, that since he is an influential person he may tamper with evidence in the case if released from custody. "There is no presumption in law that merely because a person is influential, there is likelihood of him tampering with the evidence," the appeal said. Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 by the NCB along with his friend Arbaaz Merchant (26) and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha (28). The trio is presently in judicial custody. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison in central Mumbai, Dhamecha is at the Byculla women's prison. A special court, designated to hear cases related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), refused to grant them bail noting that "they were part of the conspiracy". The lower court had said Aryan Khan had a "nexus with drug peddlers and suppliers and had indulged in illicit drug activities on a regular basis". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-misinterpreting-whatsapp-chats-to-implicate-me-in-drugs-case-aryan-khan-to-hc-1043191.html
22-10-2021||National||SAD announces three more party candidates for 2022 Punjab assembly polls||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal Friday announced the names of three more party candidates for the 2022 Punjab assembly elections. The three SAD candidates whose names were announced include its sitting MLA from Batala, Lakhbir Singh Lodhiangal, who will fight the upcoming assembly elections from the Fatehgarh Churhian assembly seats. Ravikaran Singh Kahlon will be the candidate from Dera Baba Nanak and Yunus Mohammad will be fighting from Malerkotla, SAD senior vice president Daljit Singh Cheema said in a statement here. Cheema said apart from announcing the names of candidates, Badal has also appointed Ravikaran Kahlon as the party’s general secretary. He said the party has announced the names of 77 candidates so far. The SAD had in June allied with the Bahujan Samaj Party for the 2022 elections to the 117-member Punjab assembly. According to the seat-sharing arrangement between the two parties, the Mayawati-led BSP will fight on 20 seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sad-announces-three-more-party-candidates-for-2022-punjab-assembly-polls-1043195.html
22-10-2021||National||'Biggest objective of Central Vista is recasting of iconography of power in India'||The master architect behind the contentious Central Vista project, which aims to redevelop the parliament and its precinct, Bimal Patel on Friday said that the biggest objective of the project is "recasting of the iconography of power" in the country. Patel said the project will change the use of the space on Raisina hill, commonly known as the seat of government of India, as "cultural facility for people of India." "The British built it atop a hill...it was the symbol of the Raj." He said that the Britishers would sit on top of the hill and look down on the landscape to govern India. "Then, we appropriated it and the government of India made this their symbol. They were going to sit on the hill and govern India, maybe it was Indians but was still on top of the hill and govern India," the Ahmedabad-based architect said during a talk on "Revisiting Central Vista". "What's now happening is that the government is going into the buildings there and building on the hill is becoming a cultural facility of the people of India. So, what used to be the Raj and became the Indian government will become the symbol of culture of people of India. So, it's a recasting of the iconography of power in this space. By just changing the use we are changing the meaning of the place, and I think that's perhaps it's biggest objective of the project," Patel said during the talk held at CEPT university in front of a limited audience. The event was also broadcast live on YouTube by the university which he heads as its President. Claiming that no grade-1 heritage building was being harmed, Patel said that "protecting heritage, expanding public space and changing the iconography of power" was among the objectives of this ambitious project being directly supervised by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said that the winter session of 2022 is most likely to be held in the new parliament. He said that "one of the objectives is to show that building in India doesn't take forever to complete. And, also to show that we can do this at scale and speed." He listed "modernising and expanding parliament's facilities, improving productivity and efficiency of the administration, strengthening cultural and recreational facilities, providing modern and secure infrastructure for executive offices, providing residential facilities for the Vice President and Prime Minister" as some of the core objectives of the project. The event was jointly held by CEPT university, CEPT Research and Development Foundation and Centre for Research on Architecture and Urbanism. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biggest-objective-of-central-vista-is-recasting-of-iconography-of-power-in-india-1043196.html
22-10-2021||National||Puri says taxes on petrol, diesel funding vaccines, free meals, other schemes||Amid a clamour by the Opposition for cutting taxes to soften record high petrol and diesel prices, Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday equated the move to 'axing one's own feet', saying such levies funded government schemes to provide free Covid-19 vaccines, meals and cooking gas to millions amid the pandemic. He also said domestic rates are linked to international oil prices, which have shot up due to a variety of reasons which need to be understood. "I think this simple political narrative we get in India (that), 'Prices have gone up why don't you reduce your taxes'... so every time price goes up due to something else, it says you axe your own feet in the process," he told reporters here. He was asked a question on whether the government would cut taxes, which make up for 54 per cent of the price of petrol and over 48 per cent of diesel, to ease the burden on consumers. "Yesterday we completed vaccinating one billion (against Covid), we fed 90 crore, people, for one full year (during the pandemic) providing 3 meals in a day, we did Ujjwala scheme (of providing free cooking gas LPG refill to 8 crore poor beneficiaries). "All this and much more with that Rs 32 a litre excise duty (levied by the Central government)," he asserted. The money collected from taxes also goes into building roads, constructing houses for the poor and other social welfare schemes. "I am not the finance minister therefore it is not an appropriate answer for me to give," he said on demands for cutting taxes. "That Rs 32 a litre that we collect provides us the ability to provide all these welfare services, including 1 billion vaccines." The relentless hikes in prices have pushed petrol and diesel rates to record highs across the country. Petrol is priced at over Rs 100 a litre or more in almost all major cities, while diesel is at those levels in over a dozen states and union territories (UTs). The increase in fuel prices has stoked concerns over inflation as diesel is the mainstay fuel used for transporting goods, including agri commodities. Opposition parties including Congress have been critical of the government over the price hikes and have demanded a reduction in taxes. Puri said while the Centre levies specific excise duty on petrol and diesel, which does not change if the oil prices fall to USD 19 per barrel or rise to USD 84, state governments levy ad valorem rate of VAT whose incidence goes up with every hike. He said petrol price was decontrolled in 2010, effectively making it linked to world markets. Diesel prices were freed from government controls in October 2014 by the Modi government. Kerala High Court, he said, had suggested that the inclusion of petrol and diesel in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime be put before the GST Council. And when the Council considered it at its meeting in Lucknow last month, "the state governments thought otherwise," he said, referring to the panel's decision not to include petrol and diesel in the GST regime which would have meant subsuming central excise and state VAT into one uniform tax. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had after the GST Council meeting stated the panel had unanimously decided to continue to keep petrol and diesel out of the GST regime. The Council is headed by the Union finance minister and comprises representatives of states and UTs. Puri also referred to the Rs 1.34 lakh crore oil bonds the previous Congress-led UPA government had issued. Though he did not link them to the current fuel prices, the bonds are among the factors that BJP leaders have been blaming for the rise in fuel prices. Petrol and diesel as well as cooking gas and kerosene were sold at subsidised rates during the previous Congress-led UPA government. Instead of paying for the subsidy to bring parity between the artificially suppressed retail selling prices and the cost that had soared because of international rates crossing USD 100 per barrel, the then government issued oil bonds totalling Rs 1.34 lakh crore to the state-owned fuel retailers. These oil bonds and the interest thereon are being paid now. Of the Rs 1.34 lakh crore of oil bonds, only Rs 3,500 crore of principal has been paid and the remaining Rs 1.3 lakh crore is due for repayment between this fiscal and 2025-26, according to the finance ministry. The government has to repay Rs 10,000 crore this fiscal year (2021-22). Another Rs 31,150 crore is due to be repaid in 2023-24, Rs 52,860.17 crore in the following year and Rs 36,913 crore in 2025-26. However, the collections from the hike in excise duty far exceed the amount due to be paid to oil companies. Excise duty on petrol was hiked from Rs 19.98 per litre to Rs 32.9 last year to recoup gain arising from international oil prices plunging to a multi-year low as the pandemic gulped demand. Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas Rameswar Teli in July told Parliament that the Union government's tax collections on petrol and diesel jumped by 88 per cent to Rs 3.35 lakh crore in the year to March 31 from Rs 1.78 lakh crore a year back. Excise collection in pre-pandemic 2018-19 stood at Rs 2.13 lakh crore. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puri-says-taxes-on-petrol-diesel-funding-vaccines-free-meals-other-schemes-1043197.html
22-10-2021||National||India signs Rs 423 crore MK 54 torpedo contract with US||India has signed a Rs 423 crore contract with the United States for procurement of MK 54 torpedo to equip its P-81 maritime surveillance aircraft with anti-submarine capability. The Ministry of Defence signed the contract with the US government on Thursday for procurement of MK 54 Torpedo and Expendable (Chaff and Flares) for the Indian Navy, officials said in New Delhi. The US State Department had in April 2020 approved the ‘Foreign Military Sale’ to the Government of India of 16 MK 54 All Up Round Lightweight Torpedoes (LWT), three MK 54 Exercise Torpedoes. The proposed sale will improve India's capability to meet current and future threats from enemy weapon systems. The MK 54 Lightweight Torpedo will provide the capability to conduct anti-submarine warfare missions. India will use the enhanced capability as a deterrent to regional threats and to strengthen its homeland defence. India intends to utilise MK 54 Lightweight Torpedoes on its P-8I aircraft. India will have no difficulty absorbing these systems into its armed forces, according to a press-release issued by the US Defence Security Cooperation Agency. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-signs-rs-423-crore-mk-54-torpedo-contract-with-us-1043210.html
22-10-2021||National||Jaishankar discusses Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific with UK CDS||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday discussed the Afghanistan situation and the issues related to the Indo-Pacific with UK Chief of the Defence Staff General Nicholas Carter. Carter, who is on an India visit, met Jaishankar here. "Conversation centered around Afghanistan and Indo-Pacific," Jaishankar tweeted along with a picture from the meeting. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla also met Carter and discussed India-UK defence and security cooperation, and exchanged views on regional issues including Afghanistan. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-discusses-afghanistan-indo-pacific-with-uk-cds-1043223.html
22-10-2021||National||Court cites messages recovered from Armaan Kohli's phone while denying bail in drugs case||Chats, messages and videos recovered from actor Armaan Kolhi's mobile phone indicate on the face of it that he was involved in illicit drug trafficking, a special court has said while rejecting his bail application. The special judge for cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, A A Jogelkar, rejected the actor's bail plea on October 14. The detailed order became available on Friday. Kohli was arrested in the last week of August. As per the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), 1.2 grams of MD was recovered from Kohli's house, while bigger quantities of drugs were recovered from the co-accused in the case. The court held that after examining the material obtained during the probe, "prima-facie" it seemed that Kohli was "well-connected with the co-accused pertaining to illicit trafficking of drugs." Special prosecutor Advait Sethna had submitted chats/messages between Kohli and the co-accused along with their bank statements before the court. The judge noted that bank transactions corroborated alleged transactions (revealed from the chats). Kohli failed to explain the purpose of contraband recovered from his house and the financial transactions, the court said. "Contents in the chats and videos also propagate for the indulgence of the applicant in illicit trafficking prima-facie and therefore the prosecution seems to have invoked section 27A (of the NDPS Act) against the applicant/accused," the judge said. Section 27 (A) is about punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders. Investigation was at a nascent stage, the court observed while rejecting the bail plea. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-cites-messages-recovered-from-armaan-kohlis-phone-while-denying-bail-in-drugs-case-1043238.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||MP CM Chouhan lashes out at Kamal Nath for actor-director jibe||After Congress leader Kamal Nath’s ‘actor-director’ remarks targeting the BJP over the backwardness of Punjapura, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan atacked him for his choice of words on Thursday. Nath had said Punjapura, under the Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency, owed its backwardness to the saffron party and the party members should identify who the ‘actor and director’ are for their own benefit, according to ANI. "Congress doesn't see these (development) works. Kamal Nath was nearby yesterday. He said, 'Shivraj Singh is actor and Modi Ji is the director.' This actor is bringing water supply to the entire Nimar region. You ask your leaders what did they do when it was your government," Chouhan told ANI. "It was the director, PM Modi, who decided that Rs 6,000 per year will be deposited in bank accounts of smallest of farmers. The actor, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, decided that PM is giving Rs 6000 and I've become CM for the fourth time so I should add Rs 4000 to it and give them Rs 10,000," he added. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mp-cm-chouhan-lashes-out-at-kamal-nath-for-actor-director-jibe-1042964.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||Speak Out: October 22, 2021||After Congress leader Kamal Nath’s ‘actor-director’ remarks targeting the BJP over the backwardness of Punjapura, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan atacked him for his choice of words on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speak-out-october-22-2021-1042966.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||Bangladesh communal violence resonates in West Bengal's political discourse||Recent incidents of communal violence against minority Hindus in neighbouring Bangladesh has set off a churning in the political discourse of West Bengal, with the ruling Trinamool Congress and the Opposition BJP trying to cash in on the issue in the run-up to the October 30 bye-elections in the state. However, political analysts are divided over whether the incidents in Bangladesh will bore any political dividends for the saffron camp in West Bengal and shape the political discourse in the state. The communal violence in Bangladesh has also revived the debate over the need to implement the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in West Bengal, with the saffron party underling its need to help the persecuted Hindu minority in the neighbouring country. Violence erupted in parts of Bangladesh last week over an alleged blasphemy incident at a Durga Puja pavilion at Comilla, around 100 km from Dhaka, following which paramilitary forces were deployed in many affected areas. However, sporadic clashes broke out between the police and bigots as media reported the vandalisation of Hindu temples and Durga Puja marquees. At least five people were killed, and scores were injured in the violence. The recent spate of communal violence in Bangladesh has found resonance in West Bengal with BJP leaders using it in their campaign in the by-elections to four assembly constituencies. "Obliviously, the kind of violence that took place in Bangladesh and the way Hindus were attacked will have an impact on this side of the border. This was the reason that our government at the Centre had passed the CAA. But parties like the TMC had opposed it for their vote bank politics. Now, these parties have gone silent. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee can take the Joy Bangla slogan from Bangladesh but can't utter a word against such incidents," BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said. Echoing him, Leader of the Opposition in West Bengal assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, said that the incidents in the neighbouring country would have a "definite impact" on the eastern state. "Wherever Hindus will be attacked, we would raise our voice against it and fight for justice. The attack on the minority community in Bangladesh will have an impact on West Bengal. The people here will very well understand why we fought for CAA and why the TMC opposed it," he said. Out of the four Assembly seats -- Dinhata, Santipur, Gosaba and Khardah – the BJP has kick-started a high-pitch campaign in Bangladesh-bordering Dinhata and Santipur in Coochbehar and Nadia districts respectively, highlighting the atrocities on Hindus in the neighbouring country. These constituencies have a sizeable number of voters who trace their roots to Bangladesh and had to leave the country during partition in 1947 or the Liberation War in 1971. Santipur has a sizeable Matua population, who make for a large chunk of the state's Scheduled Caste population. They had been migrating to West Bengal since the 1950s, primarily due to religious persecution in erstwhile East Pakistan, and subsequently, in Bangladesh. Riding on the CAA poll plank, both these bordering seats were won by the BJP in the April-May assembly elections but were vacated after legislators resigned to retain their MP seats. Pointing to the unprecedented number of protest rallies across the state, BJP leader Tathagata Roy said this is quite a "shift from the past" when hardly protest rallies used to be held over attacks on minorities in the neighbouring country. "Attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh is not a new thing. Maybe this time, it has crossed all the limits. But what is new is the unprecedented number of protest rallies organised in West Bengal in the last one week. It may or may not have an impact on the state's political or electoral discourse, but it is for sure have started churning in West Bengal," he said. The BJP had organised a two-day-long protest programme across West Bengal against the attacks on Hindus. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) had organised four-day-long protest programmes in various parts of the state against violence. The right-wing groups have started a massive online campaign with Twitter hashtags like #SaveBangladeshiHindus, and #SaveBengaliHindus. Although the TMC has demanded that the violence against the Hindus in Bangladesh should immediately stop, it declined to attach much importance to BJP's attempt to polarise the masses by using the incidents as a launching pad. "We want that minorities in Bangladesh should be protected by its government. But the BJP should stop pursuing vulture politics over dead bodies. The saffron party’s attempt to polarise people in West Bengal won't yield any result as their top brass itself has been maintaining a deafening silence on the matter," TMC leader Sougata Roy said. Echoing him, party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the issue. "It is quite shocking that we have not heard a single word from our prime minister. But during the West Bengal assembly elections, he had visited a temple in Bangladesh. Some BJP leaders are saying that the incident in the neighbouring country will benefit their party. This means that the saffron party is the beneficiary of such atrocious attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh. There should be a proper investigation into the role of the beneficiaries also," Ghosh said. Last week, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had noted that the government in the neighbouring country had reacted promptly to ensure that the situation was under control and said that the Indian mission is in close contact with the Bangladeshi authorities over the matter. Political analysts, however, were divided over the impact of communal violence in Bangladesh on West Bengal's politics. Political scientist Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhury felt that communal violence in Bangladesh, India, or Pakistan has a cascading effect on the region. "India, Pakistan, Bangladesh were one country during the British rule. There are a lot of similarities. So, whenever an incident such as communal violence of this nature takes place in one country, it has a cascading effect on the other two. It is quite obvious that this will have an impact on West Bengal and its politics. The nature of our state's politics has also changed over the years," he said. However, political analyst Suman Bhattacharya differed with his views, saying that communal violence in Bangladesh won't impact West Bengal’s political landscape, barring a few pockets, as the counter-narrative of Bengali sub-nationalism has defeated religious fanaticism. Watch the latest DH Videos here: "Only a few months back, this communal narrative, demand for CAA has been defeated in the West Bengal elections. People voted for the narrative of Bengali sub-nationalism. The BJP will try to reap some dividends, but it won't be able to make any major changes," he said. The Trinamool Congress, led by feisty Mamata Banerjee, stormed to power for the third consecutive time riding on the poll plank of sub-nationalism and bagged 213 seats. In contrast, the BJP, despite its high-pitch poll campaign, managed to bag only 77 seats. Echoing Bhattacharya, political analyst Biswanath Chakraborty felt that the BJP's "communal narrative" won't resonate with the voters in the by-polls as people are more concerned about "fuel prices" and other "anti-people policies".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bangladesh-communal-violence-resonates-in-west-bengals-political-discourse-1043021.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||95% people don't need BJP: Akhilesh hits back at UP minister||Taking a potshot at Uttar Pradesh minister Upendra Tiwari over his remark that 95 per cent people do not need petrol and diesel, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said the truth is that those people do not need the BJP. Tiwari had on Thursday said that prices of petrol and diesel were not increased much considering per capita income and added that 95 per cent people do not need them. "The BJP minister of Uttar Pradesh said that expensive petrol does not bother the general public because 95 per cent of the people do not need petrol. Now, even the minister will not need it as the people will make him 'paidal' (out of power). The truth is that 95 per cent of the people do not need the BJP," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. The SP president also asked, "Does Thar need diesel?", referring to the recent Lakhimpur Kheri incident where four farmers were allegedly mowed down by a jeep (Manhindra Thar) driven by BJP workers. While talking to reporters in Jalaun when asked about rising prices of petrol and diesel, Tiwari had said, "Today, only 95 per cent people who are running on four-wheelers need petrol. There are 95 per cent people in society who do not need petrol." "If you compare with per capita income, the prices of petrol and diesel have not increased much. Today, the Opposition parties have no issues with them. You see data before 2014. What is the per capita income after the formation of the Modi and the Adityanath governments. Today, per capita income has doubled," he had said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/95-people-dont-need-bjp-akhilesh-hits-back-at-up-minister-1043031.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||Congress to meet on Saturday to decide on first list of UP candidates||The Central Election Committee (CEC) of the Congress will meet on Saturday to discuss the first list of candidates for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, which will be the party's first test of its commitment to the recent announcement to field women in 40% of seats. The meeting, which will be chaired by party president Sonia Gandhi at her residence on Saturday evening, comes after Congress General Secretary and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi made a strong pitch in the Congress Working Committee last week for early announcement of candidates in the state. Sources said that the first list is likely to include seats where Congress is "strong" as per the feedback received by the party managers. Though leaders refused to put a number to the first list, it is expected that names for 35-50 seats will be finalised in Saturday's meeting. The party managers believe that early announcement would give the candidates a head-start in the campaigning for the election, which is likely to be held in February-March. In the CWC meeting on October 16, DH had earlier reported, Priyanka wanted the CWC to instruct the CEC to announce the candidates in advance and not leave it to "last minute" when the polls are just days away. She had reasoned that it could send a message to other parties as well as rein in mass exodus. Sources said she argued that the announcement of potential candidates could deter them from leaving the party fearing that they may not get the ticket. Priyanka also got support from senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, who said announcing candidates at the earliest would increase the winning chances. With Priyanka being proactive in UP in recent times with frequent visits, the Congress has renewed its efforts to improve its standing in the state which it once ruled but was then relegated to insignificance. Party leaders believe that the visit of Rahul and Priyanka to families of farmers who were killed at Lakhimpur Kheri and the latter's announcement that 40 per cent seats had enthused the party workers. Priyanka had also visited Agra where a sweeper was killed in police custody though she was initially stopped from going there. Political analysts have been saying that an improved Congress performance could be detrimental to Samajwadi Party, the dominant Opposition party in the state which hopes to defeat the Yogi Adityanath's BJP-led government. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-meet-on-saturday-to-decide-on-first-list-of-up-candidates-1043048.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||Congress appoints Harish Chaudhary as Punjab in-charge||Congress on Friday appointed Rajasthan Minister Harish Chaudhary as the new party in-charge of poll-bound Punjab, heeding the request of senior leader Harish Rawat to relieve him from the post so that he could concentrate on Uttarakhand Assembly polls. Chaudhary will be the party in-charge of poll-bound Punjab and the union territory of Chandigarh and the immediate task before him would be to equip the party to neutralise any challenge from former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who has announced the launch of his party. "Harish Rawat is being relieved from his current responsibility as AICC General Secretary in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh. He shall continue as member CWC (Congress Working Committee," Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal said. With Punjab being a poll-bound state where the Congress stakes are high, sources said, Chaudhary is likely to be divested of his responsibilities as a Minister in Rajasthan to enable him to concentrate on his new assignment. The 73-year-old former Uttarakhand Chief Minister has been asking the party's central leadership to relieve him from the responsibility for the past some time, as he wanted to concentrate in Uttarakhand. Though he has not been announced as the face of the party in the polls early next year, Rawat hopes to be the Chief Minister of the state again. For the Congress leadership, he had steered the party unit in Punjab and ensured that Amarinder Singh is ousted as Chief Minister following a campaign by Navjot Singh Sidhu with the support of top leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. He also helped the leadership to instal Sidhu as party chief in the state. Two days ago, Rawat had once again tweeted his wish to be relieved of the responsibility in Punjab and indicated that the leadership has agreed to it. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-appoints-harish-chaudhary-as-punjab-in-charge-1043061.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee to visit poll-bound Goa next week||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will embark on a two-day visit to poll-bound Goa next week, a TMC leader said on Friday. Elections to the 40-member Goa assembly will be held early next year. "After returning from her north Bengal visit, the TMC chief will leave for Goa on October 28 on a two-day visit. She will hold meetings with party leaders in the coastal state. Her itinerary, however, is yet to be finalised," he said. The Trinamool Congress, after its stunning victory in the West Bengal assembly elections earlier this year, is trying to increase its footprint nationally and has made inroads in BJP-ruled Goa and Tripura. Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro and several other Congress leaders had joined the TMC last month. Although TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee had ruled out the possibility of allying with any other party for the upcoming assembly polls in Goa, the party supremo is likely to meet leaders of smaller parties in the state. "Mamata Di might meet some leaders of smaller parties not necessarily for any alliance but may be to invite them to join our party," another TMC leader said. The West Bengal unit of the BJP and the Congress mocked Banerjee's visit as "political tourism to the coastal state". "The weather in Goa now is apt for tourists. She is going there for a vacation," BJP state spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said. Senior Congress leader Abdul Mannan said her visit wouldn't yield any results and is aimed at helping "her ally BJP" in Goa. "The TMC has been constantly attacking the Congress and poaching our leaders. The political posturing of the TMC is aimed at helping the BJP. In Goa too, they are planning to do the same thing," he said. Former Congress women's wing chief and senior party leader from Assam, Sushmita Dev, had earlier quit the grand old party to join the TMC. The Trinamool Congress has been up in arms against Congress over its alleged failure to fight the BJP. Earlier this month, the relationship between the Congress and the TMC touched a new low after the ruling party in West Bengal took a dig at Rahul Gandhi's defeat at Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls by wondering whether the Congress would erase the defeat with a Twitter trend. The two party's relationship was strained after TMC's mouthpiece 'Jago Bangla' claimed that party supremo Mamata Banerjee, and not Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, is the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-to-visit-poll-bound-goa-next-week-1043081.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||PM Modi's data on Covid vaccinations 'semi-baked': Congress||The Congress on Friday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi accusing him of misleading the country on vaccinations when only 21 per cent of the country's population was fully vaccinated. The opposition party asked the prime minister to bring out a white paper on how his government intends to vaccinate all adults by year-end, a promise made by him earlier. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh also alleged that the prime minister, in his address to the nation on Friday, did not talk about issues of inflation and terrorism confronting the country. He said that instead of offering condolences to the families of 4.53 lakh people who lost their lives due to the coronavirus, the prime minister is celebrating. "The prime minister should talk about the issues confronting the nation, but instead he is celebrating 'Mahotsava'. The PM touched issues in a wrong manner and shared wrong data while trying to mislead the country," he told reporters. Vallabh also alleged that "the PM gave the data which is semi-baked, as half-truth is very dangerous." The Congress leader said there are only two countries having more than 50 crore population and the claim that India is the first country to achieve 100-crore plus vaccinations is "false" as China had achieved 216 crore doses of vaccinations in September. He said China has double vaccinated 80 per cent of its population while India has only vaccinated 20 per cent of the population. "We would like to ask the prime minister that it would have been nice if he had shared when we are going to start vaccinations for our school-going and college-going students. It would have been good if the PM answered when his promise of the entire population would be fulfilled by December 31, 2021. "Please share a white paper on how we are going to receive 106 crore vaccines in the next 70 days to vaccinate our entire adult population," Vallabh said. He said that "we thought he would talk about inflation because from January 1 till date there is a hike in (the price of) diesel by 29 per cent and petrol by 27 per cent." "Is there anybody on this earth except the prime minister's few friends whose income level has increased in last nine months by 29 per cent," he asked. "We were expecting you to speak on the issue when innocents were killed in Jammu and Kashmir, including 32 persons murdered in the last two weeks and nine soldiers gave supreme sacrifice saving our motherland. But the prime minister does not have time for any of such things. "We were expecting that the prime minister would offer condolences to the families of people who lost their lives due to coronavirus. He has no time for them and instead he is celebrating Mohatsavs," Vallabh said. When 4.53 lakh people died due to Covid-19, the government was busy celebrating Mohatsavs and the prime minister had words to offer to those who died, he also alleged. "When the PM addresses the nation, people expect that the prime minister will speak on something that is of their use, which affects their lives like inflation and terrorism. We expected you would offer condolences to the deceased families, but you did not do that," he said. A day after India crossed the milestone of 100 crore Covid vaccine doses, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the country's vaccination programme was "science-born, science-driven and science-based", and asserted that it had been ensured there was no "VIP culture" in the drive. In an address to the nation, the prime minister said there is confidence in the country today. From various strata of society to the economy, at every level and everywhere, there is "optimism, optimism and optimism", he said while also emphasising that people should not drop their guard during the festive season and continue with Covid appropriate behaviour such as masks. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modis-data-on-covid-vaccinations-semi-baked-congress-1043094.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi calls meeting of Congress General Secretaries, party in-charges, state presidents||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will hold a meeting with party General Secretaries, state in-charges and presidents on October 26, ten days after the party's Working Committee that set the schedule for organisational elections. Sources said the meeting will discuss the current political situation and the roadmap discussed by the CWC on October 16, which includes a training programme for workers and leaders as well as nationwide agitation against price rise. All state leaders are expected to brief the central leadership about the political situation in their states. Party in-charges in five poll bound states have already briefed the CWC about the situation and strategy to be adopted for the elections. As it happened in the CWC, the state leaders are also expected to raise a chorus for Rahul Gandhi taking over as party chief. With the organisation election schedule finalised, the leaders will also be briefed about the membership campaign to be held till March 31 this year. The CWC has chalked out an agitation programme from November 14 to 29 against price rise with 'padayatras' and small meetings across the country keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic. The party is also starting a training programme for committees and workers at all levels and the first level training camps at state level will be held next month. The module include "struggle for the 'Idea of India', true nationalism, Congress ideology, policies, expectations from a Congress worker, Congress leaders, contributions and achievements (of the party), failures of the present government, grass-root messaging, social media, countering propaganda and other state-level issues". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-calls-meeting-of-congress-general-secretaries-party-in-charges-state-presidents-1043131.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||CPI(M) Central Committee meets to discuss resolution for Party Congress||The three-day CPI(M) Central Committee meeting began here on Friday with a preliminary discussion on the political resolution to be placed in next year's Party Congress, which once again brought to the surface division within the party over the stand to be adopted on Sonia Gandhi-led Congress. The Party Congress, which was to be held in April this year but postponed owing to Assembly polls in Kerala and West Bengal among other states, will be held in Kerala's Kannur next April. Sources said the opinion was divided in the meeting over the CPI(M)'s relationship with Congress with sections supporting General Secretary Sitaram Yechury and his predecessor Prakash Karat taking a divergent line. The Central Committee will end on Sunday. The 2018 Party Congress had decided that the primary objective of the CPI(M) is to defeat the BJP and to achieve this, it could enter into an "understanding" with the Congress and other secular parties, junking the line propagated by the Karat faction. However, it was decided not to have any "political alliance" with Congress. Sources said Central Committee members from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana among others, who support the Karat line, are of the view that there is no point in having any link with Congress, citing its electoral reverses, while their opponents like the West Bengal unit feel that the issue has been raked up again and again despite the 2018 conclave deciding on it. Those supporting the Yechury line are of the view that the political situation has not changed and it is impractical to keep Congress out of the scheme of things in the fight against the BJP. They also think that the issue is raked up to prevent him a third term while those opposing any truck with the Congress deny any such motive and point towards the dismal show in West Bengal Assembly polls. After the Central Committee finalised the points to be included in the political resolution, sources said, the Politbureau would meet again to prepare the draft document, which would be placed again in the Central Committee for finalisation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-central-committee-meets-to-discuss-resolution-for-party-congress-1043173.html
22-10-2021||National Politics||'Maximum hypocrisy': Congress leader Ramesh on PM Modi's plan to address UN climate meet||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Friday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his scheduled address to the upcoming UN climate conference in the UK, saying he will speak on climate change when his government is diluting environmental and forest laws in India. "So our Prime Minister will indeed go to Glasgow to give gyaan to the world on climate change. But at home, his Government dilutes all environmental and forest laws, weakens institutions and muzzles civil society," he said on Twitter. "Maximum Hypocrisy. Minimum Democracy," the former union environment minister said. Climate finance will be the focus of the upcoming United Nations 26th conference of parties (COP 26) to be held in the UK and attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said on Friday. The international climate conference will be held from October 31 to November 12 in Glasgow. In another tweet, Congress leader Ramesh hit out at the prime minister over his address to the nation on India crossing the 100-crore mark of vaccinations, saying he has forgotten those who suffered due to loss of lives and livelihood because of his government's failures in managing the pandemic. "Jagadguru of Jhoot (world leader of lies) excelled himself today rewriting history, twisting facts, distorting reality, making meaningless comparisons, beating his own chest -- in short, being himself. While he forgot those who suffered the loss of lives and livelihoods from Covid-19 due to his Government's failures," Ramesh said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maximum-hypocrisy-congress-leader-ramesh-on-pm-modis-plan-to-address-un-climate-meet-1043221.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||DH Toon | Extraordinary times for Congress calls for reinvention of business!||Ousted as Punjab chief minister by the Congress last month, Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday night announced that he will launch a new party and hopefully enter into a "seat arrangement" with the BJP in the next year's Assembly elections if the saffron party manages to resolve the farmers' protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-extraordinary-times-for-congress-calls-for-reinvention-of-business-1042957.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||J&K civilians killings: Strategy to be drafted to finish militancy in J&K during Amit Shah's visit||Amid a wave of targeted attacks that have left 11 civilians dead, a strategy is likely to be drafted to finish militancy in Jammu and Kashmir during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s three-day visit to the Union Territory (UT) which begins on Saturday. In his first visit to J&K, after the abrogation of special status of erstwhile state and its bifurcation into two UTs in August 2019, Shah will be accompanied by top officials of the Union Home Ministry, including Home Secretary A K Bhalla and heads of most of the central armed police forces (CAPFs) and intelligence agencies. “Shah will chair a high-level security review meeting in Srinagar on October 23, the first day of his three-day tour to the UT, where a strategy is likely to be drafted to tackle sudden spurt in civilian killings and finish militancy in the region,” a source told DH. Eleven civilians, including members of minority community and non-locals, have been killed by the militants in Kashmir in the last two-weeks, leading to fear and migration of labourers from the Valley. “The security meeting is expected to come out with a plan for protection of civilians including minorities and non-locals,” they said. “Top brass of MHA, CAPFs and intelligence agencies from New Delhi and senior officers of all security and intelligence agencies, operating in the UT besides Jammu and Kashmir Police will attend the security review meeting,” the source said. The Home Minister is also scheduled to address panchayat members as well as political workers besides laying the foundation stone of two new government medical colleges (GMCs) for Udhampur and Handwara during his three-day visit.  Shah is also scheduled to review developmental works in the UT, including those being executed under the Prime Minister’s Development Package with top officials of the administration in Kashmir, sources said. The Home Minister will also address a public rally, organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), at Bhagwati Nagar Jammu on October 24. Sources said Shah will fly to Srinagar from New Delhi on October 23 and come to Jammu the next day before returning to the Valley the same evening. He will fly back to New Delhi in the evening of October 25 from Srinagar. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-civilians-killings-strategy-to-be-drafted-to-finish-militancy-in-jk-during-amit-shahs-visit-1043013.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Dhami meets affected people in Chamoli's rain-hit Dungri village||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Friday visited Dungri village in Chamoli district to meet the disaster-hit people who lost their kin in the landslides triggered by heavy rains in the state. Accompanied by Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj, State Disaster Management Minister Dhan Singh Rawat and officials, the Chief Minister trekked up the steep slippery slopes of the village with a stick in hand for support to do an on-the-spot assessment of the losses. Two persons of a family were buried in the rubble of a landslide in the village on October 19. Dhami met the surviving members of the family and promised them all help from the government. He asked officials to speed up relief and rescue efforts in the affected areas assuring them that they will not have to face any shortage of resources. "The affected families will get all support from the government. They have lost their kin and have little children. We will ensure that they are given good care," Dhami told reporters during a visit to the village. A total of 65 people were killed, 22 injured and two went missing during the recent spell of downpours in the hill state which also saw 60 houses being damaged. Many hectares of forest and agricultural land with standing paddy crop in them were also swept away in the rains with the Chief Minister pegging the losses as per an initial estimate at Rs 7,000 crore. Search and rescue operations continue in the upper areas of Kumaon and Garhwal regions to evacuate stranded people, including tourists, to safety. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-dhami-meets-affected-people-in-chamolis-rain-hit-dungri-village-1043052.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi court denies bail to JNU student Sharjeel Imam in 2019 Jamia rioting case||A Delhi court on Friday denied bail to JNU student Sharjeel Imam in a sedition case lodged against him for allegedly delivering an inflammatory speech and inciting violence during the CAA-NRC protests in 2019, saying free speech cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony.  Imam on December 13, 2019, had allegedly delivered a provocative speech, which, according to the police, resulted in riots two days later when a mob consisting of over 3,000 people attacked police personnel and torched several vehicles in the Jamia Nagar area in south Delhi.  Rejecting his bail plea, Additional Sessions Judge Anuj Agrawal, however, noted that the evidence in support of the allegations that the rioters got instigated by Imam's speech and thereafter indulged in the acts of rioting, mischief, attacking the police party, was scanty and sketchy. The judge in his order said that cursory and plain reading of the speech showed that it was clearly on communal lines. “The tone and tenor of the incendiary speech tend to have a debilitating effect upon public tranquillity, peace, and harmony of the society,” the judge said adding that "it is no gainsaying that fundamental right of ‘freedom of speech and expression’ cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony of the society." The Delhi Police claimed that Imam instigated a “particular religious community” against the Central Government by creating unfounded fears in their minds regarding the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC).  The court highlighted a portion of Imam's alleged inflammatory speech in the order copy while rejecting his bail. While maintaining that the evidence in support of the allegations that the rioters got instigated by Imam's speech was scanty and sketchy, the court said “neither any eye witness has been cited by prosecution nor there is any other evidence on record to suggest that co-accused got instigated and committed the alleged act of rioting upon hearing the speech of Sharjeel Imam.” Further, the court said there is no evidence corroborating the version of prosecution that alleged rioters were a part of the audience addressed by Imam on December 13, 2019. It said that the essential link between the speech dated and the subsequent acts is conspicuously missing. The court said that the theory as propounded by investigating agency left gaping holes which leaves an incomplete picture unless the gaps are filled by resorting to surmises and conjectures or by essentially relying upon the disclosure statement of Iman and co-accused, he added. “Once the legally impermissible foundation of imaginative thinking and disclosure statement of accused is removed, the prosecution version on this count appears to be crumbling like a house of cards,” the court observed. While noting that the fundamental right of 'freedom of speech and expression' cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony, the judge quoted British poet and intellect, John Milton, as saying, “give me the liberty to know, to argue freely, and to utter according to conscience, above all liberties.” The judge also quoted spiritual leader Swami Vivekanand in the bail order as saying, “We are what our thoughts have made us; so take care about what you think; Words are secondary; Thoughts live; they travel far.” During the hearing on Imam's bail, Special Public Prosecutor had told the court that Imam's speech on December 13, 2019, was seditious, evidently on divisive lines, and tended to hamper social harmony.   Imam, through his counsel Ahmad Ibrahim, said he is a peace-loving citizen and never participated in violence during any protest.  He argued that no speech, much less the speech dated December 13, was aimed at spreading any disaffection against the government established by law or inciting violence or ill-will against any community.  Besides this case, Imam is also accused of being the "mastermind" of the February 2020 riots, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-denies-bail-to-jnu-student-sharjeel-imam-in-2019-jamia-rioting-case-1043054.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||Covid pandemic showed how technology can be game-changer: AIIMS director||The Covid-19 pandemic has showed the importance of technology and how if used properly can be a game-changer in the country where there is a big issue of resources and manpower crunch as far as the health sector is concerned, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Friday. Speaking at Public Affairs Forum of India's 8th National Forum 2021, he said the pandemic showed that if you do not have a healthy nation, you will have a fate on your economy, it could affect tourism, it will affect travel, and it will have a lot of other effects which are so-called collateral damage. "The Covid-19 pandemic showed the importance of technology and it really showed that technology used properly can be a game-changer in our country where there is this big issue of resources and manpower crunch, as far as the health sector is concerned. So we've adopted teleconsultation very quickly, which allowed us to consult with a large number of patients across the country without them having to come to hospital. It was cost-effective," he said Guleria also said that there is a huge inequity as far as health is concerned, both in urban and rural India, and that has to be addressed. "And, I sometimes worry that we should make sure that technology doesn't increase that divide. We must make sure that we think it is more inclusive for even those who may not be that tech savvy, and that is very important in the tech sector," he said. The AIIMS chief said there has to be a lot of focus on using technology "And, that is something that we need to do in terms of screening for non-communicable diseases or training for cancers, which will help in the burden of disease in a big way. We have to invest more in research, which is India specific and encourage more entrepreneurship," he said. National Health Authority CEO RS Sharma said there are a number of areas in which the cost will significantly reduce using technology, and that significant reduction in cost will obviously be passed on to the service providers, and also to the people. "I completely agree that technology has to be inclusive. It has to cater to diversity as it exists in the sector. It has to be interoperable. It has to be scalable. It has to be frugal. It has to you know be, kind of, people should find it very easy to use it, so it should be easy to kind of integrate in our workflow, it should not be an activity in itself, you know, catering to technological requirement should not really become an additional burden on the time of a doctor," he said. Talking about privacy, he said the people think that designing for privacy will reduce functionality. "The thing is that privacy is a zero-sum game, you know that if I make things private then I can't do anything to it. But that's not the case. If you design carefully, it is a non-zero sum game, you can continue to have all the functionalities without sacrificing privacy," he said. A zero-sum game is a mathematical representation of a situation in which an advantage that is won by one of the two sides is lost by the other. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-pandemic-showed-how-technology-can-be-game-changer-aiims-director-1043070.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to kick off 'Pratigya Yatra' from UP's Barabanki: Congress||Congress general secretary and Uttar Pradesh in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will flag off three 'Pratigya Yatras' from Barabanki on Saturday to take to the people various resolutions adopted by the party ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. On the occasion, she will elaborate on the seven resolutions made to the people of UP apart from the election manifesto, former MP and party in-charge of Chhattisgarh P L Punia told the media here on Friday. The three yatras going in different routes -- from Barabanki to Bundelkhand, Saharanpur to Mathura and Varanasi to Rae Bareli -- will be taken out from October 23 to November 1, he said. The yatra on the Varanasi to Rae Bareli route covering the Awadh region will be led by former MP Pramod Tiwari, while the Barabanki-Bundelkhand route will be led by Punia and former Union minister of state Pradeep Jain Aditya. The yatra on the Saharanpur-Mathura route covering the western parts of the state will be presided by former Union minister Salman Khurshid and senior party leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam. Chairman of the party's media department and former state minister Nasimuddin Siddiqui and Congress legislature party leader Aradhana Mishra, former MP and chairman of the strategy and planning committee Rajesh Mishra gave details about the yatra and its route. Siddiqui said the Congress, in its first resolution, has promised 40 per cent of ticket distribution to women in the 2022 elections and has pledged to give smartphones to girl students who clear intermediate exams along with electric scooters to girls who are college graduates. The details about the remaining six pledges will be announced at the time of launching the 'Pratigya Yatra' in Barabanki, he added. The decision to go ahead with these yatras was taken at a meeting headed by Vadra last month. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-to-kick-off-pratigya-yatra-from-ups-barabanki-congress-1043073.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||After Varanasi, Priyanka Gandhi set to storm Yogi Adityanath's bastion Gorakhpur||After kicking off her party's election campaign from prime minister Narendra Modi's Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi earlier this month, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is all set to storm Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's bastion of Gorakhpur. Striving hard to revive Congress' electoral fortunes in the state, Priyanka, according to the state party leaders here, would be addressing a public meeting at Gorakhpur, about 300 kilometres from here, later this month. Sources in the UP Congress said that senior leaders from Gorakhpur and adjoining districts had been asked to ensure that the rally was successful. "Gorakhpur is Adityanath's home town...a big rally there will certainly enthuse the party workers and supporters," said a senior leader while speaking to DH here on Friday. Earlier this month Priyanka had addressed a well-attended public meeting at Jagatpur in Varanasi, where she had launched a scathing attack on Modi over the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district along with rising fuel and LPG prices in the country. Congress legislature party leader in the UP assembly Aradhana Mishra said here on Friday that the statewide 'Pratigya Yatra' of the party would begin from Saturday. "Priyanka Gandhi will be flagging off the yatra from Barabanki district on Saturday," she told reporters here. "She will also tell the people about other pratigya (vows) of the party", Mishra added. Priyanka had already announced 40 per cent reservation to the women in ticket distribution in the forthcoming UP assembly polls, smartphones for every girl, who had cleared Intermediate and E-scooters to every girl, who cleared graduation. She said that three 'Pratigya Yatras' would be taken out by the party from Saturday from different parts of the state simultaneously. "In the first phase these Yatras will be taken out from Varanasi, Barabanki and Saharanpur," she added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-varanasi-priyanka-gandhi-set-to-storm-yogi-adityanaths-bastion-gorakhpur-1043074.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||Additional security forces deployed, bunkers set up in Srinagar to check militant attacks||Security bunkers are making a comeback on the city roads after nearly eight years and more paramilitary personnel are being deployed following the spate of civilian killings by militants in Kashmir over the past two weeks. Security bunkers manned by the central armed paramilitary forces (CAPF) are being set up in many areas of Srinagar where these were removed between 2011 and 2014 following the overall improvement in the security situation across Kashmir. Sources said constructing new bunkers and putting more personnel on the ground is being done to cut the free movement of militants. "The terrorists have shown that they are moving from one area to another within no time after committing terror crimes. It can only be checked by area domination and cutting the free movement," they said. Official sources said 50 companies of additional paramilitary forces are being inducted into the Valley to shore up the security apparatus, especially in Srinagar, in the wake of the civilian killings. In 2010, more than 50 security pickets and bunkers were removed in Srinagar on the recommendations made by an all-party delegation visiting Kashmir in that year. Similar recommendations were also made by a team of interlocutors appointed by the Centre in 2010. The team was headed by veteran journalist Dilip Padgaonkar and professor Radha Kumar and former information commissioner M M Ansari were its members. The situation had improved to such an extent that the then Union home minister P Chidambaram was believed to be favourably disposed towards repealing the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) from Jammu and Kashmir in a phased manner. However, this time new bunkers have come up at places where no such thing existed even at the peak of militancy in the valley in the 1990s. Two such bunkers have come up on Barzulla bridge on the airport road in Srinagar. Police officials, however, did not comment on the new steps taken in the valley. Police have also snapped internet in parts of Srinagar and in a couple of areas in south Kashmir, and launched a drive against two-wheelers in the city. IGP, Kashmir zone, Vijay Kumar had said these steps were purely related to terror violence. "Seizing some bikes and shutting down of internet of some towers is purely related to #terror #violence. It has nothing to do with visit of the Hon'ble HM," he tweeted on Thursday. The internet services on a dozen towers -- mostly in the areas where non-local labourers were killed in the last week -- were snapped three days ago while police have started stringent checking of documents of two-wheelers plying on the roads. Nine civilians -- including five non-local labourers and three minority community members -- were killed by militants during the month of October. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/additional-security-forces-deployed-bunkers-set-up-in-srinagar-to-check-militant-attacks-1043112.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||Samajwadi Party govt opened fire at Lord Ram devotees and felicitated terrorists: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, on Friday, accused the Samajwadi Party of lodging fake criminal cases against Hindus and Lord Ram devotees during its government’s tenure while felicitating terrorists. Adityanath also targeted Congress, accusing it of sowing seeds of terrorism. “The root of terrorism was planted in Jammu and Kashmir by the Congress in the form of Article 370 in 1952," the chief minister said. Adityanath made the allegations while launching a scathing attack on opposition parties, especially the Samajwadi Party, and asked if people will forgive those who opened fire on ‘Ram Bhakts’. "When our government was formed, the first task which was undertaken was to waive farmers' debt but in 2012 the first decision taken by the SP government was to withdraw the cases against terrorists," Yogi said. The chief minister made the remark while addressing the representatives of 'Chauhan Samaj' during the 'Samajik Pratinidhi Sammelan' organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party Backward Front here. Accusing SP leaders Mulayam Singh Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav of not doing any development work during their tenures as Azamgarh MPs, Adityanath asked if there would have been firing at Ram Bhakts in 1990 had there been a BJP government at the helm. “Will you forgive those who opened fire on Lord Ram devotees? Lord Ram will not," the chief minister said, adding the construction of Lord Ram temple in Ayodhya is an opportunity for 135 crore Indians to hold their heads high before the world. Yogi Adityanath was referring to police firing on ‘karsevaks’ gathered in Ayodhya on the saffron outfits' call in 1990 when the SP leader Mulayam Singh Yadav was the UP chief minister. Continuing his attack on opposition parties, he said, "When the SP, BSP, and Congress had their governments, they had no time for anyone other than their families and they worked for terrorists. He alleged that during the SP government term in 2012, fake cases were lodged against Hindus, and terrorists were felicitated. “Terrorists ki aarti utari jati thi,” he said, adding that during the SP government’s terms, temples and monasteries were used to be attacked like in the medieval period. He also accused the SP and BSP governments of promoting corruption in lower rungs of the police and revenue departments, saying “the SP and BSP workers used to loot police stations and tehsils”. Appealing to create awareness among the people in the favour of BJP in the runup to the state assembly elections early next year, Adityanath said, “There is a need to go to villages and explain to people why the BJP government is necessary.” “If there is a BJP government, no one will dare indulge in riots, no mafia will grab government and if anyone does that, the state government’s bulldozers will there be on his chest.” Asking the Chauhan community members why none among them could become a governor after independence, Adityanath reminded them that it was only after the formation of the BJP government that Fagu Chauhan became the governor. “Dara Singh Chouhan has been working relentlessly for the last four and a half years as a minister and Prabhunath Chauhan was made the vice-chairman of the Commission for Backward Classes,” he said. He also questioned the previous governments on their failure in according constitutional status as to the Backward Classes Commission. It was because the intentions of previous governments were bad as they did not want the Dalits, backward and poor to be happy. “The previous governments did not want every house to have cooking gas or electricity either. These people were content with spreading various diseases in every household,” he said. Asserting that the government is fulfilling its promises one by one, he said, “It is also your responsibility to reach out to each and every family and explain to them why the BJP is necessary for the country.” Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-govt-opened-fire-at-lord-ram-devotees-and-felicitated-terrorists-yogi-1043113.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||Security forces defuse 2 suspected box-type IEDs in Poonch||Security forces on Friday detected and defused two suspected box-type improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. They said the two small boxes were detected in Bhata Durian Forest during a joint search operation by the army and police. The boxes were suspected to be IEDs and were destroyed in-situ, they said. This is the third instance of IEDs being detected by troops in J&K since Thursday. An army patrol Thursday had detected and defused an IED fitted in the branch of a tree in the forest area of Sawalkot in Ratangir ridge and later defused it. Before that security forces had defused an IED in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-defuse-2-suspected-box-type-ieds-in-poonch-1043124.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||SIT chief probing Lakhimpur Kheri violence transferred, will continue to head probe||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday transferred DIG Upendra Kumar Agarwal, heading the SIT probing into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, to Gonda but will continue to supervise the investigation. While transferring Agarwal to Gonda from the UP PHQ, the state police headquarters made it clear that it was a routine exercise and he will continue to head the Special Investigation Team set up to probe into the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. Agarwal is a 2005-batch IPS officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre. As per the UP PHQ’s transfer notification, five other IPS officers too have been given new postings. When asked about Agarwal’s transfer, UP Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar told PTI that he will continue to lead the SIT team investigating the Lakhimpur Kheri case. Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra was arrested by the SIT after 12 hours of grilling on October 9. Besides the minister's son, 10 others too have been arrested in this case so far. After an intensive and extensive, nine hours of questioning, DIG Agarwal had on October 9 said Ashish Mishra has been arrested for not cooperating in the investigation and making evasive replies to police queries. An FIR was lodged at the Tikonia police station on October 3 over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Besides, Agarwal five other officers who have been transferred include Ayodhya IG Sanjeev Gupta who has been posted as IG (Law and Order) with Allahabad IG K P Singh taking over his place in the temple town. Singh’s place as Allahabad IG was taken over by Rakesh Singh. Basti IG Anil Kumar Rai has been transferred to Central Zone’s PAC with IG (Law and Order) Modak Rozas taking his place in Basti. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sit-chief-probing-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-transferred-will-continue-to-head-probe-1043126.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Ashish Mishra remanded in police custody again||Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, arrested for his alleged role in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, was on Friday remanded in police custody for two days. It was for the second time that he was remanded in police custody by Lakhimpur Kheri’s Chief Judicial Magistrate Chinta Ram. Besides, Mishra, CJM Ram also sent three other accused in the case -- Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti and Latif – to police custody, acceding the prosecution’s request for their police remand. The two-day police remand for the four, starting from 5 PM on Friday, will end at the same time on Sunday. After his arrest on October 9, the son of the Union MoS (Home) was first remanded to police custody on October 11 with the remand period starting on October 12 and ending on October 15. After the expiry of his first remand period, he was sent back to the Lakhimpur Jail under judicial custody. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-ashish-mishra-remanded-in-police-custody-again-1043142.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||PoK refugees observe October 22 as 'black day' in Jammu||Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) refugees on Friday observed October 22 as a "black day" here and paid tributes to members of Hindu and Sikh communities who were killed during the Pakistani invasion of Jammu and Kashmir in 1947. The community members said at least one-third of the 24 vacant seats reserved in the Jammu and Kashmir Legislature for PoK be opened for them to politically empower them. SOS International -- an organisation of displaced PoK persons -- observed October 22 as a “black day”. On this occasion, rich tributes were paid to thousands of people from Hindu and Sikh communities who were killed during the Pakistani invasion of Jammu and Kashmir in 1947. Chairman, SOS International, Rajiv Chuni, said, “With the revocation of the semi-autonomous status of Jammu and Kashmir, thousands of displaced families from PoK were expecting their longstanding demands to be fulfilled. But instead of giving us the promised 'achche din', the government has become completely unaccountable to the long-neglected PoK displaced community.” He said even the welfare packages started under the NC-Congress government in 2014 have been “abandoned” by the present Jammu and Kashmir administrations. Half of the 26,319 displaced families in Jammu have not received a one-time settlement package of Rs 5.5 lakh so far, Chuni said. “Currently, the post of Provincial Rehabilitation Officer, Jammu, doesn't even have an office building, staff, and funds,” he said. “The children of the PoK families are yet to get reservations in higher, professional and technical educational institutions across the country on the pattern of migrant Kashmiri Pandits," Chuni said. The decision to provide 8,500 jobs to the educated unemployed youth of the community has not been fulfilled either, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pok-refugees-observe-october-22-as-black-day-in-jammu-1043149.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||100 cr vaccine doses milestone could have been achieved 6 months ago: Sisodia||Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday took a swipe at the Centre over the celebrations on the administration of 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, saying India's medical team would have had achieved the target six months ago if the Union government had started arranging the vaccines for people in time. India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered surpassed the 100-crore mark on Thursday, resulting in celebratory events in several parts of the country. The country crossed the landmark in a little over nine months since a nationwide vaccination drive was launched on January 16. "While taking pride in the administration of 100 crore vaccines, we should also remember that our medical team would have had achieved the target of administering 100 crore vaccines six months ago if the central government had started arranging the vaccine in time and had not fallen in greed of getting accolades for sending the vaccines abroad," Sisodia said in a tweet in Hindi. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the crossing of the 100-crore vaccine doses milestone and said that India's success in achieving the target in nine months has given a befitting reply to those who questioned its capabilities. This highlights a "new India" which can set difficult targets and achieve them, the prime minister said in his address to the nation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/100-cr-vaccine-doses-milestone-could-have-been-achieved-6-months-ago-sisodia-1043190.html
22-10-2021||North and Central||Over 101.2 crore Covid vaccine doses administered: Govt||More than 101.2 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country, including over 62 lakh doses administered on Friday, the Union health ministry said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports by late night, it added. Cumulatively, 40,41,65,807 first doses and 12,24,71,539 second doses of the vaccine have been administered to individuals in the 18 to 44 age group since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive, according to the ministry's data. Cumulatively 71,21,01,258 first doses and 30,03,07,997 second doses of the vaccine have been administered across the states and Union territories. India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 101.2 crore (1,01,24,09,255) doses, the ministry said, adding that 62,58,092 vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm on Saturday. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it underlined. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-1012-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-govt-1043220.html
22-10-2021||Opinion||Priyanka Gandhi's 40% gambit: A mere poll ploy or something more transformational?||There must have been a time when the phrase "women's empowerment" conveyed the intended and worthy meaning of those two words. Not anymore. Its indifferent and random use by misogynists of all stripes, including politicians, has drained the phrase of any significant meaning. In fact, women's empowerment has largely come to be understood as a countervailing instrument to feminist ideology. It has come to signify containment, rather than autonomy or transformation of the lives of women. This shift in electoral strategy raises the question: How does the Congress propose mobilising women in a state ridden with patriarchy, caste, violence, institutional failure? Breaking away from the mire of caste-based politics can, undoubtedly, open up interesting possibilities—political and social. But a quota in itself, while ensuring greater political representation, may not carve out a vibrant constituency of women capable of seeking greater political and social autonomy. Identity-based constituencies, as we have seen in the case of caste, tend to be dragged into feeding narrow political and electoral interests rather than a socially transformative vision. Keeping in mind that party-based gender quota is not entirely a novel idea is important in this context. Bengal's ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and its Odisha counterpart, Biju Janata Dal (BJD), have reaped substantial electoral benefits by fielding a large number of women in elections and giving them political visibility. The contexts, however, are different in the states under discussion: The TMC and BJD are in charge of state governments, commanding resources and power to implement policies they want or deem beneficial. On the other hand, the Congress is a weak force in UP, struggling to resurrect itself from the margins of politics. Launched two years after Mamata Banerjee came to power in Bengal, the Kanyashree scheme based on conditional cash transfer to girls incentivises women to stay in school and delay marriage. A huge draw for women, the scheme has created a constituency of subaltern women who have remained loyal to Banerjee. This year's hard-fought assembly polls saw such women, especially from lower socio-economic strata, rallying behind Banerjee and contributing substantively to her third consecutive electoral triumph. But any kind of identity-based electoral mobilisation, especially if successful, usually tends to be reduced to a poll-expedient vote bank, which politicians can manipulate at will. Most political parties walk a narrow path, keeping women within the boundaries of electoral politics and not raising issues that challenge dominant and regressive cultural norms. In that sense, it needs to be underlined that electoral power is just one of many routes to empowering women. If Priyanka Gandhi's idea of women's empowerment is to make a mark, she needs to expand the ambit of that call beyond a captive gender-based vote bank. In the long run, any form of empowerment that does not touch everyday social and personal conflicts women deal with will turn out to be varnish on the surface. This is a country where women are frequently pilloried for what they wear, who they marry or don't, where women face high levels of violence in public and private spaces, where the birth of daughters is all too often unwelcome. Remembering that sordid reality is important in drawing up and implementing any political strategy if it is to touch women's lives. Recalling the 73rd Constitutional amendment of 1993, sanctioning 33 per cent reservation of seats for women in local panchayat bodies, may be interesting in this context. Getting off to a shaky start, the scheme initially saw male household members of elected women representatives calling the shots from the driver's seat. But over a period of time, those tendencies gave way to women leaders at the grassroots asserting and exercising autonomy in village governance. They made independent decisions in a range of important matters, especially relating to matters impacting the quality of everyday life like education, sanitation, water, and fuel. Equally, one must remember it is the reluctance of the political class (without exceptions) that has shunted the women's reservation bill, granting 33 per cent gender-based reservation in Parliament and state assemblies for over two decades. In this context, Priyanka Gandhi has made an interesting move by attempting to inject a new element into UP's violent, masculinist political landscape. Under Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the state has lurched from one crisis to another. From Hathras to Lakhimpur Kheri, the narrative of UP politics is marked and dominated by violence. Indeed, the sprawling state has a history of political volatility and violence. But never before has it climbed such heights. Or received such political sanction—overt and covert. The Congress has an opportunity to reach out to UP's women not just as voters but also as citizens, to start a conversation few political parties do. Politics, electoral or otherwise, is like other spheres of life in India, dominated by men; often used to browbeat women. It will be interesting to see if Priyanka Gandhi can break the stillness among that constituency and start a process of changing gender-based power relations in private and public spaces. One suspects, however, that to do that, she and her party will have to go further than electoral representation. (Monobina Gupta is the author of 'Left Politics in Bengal' and 'Didi: A Political Biography') Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/priyanka-gandhis-40-gambit-a-mere-poll-ploy-or-something-more-transformational-1043096.html
22-10-2021||Right in the Middle||The good old Eravikulam days||"We saw two stags, three dholes, five wild pigs and six pairs of very sore feet!" runs an exuberant entry in a visitors’ book I chanced upon recently. Maintained in a lodge deep inside Eravikulam long before it became Kerala’s first National Park, the yellowing register chronicles visitors’ experiences from 1939 to 1978. It opens up vistas of a laidback era during the British Raj when Eravikulam’s forbidding isolation (more than 8,000 feet above mean sea level) lured many to explore it. Besides their insightful observations, the journal is a record of hunting and trout fishing. The trout, incidentally, was introduced by Munnar’s British tea planters as early as 1920 and still flourishes in Eravikulam. Though fishing is no longer permitted, it was quite popular during the Raj. Indeed a veteran British angler wryly reminisces that the visitors’ book is "A tale of the whoppers that got away and the midgets that didn’t!" Thumbing through the tome, one finds dated entries by many well-known figures from the world of conservation — Belinda Wright of the WWF, Dr George Schaller of the New York Zoological Society, Hugh Elliott of the IUCN, JC Daniel of the Bombay Natural History Society, noted ornithologist Zafar Futehally et al. Interestingly, tiger sightings have been reported on and off. In 1982, Cliff Rice, an American research scholar, filmed a magnificent beast strolling near the lodge. Early on Christmas morning in 1969, John Gouldsbury heard a tiger roaring in Turner’s Valley — perhaps to herald the auspicious day. Thankfully, the feline’s still around. Once, while fishing in Eravikulam, a British lady saw a stag, pursued by a murderous pack of dholes, plunge into the water in a frantic bid to escape. Terrified, she promptly followed suit — only to be told, on being fished out, that dholes never attack humans! Besides badly blistered feet, trekkers often battle bloodthirsty leeches. "The parasites fed sumptuously on our blue blood — certified by Dr Balaraman!" writes one witty Indian visitor. Another was so badly bled that he all but needed a blood transfusion! Having trekked through Eravikulam’s mesmerising interior and camped overnight in the spartanly furnished lodge on two memorable occasions in the 1980s, I could well understand why true nature lovers are irresistibly drawn to it. For Eravikulam casts its spell on all who venture to sample its charms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-good-old-eravikulam-days-1043232.html
22-10-2021||Second Edit||Bangladesh violence cause for concern||The violence and vandalism that targeted the Hindu minority in Bangladesh during the Durga Puja is a matter of concern because communal trouble on such a scale has not been seen in that country for a long time. At least six people were killed and many injured and houses, temples and businesses owned by Hindus were attacked in many places. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government has taken steps to curb violence and to prevent it from growing and spreading. Many people have been arrested. Hasina has promised that the crackdown on mischievous elements will continue. The mob violence started in Chittagong district where an incident of alleged blasphemy involving disrespect to the Koran was reported. It is believed that the whole trouble was based on fake news and may have been part of a deliberate attempt to create mischief. Though Bangladesh has seen many incidents of communal violence directed against its 10% Hindu minority, its society is not known to be pervasively communal. The country was born in an assertion of linguistic identity and its Constitution makes it a secular State, though Islam is the State religion. But there is an Islamist streak in society and politics represented by some religious organisations and political parties. Fundamentalist elements and political forces opposed to Hasina could have had a role in the trouble. The government has blamed those who have not reconciled themselves to Bangladesh’s independence from Pakistan for continuously propagating their “toxic narratives to instigate violence, hatred and bigotry”. For the last many years, Hasina’s party Awami League and its government have not allowed any quarter for disruptive forces to operate. The country has paid attention to economic development and improvement of social and economic indicators and the efforts have shown results. Reassuringly, there have been big demonstrations in the country protesting against the communal incidents of the past week.  The Indian government has appreciated the efforts of the Bangladesh authorities to take steps to control the situation. While concern over the incidents is natural, India has no reason to overreact to the situation. Sheikh Hasina is a friend and India has good relations with Bangladesh. There are attempts in India to take political advantage of the situation. That will go against the interest of the country by upsetting relations with an important neighbour. It will also go against the interests of the minority community in Bangladesh. One important requirement for India to ensure the safety and security of the minorities in its neighbouring countries is to ensure that minorities in India are safe and secure and are treated well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bangladesh-violence-cause-for-concern-1043230.html
22-10-2021||South||Kerala Congress office bearers announced||After days of speculations, office bearers of Kerala PCC have been announced by the AICC on Thursday. The Kerala PCC was so far having a 'jumbo' committee of over 150 officer bearers. Now five vice presidents and 23 general secretaries, 28 member executive committee and treasurer have been announced. Secretaries would be also announced in due course. The fresh list is likely to trigger resentment as some disgruntled leaders and prominent women leaders were not included. Only three women are among the new office bearers announced. Allegations of including those loyal to the prominent leaders already started coming in even when the new leadership comprising Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran and opposition leader V D Satheesan had been stating that efficiency would be the criteria and not loyalty towards leaders.   After the district Congress committee presidents were announced last month, five prominent local leaders left the party and four had also also joined the CPM. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-office-bearers-announced-1042915.html
22-10-2021||State||Karnataka records 378 new Covid cases, 11 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 378 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths, taking the caseload to 29,85,227 and death toll to 37,995. The day also saw 464 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,38,312. The active cases in the state now stand at 8,891. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 195 new infections. The city also saw 239 discharges and seven deaths. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.36%, case fatality rate was 2.91%. Davanagere, Dharwad, Kolar and Tumakuru registered one death each. Dakshina Kannada logged 24 cases, and Mysuru and Tumakuru logged 23 fresh cases each followed by Hassan with 21 cases. As many as 1,03,121 samples were tested and 8,04,213 doses of vaccine were administered on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-records-378-new-covid-cases-11-deaths-1043202.html
22-10-2021||State||State rolls out free pneumococcal vaccine drive for infants||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday launched pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) for infants, as part of the universal vaccination programme. “This vaccine, which protects children from pneumonia and meningitis, will be administered on a war footing,” he said. Health Minister K Sudhakar said that the PCV to be administered to children in three doses (at one-and-a-half month, three-and-a-half month and ninth month) would be given free of cost, under the universal immunisation programme. ‘Covid vax target’ Speaking at a programme organised to mark 100 crore doses of Covid vaccine administered in the country, at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences here, Bommai said that the Health & Family Welfare Department had been given a target of increasing the anti-Covid vaccination coverage of first dose from existing 83% to 90%, and of second dose from existing 38% to 70% for eligible persons in the state, by December 31. ‘52L missed 2nd dose’ Health Minister K Sudhakar said that the due date for the second dose of the vaccine was over for 52 lakh people, and the government is trying to get them vaccinated fully, by contacting them. The state has over 60 lakh vaccines in stock, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-rolls-out-free-pneumococcal-vaccine-drive-for-infants-1043206.html
22-10-2021||State||Bommai government to revisit non-tax sources to spur revenue||Fees paid by citizens for various government services may be hiked if Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai makes up his mind, as the Finance Department is looking to mobilise non-tax revenues while preparing for the 2022 Budget.   The 2022 Budget will be the first for Bommai. It is likely to be an election budget containing promises keeping the 2023 Assembly polls in mind. However, he might consider taking a bold decision on revising service/user charges, fees, fines and other such non-tax revenue, whose rates have not been changed for many years. In a circular, the Finance Department, which Bommai controls, has asked all departments to take up a “thorough review” of non-tax revenue sources and revise rates or user charges for various government services.  Non-tax revenue refers to income earned by the government other than taxes.  Royalty on minerals, interest receipts and dividends form a chunk of Karnataka’s non-tax revenue. It also includes day-to-day services provided by the government such as fee for issuance of certificates, charges at state-run institutions such as hospitals, levies and other amounts payable by citizens.  “All heads of departments should check whether the non-tax revenue pertaining to their department has been revised over the last three years and send the details such as revised year, rates etc with revenue estimates for the financial year 2022-23,” Finance Secretary (Budget & Resources) Ekroop Caur stated in her circular.  Sources in the Finance Department lament that such directives have not yielded results in the past.  “One of the major reasons for the stagnation of non-tax revenue is lack of regular and periodic monitoring by the administrative departments and the non-revision of user charges periodically,” Caur stated.  Karnataka’s non-tax revenue for 2020-21 stood at Rs 7,730 crore, which is 4.84% of the revenue receipts and just 0.43% of the GSDP.  “On the revenue side, mobilising the non-tax revenues is the need of the hour,” the Medium Term Fiscal Plan 2021-25 has said. The Fiscal Management Review Committee headed by the chief secretary has advised the government to “augment” non-tax revenues by revising fees collected by citizens.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bommai-government-to-revisit-non-tax-sources-to-spur-revenue-1043213.html
22-10-2021||State||No plan, need for third dose of vaccine: Minister||There is no proposal before the government to provide citizens a third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, IT, BT and Science and Technology Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said Friday.  He was speaking at a news conference to highlight the government’s vaccination effort.  “So far, 83% of the state’s population or 4.15 crore people have been given the first dose and 2.05 crore have received the second dose. There’s no plan to give the third dose,” Narayan, who earlier headed the Covid-19 Task Force, said.  “We have not received any suggestions or advisories on providing a third dose. The only thing being discussed by WHO is mixing vaccines. The necessity of a third dose doesn’t arise. The need will come up only when neutralizing antibodies in our body decreases,” he said.  Narayan hailed the efforts of medical staff in achieving the one billion jabs. “Some of the developed nations haven’t managed even 20% vaccination,” he said. Out of 90 crore people above 18 years of age, 70 crore have received their first dose, Narayan said. “More than 30 crore people have received the second dose,” he said, adding that Rs 34,515 crore has been spent on vaccination. “In the coming days, by December, there will be more achievement. The vaccination effort will reach all corners. There’s no vaccine shortage. Vaccines will be given round-the-clock. In the state, vaccination is being done door-to-door,” he said.  The government, he said, is conducting multiple surveys to identify people who have not been jabbed. “We are, literally, searching for such people.”  Narayan said in terms of the percentage of infected people and deaths, India is better off globally. “In the middle of all these challenges, citizens and medical staff have done the country proud.” The economy is also picking up, he said. “Economic activities will exceed pre-Covid levels,” he said.   Hitting out at Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah for picking holes in the ‘one billion’ milestone, Narayan said Congress leaders ran negative propaganda against vaccines. “We should see ourselves as Indians and Kannadigas. We should collectively celebrate this milestone. It is no mean feat. What message are they sending by issuing negative statements?” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-plan-need-for-third-dose-of-vaccine-minister-1043214.html
22-10-2021||State||Just 21% population jabbed, stop celebrating: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah took potshots at the ruling BJP for its celebration of one billion jabs.  "The devil is in the details," the Congress leader said in a series of tweets.  "Only 29 crore people out of 139 crore are fully vaccinated, which means only about 21% are fully vaccinated. What are BJP leaders celebrating for? For vaccinating just 21% of the population," he asked.  "Only 29 crore people have got two-doses & 42 crore have got one dose, leaving 62 crore without any single dose of vaccine. With just 29 crore (21%) people fully vaccinated, India's position is still in danger. Are BJP leaders celebrating India's vulnerability? India still needs about 106 crore doses to fully vaccinate the target by 31st December. This means 1.51 crore doses have to be administered everyday. Is India prepared to handle this load & ensure all Indians are fully vaccinated by this year end?" Siddaramaiah said.  According to Siddaramaiah, 56% of the population in the US is fully vaccinated, 70% in China and 71% in Canada. "But India's fully vaccinated coverage is just 21%. Mr Modi, let us raise the bar before celebrating," Siddaramaiah said, urging the PM to "put on hold the celebrations" and think of a booster dose.  BJP national general secretary C T Ravi tweeted, targeting Congress leaders thus: "Didn't see any CONgress leader congratulating the nation for the 100 crore vaccination drive. Guess they are more loyal to Sonia Mata than Bharata Mata!"||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/just-21-population-jabbed-stop-celebrating-siddaramaiah-1043215.html
22-10-2021||State||You will run out of space for burial, warns VHP||If we start retaliating for the attacks on Hindus, you will run out of space for burial, Vishwa Hindu Parishad state convener Basavaraj warned on Friday. He was addressing an open meeting called during the Tumakuru bandh observed condemning attacks on Bajrang Dal activists. "We will retaliate if our Hindu brethren are attacked. We won't sit quiet if they slaughter cow or woo Hindu woman for love jihad," he said. Hindu Jagaran Vedike state secretary Ullas said, "We will resort to violence, if need be, to protect Hindu Dharma. We will teach 'Jihadi terrorists' a lesson. A young brigade will be formed to counter any attack on dharma and the nation." "Organisations like SDPI and PFI have continued their assault on Hindus. After then CM Siddaramaiah withdrew criminal cases against PFI activists, many Hindu activists were murdered," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/you-will-run-out-of-space-for-burial-warns-vhp-1043222.html
22-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No plan for third Covid-19 vaccine dose in Karnataka: Ashwath Narayan||There is no proposal before the government to provide citizens a third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, IT/BT and Science & Technology Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said Friday. He was speaking at a news conference to highlight the government’s vaccination effort. “So far, 83% of the state’s population, or 4.15 crore people, have been given the first dose and 2.05 crore have received the second dose. There’s no plan to give a third dose,” Narayan, who earlier headed the Covid-19 Task Force, said. “We have not received any suggestions or advisories on providing a third dose. The only thing being discussed by WHO is mixing vaccines. Necessity of a third dose doesn’t arise. The need will come up only when neutralizing antibodies in our body decreases,” he said. Narayan hailed the efforts of medical staff in achieving the one billion jabs. “Developed nations haven’t managed even 20% vaccination,” he said. “There have not been any shortcomings and vaccination happened round-the-year, round-the-clock. In the state, vaccination is being done door-to-door,” he said. ‘What celebration?’ Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah took potshots at the ruling BJP for its celebration. “‘1 billion doses' sounds like a fancy number but the devil is in the details. Only 29 cr people out of 139 cr are fully vaccinated, which means only about 21% are fully vaccinated. What are BJP leaders celebrating for? For vaccinating just 21% of the population,” he asked. “Only 29 cr people have got two-doses & 42 cr have got one dose, leaving 62 cr without any single dose of vaccine. With just 29 crore (21%) people fully vaccinated, India's position is still in danger. Are BJP leaders celebrating India's vulnerability? India still needs about 106 crore doses to fully vaccinate the target by 31st December. This means 1.51 crore doses have to be administered everyday. Is India prepared to handle this load & ensure all Indians are fully vaccinated by this year end,” the Congress leader asked. According to Siddaramaiah, 56% of the population in the US is fully vaccinated, 70% in China and 71% in Canada. “But India's fully vaccinated coverage is just 21%. Mr Modi, let us raise the bar before celebrating,” Siddaramaiah said, urging the PM to “put on hold the celebrations” and think of a booster dose. Narayan slammed Siddaramaiah: “We should see ourselves as Indians and Kannadigas. We should collectively celebrate this milestone. It is no mean feat. What message are they sending by issuing negative statements?” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-plan-for-third-covid-19-vaccine-dose-in-karnataka-ashwath-narayan-1043171.html
22-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Bypolls: No cash, only liquor seized, says poll panel||A day after Congress leaders accused the ruling BJP of doling out cash for votes for the Hangal and Sindgi bypolls, the Election Commission on Friday said that only liquor had been seized by authorities enforcing the model code of conduct.  In a release, Chief Electoral Officer Manoj Kumar Meena said that the Election Commission had activated 99 flying squads and 303 static surveillance teams in the Hangal and Sindgi assembly constituencies where bypolls are scheduled on October 30.  According to the release, the flying squads and police personnel have seized 53.130 litres of liquor worth Rs 22,785.52. The Excise department has seized 353.470 litres of Indian-made liquor and other liquor worth Rs 1.85 lakh. The flying squads, static surveillance teams and other authorities have seized nil cash, the release said.  This is based on the information gathered from poll-going district election officers and police superintendents, the Election Commission said.  The Election Commission’s release comes a day after Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah accused the ruling BJP of distributing Rs 2,000 for every vote in Hangal and Sindgi where hectic campaigning is underway. Even Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar charged BJP ministers with “carrying bags of money to distribute Rs 2,000-5,000”. In fact, Shivakumar urged voters to take the money, but vote for Congress.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has rubbished the allegation, accusing Shivakumar in return for carrying “sacks of money” during the Kundgol, Gundlupet and Nanjangud bypolls.  According to the Election Commission, 386 arms have been deposited since the model code of conduct came into effect on September 28. As many as 291 persons have been taken into preventive custody and 185 non-bailable warrants executed, it said.  The outcome of the Hangal and Sindgi bypolls are politically insignificant as losing both the seats will not numerically trouble the Bommai-led BJP government. However, the bypolls are a battle of prestige.  It is crucial for Bommai to assert himself by retaining Hangal, which is located in the Haveri district that he represents. A win in Sindgi, which the JD(S) had won in 2018, will be a gain for the BJP and the Congress. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bypolls-no-cash-only-liquor-seized-says-poll-panel-1043174.html
22-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccination rate: K'taka among top 5 states in country||Although Karnataka’s contribution to India’s 100 crore Covid-19 vaccination achievement is only about 6.19%, data shows that it is among the top five states in the country to vaccinate more of its people per million. Telangana leads the pack in having vaccinated 9.50 lakh people per million with at least one dose and 3.77 lakh people per million with a second dose.  It is followed by Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. Karnataka, meantime, has administered 8.73 lakh people per million with a first dose and 4.34 lakh people per million with a second dose. Up to Thursday evening, the state had dispensed about 6,21,33,863 doses since the vaccination programme began on January 16 (out of this 2,06,32,427 are second doses). The numbers include about 1.55 lakh doses administered on Thursday, amid state-sponsored celebrations across the country over India’s milestone achievement.  Out of the total achievement so far, 5,48,50,536 doses are of Covishield, followed by 71,83,116 doses of Covaxin and 1,00,211 doses of Sputnik V.  Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar, Director, National Health Mission said that the vaccination drive was aided in substantial part not only by political and administrative consensus on the importance of vaccinations but also by fear of infection in the second wave, which induced a large percentage of the population to get at least one dose of a vaccine.  As per official data, the state’s first dose coverage had reached 83.35% as of Thursday and 41.44% for the second dose. Updated information from the government shows that four districts (Kodagu, Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Ramanagar) had achieved first dose coverage rates of over 90%, while Bengaluru Urban district had achieved coverage over 100%. Challenges “We faced a lot of challenges in the early stages,” explained Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar. "There was much misinformation about the vaccines, which led to vaccine hesitancy among healthcare warriors because they feared that vaccines had been prematurely authorised. Then there were persistent vaccine shortages and a problem of equal distribution across districts. We also had the challenge of having to train a large number of staff in just 10 to 15 days at the start of the vaccine drive.” Dr C N Manjunath, member of the state Covid-19 Task Force, described the vaccination drive as a complex exercise involving managing supply chain, demand-supply management, operations management, motivation management among health workers. "There was a high level of vaccine hesitancy, but the government managed to create awareness among the people and ensured that they came to vaccination centres,” he said. Another Committee member, Dr Sudarshan Ballal, Chairman of Manipal Hospitals called the vaccination programme “a Herculean effort to complete a billion vaccinations in just nine months.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccination-rate-ktaka-among-top-5-states-in-country-1043233.html
22-10-2021||West||Drugs on cruise: NCB detains 24-year-old peddler - a prime suspect||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) detained a 24-year-old drug peddler late on Thursday night in the drugs-on-cruise case, in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has also been detained. The man arrested last night is a prime suspect in the matter whose name has surfaced in the drugs-related chat. More details awaited.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-on-cruise-ncb-detains-24-year-old-peddler-a-prime-suspect-1042990.html
22-10-2021||West||Trinamool Congress appoints ex-Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro as national VP||Days after he joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the party has appointed Goa's former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro as its vice president. TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee made the announcement in a release issued on Friday. "The chairperson of All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) Mamata Banerjee takes great pride in appointing Luizinho Faleiro as the national vice president of the party with immediate effect," he said. "In a political career spanning over four decades, former Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro has worked ardently towards the development of people. We have full faith that under his able guidance, AITC will reach greater heights and continue the fight to protect every Indian Citizen's democratic rights," Banerjee said in the release. Faleiro had quit the Congress party recently and also resigned as a member of the Goa Legislative Assembly before joining the TMC on September 29. The Mamata Banerjee-led party has announced its foray into the electoral politics of Goa, where elections for the 40-member House are due in February next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trinamool-congress-appoints-ex-goa-cm-luizinho-faleiro-as-national-vp-1043018.html
22-10-2021||West||Man falls to death after fire breaks out in Mumbai 60-storey building||A 30-year-old man died after slipping from the balcony ledge of the 60-storey-tall skyscraper in Mumbai where a fire broke out on Friday.  The fire broke out on the 19th floor of One Avighna Park located off Madhav Palav Road in the Currey Road area of Mumbai.  The deceased was identified as Arun Tiwari, a 30-year-old man who was working with the security and housekeeping department of the posh imposing building. The man struggled for over 15 minutes hanging from the ledge and trying to secure himself, however, after some time, he gave up and fell to the ground. He was rushed to the KEM Hospital at Parel, where he was pronounced dead on admission.  According to the Mumbai fire brigade and police, the fire broke out around 1150 to 1200 hrs.  Hundreds of people were evacuated from the building.  Maharashtra’s Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar and municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal were among those who rushed to the spot.  “People have been evacuated…as of now there are reports that two persons are missing, we are checking. The fire has been controlled and cooling operations are underway,” Pednekar said.  Sewri MLA Ajay Chaudhary said that the fire fighting systems of the building were not working. “This is a serious issue,” he said.  Chahal said that there would be a thorough probe into the incident. “The person who jumped from the building has died. There were other people in the building but they were saved. An investigation has been initiated to ascertain the cause of the fire. Action will be taken against the culprits,” he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-falls-to-death-after-fire-breaks-out-in-mumbai-60-storey-building-1043019.html
22-10-2021||West||Was in Maldives with my children: NCB's Wankhede responds to Nawab Malik's allegations||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede, who has been investigating the high-profile drugs on crusie case in which Aryan Khan has been arrested, responded to questions raised by Nawab Malik on his Maldives visit. Wankhede clarified that he had visited the island nation on holiday with his children and not in the capacity of an NCB officer. Wankhede added that Malik being a Minister of State could easily investigate these claims, but was instead resorting to allegations against the NCB sleuth's family. It may be recalled, Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB in a drugs case. However, he was subsequently given bail by a special NDPS court and the senior politician has since launched an expose against Wankhede.  Before the Aryan Khan-cruise ship drugs case, Sameer Wankhede also led the investigation into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/was-in-maldives-with-my-children-ncbs-wankhede-responds-to-nawab-maliks-allegations-1043024.html
22-10-2021||West||No question of probe against Sameer Wankhede: Maharashtra HM Dilip Walse-Patil||Amid the barrage of allegations by state’s Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede, Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil ruled out a probe against the officer. Incidentally, both Malik, the NCP chief spokesperson and Walse-Patil belong to Sharad Pawar-NCP and are senior ministers in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “There is no question of a probe by the state government because Sameer Wankhede is working through a central agency,” Walse-Patil said. "I have no information on his (Nawab Malik) statement. He has not given me any evidence regarding this. I will take the information from him. Right now I have no information," Walse-Patil said. Malik had claimed that Wankhede would be arrested and suspended from service within a year’s time. "A special officer (Sameer Wankhede) was brought in to the NCB after Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide. The CBI is investigating the case but the mystery over whether it is a suicide or murder remains unresolved. But the NCB is now after the film industry…Rhea Chakraborty - the live-in partner of the actor was booked in a fake case,” Malik has said. "Attempts were made to implicate certain people in false cases. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire film industry was in Maldives. What was the officer and his family doing in Maldives and Dubai? This has to be clarified by Sameer Wankhede," the NCP spokesperson said. Reacting to the allegations, Wankhede stated: “I am a small officer and just doing my duty. I strongly condemn all this… I don’t know why the minister is doing all this… The cases are sub-judice… I will give a suitable reply at the appropriate time,” Wankhede said, adding that he, his sister Jasmeen, father and late mother are being maligned by Malik. Coming to Wankhede’s defence, NCB’s Deputy Director South-West Region Mutha Ashok Jain in a statement, said: “Sameer Wankhede, IRS joined NCB on loan basis on 31.08.2020 and after this he has not submitted any application for ex-India leave to Dubai. ..As per the approval of Competent Authority vide NCB Order No. A50/2/202l-Acctss/146 dated 27.07.2021, the officer has availed ex-lndia leave along with his family to Maldives'". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-question-of-probe-against-sameer-wankhede-maharashtra-hm-dilip-walse-patil-1043079.html
22-10-2021||West||Drugs case: Actor Ananya Panday grilled for second day||Budding actress Ananya Panday - the daughter of veteran Bollywood actor Chunky Panday - was grilled for the second consecutive day by the Narcotics Control Bureau on Friday. Ananya (23), who has acted in films like ‘Student of the Year 2’ and ‘Pati Patni aur Woh’, is being investigated vis-a-vis the case involving the raid on cruise ship Cordelia, during which the NCB busted a rave party and arrested 20 people over next few days. Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan is an accused in the case. Ananya has been asked to appear again on Monday. Meanwhile, SRKs bodyguard Ravi Singh also arrived at the agency’s office with documents in a sealed envelope, but refused to talk to the media. Ananya is friends with Aryan Khan and his sister Suhana Khan. Her name has figured in WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan. However, she has maintained before NCB that it has nothing to do with drugs. The Khan and Panday families - residents of Bandra - are close to each other. During Ananya’s questioning by NCB sleuths at the federal agency’s Ballard Pier office, the names of some other celebrities too have cropped up, however, there is no independent confirmation on the names. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-case-actor-ananya-panday-grilled-for-second-day-1043080.html
22-10-2021||West||Lawyer moves Mumbai court against Javed Akhtar over his RSS remarks||A city-based lawyer on Friday filed a criminal complaint against lyricist Javed Akhtar before a magistrate court here over his alleged remark against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) made during a television interview. The complaint against Akhtar was filed before the metropolitan magistrate court in Mulund for the offence under section 499 (defamation), 500 (punishment for defamation). Akhtar, 76, in a recent interview had drawn parallels between the Taliban and Hindu extremists. The complainant, Santosh Dubey, who claims to be an RSS supporter, alleged that Akhtar, with a view to gain political score, unnecessarily dragged the name of the RSS and defamed the organisation in a "calculated and well-planned move". The statement made by the accused during an interview was "well planned" to defame the RSS as well as to discourage and misguide the people who have joined the RSS or would like to join the organisation, the complaint said. "The accused is very much aware that there is no similarity in thoughts, ideology, philosophy, mindsets and way of functioning of RSS and Taliban in any manner, but with the ill-intention to malign, damage, injure and harm the prestige, good-will, image of RSS, the accused has deliberately and intentionally made false defamatory imputation and imaginary statements," it added. The court will record the statement of the complainant in the next hearing to be held on November 16. Dubey had earlier lodged a complaint against Akhtar in this connection, based on which the Mulund police had registered an FIR under IPC section 500 against the veteran lyricist. Last month, the lawyer had sent a legal notice to Akhtar and sought an apology from him for making such statements. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lawyer-moves-mumbai-court-against-javed-akhtar-over-his-rss-remarks-1043092.html
22-10-2021||West||Leopard saved from drowning in Pune||A leopard escaped a narrow brush with death after falling into an open well in Belsar village located in Junnar division of Pune. The big cat was rescued in a joint effort by Wildlife SOS and the Maharashtra Forest Department and is currently under medical observation at the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Center. Just weeks after a leopard was rescued from a 35-feet-deep well in Narayanwadi village in Junnar division, an approx. 7-year-old male leopard was found trapped in an open well in Belsar village on Thursday. The big cat was paddling to stay afloat and was at the risk of drowning in 10-feet-deep water. Concerned for its life, a local farmer immediately alerted the Forest Department. Wildlife SOS, operating out of Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Center, was also called in for reinforcements. A three member rescue team led by Wildlife SOS veterinary officer Dr Nikhil Bangar accompanied a team of forest officers to the location, with necessary rescue equipment. Villagers were flocking around the well to catch a glimpse of the leopard so crowd control measures were implemented. A trap cage was then lowered into the well to safely extricate the leopard, thus successfully rescuing it from an extremely dangerous, near-death situation. Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “The leopard is a male, approx. 7-years-old. The animal is exhausted from the ordeal, and will be kept under observation for a few days till he is deemed fit for release.” Kartick Satyanarayan, CEO & Co-founder Wildlife SOS said, “This is the second incident this week where we have assisted the Forest Department with the timely rescue of a leopard from an uncovered well. The issue cannot be taken lightly. It is not just leopards, a species protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, that are vulnerable to these wells, but also several other species that may fall in accidentally, with potentially fatal results.” Ajit Shinde, Range Forest Officer, said, “This is becoming a common occurrence across Junnar as leopards often fall prey to open wells while on foraging trips. We have advised the villagers to take precautionary measures by covering up open wells.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/leopard-saved-from-drowning-in-pune-1043117.html
22-10-2021||West||Railways ferry onions from Bharuch to Malda Town||In a major impetus to the ‘Hungry for Cargo’ motto, various efforts initiated by the Mumbai-headquartered Western Railway has started yielding positive results and this has resulted in yet another landmark breakthrough. The Business Development Units of Mumbai Division has transported cement from Nardana and imported pulses from Udhna. WR General Manager Ashok Kansal is taking keen initiative in the project. Moving forward with this motivation, Western Railway’s Vadodara Division has also now commenced the operation of Kisan Rail for the benefit of the local farmers, with the first Kisan Rail of onions operated recently from Bharuch to Malda Town, West Bengal. According to Sumit Thakur, Chief Public Relations Officer of WR, with continuous efforts by Mumbai Division’s BDU, the grinding unit of M/s Wonder Cements at Nardana, loaded its first outward rake of cement in bags in 21 BCN. These were transported to Ahmednagar. In the near future, the demand of the cement from M/s Wonder Cement will be placed for Mumbai Port and will fetch Rs 20 lakh. Similarly, a new traffic has been tapped of imported pulses from Udhna Goods Shed to Inland Container Depot, Dadri, containing 42 BCN, earning revenue of Rs 40.3 lakh. Shri Thakur also said that Vadodara Division ran its first Kisan Rail of Onions of approx. 228.11 tonnes of onions earning revenue of Rs 11.90 lakh on which 50% subsidy amounting to Rs 5.83 lakhs have been provided. Kansal has exhorted all officers and staff of WR to imbibe the ‘Tenets of Philosophy’ in their working. In this direction, ‘Hungry for Cargo’ being one of the tenets where the aim is to provide customised solutions for their businesses, WR is reaching out to potential customers to add more new commodities in its ambit for transportation through its policies and aggressive marketing efforts. Thakur further stated that during the period from April 1 to October 19, 2021, Western Railway has transported commodities weighing more than 1.61 lakh tonnes through its 411 parcel special trains, which included agricultural produce, medicines, medical equipment, fish, milk etc. The revenue generated through this transportation, has been approximately Rs 56.94 crore. As many as 101 Milk Special trains were run by Western Railway, with a load of more than 71,000 tonnes and 100% utilisation of the wagons. WR has also run 96 Kisan Rails from various divisions carrying a load of more than 24,600 tonnes. Similarly, 117 Covid-19 special parcel trains with a load of approximately 23,000 tonnes were also run to transport essential commodities. In addition to this, 97 indented rakes carrying about 42,800 tonnes were also run with 100% utilisation. Thakur also stated that, during the period from April 1, 2021 to October 19, 2021, a total of 21,130 rakes of goods trains have been run by WR and carried 46.09 million tonnes of essential commodities as compared to 39.67 million tonnes in the corresponding period last year. 44,281 freight trains were interchanged with other zonal railways, of which 22,163 trains were handed over and 22,118 trains were taken over at different interchange points. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/railways-ferry-onions-from-bharuch-to-malda-town-1043119.html
22-10-2021||West||Ajit Pawar refutes allegations regarding Jarandeshwar Sugar Mill; says probe will reveal facts||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday refuted the allegations levelled against him in connection with Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sugar Karkhana, and said the ED is investigating the matter and the "facts" will come out. Pawar said the auction of Jarandeshwar Sugar Mill was carried out by adhering to all the rules and regulations. The deputy chief minister gave a list of 65 sugar mills that were either sold through auctions, or given on contract to run, and claimed that some cooperative mills were sold in the range of Rs 3 crore to Rs 10 crore, but nobody was talking about them. "A central agency is probing the case and the facts will come out. All other agencies of state such as the Anti-Corruption Bureau, CID and inquiry committee chaired by a judge had already probed the allegations in the past," Pawar said. The auction of Jarandeshwar, which was sold to Guru Commodity Services Pvt Ltd for Rs 65.75 crore, was done following the Bombay High Court's orders, he said. "As the sugar factory failed to repay the outstanding, the court gave a year's time and asked to put it up for sale if they could not clear the outstanding amounts in that period," he said. After the sugar factory failed to pay the outstanding, the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB) floated a tender to which several companies responded, and as Guru Commodity Services' bid of Rs 65.75 crore was the highest, the bank sold the mill to the company, Pawar said. The deputy chief minister claimed that there are attempts to mislead people by levelling allegations against specific sugar mills. In July this year, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached over Rs 65 crore worth of land, building, plant, and machinery of Jarandeshwar SSK's sugar mill at Chimangaon-Koregaon in Satara under the anti-money laundering law. The ED had claimed that the cooperative-run sugar mill was linked to Pawar and his family. Pawar said he gave a list of 65 sugar mills that were either sold or given on contract to run but no one is talking about others. "As far as a sugar mill in Parner is concerned, there was media coverage only for two days, and later, everybody neglected the matter and the allegations," the deputy chief minister said. "We only expect that the agencies are free to perform as per their way, but they must give everyone the same justice (treatment)," he said, referring to the Jarandeshwar sugar mill case. Pawar further said that the MSCB has floated a tender to give 10 more cooperative sugar mills to be run on a contract basis and those who want to operate can apply. Asked about BJP leader Chandrakant Patil's allegations that prices of fuel are soaring in the state because of Pawar's stand of not endorsing fuel to come under GST, the minister said he was not responsible for the rising fuel prices in the state. "If the Centre reduces taxes on fuel, the state government will definitely think about it," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ajit-pawar-refutes-allegations-regarding-jarandeshwar-sugar-mill-says-probe-will-reveal-facts-1043120.html
22-10-2021||West||After chocolates to cops, Goa Congress sends CM copy of Indian Constitution||The main opposition party in Goa, the Congress, appears to be on a Gandhigiri spree. A day after state Congress president Girish Chodankar offered chocolates, flowers and 'get well soon' cards to a police officer, who was responsible for unleashing a lathi charge on Youth Congress workers, the party on Friday sent Chief Minister Pramod Sawant a special "pre-Diwali gift": A copy of the Constitution of India. According to Himanshu Tivrekar, who heads Congress' social media wing, the purpose behind sending the Chief Minister a copy of the Constitution was to make him aware about Article 19(1), which enshrines the freedom of speech and expression to all Indian citizens. "He may also learn about the rights of the citizens before he behaves this way again. This democracy is very dear to us Goans. Chief Minister Sawant, do not forget that a government is of the people, for the people and by the people. Without us Goan people, there is no Government!" Tivrekar said. "We have, therefore, sent a pre-Diwali gift to our Chief Minister Pramod Sawant a copy of the Constitution of India. We urge CM Sawant to read the Constitution from page to page and understand that he is not the king of a dictatorship, instead he is a public servant in a democracy," he also said. The Congress official's pre-Diwali gift gesture comes two days after Goa Police officials unleashed a lathi charge on Youth Congress workers in Panaji, while they were protesting the organisation of a poker tournament in an offshore casino, while also making a point about unchecked crowds which throng casinos in Goa, in violation of the government's SOPs. "The CM also fails to understand that police may use force only in exceptional circumstances and that too upon instructions of the District Magistrate. There was no such written order issued by the District Magistrate given for lathi charge yesterday. Such unconstitutional behavior by the Chief Minister of Goa is highly unprecedented and extremely dangerous," Tivrekar said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-chocolates-to-cops-goa-congress-sends-cm-copy-of-indian-constitution-1043134.html
