23-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five of family end lives by consuming poison||In a pact, five members of a family including the father, three daughters and son reportedly ended their lives by consuming poison at Borgal village in Hukkeri taluk. The incident came to the fore on Saturday. Deceased were identified as Gopal Hadimani (46), daughters Soumya (19), Sweta (16), Sakshi (11) and son Srujan (8). Hadimani’s wife Jaya had succumbed due to Mucormycosis (black fungus) on July 6, last. Since then the family appeared to have been broken and were remaining withdrawn from others in the village.  It feared that they entered into a pact to end their lives and consumed poison on Friday night and died. The incident came to the fore on Saturday. Sankeshwar police visited the spot. More details were awaited. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-of-family-end-lives-by-consuming-poison-1043403.html
23-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Send Siddaramaiah to Afghanistan: Prasad to Centre||BJP MP V Srinivas Prasad, on Saturday, said that Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah should be ''packed up to Afghanistan" because he keeps speaking about the Taliban and seemed to have developed a "liking for the outfit". Speaking to media persons, Prasad requested the central government to send Siddaramaiah to Afghanistan so that he can be with the Taliban. “Siddaramaiah is crossing his limits. However old or senior, Siddaramaiah maybe, he should know that the Prime Minister of a nation commands a certain amount of respect. Just because Siddaramaiah uses singular to refer to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Modi will not lose respect. But, Siddaramaiah has certainly lost respect,” he stated. “There are certain limitations for both ruling and opposition parties. However, some of the leaders are speaking rubbish, in the run-up to the bypoll in Sindagi and Hangal Assembly constituencies. Exceeding all limits, the opposition leaders are talking aimlessly and shamelessly,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/send-siddaramaiah-to-afghanistan-prasad-to-centre-1043428.html
23-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||If JD(S) was BJP's B-team, we wouldn't have joined hands with Congress: Kumaraswamy||Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy said that if JD(S) was a ‘B-team’ of BJP then they would have been in power and ruling the state for five years. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, Kumaraswamy said his party has not softened its stand against any party and it was Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah whose stand in 2006 resulted in JD(S) joining hands with BJP. “If we were B-team of BJP, then why would we (JDS) join hands with Congress in 2019 to form the government. We would have gone with BJP and stayed in power for five years,” he said and added that as Siddaramaiah has no other issue on which he could target JD(S), the Congress leader is making this baseless statement. He claimed that Siddaramaiah is targeting only him in the party as he realises he without Kumaraswamy JD(S) will be weak and he need not worry about the party anymore. Victory in Sindagi The JD(S) leader claimed confidence in winning the Sindagi by-polls. The development works taken up during JD(S) Supremo H D Deve Gowda and his term will ensure the party’s victory. “People still remember the irrigation projects and crop loan waiver that JD(S) government had implemented,” he said. Kumaraswamy said that after former MLA C M Udasi, whose demise necessitated the by-polls in Hangal, shifted from JD(S) to BJP, his party had got weakened in Hangal Constituency. However, with the early announcement of candidate JD(S) stands a better chance to win the seat. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/if-jds-was-bjps-b-team-we-wouldnt-have-joined-hands-with-congress-kumaraswamy-1043508.html
23-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three persons arrested for deer pelt smuggling in Mysuru||Forest department personnel, attached to Mobile Squad, arrested three people from Andhra Pradesh for allegedly smuggling deer pelt near Crawford Hall in Mysuru city on Saturday. The accused are identified as Kuttiyappa, Vijaykanth and Kamal Hasan of Shikari Colony in Palamaner taluk of Chittoor district. On tip off, the Forest department officials took the accused into custody when they were trying to sell the pelt on a road leading to Kukkrahalli from Crawford Hall. An officer said, the accused transported the pelt from Andhra and the authorities are conducting investigation on how they transported the pelt to Mysuru. The officials also suspected a gang behind the illegal activity and formed a team to investigate the case. The team was led by Deputy Conservator of Forests Ramakrishnappa and Assistant Conservator of Forests Manohar Suvarna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-persons-arrested-for-deer-pelt-smuggling-in-mysuru-1043562.html
23-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Normal life in Mysuru hit due to heavy downpour||Normal life was thrown out of gear with heavy rain continuing to lash the city on Saturday. Many roads are flooded with water and rainwater entered the houses at low lying areas. In many areas, drainage was blocked and water overflowed on roads.  The office goers and vendors at markets faced hardship due to heavy rainfall.  It has to be noted that several buildings were damaged a few days ago due to a heavy downpour. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/normal-life-in-mysuru-hit-due-to-heavy-downpour-1043565.html
23-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Pralhad Joshi asks Congress not to belittle India's 100 crore vaccine achievement||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that the Congress party has stooped to such a low level that it is unable to appreciate India’s achievement. Speaking to media persons after garlanding the statue of warrior queen Kittur Channamma on the occasion of her birth anniversary at Channamma Circle in Hubballi on Saturday, he said that 100 crore vaccine dose is not the achievement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, neither has Modi claimed so. It is the achievement of the country, its medical fraternity, scientists and the people who got the vaccination. “It is unfortunate that Congress can not appreciate even these covid warriors,” he said. Countering Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah, Joshi said the former chief minister is quoting wrong statistics. “In less than 10 months, India has been able to provide 100 crore doses of vaccination. No other country in the world has been able to achieve such huge numbers. More than 31% of the people have received a second dose of vaccine. Even the most advanced countries like the USA, Japan and others have not been able to achieve this. Of the total 700 crore vaccines that have been provided worldwide, India alone has provided more than 100 crores” he claimed. “I can understand and sympathise with former AICC president Rahul Gandhi of unable to understand data and information. At least other Congress leaders should not behave like Rahul Gandhi,” he said and reminded the Congress leaders of how polio and other vaccines reached India decades after the world vaccinated its people. No shortage of coal Joshi, who also holds Coal & Mines portfolio, claimed that there is no shortage of coal in India at present. “India faced a shortage of coal for four or five days. However, at present, the government has ensured that nearly 2.1 million tonnes of coal are supplied to thermal power stations across India. In the next four-five days the stockpile at these power stations will improve,” he said. Defends Kateel The Union minister defended State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel’s statement on ‘drug addict Rahul Gandhi’ and said Kateel has not made any personnel statement but stated a news report. “Personally, I will not support personal attacks on leaders. However, Congress has been making such personal attacks against Modi for long. Even Siddaramaiah has called names and used singular words against the PM,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pralhad-joshi-asks-congress-not-to-belittle-indias-100-crore-vaccine-achievement-1043497.html
23-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Cabinet to decide on renaming Mumbai Karnataka as Kittur Karnataka: CM Bommai||The government will decide on renaming the Mumbai Karnataka region as Kittur Karnataka in the next Cabinet meeting, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. Speaking after inaugurating Kittur Utsav at Kittur town in the district on Saturday, the chief minister said that Kittur Utsav would be accorded the status of state festival next year. The event had been organised to mark the victory of Rani Channamma of Kittur against the British. "Rani Channamma fought British four decades before Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi took up the fight against colonial rulers. She was the first woman who fought for independence" he said. He promised more funds to Kittur Development Authority in the coming budget. Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi rued that Rani Channamma did not get due recognition in history. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cabinet-to-decide-on-renaming-mumbai-karnataka-as-kittur-karnataka-cm-bommai-1043537.html
23-10-2021||National||Sitharaman holds meeting with UK Foreign Secretary||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday held a meeting with UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss and discussed various areas in which both countries can cooperate each other. Both leaders discussed investments in green energy, infrastructure, National Monetization Pipeline, FinTech and IFSCA as key areas for further collaboration between the UK and India. "Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman cited the close collaboration between the two countries, strengthened through Comprehensive Strategy Partnership adopted by the Prime Ministers of India and UK in May 2021," the Finance Ministry said in a tweet. Earlier in the day, she had a meeting with Executive Vice President, European Commission, Frans Timmermans discussed cooperation on climate action. Both discussed possibility of collaboration on green hydrogen to harness the natural synergies in this area between India and EU. "Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman welcomed EU's decision to join Technical Assistance Facility of Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure(CDRI) for promoting Disaster Resilient Infrastructure in Small Island Developing States," another tweet said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitharaman-holds-meeting-with-uk-foreign-secretary-1043276.html
23-10-2021||National||DH Toon | We've lost count of Covid waves!||India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-weve-lost-count-of-covid-waves-1043327.html
23-10-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices skyrocket, add to common man's woes||Prices of petrol and diesel across the nation were hiked by 35 paise for the fourth consecutive day, a notification by oil marketing companies (OMCs) showed. A litre of petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 107.24, while diesel costs Rs 95.97 per litre. In Mumbai, the rate of petrol currently stands at Rs 113.12 per litre and a litre of diesel at Rs 104.00. Similarly, in Bengaluru, a litre of petrol costs Rs 110.98 per litre and diesel Rs 101.86 per litre. Prices differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of local taxes. Petrol price has been hiked on 19 occasions since September 28, when a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision ended. In all, prices have gone up by Rs 5.7 a litre. Diesel rates have been increased by Rs 7 per litre in 22 hikes since September 24. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. The diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 per litre during this period. (With agency inputs)  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-skyrocket-add-to-common-mans-woes-1043328.html
23-10-2021||National||India wants compensation for climate damages by developed nations||By Archana Chaudhary and Akshat Rathi India is seeking payment for the losses caused by climate disasters, its environment ministry said while laying out the country’s positions on critical issues that will be negotiated at the United Nations’ COP26 climate summit in the coming weeks.   “Our ask is this: there should be a compensation for expenses incurred, and it should be borne by developed nations,” Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, the ministry’s senior-most civil servant, said on Friday. He added that India stands with other low-income and developing countries on the matter.  Leaders and diplomats from across the globe are set to gather in Glasgow, Scotland, for the annual COP summit, which is seen as a make-or-break meeting to stave off the worsening effects of climate change. Compensation for climate disasters is expected to be a major sticking point at the talks, and the subject is something that India has already raised with US climate envoy John Kerry, according to Gupta. Rich countries have added the majority of greenhouse gases causing the planet to warm above pre-industrial levels.   The 2015 Paris climate agreement included language to address “loss and damage,” but it left questions about liability and redress unanswered. Discussions began as early as 2013 at a previous summit in Warsaw, but the technical details of how such money transfers occur still hasn’t been thrashed out. The broad idea is that, based on historical contributions to global greenhouse gases, countries will provide compensation for the damages that pollution will one day cause. Countries that suffer climate impacts can then lay claim to money for repairs after a climate-fueled hurricane or flood. But not all disasters are caused by climate change, and scientists have only recently begun the hard work of being able to calculate how much a warmer planet contributed to an extreme weather event. India is the world’s third-largest emitter on an annual basis today and among the top ten historical emitters, which means it too will have to contribute money into the pot. Even if India’s pay-in for damages were roughly 4 per cent, the country would stand to get a larger pay-out for the losses it will incur, Gupta said. “If they want India to be a part, we may be willing,” he added. Net zero The country is the only economy among the world’s 10 largest not to have set a goal to zero out its emissions. Even its neighbour China has one for 2060, slightly later than the 2050 target that the US, the UK and the EU are aiming for. Earlier this year, India considered setting a net-zero goal, but it has since backed out. Not all nations need to announce a net-zero target before Glasgow, according to environment minister Bhupender Yadav. “Climate finance hasn’t come in,” said Gupta. “For more ambitious climate goals, let there be more finance’’ first. This issue is set to be another talking point at the summit. Developed countries were supposed to provide $100 billion in climate finance to developing countries annually, starting in 2020. The money would be used for projects that reduce emissions and help countries adapt to warming. The latest figure stands at about $90 billion, and the hopes for the full commitment are dimming as the Glasgow conference approaches.  As with past COP meetings, India’s delegation also plans to bring up the point of fairness. The country’s annual per capita emissions stand at about two tons of carbon dioxide, compared to more than 16 tons for the US and less than half of the global per capita average. The recent energy crunch — marked by soaring natural gas prices — has also given India ammunition to continue using coal, the only fossil fuel which it has in abundance. That’s going to be a problem for the UK,  the host country, with COP26 President Alok Sharma having said that the Glasgow talks could “consign coal to history.” India Prime Minister Narendra Modi has confirmed that he will join the COP26 summit along with 120 other heads of state. The conference runs from Oct. 31-Nov. 12. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wants-compensation-for-climate-damages-by-developed-nations-1043329.html
23-10-2021||National||India sees 666 Covid-19 deaths as Kerala reconciles 292 fatalities||India saw a single-day rise of 16,326 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,41,59,56, while the active cases have declined to 1,73,728, the lowest in 233 days, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Saturday. Meanwhile, the nation reported a jump in Covid-19 fatalities with 666 more deaths, which took the death toll to 4,53,708. Yesterday, India reported 231 daily fatalities.  Kerala has reconciled 292 deaths on Saturday from the previous period. Hence, the death toll is higher, officials said. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 29 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 118 consecutive days now. The active cases have decreased to 1,73,728 comprising 0.51 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.16 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 2,017 cases has been recorded in the total active number of Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 13,64,681 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 59,84,31,162 . The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.20 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.24 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,32,126, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 101.30 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-666-covid-19-deaths-as-kerala-reconciles-292-fatalities-1043341.html
23-10-2021||National||PM Modi to meet 7 Indian Covid vaccine manufacturers on October 23||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet seven Indian Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers on Saturday, a meeting that comes in the wake of the country achieving the landmark of administering 100 crore doses of the jabs, official sources said. Representatives from seven vaccine makers -- Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech, Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Gennova Biopharma and Panacea Biotech -- will be participating in the meeting. Modi is likely to emphasise on ways to vaccinate eligible people in India as quickly as possible and also help other countries in inoculating their population as part of the mantra "vaccine for all", an official source said. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 101.30 crore, according to the health ministry data updated at 7 am. India on October 21 achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark, resulting in celebratory events across various parts.  More than 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, with nine states and union territories administering the first dose to all eligible people. Over 31 per cent of the country's around 93 crore adults have been administered both the doses, according to health ministry officials. So far, all adult population in nine states and union territories --  Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Dadra and Nagar Haveli  -- have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine. Three vaccines -- Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Sputnik V -- are currently being used in the country's Covid vaccination drive.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-meet-7-indian-covid-vaccine-manufacturers-on-october-23-1043349.html
23-10-2021||National||US's work with India on vaccine manufacturing saving people's lives, says DFC chief||India is a "vaccine powerhouse" and America's work with the country in vaccine manufacturing is saving people's lives, the head of the US International Development Finance Corporation, David Marchick, has said ahead of his India visit. The United States International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) is America’s development bank, which invests in developing countries around the world. Leading a high-powered delegation, DFC Chief Operating Officer (COO) Marchick would travel to India from October 24 to 26. India is the most important and largest partner for DFC investment amounting to more than $2.3 billion, which is almost eight per cent of its overall exposure, Marchick said ahead of his India visit beginning Sunday. “We have a very ambitious pipeline. We are very, very excited to work with India to drive economic development and strengthen the partnership between the United States and India,” Marchick told PTI in a recent interview. The DFC COO is currently visiting South Africa, from where he is scheduled to travel to India. “Normally the DFC’s work lifts up people's lives. Our work with India on vaccine manufacturing is saving people's lives,” he said in response to a question. During his India trip, Marchick is scheduled to travel to Hyderabad where he will visit the offices of the Indian vaccine manufacturer Biological E and participate in a signing ceremony to open a new facility with substantial capacity for vaccine manufacturing. “India is a vaccine powerhouse. It has very innovative and productive companies in the space. They're producing huge numbers of vaccines,” he said. At the same time, he noted that the world needs additional capacity. “India is an absolutely critical part of the solution for the pandemic, given that it is a vaccine powerhouse,” Marchick said, underlining that India reaching the milestone of one billion doses is extraordinary. India scripted history on Thursday with the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassing the 100-crore milestone. Prior to the start of the pandemic, total vaccine manufacturing capacity around the world was around five billion. That's for all vaccines, including for polio and yellow fever. “We need somewhere in the range of 11 billion doses of manufacturing capacity around the world for Covid alone. So, India can play a huge role in filling that gap. And the DFC, the Biden administration, is using its tools to help expand vaccine manufacturing in India and around the world to help get shots in arms,” Marchick said. This work is in advancement of the historic commitment set out by President Joe Biden and his counterparts in the 'Quad' — Australia, India, Japan and the US. On September 24, Biden hosted the first-ever in-person summit of Quad leaders at the White House. At President Biden's invitation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterparts Scott Morrison from Australia and Yoshihide Suga from Japan had attended the Quad summit. After the conclusion of the summit, the Quad leaders in a joint statement had said that in addition to doses financed through COVAX, the four-nation bloc has pledged to donate more than 1.2 billion doses globally of safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines and has so far delivered nearly 79 million safe, effective, and quality-assured vaccine doses to countries in the Indo-Pacific as part of those commitments. Observing that American healthcare experts are in regular touch with the Indian authorities and companies to provide technical assistance, the COO said the DFC provided financing of about $50 million for a new facility to be built for Biological E and a new factory, which will substantially expand its capacity to allow it to manufacture in excess of a billion doses. In addition to helping India expand its vaccine manufacturing capacity, DFC has been a major investor in India’s other sectors as well, he said. “We're a huge investor in India. We have $2.3 billion of investments already. We have a significant pipeline of over $1 billion. So, we would be one of the larger investors in India. Our goal is to catalyse private sector financial activity,” he said. DFC, he said, is particularly focused on four sectors: climate, health, equity and gender opportunities and then technology. These are obviously four critical areas for the development of India's economy, Marchick observed. On climate, obviously the president (Biden) has said that climate is an existential threat. “India is a linchpin in having the world address the climate crisis,” Marchick said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is seized with the issue and India "has the most ambitious renewable energy strategy of any country in the world" and we want to help and be a solution provider for that. On gender equity, DFC’s main goal is to provide financing for small and medium sized enterprises that are run by women, are owned by women. “We have partnered with a number of financial institutions in India to provide them with liquidity and capital, which they can then lend to small and medium sized enterprises in India,” the COO said. “In technology, obviously India is a powerhouse and we provide financing for various technology missions,” Marchick said. However, the main reason for the trip is vaccine and vaccine manufacturing. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uss-work-with-india-on-vaccine-manufacturing-saving-peoples-lives-says-dfc-chief-1043366.html
23-10-2021||National||Life expectancy in India dropped by two years due to Covid-19: Study||The coronavirus pandemic, which has affected the lives of people at different levels, has also caused a drop in the life expectancy of the country by almost two years, a statistical analysis by scientists of the city-based International Institute for Population Studies (IIPS) has revealed. The analytical report, which points out the drop in life expectancy at birth in both men and women due to the pandemic, has been published in a journal 'BMC Public Health' recently. IIPS professor Suryakant Yadav has authored the report. "The life expectancy at birth in 2019 was 69.5 years for men and 72 years for women, which came down to 67.5 years and 69.8 years, respectively, in 2020," the report said. The life expectancy at birth is calculated on the basis of the average number of years a newborn is expected to live if mortality patterns at the time of the birth of the infant remain constant in future. The study undertaken by professor Yadav also included a factor termed 'length of life inequality' and found that Covid-19 has claimed maximum lives of men in the age group of 39-69. "The 35-79 age group had excess deaths caused by Covid-19 in 2020 as compared to normal years and it is this group that has contributed immensely to the drop," Yadav said. This study was conducted to look at the burden repercussions of the Covid-19 on mortality patterns in the country, IIPS director Dr K S James said, "Every time we are affected with some epidemic, the life expectancy at birth figures dwindle. For instance, after the HIV-AIDS epidemic in African nations, the expectancy had dropped. Once it was brought under control, the life expectancy recouped as well." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/life-expectancy-in-india-dropped-by-two-years-due-to-covid-19-study-1043370.html
23-10-2021||National||PM Modi to address 82nd edition of 'Mann Ki Baat' on October 24||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called citizens to share their ideas for the 82nd episode of 'Mann ki Baat', which will be telecasted on Sunday, October 24, 2021. Ideas for 'Mann ki Baat' can be shared on NaMo App, MyGov or record your message on 1800-11-7800. In the last address of the monthly radio programme, he had noted that the startup culture has become very vibrant in India with youngsters in even smaller cities embracing it, and asserted that it is a sign of India's bright future. He had also said that the space sector reforms in the country have caught people's imagination and expressed confidence that a large number of satellites in the coming days will be those on which youngsters from universities, labs and other sectors would have worked upon. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-82nd-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-on-october-24-1043388.html
23-10-2021||National||Baffling that improvement of judicial infrastructure still being carried out in ad-hoc manner: CJI||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday stressed on the need for good judicial infrastructure of the country, saying it is important for improving access to justice and to meet the growing demands of the public who are aware of their rights and are developing economically, socially, and culturally. Speaking at the inauguration of additional court complex of Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court, he asked Law Minister Kiran Rijiju to give statutory backing to the proposal to create National Judicial Infrastructure Authority of India (NJIAI) in the upcoming Winter Session of the Parliament. "Good judicial infrastructure for courts in India has always been an afterthought. It is because of this mindset that courts still operate from dilapidated structures making it difficult to effectively perform their function," he said.  Maintaining that courts are extremely essential for any society governed by the rule of law, he said "Court buildings are not merely structures made of mortar and bricks. Rather, they actively assure the constitutional guarantee of right to justice." Sharing some hard facts, he pointed out the total sanctioned strength of judicial officers in the country is 24,280, while the number of court halls available is 20,143, including 620 rented halls. 26 per cent of court complexes do not have separate ladies toilets and 16 per cent do not have gents toilets. Only 54 per cent of court complexes have purified drinking water facility. Only 5 per cent of court complexes have basic medical facilities. While only 32 per cent of court rooms have separate record rooms, 51 per cent of court complexes have a library. Only 27 per cent of court rooms have computer placed on the judge’s dais with video-conferencing facility, he said.    "It is baffling to note that the improvement and maintenance of judicial infrastructure is still being carried out in an ad-hoc and unplanned manner," Justice Ramana said. Emphasising on financial autonomy for the country, he said, "If we want a different outcome from the judicial system, we cannot continue to work in these circumstances".  "An effective judiciary can aid the effective growth of the economy. According to international research published in 2018, failure to deliver timely justice costs the country as much as 9% of annual GDP. Moreover, the impact of an under-supported judiciary is also seen on the foreign investments. Without adequate infrastructure we cannot aspire to fill this gap," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/baffling-that-improvement-of-judicial-infrastructure-still-being-carried-out-in-ad-hoc-manner-cji-1043390.html
23-10-2021||National||ISKCON members protest against attack on Hindus in Bangladesh||ISKCON devotees on Saturday held a protest at Jantar Mantar here against the attack on Hindus in Bangladesh seeking justice for minorities in the neighbouring country. The protesters were singing ‘bhajans’ and carried placards mentioning their demands on it, including ‘protect Hindus in Bangladesh’, ‘justice for Hindus and minorities'. Some Hindu temples in Bangladesh have been vandalised by unidentified Muslim mobs during Durga Puja celebrations earlier this month.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iskcon-members-protest-against-attack-on-hindus-in-bangladesh-1043394.html
23-10-2021||National||Varun Gandhi posts video of UP man setting fire to crop, seeks agri policy rethink||BJP MP Varun Gandhi once again sought to put his own government in the dock over the burning of paddy by a farmer in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district and said that there was a need to 'revisit' the agricultural policies.  In a post on his Twitter handle Varun referred to the incident and lamented that the prevailing system had ruined the farmers. ''Is vyawastha ne kisaon ko kahan lakar khada kar diya hai....krishi niti par punarchintan aaj ki sabse badi jaroorat hai'' (the system has brought miseries to the farmers....revisiting the agricultural police is the biggest need of the hour), the saffron party MP said in his tweet. उत्तर प्रदेश के किसान श्री समोध सिंह पिछले 15 दिनों से अपनी धान की फसल को बेचने के लिए मंडियों में मारे-मारे फिर रहे थे, जब धान बिका नहीं तो निराश होकर इसमें स्वयं आग लगा दी। Varun also shared the video showing the farmer, identified as Samodh Singh, a resident of Mohammadi area in the district, setting the stack of paddy kept at a mandi at fire before other farmers. Singh was frustrated as his paddy remained unsold despite being kept there for over a fortnight. Varun has been attacking the Centre and the state government on the issues of farmers. He had also lent support to the farmers, when eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri earlier this month. He had also supported the 'mahapanchayat' of the farmers at Muzaffarnagar in protest against the new farm laws. A couple of days ago, the BJP MP had cornered the Yogi Adityanath government over its alleged apathetic attitude toward the victims of the flood in Lakhimpur Kheri and other districts in the region. ''The common man is left to fend for himself at a time when he needs the system most....if he has to do everything himself then what is the need to have a government,'' he had tweeted. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/varun-gandhi-posts-video-of-up-man-setting-fire-to-crop-seeks-agri-policy-rethink-1043413.html
23-10-2021||National||Singapore removes India, 5 other South Asian nations from travel restriction list||Singapore on Saturday announced the removal of India and five other South Asian countries from its travel restriction list as the island-state continues to adjust border measures in response to the global Covid-19 situation. All travellers with a 14-day travel history to Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka will be allowed to enter or transit through Singapore from Wednesday, the health ministry said. However, travellers from these countries will be subjected to the tightest of border measures, which involve a 10-day, stay-home notice period at a dedicated facility, it said. The ministry said in a release that it has reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the six South Asian countries it was previously closed off to. Addressing a virtual press conference, health minister Ong Ye Kung said the situation in these countries has stabilised for some time. "There is no longer a need for strict rules that prevent travellers from these countries from landing here," the Straits Times quoted Ong as saying. The health ministry said changes that come into effect on Wednesday include the loosening of measures for travellers from Singapore's closest neighbours, Malaysia and Indonesia. As of Friday, Singapore has reported a total of 165,663 Covid-19 cases since the start of the pandemic. The disease has claimed 294 lives so far in the country.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singapore-removes-india-5-other-south-asian-nations-from-travel-restriction-list-1043422.html
23-10-2021||National||India-Bangladesh ties deeper than any other strategic partnership: Shringla||India-Bangladesh relations today are deeper than any other strategic partnership and a "role model" for ties between two neighbouring countries, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Saturday. In his remarks at the 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh Conclave: 2021' on 'Humanitarian, Political and Diplomatic Facets of the 1971 War', Shringla also lauded the role of the Indian Air Force in the war, saying it played a crucial role in supporting the valiant struggle of the Mukti Bahini. Having served in Bangladesh, Shringla said that he has heard many brave accounts of the dogfights that IAF pilots engaged in over Dhaka, which greatly inspired the Bangladeshi people watching this from their rooftops. He asserted that 1971 was as much a moral and political victory as it was a decisive military victory for India. "We stood on a high moral and ethical ground and history proved us right as the people of Bangladesh vindicated their self-respect and honour and won their fight for freedom and human rights," the foreign secretary said. Never before in the recent history of our region, has humanity ever witnessed an act of "calculated genocide", Shringla said, pointing to the atrocities committed by Pakistan on the people of the then East Pakistan. "Operation Searchlight, on which I think we do need more contemporary research and attention, unleashed a reign of terror. Innocent women, children, academics and intellectuals were treated as weapons of war," he said. Shringla said he considers India's humanitarian response to the refugee issue during that time to be one of the most sophisticated and empathetic in contemporary history. "This may well have represented one of the first instances of the UN's concept of the ‘Responsibility to Protect'. If judged by today's standards of human rights and international humanitarian law, the perpetrators would have received a drastically different fate," he said. Almost the entire burden of supporting the displaced people fell upon the government and people of India, he noted. "While internally we dealt with this issue in the best conceivable manner, Indian diplomats launched an outreach around the world in various capitals highlighting the plight of the people of East Bengal," he said. As a result, a number of countries came forward to support the cause of the people of Bangladesh, he said. On 3 December 1971, India was "unwittingly" drawn into a war that was not of its own making, he said. "We can all now mull over if the situation would have been different if the international community had been able to exert pressure on Pakistan to stop the rampage against its own citizens and if the legitimate aspirations of the people of East Bengal were met," Shringla said. He said contemporary India-Bangladesh relations have taken great strides forward, especially in recent years. Two major pillars of Indian diplomacy -- Neighbourhood First and Act East policies -- find expression in India's vibrant ties with Bangladesh, he said. Noting that this year is of special significance for India-Bangladesh relations, Shringla quoted Prime Minister Narendra Modi as saying that this year marks a "Triveni” of events of epochal significance -- the golden jubilee of the Liberation War of Bangladesh, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and the 50th anniversary of our diplomatic ties. India remains a committed partner in Bangladesh's socio-economic growth and development, he said. "India-Bangladesh relations today are deeper than any other strategic partnership. It is a role model for relations between two neighbouring countries," Shringla said. The spirit of friendship, understanding and mutual respect engendered during the liberation of Bangladesh continues to permeate different aspects of this relationship, he asserted. Under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, India and Bangladesh share a ‘Sonali Adhyay’ or golden era -- a relationship geared towards bringing stability and prosperity to people on both sides of the border -- he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-ties-deeper-than-any-other-strategic-partnership-shringla-1043423.html
23-10-2021||National||Identification of accused by witness who saw him for first time during crime weak evidence: SC||Identification of an accused in the court by a witness who has seen him for the first time during the crime is a weak piece of evidence, especially when there is a large time gap between the dates of the incident and recording of his evidence, the Supreme Court has said. The observation came on an appeal filed by four people convicted under Section 55(a) of the Kerala Abkari Act for transporting spirits. The allegation of the prosecution was that the four people transported a total quantity of 6,090 litres of spirits in 174 plastic cans in a truck with fake registration number plates and without authorisation. The apex court discarded the testimony of a witness as he had said that he was not able to identify any persons whom he had seen 11 years back. However, he had identified the two accused though he had seen them for the first time more than 11 years back on the date of the incident. "The identification by a witness of the accused in the Court who has for the first time seen the accused in the incident of offence is a weak piece of evidence, especially when there is a large time gap between the date of the incident and the date of recording of his evidence," a bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S Oka said. The apex court said in such a case, test identification parade (process to identify accused) may make the identification of the accused by the witness before the Court trustworthy. The top court in its order dated October 22 said it is well settled that the test identification parade is a part of the investigation and it is not substantive evidence. However, the absence of test identification parade may not be ipso facto sufficient to discard the testimony of a witness who has identified the accused in the Court, the bench said. In a given case, there may be otherwise sufficient corroboration to the testimony of the witness, it said. "In some cases, the Court may be impressed with the testimony of the prosecution witnesses which is of sterling quality. In such cases, the testimony of such a witness can be believed. In the present case, PW13 (witness) accepted that he is not able to identify any persons whom he had seen 11 years back. "However, he asserted that he can identify the accused Nos. 2 and 4 though he had seen them for the first time more than 11 years back on the date of the incident. Therefore, in the facts of the case, the evidence of PW13 as regards the identification of the accused No. 2 and 4 in the Court cannot be accepted," the bench said. The top court said that it is very difficult to believe that the witness who was not knowing the accused Nos. 2 and 4 prior to the incident could identify them in the Court after a lapse of 11 years and the same is the case with all the official witnesses. "The prosecution has chosen not to produce evidence regarding the correct registration number of the truck and the name of the registered owner thereof. Therefore, the entire prosecution case becomes doubtful," the bench said while acquitting the accused. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/identification-of-accused-by-witness-who-saw-him-for-first-time-during-crime-weak-evidence-sc-1043434.html
23-10-2021||National||CISCE to conduct board exams in offline mode, announces revised date sheet||The first-term board exams for class 10 and 12 will be conducted in offline mode, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced on Saturday. The council also released a revised date sheet according to which the ICSE exams for class 10 will begin from November 29 and for class 12 (ISC) from November 12. The exams will conclude on December 16 and 20 respectively. The CISCE had last week announced the postponement of first term exams citing reasons "beyond its control". Earlier, the class 10 and 12 exams were scheduled to begin on November 15 and 16 respectively. "The CISCE has been in receipt of numerous mails from heads of schools, parents and students who had expressed their difficulties and apprehensions if the first-semester exam were to be conducted online," said Gerry Arathoon, Chief Executive, CISCE. Arathoon said the major reasons cited by students and parents for not conducting online exams were the non-availability of devices, irregular power supply and network and bandwidth problems. "After much deliberations, we decided that the exams will be conducted in offline mode in their respective schools. Detailed guidelines will be announced shortly," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisce-to-conduct-board-exams-in-offline-mode-announces-revised-date-sheet-1043452.html
23-10-2021||National||Prepare for future: PM Modi to Covid-19 vaccine makers||The Centre on Saturday asked states and Union Territories to share their plans on boosting the second-dose coverage as less than one-third of the 100-crore vaccinated beneficiaries have got the second shot so far, a blemish that could cripple the country’s ongoing fight against the pandemic. The directive came as Prime Minister Narendra Modi met the country’s top vaccine makers to strategise on furthering research to tackle any future pandemics. The interaction with Modi was attended by Cyrus Poonawalla and Adar Poonawalla from Serum Institute of India, Krishna Ella and Suchitra Ella from Bharat Biotech International, Pankaj Patel and Shervil Patel from Zydus Cadila, Mahima Datla and Narender Mantela from Biological E. Ltd, Sanjay Singh and Satish Ramanlal Mehta from Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, Satish Reddy and Deepak Sapra from Dr Reddy’s Lab and Rajesh Jain and Harshit Jain from Panacea Biotec. Hailing the role of domestic vaccine manufacturers after India crossed the milestone of 100 crore vaccinations, Modi said the country needs to institutionalise the best practices learnt during the last one and a half years.  “This is an opportunity to modify our practices in tune with the global standards. Vaccine manufacturers should continuously work together to be ready to face future challenges,” Modi said. Adar Poonawalla, Chief Executive Officer of Pune-based Serum Institute of India, said they discussed “how to take the industry forward to prepare for future pandemics and to continue enhancing the capacity” among other things. “All over the world now, countries are going to invest in vaccine production and India needs to stay ahead. We discussed how to do that together with industry and government,” Poonawallah said. In the meeting, domestic vaccine manufacturers applauded the regulatory reforms, simplified procedures, timely approvals and forthcoming and supportive nature of the government throughout this endeavour. Centre reviews progress In a review meeting on Saturday, the Union Health Ministry took stock of the progress of Covid-19 vaccination in states and UTs. The ministry asked them to generate a district-wise list of beneficiaries for the administration of the second dose and advised them to draw a plan involving district magistrates for reaching out to beneficiaries. According to the data released by the Health Ministry, so far 71.24 cr first doses covering 76% of the eligible population and 30.06 cr second doses covering 32.0% of the eligible population have been administered. In a meeting with Health Secretaries and Mission Directors of National Health Mission (NHM) of states and UTs, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan flagged the sizable number of eligible beneficiaries who have not received their second dose. States/UTs were also urged to improve the momentum of vaccination and accelerate the coverage as the country moves to vaccinate all the eligible population by end of the year. They were also advised to identify and prioritise districts having low coverage for focused action and explore requirements for mobilisation efforts, addressing local challenges, need for additional vaccination centres and improving access in rural areas. They were also requested to share their strategies to enhance the second-dose coverage. 'Shop online, avoid travel' With Diwali around the corner, the Union government on Saturday issued an advisory, urging people to shop online and avoid unnecessary travel to keep infection rates under control. It advised against mass gatherings in containment zones and districts with over 5% positivity rate. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prepare-for-future-pm-modi-to-covid-19-vaccine-makers-1043454.html
23-10-2021||National||ICICI Bank Q2 profit up 25% to Rs 6,092 cr||ICICI Bank on Saturday reported 24.7 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 6,092 crore for September quarter 2021-22. The private sector lender had posted a net profit of Rs 4,882 crore in the same quarter of the previous fiscal year. Total income however grew marginally to Rs 39,484.50 crore in the quarter from Rs 39,289.60 crore in the same period of 2020-21, ICICI Bank said in a regulatory filing. On standalone basis, the net profit jumped 30 per cent to Rs 5,511 crore during the quarter, as against Rs 4,251 crore. Income was up at Rs 26,031 crore from Rs 23,651 crore. The bank's asset quality showed improvement as gross non-performing assets (NPAs) fell to 4.82 per cent of gross advances as of September 30, 2021 as against 5.17 per cent by the year-ago period. Net NPAs (bad loans) too fell to 0.99 per cent from 1 per cent. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icici-bank-q2-profit-up-25-to-rs-6092-cr-1043456.html
23-10-2021||National||Congress, BJP spar over Aryan Khan's arrest in drugs case||Senior Congress leader from Madhya Pradesh, Digvijaya Singh, on Saturday, alleged Aryan Khan, arrested by the NCB in connection with a drugs case in Mumbai, is being victimised because he is the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan. Taking a swipe, BJP said that Singh was playing the politics of "appeasement". Aryan Khan (23) was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3 following a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Currently in jail, Aryan on Wednesday moved to the Bombay High Court after a special court rejected his bail application. The HC will hear his bail plea on October 26. “It is sad Shah Rukh's son is being victimised for being his son. What is his crime? Someone accompanying him had 5 grams of drugs with him!! What about Tonnes of Heroin seized at Mundra Port? Who is Kuldeep Singh? Would NCB and now NIA investigating this case please tell us?,” Digvijaya Singh said in a tweet in English on Saturday morning. Nearly 3,000 kg of heroin was seized from two containers at the Mundra Port in Gujarat by the DRI last month. The drug haul is considered to be one of the biggest in the world with the value of the seized heroin estimated to be Rs 21,000 crore in the international markets. Hitting back at Digvijaya, the Madhya Pradesh BJP said that the Congress leader has delivered a verdict without waiting for the court. “Finally, Digvijay Singh came to the rescue of Aryan Khan. The matter is right now sub-judice, the investigating agency is checking the facts but he (Singh) has given his verdict! After all, for how long will you continue to mislead people by doing politics of appeasement?” the BJP asked. Talking to PTI, BJP legislator Rameshwar Sharma said Singh should have faith in the country's judiciary. “Congress and Digvijay Singh misused the law and always believed in such acts. But the law doesn't distinguish people based on faith. This is not a Hindu-Muslim issue and Digvijay Singh should change his mindset now,” he said. Sharma said that nobody had a personal enmity with Shah Rukh Khan or his son as the people have made him star by watching his movies. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-bjp-spar-over-aryan-khans-arrest-in-drugs-case-1043469.html
23-10-2021||National||No right to claim cadre for civil servants: SC||The Supreme Court has said that a candidate, selected in Civil Services examinations, cannot claim allocation of cadre of his choice as a matter of right.  A selected candidate has a right to be considered for appointment to the IAS but he or she has no such right to be allocated to a cadre of his choice or to his home state, a bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramaian said. “Allotment of cadre is an incidence of service. The applicant as a candidate for the All-India Service with eyes wide open has opted to serve anywhere in the country. Once an applicant gets selected to service, the scramble for the home cadre starts," the bench pointed out.  The top court noted that procedure for allocation of cadre is mechanical and admits no exception save for certain rules. The state has no discretion on allocation of a cadre at its whims and fancies, it added. The court allowed an appeal by the Union government against the Kerala High Court in 2017, which directed the Centre to change cadre of IAS officer A Shainamol from Himachal Pradesh to Kerala. It said the High Court had exceeded its jurisdiction to order allocation of Kerala cadre to the officer without examining the policy decision of the Union government. The HC's view that there was no consultation with Kerala before allocating the cadre was not acceptable, the court said, adding it is a fallacy that consultation has to be held with state to whom the officer is to be allocated, not with the state with whom officers claim allocation. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-right-to-claim-cadre-for-civil-servants-sc-1043493.html
23-10-2021||National||Activist-poet Varavara Rao issued NBW by Sessions Court||A court in Madhugiri in Tumakuru district, Karnataka, has issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against activist and revolutionary poet Varavara Rao. He is out on bail on medical grounds in a different case with a condition not to move out of Mumbai, his lawyer said. "It's a case pertaining to an attack on policemen in Tumakuru in 2005 in which Varavara Rao and Gaddar (another activist-poet) are among the accused," advocate S Balan told PTI. He said he would move the High Court on Monday challenging the NBW issued by the Additional Sessions Court at the taluk headquarters town of Madhugiri. The case in which Rao has been made an accused is related to an attack by the Naxalites on a police team killing six of them and a civilian at Venkatammanahalli in Pavagada Taluk in Tumakuru district on February 10, 2005.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activist-poet-varavara-rao-issued-nbw-by-sessions-court-1043503.html
23-10-2021||National||BJP rules out leadership change in Goa after AAP's claim||The BJP has rubbished Delhi Deputy Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia's claim that the saffron party is going to replace Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant ahead of the next year's Assembly polls. Goa BJP unit president Sadanand Shet Tanavade ruled out any change of leadership in Goa. “There is no proposal of leadership change. The meeting which was held in Delhi on Friday discussed the election strategy for upcoming Goa elections,” he said referring to the meeting between himself, CM Sawant and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Earlier in the day, Sisodia told reporters at the AAP headquarters in Delhi that the BJP has decided to appoint a new chief minister because it has understood that it would be difficult for it to go to polls in Goa under Sawant's leadership. People of Goa are unhappy with the state government under Sawant's leadership as his dispensation failed to deliver on various fronts during its term, Sisodia said. "We have learnt from very reliable sources that the BJP is going to replace Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant just two three months ahead of the elections in the state," Sisodia told reporters. "The BJP has decided to remove Sawant and appoint a new chief minister as it has understood that it will be very difficult for the party to join the fray under his leadership because he did not work during his term. People are very unhappy with the Pramod Sawant government," he claimed. Notably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his virtual address praised the Pramod Sawant-led BJP government earlier in the day. Addressing select beneficiaries and stakeholders of a Goa government scheme, the PM said Goa had topped in achieving the targets under 'Har Ghar Jal' (scheme), free ration for the needy, and also achieved a hundred per cent coverage by administering the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-rules-out-leadership-change-in-goa-after-aaps-claim-1043512.html
23-10-2021||National||Danger to stability in South Asia due to China's ambitions, Sino-Pak nexus 'anti-Indian': Gen Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Saturday said that China’s ambitions and aspirations to global power presented an "omnipresent danger" to stability in South Asia. China is making "huge" inroads in South Asia and in the Indian Ocean region to strengthen its position as an emerging global power he said, while delivering the first Ravi Kant Singh Memorial Lecture here. “Of late, we are witnessing a geo-strategic competition and huge investment by China in the region to create a favourable posture to provide sufficient security to its interests,” he said. Bangladesh and Myanmar have been the largest recipients of Chinese military aid in the recent past, along with significant investments in Nepal, Sri Lanka and Maldives “to gain strategic foothold (in the region),” he said. He added that China’s foray into Myanmar and Bangladesh are not in India’s national interest as these are attempts to ‘engulf India’. “There exists an omnipresent danger of regional strategic instability,” Rawat said, adding that it has the potential of ‘threatening India’s territorial integrity and strategic importance’. The General also said Pakistan's state-sponsored terrorism as well as by non-state actors against India is a stumbling block to the peace process between the two countries. He described the ‘partnership’ between Pakistan and China on a range of issues, from China providing military hardware to Pakistan and supporting it in international fora, as an ‘anti-India nexus’. Later addressing a press conference, the chief of defence staff said border issues with China has to be viewed in its totality, and not as issues pertaining to the Ladakh sector or North-Eastern states. “In 2020, there was a little bit of problem (between India and China). Issues are being resolved with talks at different levels, from military to political level,” he said. Rawat also said such issues have copped up in the past too between the two neighbours, but have been resolved. “There are suspicions between the two countries, and hence, it takes time to resolve the issues. The people must have faith and confidence in the system and the armed forces,” he added. He said as a measure to counter China’s influence in the region, India has to step up its engagement in neighbouring countries. He said, “Chinese have a habit of using money power to gain popularity in a country (they are trying to influence). But as our prime minister has given a clarion call, we believe in security and growth for all.” “We have to tell our neighbours that we are here as permanent friends and engage with them on equal terms and we consider all neighbours as equal partners in development,” he added. Rawat also emphasised on the need to exploit cultural linkages with the neighbouring countries to strengthen ties. On the country’s defence preparedness, Rawat said, “We are standing strong.” He said there are adequate defence and arms systems at India’s disposal, and the government has allowed the armed forces to procure needed armaments by invoking emergency powers. “No questions are being asked (by the government) as long as our security mechanism improves,” he added. Commenting on the recent violence against security forces as well as civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, Rawat said, “Our western adversary (Pakistan) is indulging in a proxy war with us. They will do anything to disturb peace in Jammu and Kashmir.” He also said the killings in Jammu & Kashmir were an attempt by the neighbouring country to spread fear among the people. “We should not fear them or fall prey to such traps,” he said, adding that any possible exodus of people from J&K should be stopped. To counter Pakistan’s designs, the chief of defence staff said the intelligence network is being strengthened. Rawat added that the freedom of movement that people in Jammu & Kashmir were starting to enjoy in recent times may be disrupted due to the current situation and urged for people's cooperation in tackling the situation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/danger-to-stability-in-south-asia-due-to-chinas-ambitions-sino-pak-nexus-anti-indian-gen-rawat-1043533.html
23-10-2021||National||India-Pakistan T20 world cup match against national interest: Ramdev||Yoga guru Ramdev on Saturday said the India-Pakistan T20 World Cup match scheduled for Sunday is against the national interest and "Rashtradharma" as the "game of cricket and the game of terror cannot be played at the same time". Speaking to reporters at the Nagpur airport, Ramdev said the addiction to drugs in Bollywood is very dangerous for the younger generation of India. "The way drug addiction is glamorised and the celebrities who are regarded as role models, ideals or icons by the people are seen involved in this conspiracy is a wrong inspiration to the people," the Yoga guru said, adding that the film industry should clear this mess. When asked about Sunday's India-Pakistan cricket tie amid tensions on the LOC, Ramdev said, "I feel that the cricket match under such a situation is against 'Rashtradharma ' and not in the interest of the nation. The game of cricket and the game of terror cannot be played at the same time". Queried on his statement that repatriation of black money will reduce fuel prices, Ramdev said he had suggested that the price of petrol should be in line with the prices of crude oil and proposed lower taxation. "The government has to continue with welfare programmes of the national interest and it has to also handle various financial challenges. Because of these factors, the government is not able to reduce taxes. However, someday this dream will come true," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-t20-world-cup-match-against-national-interest-ramdev-1043542.html
23-10-2021||National||Over 102 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India||Over 102 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have so far been administered in the country, including more than 70 lakh doses administered on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports by late night, it added. Cumulatively, 40,64,55,324 first doses and 12,54,89,338 second doses of the vaccine have been administered to individuals in the 18-44 age group since the start of the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive, according to the ministry's data. The ministry further said a total of 71,53,88,049 first doses and 30,49,46,360 second doses of the vaccine have been administered to the beneficiaries across all the states and Union territories. India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 102 crore (1,02,03,34,409) doses on Saturday, the ministry said, adding that 70,71,127 vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm on Saturday. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it underlined. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-102-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-1043560.html
23-10-2021||National||Plan to separate East Pakistan began after 1965 war to stop ISI support to NE insurgencies: Vice-Admiral||Vice Admiral Anil Kumar Chawla on Saturday said the thinking to separate East Pakistan from the West, actively started after the 1965 Indo-Pak war, with a principal reason to stop Pakistan's ISI's support to insurgencies in the North-East of India. East Pakistan was separated from the West after the 1971 Indo-Pak war, giving birth to a new nation -- Bangladesh. "It was mentioned that the war did not really start in December (1971). Actually, if you really go back into the literature and read, the thinking started actively after the 1965 war, on how to separate East Pakistan from West Pakistan," Chawla, who is the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, said. Speaking at the Indian Air Force Conclave on the 1971 Indo-Pak war, here, he said the principal reason was the interference of Pakistani ISI (Inter-Services Intelligence) in the insurgencies in the North East, particularly the arming and training of the Naga rebels. "It (supporting insurgency) was actually happening in the Chittagong hill tracts, which is from where we took a leaf out, when we sort of trained the Mukti Bahini, so the thinking started then. But India was very weak then. If you recollect, the Congress party had split, Indira Gandhi had barely managed to hold on to become the PM and was not expected to last very long," he added. The Vice Admiral was speaking at the ongoing three-day IAF Conclave at Yelahanka Air Force Station here, to commemorate 50-years of victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war that gave birth to Bangladesh as a country, which is being celebrated this year as 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh'. Noting that the thought processed from 1965 onwards, he said, "it was at a very nascent stage of course, but now documents clearly bring out that after January 30, 1971 hijacking of an Indian Airlines aircraft to Lahore, by Kashmiri separatists, the Indian government actually stopped over flight facilities and this prevented Pakistan re-arming in East Pakistan, and they had to route through Colombo, making it difficult and expensive." Then with Sheikh Mujibur Rahman (later became the founding father of Bangladesh) winning the elections in Pakistan and Yahya Khan (Pakistani General who served as its President) not allowing him to become the Prime Minister, the plot started unravelling, he said, adding, after March 1971, when Mujibur Rahman declared the independence of Bangladesh and he was flown to West Pakistan, India actually entered the war in April. "So, our (India) response was very comprehensive...so when you look at the 1971 war, it's not just the interservice collaboration, it is actually a whole of government approach, much of which we need to read and know about," Chawla said, India faced the war under astute leadership, which came into play as Indira Gandhi won a landslide victory on March 7, 1971, which strengthened her hands considerably. "Many fortuit circumstances falling into place," he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plan-to-separate-east-pakistan-began-after-1965-war-to-stop-isi-support-to-ne-insurgencies-vice-admiral-1043567.html
23-10-2021||National Politics||Speak Out: October 23, 2021||“The root of terrorism was planted in Jammu and Kashmir by the Congress in the form of Article 370 in 1952," Adityanath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speak-out-october-23-2021-1043318.html
23-10-2021||National Politics||Modi govt trying to confuse people with campaign on Covid inoculation figures, says Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Senior Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury on Saturday alleged that the BJP government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to "confuse" the people of the country with its campaign on Covid-19 vaccination figures. The leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha claimed that Modi's campaign on administration of 100 crore vaccine doses was projected in a way that made it look like 100 crore people have been inoculated. "On completion of 100 crore vaccine doses, 100 places were lit up. And the prime minister is trying to send across the message that 100 crore people have been fully vaccinated. This is not the fact," he said in a video posted on Facebook. Chowdhury, who is also the West Bengal Congress chief, noted that India's population stands at 139 crore, of which 106 crore are adults. He further pointed out that the government has said that 29 crore people have received double doses, which is just 21 per cent of the entire population. "Only this 21 per cent is in the safe zone. Also, booster doses are not being given in the country as yet," the Congress MP from Berhampore stated. India had started immunisation programmes way back in 1975 and country is called the "vaccine hub of the world", he maintained. "The central government is trying to project its vaccination campaign in a way like it was the first-of-its-kind initiative undertaken in the country," the Congress MP claimed. Chowdhury also took a dig at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over her claim that the state is giving free vaccines to its people, "quite like what the Centre has also said,"and sought to know where money came from. The revenue is being generated by imposing taxes on petrol, diesel and LPG, he added. India achieved a milestone in its inoculation programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered surpassed the 100-crore mark on Thursday, resulting in celebratory events in parts of the country. The PM hailed the landmark reached in little over nine months time since the countrywide vaccination drive was launched on January 16 as a triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-trying-to-confuse-people-with-campaign-on-covid-inoculation-figures-says-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-1043437.html
23-10-2021||National Politics||Inaugurating flights cosmetic steps, won’t address actual problem in Jammu and Kashmir: Mehbooba on Shah's visit||Regional PDP president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti Saturday said “cosmetic steps” of inauguration of international flights and medical colleges by Union Home Minister Amit Shah will not address the actual problem in the region. “HM inaugurating international flights from Srinagar & laying foundation of new medical colleges isn’t new. Half a dozen medical colleges were sanctioned by UPA gov & are functional now. Post Article 370 abrogation & an engineered crisis, J&K has been thrown into chaos (sic),” she tweeted. The PDP chief said that the visit of Home Minister should have been preceded to conduct all party meeting so that the Centre could have reached to the actual situation of J&K post abrogation of Article 370. “This crisis is of GOI’s making & instead of reaching out they opted for cosmetic steps that don’t address the actual problem. Ideally HM’s visit should have been preceded by following up on PM’s assurance post the all-party meeting,” she said. “CBM’s such as lifting the siege that J&K has been put under since 2019, releasing prisoners, ending the harassment people here face on a daily basis, taking tangible steps to revive the economy, especially horticulture would have provided a sense of relief,” the PDP chief said in another tweet. Slamming the stringent measures ahead of HM’s visit, she alleged: “Prior to his visit, 700 civilians were detained, booked under PSA & many shifted to jails outside Kashmir. Such oppressive steps further vitiate an already tense atmosphere. ‘normalcy Acrobatics’ are in full swing while reality is denied & obfuscated.” Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/inaugurating-flights-cosmetic-steps-won-t-address-actual-problem-in-jammu-and-kashmir-mehbooba-on-shahs-visit-1043445.html
23-10-2021||National Politics||Voting for Cong, Left same as pressing NOTA button: TMC's Abhishek Banerjee||TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday claimed that voting for the Congress and Left Front would be in no way different from opting for the NOTA button as he sought to woo electorate here ahead of the October 30 bypoll to four assembly seats. He also slammed the BJP for "thrusting by-election" on two of the four seats that will go to polls. Addressing a rally at Gosaba in South 24 Parganas, Banerjee pointed out bypoll was necessitated here and in Khardah following the death of two TMC candidates, but the circumstance under which elections are being held in Shantipur and Dinhata are different. "Winning BJP candidates Jagannath Sarkar (Shantipur) and Nisith Pramanik (Dinhata) resigned as MLAs even after being elected by people. They dishonoured the verdict of people to retain parliamentary berths. The BJP is seeking votes again in those two seats. They will be rejected by people,” he claimed. The senior TMC leader also asserted that his party will make a “4-0 sweep” in the by-elections. Hitting out at the Congress and Left, he said the two parties had firmed up alliances with the aim to stop Mamata Banerjee from winning elections, and ended up as “losers”. "Over the past seven years, the Congress had only conceded defeat to the BJP all over the country, while Mamata Banerjee thwarted all challenges posed by communal and undemocratic BJP," he said. "The Left and the Congress had even tied up with the ISF but the electorate of Bengal chose Mamata Banerjee over any other party. Voting for them is the same as pressing the NOTA button," the West Bengal ruling party's number two leader underlined. The TMC supremo is emerging as the undisputed leader from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, the "spearhead" to fight and defeat the Modi-Shah regime in the next general election, Banerjee insisted. "Our party is making its presence felt all over the country. It has established its place among the top four to five national parties. We will win the assembly polls in Goa in a few months from now; we will dislodge the Biplab Deb government in Tripura 2023," he contended. Alleging that the BJP has "trampled democracy" in states where it is in power, Banerjee said, "Wherever the BJP has crushed opposition views, the TMC will go and fight them." Holding the Biplab Deb government in Tripura responsible for assault on his party members, Banerjee noted that Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev was “attacked in the state” by the BJP on Friday. "Should that happen in a democracy? We will not cower down before them. We will drive out the BJP from Tripura, carrying a picture of Mamata Banerjee," he said. Banerjee claimed that the BJP "harasses” anyone who airs views against them, with help from central agencies, but "they cannot silence the TMC". "I was summoned several, times, interrogated for nine hours. You can interrogate me for hours and hours but that will not stop me from speaking against you (BJP leaders). If you slit my throat, I will still shout ‘Jai Hind’, ‘Jai Bangla’. Truth is on my side," he maintained. Taking a dig at Amit Shah, he said, "The former BJP national president and current home minister had promised to dole out Rs 2 lakh crore for the development of Sunderbans and carve out a separate district during his campaigns for assembly polls some months ago. "They are still holding power in Delhi but you won't hear about any follow-up initiatives from them." The Diamond Harbour MP further noted that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, in contrast, "kept her promises and rolled out schemes such as Lakshmir Bhandar". "Here lies the difference between the BJP and the TMC. No one got Rs 15 lakh in their bank account, as promised by Narendra Modi in 2014. But all our social welfare projects -- Krishakbandhu, Swastha Sathi, Kanyashree and Lakshmir Bhandar -- are benefitting crores of people already," he said. Banerjee, who is also the nephew of the CM, continued its tirade against the Centre, stating that the Narendra Modi government did not release funds required for relief operations after back-to-back cyclones in West Bengal. "Don’t worry, Mamata Banerjee will be on your side with all her might and resources," he said. Hitting out at the Centre over its 100-crore vaccination feat, he quipped that the BJP-led NDA government "hit double centuries", the first one with the hike in prices of petrol and diesel. In an apparent overture to Hindus, the TMC general said, "Our CM has given Rs 50,000 to every Durga Puja committee. She is the one who made sure people get to celebrate Durga Puja, despite economic stress. "She wants people to celebrate all festivals -- from Durga puja to Kali Puja and Chhat, from Eid to Christmas. She believes in universal brotherhood," he added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/voting-for-cong-left-same-as-pressing-nota-button-tmcs-abhishek-banerjee-1043463.html
23-10-2021||National Politics||Maintain distance from 'Ram-drohis' who shield terrorists and embrace rioters: Adityanath||Accusing opposition parties of being against Lord Ram, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that such "Ram-drohis" not only harmed the faith but also disturbed the social fabric, impeded development, and threw the state in the "fire of riots" during their rule. “Those who are not the well-wisher of Lord Ram can never be your well-wisher,” Adityanath said while addressing the members of the Vishwakarma community at a meeting organised by the BJP Backward Classes Front in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election. “Maintaining distance from Ram-drohis (who are anti-Ram), who shield terrorists, embrace rioters, tear the social fabric would be better for your present and also for the bright future of your coming generations,“ he said. The firebrand BJP leader, who has often been accused by the opposition of making statements with communal overtones, alleged that under the previous governments, there were riots before Hindu festivals. "The masses were unable to celebrate and would live in fear in the shadow of curfew. And these people (opposition leaders) would shamelessly don skull caps and insult the people of the state," Adityanath said, asserting that all this has stopped under his government. He alleged that Congress, SP, and BSP were trying to harm Ram Setu, while the BJP protected it. Had it not been for the sons of Lord Vishwakarma, Nal, and Neel, it would not have been possible to build the Ram Setu, which Hindus believe was built for Lord Rama to reach then Lanka to rescue his wife Sita, as depicted in the epic Ramayana. He was referring to the Sethusamudram shipping canal project controversy where the previous UPA government had contended before the Supreme Court that the Rama Setu bridge is not an "essential" and "integral" part of the Hindu religion. The chief minister said that when the Congress-led UPA government was formed in 2004, there was a competition between the SP and BSP to extend support to it. "The SP had given support even without being asked and their intention was to hurt the Hindu faith by placing a gun on the shoulders of the Congress," he alleged. "These people not only harmed the faith but also disturbed social fabric, harmed development and threw the state in the fire of riots," the BJP leader alleged. He said the government is moving ahead with the plan to secure the present as well as the future. “Some people created problems in Kashmir and Article 370, the mother of terrorism, was scrapped under the leadership of PM Modi. "Some others created hurdles in the path of construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya and opened fire on Ram bhakts, today the BJP governments have started its construction and it is going on in full flow,” he said. Criticising the previous governments, especially the one led by the Samajwadi Party, Adityanath alleged that their leaders were only concerned about the welfare of their families. “One family was involved in looting the state from 2012 to 2017. That government was a 'Kalyugi avatar' of the Mahabharata and riots took place in every district and Hindus were harassed,” he said. Referring to the development works under the BJP rule, the chief minister said that “they are proving to be successful due to the vision of Prime Minister Modi and the blessings of Lord Vishwakarma,” and cited the Kanpur metro project which he said will start by November. "All this is being achieved through the blessings of the original architect Lord Vishwakarma,” he said. "Even today, Lord Vishwakarma is worshiped as the god of craftsmen in the whole country, and in UP, Vishwakarma is worshiped through Shram Samman. Work has been done to take forward the traditional craftsmen,” he said. The meeting was part of 'Social Representative Conferences' organised by the party to reach out to voters of various communities. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maintain-distance-from-ram-drohis-who-shield-terrorists-and-embrace-rioters-adityanath-1043465.html
23-10-2021||National Politics||Atmosphere of suffocation created in country, PM should work to remove it: Ashok Gehlot||An atmosphere of suffocation has been created in the country and there is a fear among people, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi should work to remove, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday. He also accused the BJP government of asking central probe agencies to target people whenever there is an election around to "create a panic". "Ever since they have won the elections, they have started a new tradition, which is unfortunate. Then there is a fear among people and an atmosphere of suffocation has been created. Modi should remove this atmosphere," Gehlot told reporters without naming the BJP. He also alleged whenever there is an election approaching "a message is sent to officials of the CBI, Income Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate that now you have to choose and send out a message so that people panic". "This is their agenda. This is their tactic," he said. He also said there will be love, brotherhood and trust in the government only when there is good governance. "I believe the Centre is failing in this. Since Modi is the prime minister, his biggest responsibility is to monitor and see what the reality is and make decisions based on that reality. Only then he will be able to deliver good governance," the senior Congress leader said" Otherwise, people will teach them a lesson and "they will not even know", he said. "This has happened many times in the past whether with the Congress or the BJP.” "Even when Vajpayee Ji was there... a great leader like Indira Gandhi lost the election. So the public does not spare anyone. The people of the country are very intelligent. They may be illiterate or less educated, but the people of India have no match in the world when it comes to intelligence." Gehlot also targeted the Centre over rising inflation, unemployment, and farmers' agitation.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/atmosphere-of-suffocation-created-in-country-pm-should-work-to-remove-it-ashok-gehlot-1043479.html
23-10-2021||National Politics||After delimitation, J&K statehood will be restored, says Amit Shah||Union Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said that Jammu and Kashmir's statehood would be restored after the delimitation process and elections are completed. Addressing the review meeting, he said, "Why should we stop delimitation? Delimitation will happen, followed by elections and then restoration of statehood...I want to be friends with the Kashmiri youth." Asserting that August 5, 2019 decision reduced terrorism, nepotism and corruption in Jammu and Kashmir, Shah asked the security agencies to give a final push to end militancy in the region. Shah, who arrived in Srinagar on a three-day visit to J&K, assured the people that strict action will be taken against those who want to ruin the peace in J&K. “No one can obstruct development here and it's our commitment,” he said while interacting with members of J&K Youth Club. Justifying the abrogation of Article 370, the Home Minister asked, “The transparency and corruption-free governance Jammu & Kashmir has witnessed since 2019 is the pillar of the region's development. Would it be possible without abrogating Article 370?” “5th August, 2019 will be written in golden letters. Kashmir has seen a new beginning from fear, terrorism, corruption and family-based politics to peace, development, and prosperity. The youth of Jammu-Kashmir has strengthened this change,” he said. “Before August 5, 2019, what did the 70 years of Independence give J&K -- 87 assembly, 6 Lok Sabha seats and three families. I do not need to name those families,” Shah said. The Home Minister said the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi about J&K is to convert the Union Territory into a ‘giver’ and not a ‘taker’ region of the country. Earlier, during a high-level security meeting chaired by the Home Minister at the Raj Bhawan, Shah sought answers as to why radicalisation and home-grown militancy were on the rise in Kashmir and asked them to give a final push to end terrorism in the region. “Shah sought answers from the heads of various security agencies as to why despite a massive build-up of forces and extensive outreach efforts by the Center, the twin threats of radicalisation and home-grown terrorism were on the rise,” sources told DH. Besides, they said, spate of recent targeted killing of civilians, and an increase in cross-border infiltration were other issues discussed during a high-level meeting chaired by the Home Minister, who is on his first visit to the UT since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019. The meeting was attended by top civil administration officials, including Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, and senior security officials from the Army, CRPF, police and other agencies, officials said. Sources said at the meeting, Shah said security agencies must coordinate more and iron out glitches to flush out terrorists from the region as soon as possible. “The Home Minister also sought answers on prolonged encounters with the militants, especially the one going on in Poonch-Rajouri belt of Jammu region for the last almost two weeks, in which nine army personnel have lost their lives,” they added. Earlier, Shah on his arrival at Srinagar airport was received by Union Minister Jitendra Singh, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and other senior officials of the administration. After his arrival, the Home Minister met the family of J&K police Inspector Parvaiz Ahmad, who was shot dead by militants on June 22 near his home in Nowgam on the outskirts of the city. The Home Minister offered his condolences to the family and handed over documents of appointment to a government job to Ahmad’s widow, Fatima Akhtar, on compassionate grounds, an official said. Shah is accompanied by the Union Home Secretary A.K. Bhalla, Intelligence Bureau Arvind Kumar, chief of Border Security Force Pankaj Singh, chief of CRPF and the chief of the NSG, besides other senior officers of the MHA, they said. Chief of Intelligence Bureau Arvind Kumar, chief of Border Security Force Pankaj Singh, Chief of CRPF and the chief of the NSG along with Jammu and Kashmir's top cop will share their feedback with Amit Shah on security-related issues. He is also scheduled to lay the foundation stones of two new government medical colleges (GMCs) for Udhampur and Handwara and address a mega public rally in Jammu city during his stay in the UT. Shah is scheduled to visit Jammu on Sunday before returning to the Valley the same evening. On Monday, the Home Minister is likely to meet sarpanches (village heads) to address their concerns before flying back to Delhi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-delimitation-jk-statehood-will-be-restored-says-amit-shah-1043480.html
23-10-2021||National Politics||New Congress members have to pledge to stay away from alcohol, drugs, not criticise party in public||Anyone wishing to take up the primary membership of Congress will have to make a declaration of abstention from alcohol and drugs and give an undertaking to never criticise the party's policies and programmes in public forums. According to the grand old party's membership form, new members have to give a declaration that they will not own any property in excess of the ceiling laws and not hesitate to undertake "physical labour and work" to further the party's policies and programmes. The membership form readied by Congress ahead of the launch of a membership drive lists 10 points for a personal declaration by those wanting to become its members. The membership drive will begin on November 1 and continue till March 31 next year before organisational elections. The election of the new Congress president will be held between August 21 and September 20 next year, according to the schedule approved by the Congress Working Committee, the highest decision-making body of the party. All new members will also have to give an undertaking that they do not indulge in any form of social discrimination and will work towards removing it from society. "I am a habitual weaver of authentic Khadi; I stay away from alcoholic drinks and intoxicant drugs; I don't practise social discrimination or inequality and believe in working towards removing such distortions in society, and I am willing to commit myself to execute the works assigned to me by the working committee including any form of physical labour" are among the undertakings a new Congress member must make. As part of the membership form, the Congress has said that its objective is the welfare and progress of all Indians and the party has the objective to establish a socialist state through peaceful and constitutional means, which is based on parliamentary democracy. The Congress also seeks to establish a regime where there is equality in opportunities and economic, political and social rights and aims to bring world peace and universal brotherhood in society, as per the new membership form. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/new-congress-members-have-to-pledge-to-stay-away-from-alcohol-drugs-not-criticise-party-in-public-1043521.html
23-10-2021||National Politics||Congress finalises some candidates for Uttar Pradesh polls||The Central Election Committee of the Congress chaired by party chief Sonia Gandhi on Saturday discussed and finalised a few candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, sources said, but their names were not announced. They said top party leaders including AICC general secretary and in-charge for Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and state party chief Ajay Kumar Lallu took part in the discussions.  The meeting which was held virtually is learnt to have to finalised around 50 candidates for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. The party will announce its candidates soon, taking a head start, much ahead of even the declaration of the schedule of the polls. The UP assembly polls are likely to be held early next year. The Congress has already announced that it will reserve 40 per cent seats for women candidates in the assembly polls Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-finalises-some-candidates-for-uttar-pradesh-polls-1043522.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Probe will check if Amarinder's Pakistan friend has ISI links: Punjab Deputy CM||Punjab's Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has said a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether Aroosa Alam, a Pakistani journalist who has been visiting former chief minister Amarinder Singh for several years, has links with the ISI. Singh hit back at the Congress leader, saying Randhawa is now resorting to personal attacks. The deputy chief minister said it "would be probed" whether Alam has any links with Pakistan's spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), adding that he has asked the director general of police (DGP) to look into it. Singh said Alam had been coming to India for 16 years with due clearances from the Centre. "As far as who sponsored Aroosa's visa, of course I did, for 16 years," he said. "You were a minister in my cabinet@Sukhjinder_INC. Never heard you complain about Aroosa Alam. "And she'd been coming for 16 years with due GoI clearances. Or are you alleging that both NDA and @INC India led UPA govts in this period connived with Pak ISI?" the former chief minister's media adviser quoted him as saying on Twitter on Friday. Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio in Punjab, claimed that Singh has been friends with Alam for years, she stayed in India for many years and her visa was extended by the Centre from time to time. He told reporters in Jalandhar on Thursday that it was only after the recent developments in the Punjab Congress, which saw Singh's exit as the chief minister, that Alam went back to Pakistan. Randhawa said when Singh was the chief minister, he kept saying that being a border state, Punjab always faced a threat with several seizures of drones and ammunition coming in from across the border. "Aroosa was in India for four-and-a-half years and her visa was also extended from time to time. Why did Delhi not cancel her visa? Why did she leave India when we went against Amarinder Singh?" he asked, referring to developments in the Punjab Congress last month. "I think all this needs to be probed and Captain Amarinder too will have to give answers to these questions," the Congress leader added. Hitting back at Randhawa, Singh said, "So now you're resorting to personal attacks @Sukhjinder_INC. One month after taking over this is all you have to show to the people. What happened to your tall promises on Bargari & drugs cases? Punjab is still waiting for your promised action." He said instead of focussing on maintaining law and order, the deputy chief minister has put the DGP on a "baseless investigation". "What I'm worried about @Sukhjinder_INC is that instead of focusing on maintaining law and order at a time when terror threat is high and festivals are around the corner, you've put @DGP Punjab Police on a baseless investigation at the cost of Punjab's safety," he said. Randhawa stepped up his attack on Singh in a series of tweets on Friday. "By the way sir @capt amarinder why are you so perturbed over probe on Aroosa and ISI links? Who sponsored her visa and everything concerning her will be thoroughly probed. I do hope everyone concerned will co-operate with police in probe," he tweeted. Replying back, Singh's media adviser quoted him as saying, "Perturbed? Have you ever seen me perturbed on any issue in all these years @Sukhjinder_INC? In fact, you seem to be perturbed and confused, if your flip flops are any indication. Why don't you make up your mind on this so-called probe against Aroosa Alam?" "As far who sponsored Aroosa's visa, of course I did, for 16 years. And FYI, @Sukhjinder_INC, requests for such visas are sent by Indian HC to @MEA India, which gets them cleared by RAW & IB before approving. And that's what happened in this case every time," he said. "What's more@Sukhjinder_INC, a detailed inquiry was conducted in 2007, when I was no longer CM, by NSA on order of then UPA PM before granting visa to Aroosa Alam. You still want to waste Punjab's resources on this? I'll help you with whatever you need," Singh said. Randhawa wrote on Twitter: "I am a true nationalist and you better know @capt amarinder from which point our differences erupted. Whereas, you don't worry about law and order situation as we have not outsourced the Punjab govt to 'anyone'. Now, police is protecting people, not cheekus and seetafal." He also took on Singh over the issue of sacrilege cases. "It was you who failed to take the probe in Maur blast, Bargari sacrilege and drugs cases to logical conclusions. Rest assured, all these cases will be taken to logical conclusion in coming days," the deputy chief minister said. "Almighty is always great as you@ capt amarinder have suffered because you failed to fulfil the commitment towards Guru Sahib even after taking oath of holy 'Gutka Sahib'. Punjab is and will remain in safe hands under@INCPunjab government," he added. Singh said "as far as Bargari inquiry, I dare you @Sukhjinder_INC to swear on Guru Granth Sahib ji & deny that both investigating officers Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh (now an AAP leader) & Ranbir Singh Khatra were appointed on your recommendations. Do your job instead of making wild charges against me".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/probe-will-check-if-amarinders-pakistan-friend-has-isi-links-punjab-deputy-cm-1043313.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Seven trekkers found dead in Uttarakhand; search on for remaining||Two more members of an 11-strong trekking team which had gone missing have been found dead taking the death toll to seven, while a search was underway for the remaining two, officials said here on Friday. Two members of the team had been rescued alive on Thursday. They are injured and being treated in Harsil and Uttarkashi, an official said. They had gone missing on a trek to Chitkul in Himachal Pradesh via Harsil in Uttarkashi. Search and rescue teams from Uttarkashi spotted five bodies of trekkers on Thursday, while two members of the team were found dead by a rescue team in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarkashi district disaster management officer Devendra Patwal said. A search is on for the two missing members of the team on a war footing with the help of a helicopter, Colonel Rajendra Prasad of 9 Bihar Regiment said. The team consisting of eight trekkers — one from Delhi and the rest from West Bengal — and three cooks went missing on a trek to Chitkul recently. They had begun the trek from Harsil in Uttarkashi district on October 11 and were to reach Chitkul via Lamkhaga pass. Members of the trekking team included Anita Rawat (38) from Delhi, Mithun Dari (31) from West Bengal, Tanmay Tiwari (30), Vikash Makal (33), Saurav Ghosh (34), Saviayan Das (28), Richard Mandal (30) and Suken Manjhi (43), all from Kolkata. The cooking staff have been identified as Devendra (37), Gyan Chandra (33) and Upendra (32) all from Purola in Uttarkashi. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-trekkers-found-dead-in-uttarakhand-search-on-for-remaining-1043325.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Security beefed up across Kashmir ahead of Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit||Security has been beefed up across Kashmir ahead of Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s maiden visit to the Valley after the abrogation of Article 370 on Saturday, officials said. They said a thick security cover has been thrown around the BJP office at Jawahar Nagar in the city where Shah is likely to pay a visit. Similarly, roads leading to Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre (SKICC) have been made off-limits for three days from Saturday as the Union home minister is expected to attend an event there, they added. It will be Shah’s first visit to Kashmir after the Centre revoked J-K's special status and bifurcated the erstwhile state into union territories in August 2019. The officials said additional deployment of security forces has been made across the valley, especially in Srinagar. Official sources said 50 companies of additional paramilitary forces are being inducted into the valley in the wake of the recent spate of civilian killings. Bunkers manned by paramilitary CRPF have come up in several areas of the city as well in other parts of the valley, the officials said. They said the aim of constructing new bunkers and putting more personnel on the ground was to cut the free movement of militants. The officials said barricades have been put up on the roads across the valley, especially in the city, while frisking and checking of people has been intensified. The mobile internet services on a dozen towers -- mostly in the areas where non-local labourers were killed in the past week -- were snapped three days ago as part of the security measures, they said. The officials said police have started stringent checking of documents of two-wheelers plying on the roads and many have been seized by police. However, IGP, Kashmir zone, Vijay Kumar had said these steps were purely related to terror violence. "Seizing some bikes and shutting down of internet of some towers is purely related to #terror #violence. It has nothing to do with visit of the Hon'ble HM," he tweeted on Thursday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-beefed-up-across-kashmir-ahead-of-home-minister-amit-shah-s-visit-1043332.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Parts of Kashmir and Ladakh receive fresh snowfall; heavy rains in plains||Parts of Kashmir and Ladakh received fresh snowfall on Saturday while the plains of the valley were lashed by heavy rains, leading to early onset of winter-like conditions, officials said. They said moderate snowfall was witnessed in Gulmarg, Sonamarg, Pahalgam, Shopian and Gurez areas of the valley. Minamarg and Drass, in the Union territory of Ladakh, also witnessed snowfall since Friday night, the officials said. They said light snowfall has also been reported from some areas in Pulwama and Kulgam districts of J&K. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall has been going on in Srinagar city and other plains of the valley since Friday night,  the officials said. Timely trimming of tree branches by the Power Development department has resulted in minimal disruption of electricity supply. The weatherman has forecast wet weather in the region for the next 24 hours. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parts-of-kashmir-and-ladakh-receive-fresh-snowfall-heavy-rains-in-plains-1043345.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah arrives in Srinagar on 3-day visit, security issues on agenda||Amid a sudden spike in targeted civilian killings, Union Home Minister Amit Shah arrived in Srinagar on Saturday. He is scheduled to hold a security review meeting apart from visiting some trouble-torn districts in the Valley. Shah, who arrived this morning on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, was received at the Srinagar airport by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha where other senior officials of the Jammu and Kashmir administration were also present, officials said. He is accompanied by the Union Home Secretary A K Bhalla and heads of most of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and the intelligence agencies, including the Intelligence Bureau, they said. During his three-day visit, the home minister is scheduled to chair a high-level security review meeting and also flag off the inaugural Srinagar-Sharjah flight. “He is scheduled to chair a meeting of the Unified Headquarters in the Valley on Saturday where a strategy is likely to be drafted to tackle sudden spurt in civilian killings and finish militancy in the region,” a top official said. “The security review of Jammu, especially Pir Panjal region where an anti-insurgency operation is going on near the boundary of Poonch-Rajouri districts for over a week, will also be discussed,” he said. This is the home minister’s first visit to J&K after the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two Union Territories on August 5, 2019. Shah’s last visit to J&K had come more than a month before the abrogation of Article 370 on June 26, 2019. He is also scheduled to lay the foundation stones of two new government medical colleges (GMCs) for Udhampur and Handwara and address a mega public rally in Jammu city during his stay in the UT. Shah is scheduled to visit Jammu on Sunday before returning to the Valley the same evening. He will fly back to New Delhi on the evening of October 25 from Srinagar. Pertinently, several Union ministers that included Nitin Gadkari, Narendra Singh Tomar, G Kishan Reddy, and John Barla travelled to the UT as part of the ‘public outreach programme’ of the Centre. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-arrives-in-srinagar-on-3-day-visit-security-issues-on-agenda-1043356.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||3 killed, apple orchards suffer extensive damage as snowfall, rains hit life in Kashmir||Three people were killed while apple orchards suffered extensive damage as parts of Kashmir received snowfall and plains were lashed by heavy rains on Saturday, leading to the early onset of winter-like conditions. Srinagar recorded the coldest October day in 39 years as the maximum temperature plummeted across the valley. The snowfall and rains, which started late on Friday night, triggered a mudslide that hit a tent set up by nomads in Noorpora in the Tral area of Pulwama district, leaving three people, including two women dead, and one critically injured, officials said. The nomads belonged to Reasi district in the Jammu division, they added. The officials said moderate snowfall was recorded in Gulmarg, Sonamarg, Pahalgam, Shopian and Gurez areas of the valley. Minamarg and Drass in Ladakh also received snowfall since Friday night, they added. The officials said light snowfall was reported from some areas in Pulwama and Kulgam districts, while some areas in the plains, including summer capital Srinagar, received sleet. They said Pahalgam tourist resort in south Kashmir's Anantnag district received about five inches of snowfall from the morning till 2.30 pm, while Sonamarg resort in central Kashmir's Ganderbal district recorded seven inches of snowfall. The snowfall has caused extensive damage to apple orchards in some areas of the valley, especially in Shopian and Kulgam districts in south Kashmir where most of the horticulture produce was yet to be harvested. CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami has expressed concern over the losses caused to orchardists by the untimely snowfall and demanded immediate compensation for them. “A large number of fruit-bearing trees are reported to have suffered damages due to unseasonal snowfall witnessed in several parts of Kashmir valley. Reportedly, 50 per cent fruit crop was yet to be harvested in the twin districts of Shopian and Kulgam. There should be an immediate assessment of losses suffered by the orchardists," Tarigami said in a statement. He said the government must depute expert teams to assess the losses, especially in south Kashmir which has been the worst hit. He also expressed grief over the death of three members of the nomadic family in Tral. Meanwhile, owing to rain and snow, the maximum temperature across the valley plummeted on Saturday. Srinagar recorded the maximum of 6.6 degrees Celsius which is the coldest October day in 39 years. The last time the city had recorded the maximum temperature lower than Saturday's was 5.0 degrees Celsius on October 28, 1982. The meteorological department said the rain/snow has decreased considerably in north and central Kashmir and many areas of Jammu region on Saturday evening. “We expect further decrease in rain/snowfall in entire Jammu and Kashmir. Overall, improvement is most likely from tomorrow. Thereafter, no significant weather change is expected for the next 10 days,” it said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-killed-apple-orchards-suffer-extensive-damage-as-snowfall-rains-hit-life-in-kashmir-1043363.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi Traffic Police asks commuters to avoid stretch of Mathura Road from Ashram to Badarpur||The Delhi Traffic Police on Saturday advised commuters to avoid Mathura Road from Ashram to Badarpur due to the ongoing construction work of Ashram underpass. The traffic unit of the Delhi Police took to Twitter to inform people. Due to the ongoing construction work of Ashram underpass, Mathura Road from Ashram to Badarpur is damaged and under repair. Only one lane is operational. In order to avoid congestion, commuters are advised to avoid this route, it said. "Vehicles coming on Ring Road from Sarai Kale Khan seeking to turn left towards Badarpur are advised to take C V Raman Marg-Mathura Road or Ashram flyover-Capt. Gaur Marg-Modi Mill flyover for Badarpur. "Likewise, traffic on Mathura Road from Nizamuddin seeking to cross Ashram for Badarpur are advised to turn right and take Capt. Gaur Marg-Modi Mill flyover for their onward journey," it said in the tweet. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-traffic-police-asks-commuters-to-avoid-stretch-of-mathura-road-from-ashram-to-badarpur-1043369.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||One shot dead, another injured following scuffle in Jammu||A 45-year-old man was killed and another critically injured in a firing incident following a scuffle over a minor issue between two neighbours on the outskirts of Jammu, officials said on Saturday. The scuffle turned violent between the neighbours at Raipur locality of Satwari on Friday night when one of them took out a weapon and opened fire, they said. The officials said Jugal Kishore and Mohinder Lal, 30, were critically injured in the incident and rushed to Government Medical College (GMC) hospital, where Kishore was declared brought dead, while Lal is undergoing treatment for head injury. Police have registered a case and started investigations to bring the culprits to book, they said.  Lal's family claimed that it was Kishore's brother who took out a revolver and opened fire under the influence of alcohol after they objected to them over setting free their pet dogs, which have become a nuisance for the locality and even bitten their minor daughter some time back.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-shot-dead-another-injured-following-scuffle-in-jammu-1043375.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Created fear in mind: Delhi court raps police for harassing man, warns of action||A Delhi court has pulled up some police officials for creating fear in the mind of a man about his false implication and arrest in a case and asked why proceedings should not be initiated against them for their conduct. Complainant Zakir approached the court alleging that a police official of Delhi's Dayalpur police station harassed him and his father and threatened to arrest the entire family without disclosing the contents of an FIR, a claim refuted by the police. In a reply filed to his plea, the police submitted that no cognizable offence was found committed by Zakir and no FIR has been registered against him, adding that Zakir's father was not harassed rather he was intimated about the complaint. Noting that the police did not adopt the correct procedure, Additional Sessions Judge Sunil Chaudhary said that the act of the police officials deputed in the police station "created fear" in Zakir's mind about his false implication and arrest and forced him to approach the court. "Thus, considering the facts, let show cause notice be issued to the officials of PS Dayalpur as to why proceedings be not initiated against them for payment of compensation to the applicant for their conduct,” the judge said in an order dated October 22.  He went on to say that under the law if a complaint discloses a cognizable offence then the police is duty-bound to register an FIR and investigate the allegations but according to the police's reply, the complaint did not disclose any cognizable offence. "...in those events, if Station House Officer was of the impression that the complaint needs investigation then he has to seek the permission to investigate the matter from the Court concerned but he did not adopted the said procedure,” ASJ Chaudhary added.  Notably, Zakir said that his father received a call from an official of the Dayalpur police station on October 14 and was threatened to come to the police station and when his father enquired about the FIR, he did not disclose the same. The complainant, through his lawyer, submitted that the police official harassed him and his father unnecessarily and that on October 15, some police officials visited his residence but did not disclose the purpose of the visit and threatened to arrest the entire family.  However, the police stated that on October 14, a man named Naimuddin gave a complaint about quarrels and beatings against Zakir. “Father of the applicant has not been harassed and no threat has been given rather he was intimated about the complaint given against him,” the prosecutor told the court. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/created-fear-in-mind-delhi-court-raps-police-for-harassing-man-warns-of-action-1043380.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Shah meets family of J&K Police officer killed by terrorists||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday visited the family of Jammu and Kashmir Police officer Parvaiz Ahmad who was killed by terrorists in June this year in Nowgam area of the city. Shah, who arrived here on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, drove straight to Nowgam from the airport. "The home minister visited the house of martyr of Jammu and Kashmir Police, Inspector Parvaiz, who was killed by terrorists," a home ministry official said. Officials said Shah offered his condolences to the family of the police officer. He also gave documents of appointment to a government job to the police officer's widow, Fatima Akhtar, on compassionate grounds. Ahmad was shot dead by terrorists near his house in Nowgam when he was returning home after offering evening prayers on June 22. The home minister was accompanied by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, Union Minister Jitendra Singh and Director General of Police Dilbag Singh. This is Shah's first visit to Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shah-meets-family-of-jk-police-officer-killed-by-terrorists-1043385.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Shah reviews security situation, counter-terrorism measures in Kashmir||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday reviewed the security situation and steps taken to combat terrorism in Kashmir Valley in the wake of a spate of attacks on civilians, particularly non-local labourers and minorities. Shah reviewed the security scenario at a meeting held at the Raj Bhawan here and attended by top civil administration officials, including Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, and senior security officials from the Army, CRPF, police and other agencies, officials said. The home minister was briefed about the steps taken to eliminate terrorism from Jammu and Kashmir and counter-infiltration measures taken by the forces, the officials said. Shah's visit to Kashmir comes in the backdrop of 11 civilian killings in the valley in October alone. Five of those killed were labourers from Bihar, while three, including two teachers, belonged to minority communities in Kashmir. This is Shah's first visit to Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the state of Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories on August 5, 2019. Security was beefed up across Kashmir ahead of Shah's visit. Additional deployment of security forces has been made across the valley, especially in the city, the officials said. Official sources said that 50 companies of additional paramilitary forces are being inducted into the valley in the wake of the recent spate of civilian killings. Bunkers manned by paramilitary CRPF have come up in several areas of the city as well in other parts of Kashmir Valley, the officials said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shah-reviews-security-situation-counter-terrorism-measures-in-kashmir-1043389.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||UP: Speeding truck hits Gandhi statue, damages structure||A statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Attara township here was damaged when a speeding truck rammed into it in the early hours of Saturday, police said. The police have taken the truck driver into custody in this connection and seized the vehicle. The statue, located at Gandhi Chowk in the township, got damaged when the truck driver lost control of the vehicle and hit it around 3 am on Saturday, Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Laxmi Niwas Mishra said. Atarra police station SHO Veer Pratap Singh Chauhan said further action is being taken after apprehending the driver. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-speeding-truck-hits-gandhi-statue-damages-structure-1043396.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Teen girl from UP's Ballia abducted, raped for over nine months; accused arrested||A 17-year-old girl from Narhi village here was allegedly kidnapped to Varanasi and raped for over nine months by a youth, police said on Saturday. The youth has been arrested and the girl rescued from captivity on Friday, police said. The teenage girl belonging to a village under Narhi police station area in the district was allegedly abducted on January 16 by a youth from the neighbouring village and a case of kidnapping was registered on the complaint of the victim's father, SHO of Narhi police station Praveen Singh said. The accused was arrested near Bharauli bridge in the same police station area on Friday and the girl was also rescued, the SHO said. The teenager has given a statement that the accused had kidnapped her to Varanasi where she was raped by him several times. Based on the statement, the police have added more relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in the case, SHO Singh said. The girl has been sent to the district hospital for a medical examination.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teen-girl-from-ups-ballia-abducted-raped-for-over-nine-months-accused-arrested-1043398.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Childhood getting lost in cages of beliefs, need to break these bars: Sisodia||Highlighting the issues being faced by children, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday that their childhood is getting lost in the shackles of beliefs and there is a need to break these bars. He was speaking at the launch of the Children First-Journal on Children's Lives by the Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR). The journal's first issue is on the theme of impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the lives of children. "We force our beliefs, our thoughts and traditions on children in the name of love, care and affection. The childhood is getting lost in the cages of beliefs and we need to break these bars," Sisodia said at the event. Supreme Court judge Justice Ravinder Bhatt, who was the chief guest at the event, acknowledged the unprecedented attention the journal gives to the issues being faced by children who have lost their primary care givers. The advisory Board of the journal was chaired by former Supreme Court judge Justice (retired) Madan B Lokur. He explained the future plans for the journal, which is to highlight the impact of the pandemic on education. "The next issue will discuss the challenges faced by students and teachers, and an attempt to reduce the disruption of education in the unsettling era," Lokur added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/childhood-getting-lost-in-cages-of-beliefs-need-to-break-these-bars-sisodia-1043400.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Enhanced security in Kashmir as Amit Shah reviews counter-terrorism measures||Following targeted civilian killings and the ongoing visit of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, security has been further enhanced and searches intensified across Kashmir, with a battery of drones scanning Srinagar city. Officials said snipers and sharpshooters have been deployed at strategic places in Srinagar with hi-tech Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) or camera-fitted drones maintaining aerial surveillance. “The decision to use the UAVs for aerial surveillance has been taken in the wake of recent attacks on minority community members and non-local labourers,” CRPF DIG (operations) Mathew A John, said. Frisking of commuters and pedestrians continued unabated on Saturday while motorboats of the CRPF scanned the Dal Lake and the Jhelum River that flows through the interiors of the city. CCTV surveillance has also been updated, they added. In Srinagar, joint parties of police and security forces have erected more checkpoints and installed mobile bulletproof bunkers to carry out frisking of commuters and pedestrians. The recent spate of targeted killings of civilians has forced the authorities to strengthen security to cover and fortify a 20-km radius around Raj Bhavan on Gupkar road where the Home Minister will be camping for three days. Vehicular movement has been closed for three days from the city’s Badyari Chowk to Nishat, which is part of the boulevard overlooking the Dal Lake to enable smooth movement by Shah and his entourage and to secure the venues of his official meetings.   Reports said security forces deployed around key installations such as the civil secretariat and the airport have also been increased. “Militants may try to target vital installations during the Home Minister’s visit to get publicity. We have intensified the measures to secure these installations,” a police officer said. Reports said that wearing bulletproof vests and helmets and carrying assault rifles, army, CRPF and J&K police personnel carried out random frisking and identification checks at several places in other districts of the Valley as well. Pertinently, 11 civilians, including non-local labourers and minority community members were killed in separate attacks by the militants in Kashmir in the last two weeks. J&K Police have detained and questioned hundreds of people as part of their probe into the civilian killings. In counter-insurgency operations by the police and security forces, 13 militants were killed this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/enhanced-security-in-kashmir-as-amit-shah-reviews-counter-terrorism-measures-1043404.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Petrol crosses Rs 119 per litre in border districts of MP; diesel touches Rs 108||Border districts of Madhya Pradesh have been severely hit by the hike in fuel prices, with the cost of petrol in Anuppur district crossing Rs 119 per litre and diesel touching around Rs 108 per litre on Saturday. The price of petrol in Jaithari, about 13 km from the district headquarter Anuppur, was recorded at 119.22 per litre and diesel was at Rs 108.4 per litre, said Sukhlal Kushwaha, a pump owner. Petrol is cheaper by around Rs 10 and diesel by Rs 4 per litre in the neighbouring state of Chhattisgarh, which is about 50 km from Anuppur, he said. The prices of petrol and diesel in Balaghat district, which shares its borders with Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, has reached Rs 118.25 per litre and Rs 107.46 per litre respectively, petrol pump owner Amar Singh Narde said. The district recorded a hike of 26 paise on petrol and 37 paise on diesel on Saturday, he said. “The fuel business is hit badly in Balaghat, as most vehicles prefer to get refuel in Maharashtra or Chhattisgarh. The petrol and diesel in Maharashtra are cheaper by Rs 7 and Rs 4 per litre respectively,” Narde said. Meanwhile, the petrol and diesel prices in capital Bhopal reached Rs 115.90 per litre after a hike of 36 paise, while diesel is being sold at Rs 105.27 per litre following a hike of 38 paise. Speaking to PTI, Ajay Singh, President, Bhopal's Petrol Pump Dealers Association said petrol pump owners in the border districts are suffering the most due to the high prices. Fuel is cheaper in the neighbouring states and most of the commercial vehicles refuel in other states before entering Madhya Pradesh, he said. Stressing that the state government should think about rising fuel prices, Singh said, “The state government charges Value Added Tax (VAT) on a percentage basis, while the Centre realises a fixed amount of tax on per litre of fuel irrespective of the prices. So, the state has a scope to reduce the price.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/petrol-crosses-rs-119-per-litre-in-border-districts-of-mp-diesel-touches-rs-108-1043412.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh govt extends five-day week arrangement in its offices till March end next year||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to extend the arrangement of five-day week in its offices across the state till March end next year in view of the coronavirus pandemic, an official said. The state government's general administration department issued an order to this effect on Friday, he said. "The arrangement of five-day week (from Monday to Friday) in government offices across the state has been extended till March 31, 2022 for protection and to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic," the order said. Earlier, the state government had ordered the five-day week in its offices till October 31. The arrangement of five-day week was implemented in the state government offices from July 22 this year when the offices reopened after a lockdown during the second wave of pandemic. The Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh on Friday rose to 7,92,729 with eight fresh cases. The death toll remained unchanged at 10,523, while the recovery count stood at 7,82,126, leaving the state with 80 active cases, a health department official had saidd.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-madhya-pradesh-govt-extends-five-day-week-arrangement-in-its-offices-till-march-end-next-year-1043416.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Services on section of Delhi Metro's Yellow Line to be unavailable for few hours on October 24||Services on a section of Delhi Metro's Yellow Line, between the Vishwavidyalaya and the Model Town stations, will not be available for a few hours on Sunday morning due to maintenance work, the DMRC said. The Yellow Line connects Samaypur Badli in Delhi to HUDA City Centre in Gurgaon. "Public Service Announcement There will be no service between Model Town & Vishwavidyalaya on Yellow Line  tomorrow (Sunday) till 7:30 AM due to pre planned maintenance work. GTB Nagar Station will remain closed during this period. Services will be normal on rest of the network," the DMRC tweeted. GTB metro station, which is located in Kingsway Camp area of north Delhi, falls in between Vishwavidyalaya and Model Town stations. "To ensure connectivity between this section during this period, free feeder bus service will remain available," the Delhi Metro also tweeted. Services begin early morning on most corridor of the DMRC. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/services-on-section-of-delhi-metros-yellow-line-to-be-unavailable-for-few-hours-on-october-24-1043421.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Congress-RJD fissures bring Grand Alliance to brink of collapse in Bihar||Less than a year after making waves with a better-than-expected performance in Bihar assembly polls, the opposition Grand Alliance finds itself on the brink of collapse. The five-party opposition coalition had won just 10 seats short of majority, a major comeback since the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 when the NDA had made a clean sweep, winning all but one of 40 seats in Bihar. However, on Friday AICC in-charge of the state, Bhakt Charan Das, stated the Congress will contest "all 40 seats" in the state, stunning Lalu Prasad’s RJD which stands accused by the junior partner of having betrayed the coalition 'dharma'. State RJD president Jagadanand Singh reacted with disbelief. "When the general elections are due in 2024, what is the point in talking about Lok Sabha polls now," he asked. Das was also asked whether he was expressing a personal sentiment or echoing the views of the party "high command", since Prasad is known to share excellent personal equations with the Gandhi family. "I do not wish to be drawn into a controversy by being too explicit. But please understand that an AICC in-charge cannot say anything that is at variance with the official party line," Das told PTI. The flashpoint was reached over what seems to be a trifle. By-polls are due next week in two assembly segments – Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan. The RJD announced its candidates for both seats without taking into confidence the Congress. After a few days of stunned silence, the Congress hit back, announcing its own candidates for the two seats. It was widely speculated that the fissures had much to do with the Congress roping in Kanhaiya Kumar and his perceived "rivalry" with Tejashwi Yadav to whom he loses out in terms of caste base but beats when it comes to oratorical skills. Kanhaiya, who is currently in the state to campaign for the two seats, however, brushed off the suggestion with the remark "there is no comparison. His (Tejashwi's) father and mother have been chief ministers. I am starting from scratch". Earlier, addressing party workers at the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) headquarters, he had praised Rahul Gandhi for giving a platform to people like him, Hardik Patel and Jignesh Mevani, unlike "many others who are insecure about the legacy they have inherited from their fathers". The comment was wildly cheered at and construed as an oblique reference to Tejashwi. Origins of the narrative around the perceived rivalry between the two young leaders lay in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when Kanhaiya made his Lok Sabha debut from his home town Begusarai against Union minister Giriraj Singh. Despite a spirited campaign, Kanhaiya, who was contesting on a CPI ticket, got hamstrung by the presence of RJD candidate Tanveer Hassan, and lost by a margin of more than four lakh votes. However, former BPCC president Anil Sharma asserted "Kanhaiya is not an issue" when it comes to the chequered relationship shared by Congress and the RJD. "It has been Lalu Prasad's strategy to ensure that the Congress is not able to regain its support base among upper castes, Dalits and Muslims. A strong Congress would be seen as a secular alternative to the RJD. No wonder over the years he has ensured that our upper caste candidates do not get a chance to fight from seats where we have considerable chances of winning. He either wrests these for the RJD or gets these into the kitty of some other alliance partner," Sharma asserted. Bhakt Charan Das echoed similar views when he said "the RJD mocks us for having won less than 20 seats despite contesting 70. Why does it not admit that it forced us to do away with many seats and failed to get its own votes transferred to candidates of Congress at some places". Sharma, who had headed the state unit during the Lok Sabha polls of 2009 and assembly elections a year later, further rubbished the RJD's demand for "gratitude” for having helped the Congress form the government at the Centre in 2004. "They have forgotten that the Rabri Devi government was dismissed in 1999 by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee regime. It was revoked only because the Congress stalled the move with the might it had in the Rajya Sabha," he underlined. In 2000 assembly polls, the RJD failed to get a majority but the Congress helped it form a government, he noted. "Still, it humiliated us in 2009 and 2010, forcing us to go solo. We did not do well. But the RJD suffered huge setbacks on both occasions," recalled Sharma. He also expressed bewilderment over the CPI, CPI(M) and CPI(ML), all junior partners in the Grand Alliance, throwing their lot behind the RJD in the by-elections. "One of the many strategies adopted by Lalu Prasad to build his political edifice has been weaning away leaders and cadres of the Left parties," he stated. Meanwhile, the ruling NDA is watching the kerfuffle in the Grand Alliance camp with bemusement, confident of making little work of the bypolls where it has to contend with a fractured opposition. Voting will take place for both the seats on October 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-rjd-fissures-bring-grand-alliance-to-brink-of-collapse-in-bihar-1043424.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||3 more arrested in Lakhimpur violence case, 13 so far||Three more arrests were made on Saturday in connection with the Tikonia violence here which had left eight people, including four farmers, dead during a protest by farmers on October 3, officials said Saturday. This takes to 13 the total number of arrests made so far, also including Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish, in connection with the violence. A senior police officer identified those arrested Saturday as Mohit Trivedi of Singahi town, Ranku Rana of Barsola Kalan and Dharmendra of Chimma Tanda both under Tikonia kotwali limits. The arrests were made after their names emerged during the interrogation of other accused in police custody, the officer added. All the three accused would be produced in the court later in the day and the investigators would request for their 14 days police remand for further interrogation, he said. Ashish was arrested on October 9 and is presently in police custody. The nine other arrested accused include BJP ward member Sumit Jaiswal, Ankit Das, Latif alias Kale, Shekhar Bharti, Shishu Pal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam, Nandan Singh Bisht, Ashish Pandey, and Lavkush Rana.  Barring Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana, all other seven are in police custody for interrogation. An FIR was lodged at the Tikonia police station on October 3. The next day, a counter-FIR was lodged at the same police station on the basis of a complaint by Sumit Jaiswal, who has now been arrested. The SIT constituted by the state police is probing the case. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-more-arrested-in-lakhimpur-violence-case-13-so-far-1043427.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: BJP leader advises women not to go to police stations after dark||BJP was left red-faced after one of its senior leaders questioned claims of the Uttar Pradesh government regarding women's safety in the state, advising them not to go to the police stations after dark. BJP national vice-president Baby Rani Maurya, who gave this bizarre advice to women, also asked them not to go to cops unaccompanied. ''Although there are women constables and inspectors at the police stations, I will not advise women to go there after 5 pm,'' Maurya, who was a former governor of Uttarakhand, said while speaking at a function in Varanasi on Friday evening. ''If it becomes necessary for you (women) to go to the police stations then take your brother, husband or father along with you,'' she added. Maurya, however, hastened to add that the Centre and the state government had taken a number of steps for the safety of the women and that the situation had changed in the past few years. While the senior BJP leaders refrained from commenting on Maurya's remarks, Opposition parties were quick to pounce and said that her comments reflected the reality of the state. ''Women are not safe in UP. We have been saying for quite long that crimes against women have soared in the state and that women are not safe even in the police stations. Maurya's remarks have proved our allegations,'' said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader on Saturday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bjp-leader-advises-women-not-to-go-to-police-stations-after-dark-1043429.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Three killed in mudslide in J&K's Pulwama||Three nomads, including two women, died while another person was critically injured in a mudslide triggered by incessant rains in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said.  A tent of the nomads, belonging to Reasi district in the Jammu Division, was buried under the mudslide in Noorpora area of Tral due to heavy rainfall since last night, they said.  The officials said one person was rescued in a critical condition, the other three died in the incident. Further details are awaited, the officials added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-killed-in-mudslide-in-jks-pulwama-1043431.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Providing best education to children is greatest act of patriotism, says Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday appealed to people to ensure the best education for their children, saying it is the greatest act of patriotism and will go a long way in making the country great. Paying tributes to Maharshi Valmiki at an event hosted by Delhi Sanskrit Academy at Thyagaraj Stadium, Kejriwal said government schools are much better now and 2.5 lakh students from private schools moved there this year. "Maharshi Valmiki and Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar, two great icons of Valmiki community, emphasised on learning and education. I ask you to send your children to schools and do not engage them in any other work," he told the gathering. The chief minister also presented certificates and shields to 22 students of Delhi government schools who scored over 90 per cent marks in Board exams. "These children who scored over 90 per cent marks have dreams in their eyes and they want to become IAS officers, doctors, engineers and go to other fields. Providing the best education to your children is the greatest act of patriotism and it will go a long way in making the country great," he said. Kejriwal said his government not only ensured free coaching after Class 12, but also provided a loan of Rs 10 lakh for higher education. The government also bears the cost if any student wants to pursue doctorate or other courses from any foreign university, he said. The event was also participated by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Mahamandaleshwar Krishna Shah Vidyarthi, Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam and Delhi Assembly deputy speaker Rakhi Birlan.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/providing-best-education-to-children-is-greatest-act-of-patriotism-says-arvind-kejriwal-1043432.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Congress promises waiving off farmers' loans, govt jobs ahead of UP Assembly polls||Nurturing dreams to recapture Uttar Pradesh, where assembly polls are barely five months away, Congress on Saturday announced more sops, including waiving off loans of the farmers and providing government jobs to 20 lakh people in the state, if it formed the next government in UP. Speaking after flagging off her party's 'Pratigya Yatra' at Barabanki, about 40 kilometres from here, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also promised to cut the power bills by half of every consumer while completely waiving off the power bills during the pandemic besides Rs 25 thousand cash to the poor families. Priyanka said that the procurement rates of paddy and wheat and sugarcane would also be increased if her party came to power after the next assembly polls, due in March 2022. Earlier the Congress leader had announced 40 per cent reservation in the allocation of tickets in the forthcoming assembly polls in the state and promised smartphones and electric scooters to the girls.  ''Our party is the well-wisher of the farmers....we understand their problems and will do whatever we can to help them.....this government is against the farmers....farmers were crushed to death in Lakhimpur Kheri...the government also delayed the arrest of the main accused,'' she said while speaking at the function. Priyanka said that earlier also the UPA government had waived off the loans of the farmers to the tune of Rs. 72 thousand crore. ''We will do it again,'' she added. Priyanka, who was also the state party in-charge, said that farmers were being neglected by the government at the centre and in the state.  She said that three 'pratigya yatras' were being taken out by the party from Saturday in different parts of the state simultaneously.  The Congress leader also met the women, who were working the fields, while on their way to Barabanki and had a taste of 'jalebi' (a sweet dish) with them. ''My brother told me that I was getting fat and advised me to eat less,'' she remarked when one of the women workers offered her 'parantha'. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-promises-waiving-off-farmers-loans-govt-jobs-ahead-of-up-assembly-polls-1043444.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi now close to winning battle against dengue: CM||Amid a spike in cases of dengue in the national capital, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday claimed that Delhi was now "close to winning the battle" against the vector-borne disease. He encouraged all city residents to participate actively in the '10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute' campaign on Sunday to combat dengue. People of Delhi have decided, that they would only rest after driving away dengue from the city, he said. "Delhi is now very close to winning the battle against dengue. Like previous weeks, this Sunday too at 10 am, let us all spend 10 minutes, inspecting our homes and surrounding areas, for any sign of stagnant water. If you do find such water, drain it, replace it, or cover it with a small layer of oil. Together, let us all make Delhi dengue-free," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office. The chief minister's assertion comes amid a surge in dengue cases in the last two weeks, and the first death due to it was reported on Monday. According to a civic report on vector-borne diseases released on Monday, one death due to dengue, and a total of 723 dengue cases have been recorded this season till October 16, which is the highest case count since 2018 for the same period. Of the total number of dengue cases recorded in Delhi this year, 382 have been reported this month till October 16, which amounts to nearly 52 per cent of the cumulative cases. Kejriwal said that like last year, this time too the Delhi government is running the '10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute' anti-dengue campaign.  All ministers, MLAs and officers of the Delhi government are also taking part in the campaign, and cleaning the water accumulated in their homes every Sunday, he added. Along with this, all the citizens living in Delhi are being made aware of changing of water in coolers, pots, every week, by joining the campaign, he said. "We all have to work together to stop mosquito-breeding. We all have to do this for 10 weeks, and defeat dengue," Kejriwal said. The maximum number of dengue cases are reported every year between September 1 and November 15, the chief minister said. Dengue mosquitoes breed only in clear water. The mosquito lays larvae on clear water, which turns into mosquitoes within 8-10 days. If that water is changed before eight days, and larvae removed, then mosquitoes will not be generated, he added.  A total of 1,072 cases and one death were logged in the entire year in 2020. In 2015, the city had witnessed a massive outbreak of dengue, when the number of dengue cases reported has crossed 10,600 in October itself, making it the worst outbreak of the vector-borne disease in the national capital since 1996. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-now-close-to-winning-battle-against-dengue-cm-1043460.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC refuses to allow doctor to sit for exam after excessive leaves due to Covid-19||The Delhi High Court has refused to allow a doctor, who is pursuing a super-specialty course, to sit for his end-term examination by condoning his "excessive leaves" on account of contracting Covid-19 while treating patients, saying that the requirements of training and attendance in professional courses of this nature are beyond its remit. Justice Prateek Jalan dismissed the petitioner-doctor's plea for condonation of leaves and said that the court's decision did not emanate from a lack of gratitude for the service rendered by doctors during the pandemic, but from the limitations under the regulations governing the course. The petitioner was working with the burns and plastic surgery department of a medical institute here and pursuing the three-year M Ch degree course. Since a candidate was permitted to take only a total of 102 days as leave during the three years, the petitioner was rendered ineligible to sit for the end-term examination after he availed 226 days of leave, 194 days being medical leave due to Covid-19. The institute told the high court that the applicable regulations, that is the Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000 by the Medical Council of India as well as its own ordinances, do not provide for any condonation of excess leaves. The judge said that the petitioner is a senior resident seeking a super-specialty qualification which is principally earned by participating in clinical activity and therefore, the “training requirement cannot be divorced altogether from the question of excessive leave”. “The petitioner was compelled, by reason of his illness, to take approximately six months' leave from July 2020 to January 2021, which is much higher than the permitted maximum. Where the training is largely achieved on the job, the training requirement cannot be divorced altogether from the question of excessive leave. To the extent that the petitioner availed of excessive leave, howsoever legitimate the cause, his super-specialty training remains yet incomplete in terms of the Regulations and the Ordinance,” the court said. The court added that a balance has to be struck between the petitioner's predicament, and the assessment of the academic institutions concerned that he is not properly qualified under the applicable regulations. “The requirements of training and attendance, particularly in professional courses of this nature, are generally beyond the remit of the writ court. Academic institutions are generally best placed to adjudge these issues, and their assessment is vulnerable to interference only if vitiated by manifest unreasonableness or arbitrariness. The view taken by the University in the present case cannot be so characterised,” it stated. “Despite much sympathy with the situation in which the petitioner finds himself, I have come to the conclusion that he cannot prevail. This conclusion does not emanate from any lack of gratitude for the service rendered by doctors and other healthcare professionals in the course of this pandemic, but from the limitations of the writ court in the face of expert opinion regarding the conditions which the Regulations, and the University's Ordinances, impose,” it said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-refuses-to-allow-doctor-to-sit-for-exam-after-excessive-leaves-due-to-covid-19-1043467.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Not a single posting took place in Punjab without 'money, gifts' to Pakistani journalist, alleges Sidhu's wife||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu's wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu attacked former chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, alleging that not a single posting of any official took place in the state without "money or gifts" to her. Sidhu's principal strategic advisor Mohammad Mustafa also took a dig at Singh, prompting the former chief minister to hit back at him. The accusation by Sidhu's wife came a day after Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether the Pakistani journalist, who had been visiting Singh for several years, has links with Pakistan's spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). "Not a single posting in Punjab took place without money or gifts to Aroosa Alam," former MLA Navjot Kaur Sidhu told reporters in Amritsar. She alleged that even in the police department, no posting took place without Alam's consent and the Pakistani journalist "ran away" with all the money. To a question on Alam's picture with Congress president Sonia Gandhi shared by Singh's media advisor Raveen Thukral on Twitter on Friday, Navjot Kaur Sidhu said it was an old picture. Singh hit back at Mustafa after the latter shared a picture of Alam with the former Punjab chief secretary and former director general of police. "Still grappling to grasp the 'designs' behind twitting CP-Aroosa pic @capt_amarinder! Please do understand, grant of visa by UPA or NDA doesn't include 'licence 2 domesticate & outsource' governance apparatus to 'videshi mehman'," Mustafa said in a tweet. Reacting to it, Thukral also shared two pictures on his Twitter handle. "And how about you explaining this @MohdMustafaips. Isn't that your wife & daughter-in-law with the same lady? How low can you get? Mixing politics with friendship! #AroosaAlam personally cherishes these & many more such memories with your family," Thukral quoted Singh as saying. In response, Mutsafa wrote: "My time too precious to engage proxies @rt_media_capt. The depth & dimensions of our relationships with CAS (Singh) are beyond everyone's comprehension, miles above pure commerce. Even during bitter fights, we draw a line, Raveen Bhai, no self appointed surrogate wud ever understand that (sic)." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-a-single-posting-took-place-in-punjab-without-money-gifts-to-pakistani-journalist-alleges-sidhus-wife-1043501.html
23-10-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt to start distributing tablets, smartphones among youth by November-end: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said his government will begin the distribution of tablets and smartphones among the youth by November-end. He made the announcement while laying the foundation stone of a government medical college in Sultanpur. Asserting that his government is working to provide employment to every youth without discrimination, he said, "To equip the youth of Uttar Pradesh with the latest technology, the state government will start providing tablets and laptops from the last week of November." The chief minister also launched 126 development projects worth Rs 46.33 crore in Sultanpur and 99 projects worth Rs 334.24 crores in Ambedkar Nagar, the UP government said in a statement here. Attacking the Congress and the Samajwadi Party, Adityanath in Sultanpur said earlier governments had only one objective that is to “play with the faith of people and hinder the development of the country”. There was a time when scams were the order of the day during the Congress-led government at the Centre, he said. The countrymen were shocked and upset with the attitude of previous governments, he said. "The benefits of development schemes were confined to one family only. One family in Delhi and one family in Lucknow used to grab the money of the poor. People used to die due to hunger and lack of basic amenities,” he said. When PM Narendra Modi came to power, he gave the slogan of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas', ensuring that benefits of schemes reached all without discrimination, he said. Accusing the previous government of spreading anarchy, the CM said there used to be frequent riots during festivals, curfew used to be imposed and people could not celebrate. "Now, no riot took place in UP in the past four-and-a-half years because the rioters are aware of the consequences," he said. The UP CM also gave a warning to members of the mafia, saying, "If you try to flex your muscles, then the bulldozer is ready.” Targeting the previous SP government for being “selfish” and “favouring” the criminals, Adityanath said this pushed the state backward. The UP CM said those who divide society for their selfish political motives will never be accepted and respected. He said Sultanpur is getting the maximum benefit of Purvanchal Expressway as farmers got four times compensation for their land. With the industry clusters coming up here, the youth will get employed here, he said. Hitting out at the opposition for “politics over coronavirus vaccine and the Ram temple”, Adityanath said, "Over 12.32 crore vaccines have been administered in Uttar Pradesh. One has to remain alert from those who mislead people. They are such people, who change colour and can even make a chameleon feel ashamed. Had there been the governments of the Congress, SP, or BSP, would the Ram temple been built? They used to say that Ram is imaginary. Now, these people say that 'Ram sabke hain' (Ram belongs to everyone)." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-start-distributing-tablets-smartphones-among-youth-by-november-end-adityanath-1043518.html
23-10-2021||South||Woman seeks return of child 'forcefully' given for adoption in Kerala, protests in front of secretariat||A 22-year-old woman in Kerala has been protesting in front of the Kerala government secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday seeking the return of her child given for adoption a year ago. Anupama, a native of Thiruvananthapuram, alleges that her parents surrendered her child for adoption after making her forcefully sign the documents by threatening her. It was learnt that the child was already adopted by another set of parents through due legal process. The incident assumed much political dimension as Anupama's father was a local leader of the ruling CPM. Anupama alleged that her father used his political influence to suppress her complaints. Opposition political parties and activists were also backing Anupama. Though Anupama approached authorities about six months ago to get her child, the authorities allegedly ignored her. She filed a police complaint but the police registered a case only the other day citing that they were awaiting legal opinion. Anupama was in a relationship with a youth in her locality, Ajith, who was already married. Anupama delivered her child a year ago at a private hospital. She said in her complaint that her parents made her believe that they would return the child after her sister's marriage. She was forced to sign the documents after being forced and threatened by her parents, she alleged. The police arraigned Anupama's father Jayachandran, mother, sister and a couple of other relatives and friends in the case. The state government had also announced a probe into the matter to examine if there were also flaws on the part of the child welfare authorities. Kerala Social Justice Minister Veena George said that the rights of the mother over her child need to be protected. Legal sources said that if the child was already given for adoption by following due process, only the court would be able to take a decision on the matter. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-seeks-return-of-child-forcefully-given-for-adoption-in-kerala-protests-in-front-of-secretariat-1043399.html
23-10-2021||South||Battlefields left behind by the nature's fury in Kerala||As the water level in the landslide and flood-ravaged areas of Kerala receded and people started to return to their homes, what was awaiting were heartbreaking scenes. Many houses were reduced to rubbles and many are at the risk of falling at any time. Furniture, vehicles, home appliances, vessels, books and other valuables were irrecoverably damaged. Nature's fury ravaged areas literally looks like a battlefield filled with the lifetime earnings of a score of people remaining 'dead'. While women could be seen desperately searching among the debris for any valuables left behind, many men were sitting in despair.  Most of the houses along the banks of the Manimala river at Koottickal and Mundakkayam towns along the borders of Kottayam and Idukki districts in central Kerala that got damaged belonged to those from economically weak families of daily wage earners who were already bearing the brunt of the Covid lockdown. Hence many families like that of bus driver Jebi and wayside fruit vendor Billal lost their lifetime earnings. "I have been eking out a living from way-side fruit sales. This house was built from the small savings I made after meeting the requirements of my family comprising wife and daughter. Already we have financial liabilities that aggravated with the Covid lockdown. Hence I literally don't know how to take life forward," Kootickal native Bilal told DH sitting on his house that suffered extensive structural damage after being submerged in the water. Mundakayam's native Sunny said that since the water level in the river rising to the brink of the bridge was nothing new many remained in their homes themselves. But all on a sudden the water level started to rise and families literally ran to find shelter, said Sunny whose house is now almost hanging close to a stream as a portion of its basement were washed away along with the portion of a concrete walkway bridge. Many old aged women and children staying near the landslide spot at Koottickal that claimed around ten lives could not even recollect how they managed to run for safety on hearing the thundering sound of the landslide and the water level rising. Many like Rasheeda were yet to come out of the shock over the narrow escape they had. Along with her children and grandchildren, she took shelter at her neighbour Jebi's house right on the river bank. But owing to the sense of fear all of them moved out of the house and within minutes the house plunged as such into the river along with two other adjacent houses - a video that went viral on social media. "It is our entire life savings that are now remaining as concrete rubbles on the river bank," laments Jebi. It was indeed a double whammy for the shop keepers of the localities who suffered extensive damage to goods as they were just struggling to revive from the impacts of the Covid lockdown.  Many waterfront luxurious houses along the river banks also suffered extensive damage to costly interiors as the water level rose to over ten feet in many areas. Even those who were sitting in the comforts of their first floors had to desperately seek help for rescue as the water level increased alarmingly, which was never anticipated by the locals. Mundakayam native Shameer, who was actively engaged in rescue efforts, said that many in two-storey houses were initially declining their offer to shift to safe places. But later they started to make desperate calls for help. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/battlefields-left-behind-by-the-natures-fury-in-kerala-1043466.html
23-10-2021||South||Cargo ship collides with boat off Tamil Nadu coast, two fishermen 'thrown out', 17 injured||A cargo ship collided with a fishing boat off Tamil Nadu coast and in the impact, two fishermen, part of a crew of 17, were 'thrown out' and the Coast Guard rescued them on Saturday. The collision was due to 'negligence' and it caused injuries to 17 fishermen besides 'damage' to the boat, South Asian Fishermen Fraternity, general secretary Father Churchill claimed, demanding compensation for the fishermen. The Kanyakumari district-based SAFF chief urged the government to take steps to get appropriate compensation on par with international standards for the fishermen as well as damages for the boat. "The Panama-flagged cargo ship Navious Venus bound for Mumbai from Singapore did not stop after ramming into the fishing boat. It was due to sheer negligence," he told PTI and urged authorities to seize the ship and arrest its captain. "Such incidents continue to happen as there is no strict action. If a vehicle driver causes an accident on road he is arrested. Why this is not followed in the case of a ship? Why this indifference" he asked. The Coast Guard, in a press release, said it received information about a mid-sea collision between a merchant's vessel 'Navious Venus' and fishing boat 'Shijumon.' Two crew members of the fishing boat were 'thrown overboard' due to the impact of the collision, it said. All the fishermen were rescued and provided medical assistance and early on Saturday, two of them, who were injured in the collision, were taken to Thiruvananthapuram government medical college by a medical team from CG Station Vizhinjam-Thiruvananthapuram. Both the CG and SAFF said that the fishing boat was escorted by local fishing boats and it reached the Colachel fishing harbour in Tamil Nadu with the remaining crew of 15. "We are in the process of getting an FIR filed with the marine police," the SAFF chief said. "As they were tossed up due to the impact of the collision, the 15-other fishermen also suffered injuries." In a representation to the Directorate General of Shipping seeking legal action, the SAFF said on October 22, as many as 17 fishermen set out for deep-sea fishing in the mechanised boat 'Shijumon' from Colachel government fishing harbour. The fishing boat belonged to a fisherman, Rajamani from Kotilpaadu of Kanyakumari district. While the fishing boat was around nineteen nautical miles from Colachel, the cargo ship collided with it and caused damage, resulting in injuries to fishermen two of whom were thrown out. Immediately, the master of the boat informed the Coast Guard about the collision and requested assistance and CG personnel reached the spot immediately. The two 'thrown out' and injured fishermen were K Chinnathurai and P Arulraj, aged 50 and 60 respectively, and they were taken to Thiruvananthapuram government medical college hospital for treatment. "We kindly request your good office to take necessary and immediate legal action against the ship Navious Venus which collided with fishermen boat Shijumon and caused injury to the fishermen and heavy damage to the mechanised boat," the representation said. A copy of the representation was also sent to fisheries, police and other authorities in Cochin, Chennai and Kanyakumari urging action. Of the 17 fishermen, 15 were from Tamil Nadu and two others from West Bengal. On February 15, 2012, two marines aboard an Italian-flagged oil tanker 'Enrica Lexie' allegedly shot dead two Indian fishermen, hailing from Kerala and on a fishing boat, "mistaking" them for pirates. Following remittance of Rs 10 crore compensation by Italy, the Supreme Court had in June this year directed the closure of criminal proceedings in India against two Italian marines, in connection with the killing of two fishermen off the Kerala coast. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cargo-ship-collides-with-boat-off-tamil-nadu-coast-two-fishermen-thrown-out-17-injured-1043473.html
23-10-2021||South||Legal hurdles over compensation feared after foods in Kerala||As the flood and landslides damaged many houses along the river banks, there are concerns over getting due compensations also. Local sources said that many houses were situated on lands where the owners were only having possession rights. Many constructions were even suspected to be done without following the norms. For these reasons, the government will have legal restrictions in allowing compensations. During the 2018 major floods across Kerala, the authorities came across a similar issue. The compensations were not in accordance with the actual loss suffered by the house owners. Revenue department sources said that the state government was likely to a decision in favour of the affected. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/legal-hurdles-over-compensation-feared-after-foods-in-kerala-1043504.html
23-10-2021||South||Arrests made in TDP office attack case; Chandrababu Naidu to meet President on October 25||The Andhra Pradesh Police on Saturday arrested 10 persons accused of vandalism inside the TDP central office. The attacks by YSRCP supporters following a TDP leader's disparaging comments on Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy have elevated the political heat in the state. While TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu sat on a 36-hour fast in the damaged office condemning the attacks and demanding President's rule in the state, the ruling YSRCP too staged counter protests. Naidu is scheduled to meet President Ram Nath Kovind in New Delhi on Monday, to complain about the “failure of law and order and breakdown of the constitutional machinery under CM Reddy's regime.” Naidu has also sought the appointment of home minister Amit Shah. Ending his fast on Friday night, the former CM said that they would constitute a commission to inquire and penalise all those persons acting unjustly now. He also cautioned the police and other officials not to book false cases. Naidu has been accusing the state DGP Gautam Sawang of acting at the behest of the ruling side and that he has failed in protecting the TDP office and leaders from the YSRCP attacks. Naidu also demanded a CBI probe into these incidents. TDP leaders had alleged that the state police were not acting on their complaints despite providing proof of the involvement of the YSRCP leaders in the Tuesday attacks. On Saturday, Guntur Urban police stated that they have arrested 10 persons and are in search of other accused. “We have issued notices to the TDP office for the CCTV footage but they are yet to provide us with evidence which would help us in identifying all those involved,” police officials said. Meanwhile, the AP high court has allowed bail to K Pattabhi Ram. The police had on Wednesday night arrested the TDP leader whose disparaging comments on CM Reddy were said to have provoked the ruling party men to go on a rampage inside the TDP's Mangalagiri head office, injuring a few TDP activists. Pattabhi's house in Vijayawada was also vandalised the same day by miscreants. Vijayawada police said they have till now arrested 11 persons in this case. The TDP has been accusing YSRCP leaders and legislators of being involved in the ganja-drug trade. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/arrests-made-in-tdp-office-attack-case-chandrababu-naidu-to-meet-president-on-october-25-1043520.html
23-10-2021||South||Locals say illegal quarries could be root cause of Kerala calamity||The viral video of a house collapsing by the storng waters of the Manimala river in the Kottayam district showed one of the most distressing scenes of this year's calamity in Kerala. Right from that spot, on the hills on the other side of the river in Idukki district, the possible cause for the disaster can be seen: live quarries. Even as experts try to understand back-to-back calamities and reasons for the floods and landslides, locals believe massive quarrying activities in the locality could be behind the floods. Yendayar, about 10 km from Koottickal in Kottayam, was ravaged by flood and landslides. A large quantity of rocks that accumulated at the river at Yendayar is attributing the floods to a nearby region named Valyenthi, which is also known for quarries. "Aiming at huge profits, the quarry operators use excessive explosives beyond permissible limits for blasting purposes. It is a basic logic that such acts would have its impact on the entire region as the rocks and soil would get displaced and loose and tend to fall when it rains," Yendayar native Sinumon said. A series of landslides and landslips ravaged the hilly areas of Idukki and Kottayam districts last week, but only the areas where lives were lost got noticed.  A section of locals also accused a nexus of politicians with the quarrying lobbies. "On several occasions, I had seen vehicles of a former MLA from the locality proceeding to the premises of a prominent quarry owner in the region during the odd hours," a local trader of the locality said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/locals-say-illegal-quarries-could-be-root-cause-of-kerala-calamity-1043523.html
23-10-2021||South||Rains, minor landslides at Kerala's calamity-hit areas||Calamity-hit areas of Mundakayam and Koottickal in Kottayam district witnessed heavy rains and minor landslides and landslips on Saturday. According to local sources, the water level of the rivers and streams was against going up and some parts witnessed heavy water flow owing to minor landslides and landslips. Families in calamity-prone areas were still staying in relief camps. Over the last few days, there was not much rain in the region and families had started returning to their houses. The IMD had sounded an orange alert in the adjacent Idukki and Kottayam districts. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rains-minor-landslides-at-keralas-calamity-hit-areas-1043534.html
23-10-2021||South||Ukraine groom, Kerala bride register marriage online||A formal online marriage registration, considered to be the first of its type, happened in Kerala on Saturday. Bridegroom Jeevan Kumar in Ukraine and bride Dhanya Martin hailing from Thiruvananthapuram registered their marriage online with the state registration authorities. The Kerala High Court recently granted a nod to the couple to register the marriage online as the bridegroom could not come down due to Covid.  The bride, accompanied by her parents reached the sub-registrar office at Punalur in Kollam district, which is the native place of the bridegroom. The bridegroom appeared online and his father signed the register on his behalf. Higher authorities of the registration department reviewed the procedures online. The marriage certificate was handed over to Dhanya. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ukraine-groom-kerala-bride-register-marriage-online-1043543.html
23-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu allows 100% occupancy in theatres; Classes for 1-8 on rotational basis from Nov 1||Easing curbs, Tamil Nadu on Saturday allowed 100 per cent occupancy in film theatres, schools for Class one to eight on 'rotational' basis from November 1, operation of bars, lifting of time restrictions on functioning of shops, among others, as part of the new set of relaxations announced by the government. The decision on easing curbs further with immediate effect was taken at a review meeting presided over by Chief Minister M K Stalin at the Secretariat today, an official release said. Accordingly, the time restriction on shops, restaurants and bakeries, hitherto allowed to function till 11 pm, has been eased in view of the coming festive season. Further, indoor and outdoor sports, sports training, and use of swimming pools for 'therapeutic purposes' are allowed with immediate effect. Schools are allowed to hold classes for Class one to eight on rotational basis and film theatres are permitted with 100 per cent occupancy by adhering to the Covid-19 standard operating procedures, the release said. Air-conditioned and non AC buses are allowed to operate at full capacity between districts and states except Kerala. The release said bars and standalone bars are also allowed to function. Film shootings with the required crew adhering to Covid-19 protocol are permitted and all those taking part should have got both Covid vaccine doses. The government, however, extended the ban on conduct of political events and festivals. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-allows-100-occupancy-in-theatres-classes-for-1-8-on-rotational-basis-from-nov-1-1043551.html
23-10-2021||South||KCR to convene all-party meeting to resolve Podu cultivation issue in Telangana||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to convene all-party meetings at the district level to solve the Podu land issues and protect the forest cover in the state. The meetings — to be attended by MPs, MLAs, zilla and mandal parishad public representatives — should arrive at a unanimous view on providing forest rights to those already involved in Podu cultivation. “But after the cutoff, not even an inch of forestland should be encroached,” the CM said. The increasing incidents in Telangana of tribals clashing with forest department officials affirming their rights over forest lands has prompted CM Rao to sit and discuss an acceptable way out. These clashes have sometimes turned violent like in Mahabubabad district in July this year when a forest officer was assaulted by a few tribal women. In June 2019, a woman forest officer was injured in one such attack with the alleged backing of a ruling party leader in Komaram Bheem Asifabad district. Podu or shifting cultivation as practiced by various tribal groups in forest areas has for long been an economical survival versus environmental sustenance issue. About 87 per cent of Podu encroachments are recorded in 12 north Telangana districts like Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Asifabad, Adilabad, Jayashankar Bhoopalpally, Khammam, Nirmal, Warangal, Kamareddy, Nizamabad and Nalgonda. Though the Rao government had earlier promised to extend due rights to the forest dwellers under the forest rights act, the assurances, analysts say, have mostly remained a lip service. Rao has on Saturday convened a meeting of the district collectors, forest department officials for solving the Podu lands problem. The CM instructed officials to accept claims from November 8 to December 8, from the tribals doing Podu cultivation. Preparatory meetings should be held, and village committees formed as per the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. One nodal officer appointed for two to three villages, RDO at the Sub Division level and collector at the district level should monitor the process. “Tribals using forest area should be provided with an alternative government land nearby for podu cultivation. If there is no such land available, they should be given land on the outer periphery of the forest,” Rao instructed officials. The CM wants forest land boundaries fixed with protection trenches and plants like the Nickernut plants grown on the boundary line. Forest department funds and MG-NREGA funds could be utilized for this purpose. “Tribes like Gond, Koya, and Kolam have always preserved the forests; it is the outsiders who destroy them and if need be, preventive detention acts should be invoked against such people,” the CM said. The Chief Minister instructed officials to stop government incentives like Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bhima, free power to farmers indulging in Ganja cultivation. “Pattas of those cultivating ganja in forest lands should be canceled. Such people should be sent to jail,” directed Rao. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kcr-to-convene-all-party-meeting-to-resolve-podu-cultivation-issue-in-telangana-1043563.html
23-10-2021||State||Separate sports hostel for women in state: Minister ||Youth Empowerment & Sports Minister KC Narayana Gowda promised that the government would take steps towards constructing separate sports hostel for women in each district across the state.  He was speaking at state level sports meet and cultural competitions for government employees, here on Friday evening. He said at present there is no separate sports hostels for women in the state. So they would be constructed in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/separate-sports-hostel-for-women-in-state-minister-1043316.html
23-10-2021||State||Karnataka govt to sanction Rs 50 crore for development of Kittur||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said Rs 50 crore will be sanctioned for the development of historical significant Kittur in Belagavi district, during the current financial year. "The Kittur Development Authority was constituted in 2011 and Rs 8 crore was released for the purpose. This year Rs 50 crore will be sanctioned for the development of Kittur," he told reporters after paying homage to Kittur Rani Chennamma, who had fought against the British regime in India, on her birth anniversary. Bommai hailed Kittur Rani Chennamma as one of the greatest freedom fighters in the country. "Rani Chennamma is not confined to Belagavi but belongs to the entire state. The flame from her memorial in Belagavi has been taken to Bengaluru. Remembering the contributions of Chennamma and Sangolli Rayanna, the government is working to fulfill their desires," the CM said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-sanction-rs-50-crore-for-development-of-kittur-1043417.html
23-10-2021||State||Muslims aren’t minorities, they should work for the nation: Congress leader||Veteran Congress leader K Rahman Khan on Saturday said Muslims are not a minority in India and suggested that his fellow community members strive towards nation-building.  The former Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson was speaking to reporters at the Congress’ headquarters.  He was responding to questions on the mudslinging between the Congress and JD(S) over Muslim support ahead of the October 30 Hangal and Sindgi bypolls.  “There are 20-22 crore Muslims in the country. According to me, they are not minorities. How can 22 crore people be a minority? We've been given that colour,” Khan said. Khan also referred to his book ‘Indian Muslims: The Way Forward’ and said, “I have said in my book that [Muslims] should strive for the nation and contribute to the society. That should be our next step...be good citizens. It’s not about asking from society or the government; we should start giving.” The senior leader decried attempts to treat Muslims as a vote bank. “They are as much citizens as anybody else. Don’t they have the wisdom to know who to vote for? Are minorities usable,” he asked rhetorically. “The Constitution does not discriminate. Articles 14, 15 and 16 say that any community that is backward should get benefits from the government such as reservation and scholarship. So, be it any party in power, they aren’t doing anybody a favour by giving these benefits. So long as we have our Constitution, every citizen will be protected." Further, Khan discouraged attempts to portray Muslims as en bloc supporters of any single political party. “Any party that protects secularism will get Muslims’ support. They support Congress because it has stood for secularism. If Congress stops being secular, then it’ll have nothing to give to the country. Tomorrow, if BJP becomes secular, Muslims will support them,” he said.  Rising communalism has caused jitters among secular parties, Khan opined. “Even the secular parties are scared to stand up for Muslims.” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/muslims-aren-t-minorities-they-should-work-for-the-nation-congress-leader-1043500.html
23-10-2021||State||Karnataka govt moves to operate treasury system on its own||The Basavaraj Bommai-led finance department has roped in a consultant from accounting firm Grant Thornton to help the government develop in-house, glitch-free capacity to run Khajane-2, the flagship software that forms the backbone of the treasury.  Running Khajane-2 on its own will determine the government’s efficiency in spending, including payment of salaries.  At present, Khajane-2 is run by IT major TCS that built the system for the government.  Khajane-2, an integrated financial management system, handles the government’s money. It also gives real-time information on receipts, fund releases and expenditure.  Grant Thornton will deploy consultant Vijay Krishnan who will handhold authorities to take over the system. He will get a monthly paycheck of Rs 2.22 lakh for his expertise, according to a notification.   This is the latest in a series of hires the government has done during the rollout of Khajane-2, which reportedly suffered from glitches that affected disbursal of funds.  A senior official said the system is now capable of being run by internal staffers.  It was in 2013 that the government inked a six-year deal with TCS to establish Khajane-2 for automation in treasury and finance functions. It replaced Khajane-1 that was in use since 2001.  "The migration process of moving from Khajane-1 to Khajane-2 started four years ago," the official said, adding that several departments were laggards in switching to the new system. "Last year, there was a final push. Now, all departments are on board and every payment happens through Khajane-2," the official explained.  "TCS is still involved as of now, but we are building in-house capacity so that the system will be run on a sustainable basis by our own people. It’s always good that way because nobody else understands the system better," the official said.  The department earlier used consultancy services from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). "We are now diversifying our resources," Commissioner of Treasuries Ujjwal Kumar Ghosh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-moves-to-operate-treasury-system-on-its-own-1043527.html
23-10-2021||State||Interfaith love affair: Hindu youth found dead||In what is suspected to be a case of honour killing, a Hindu youth, who was reportedly in love with a Muslim girl, was found dead in Balaganur village of Alamela taluk in the district on Saturday. The police have identified the deceased as Ravi Nimbaragi (34). His body was found in a well in a farmland of the village. Superintendent of Police H D Anandkumar told DH that Ravi was in love with a Muslim girl for the past four years and the parents of the girl were opposed to their relationship. They had warned both in this regard. On October 21, the girl had called the police helpline alleging that some people from her side were assaulting Ravi and that his life was in danger. A case has been registered based on the information provided by the girl, the SP added. The family members of the girl were absconding after the incident came to light. The police have detained the uncle and brother of the girl and are questioning them. “The suspects have confessed to murdering the youth,” the SP said. The girl has been provided shelter at Santwana Kendra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/interfaith-love-affair-hindu-youth-found-dead-1043529.html
23-10-2021||State||Minority Report: While parties bicker, have they done enough?||In a humorous, scathing dig at the Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, JD(S) Legislature Party leader H D Kumaraswamy recently dubbed him the “terminator of minority leaders in Congress.” Kumaraswamy’s allegation was that Siddaramaiah had snubbed the growth of Muslim leaders in Congress, while only promoting his loyalists.  Siddaramaiah’s aide and Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan shot back, daring Kumaraswamy to choose a Muslim as the chief ministerial face of the JD(S).  With the Hangal and Sindagi bypolls around the corner, both Congress and JD(S) are leaving no stone unturned to establish their secular credentials. Not to be left behind, even some BJP leaders were seen at a dargah, attempting to woo Muslim voters. Both constituencies have a significant Muslim population, constituting at least 20% of the electorate.  While political parties are accusing each other of hypocrisy, the Legislative Assembly, at present, has just seven Muslim MLAs, the lowest in recent times, raising questions on the role of all parties in nurturing Muslim leadership in the state.   Be it Azeez Sait, S M Yahya or Nazir Sab, Karnataka had tall Muslim leadership at one point. “However, political parties did not nurture the next generation of leaders and were only concerned about immediate electoral gains. They promoted only certain loyalists who could garner the votes in a particular constituency. They didn’t encourage independent Muslim leadership to grow,” Democratic Youth Federation of India’s state president Muneer Katipalla explains.  With the rise of communal politics in Karnataka, especially in the coastal region, parties vowing allegiance to secularism have positioned themselves as the “protectors” of the minority community, rather than nurturing independent leadership. “They didn’t address the socio-economic issues of the community at all,” Katipalla adds.  Some other Muslim leaders who spoke to DH share this sentiment. “No political party has done justice to Muslim representation. Today, in an extremely polarised atmosphere, political parties are also hesitant to promote Muslims as the face of their leadership. Ultimately, it is about electoral gains for everyone involved,” one leader says.  On several occasions, Muslim leaders in both Congress and JD(S) have expressed disgruntlement. Leaders such as C M Ibrahim, Zameer and Iqbal Ansari quit JD(S) citing lack of opportunities. In 2019, a section of the Muslim leaders in Congress, led by former Congress leader Roshan Baig, lamented that except for Zameer, others were being sidelined.  With Muslims constituting 12.92% of the state’s total population, today, newly emerging Muslim leaders face at least two distinct ground-level challenges. One is the issue of delimitation. “Constituencies have been carved in a way that splits the minority population. This makes it extremely difficult for Muslims to get electoral mandate,” at least two leaders explain.  The other is lack of social capital. “Muslims have scant representation in corporate, industry or government sectors. Elections have become expensive over time and there is little financial backing for the community. How is a new leader supposed to win elections with no funding unless they are from an affluent family with a political background?” they ask.  JD(S) MLC B M Farooq says the Muslim leaders have to be equally blamed. “There are MLAs elected multiple times who have become wealthy instead of working for the community’s welfare. We need leaders who have a vision for the socio-economic upliftment for the community,” he opines.  Congress MLA Rizwan Arshad feels the Muslim community today needs support and handholding. “More the polarisation, fewer the opportunities for new leaders to emerge. When you are excluded from the mainstream, your main struggle is for inclusion,” he says. Some BJP leaders are unabashed in saying that they will not field Muslims because they simply won’t get votes. In 2019, the then BJP state president B S Yediyurappa told DH that the BJP would field Muslim candidates if they can win. “It might take a long time for us to take that community into confidence.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minority-report-while-parties-bicker-have-they-done-enough-1043532.html
23-10-2021||State||Encourage inter-caste marriages to fight atrocities against Dalits, says L Narayanaswamy||While it is commonly believed that atrocities against Dalits have come down in the country, these atrocities continue even to this day and the society needs to work towards putting an end to such crimes, L Narayanaswamy, former Chief Justice of Himachal Pradesh High Court said on Saturday.  Speaking at the book launch of 'Makers of Modern Dalit History' authored by Guruprakash Paswan and Sudarshan Ramabhadran, Narayanaswamy cited a 2010 report by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Dalit atrocities, recorded in this book. According to the report, a crime is committed against Dalits once every 18 minutes. "While we believe that atrocities have come down, the reality is that they still continue. The society does not react when it comes to crime against Dalits," he lamented. He opined that one of the solutions for caste-based atrocities would be to encourage inter-caste marriages.  Speaking about the book, BJP national spokesperson Paswan said there have been numerous Dalit leaders in the country's freedom struggle and those who have played a key role in the making of the Indian civilisation, whose roles have been forgotten. Sadly, the present generation is not aware of their contributions, he said, adding that the book was an attempt to highlight those contributions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/encourage-inter-caste-marriages-to-fight-atrocities-against-dalits-says-l-narayanaswamy-1043538.html
23-10-2021||State||After two years gap, transfer of Karnataka teachers to begin from October 26||After a gap of two years, the department of primary and secondary education has released a schedule for transfers of teachers working with government schools in Karnataka. As per the schedule, the counselling will begin on October 26. The department has announced the calendar after the vacation of stay order by the Karnataka Administrative Tribunal (KAT), a few days ago. The data available with the department shows that as many as 75,000 teachers have applied for transfers. The process was delayed in the last two years due to various reasons, including, the Covid pandemic, court cases and elections. During the 2020-2021 academic year the process was halted due to the petition filed by a group of teachers in the Karnataka High Court questioning the amendments brought to the Karnataka State Civil Services (Teachers Transfer and Regulation) Act.  Priority will be given to the teachers who were transferred under compulsory transfer and those who were transferred as 'excess teachers'. However, the department has clarified in the notification that in case of any technical issues, the schedule can be changed. The counselling for primary teachers will begin from October 26 while for high school teachers, it will start from October 28. Meanwhile, the list for general transfers will be announced on October 30 and the first round of counselling will be held on November 2 while the second round on January 18. This year the transfers will be done as per the amendments brought to the Karnataka Civil Services (Teachers Transfer regulation) Act, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/after-two-years-gap-transfer-of-karnataka-teachers-to-begin-from-october-26-1043539.html
23-10-2021||State||PIL seeks effective guidelines for constituting ward Committees, area sabhas||Civic groups from 11 cities in Karnataka including lead petitioner CIVIC Bangalore and Mangalore Civic Group filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in Karnataka High Court seeking uniform and more effective guidelines for constituting ward level committees and area sabhas statewide. Kathyayini Chamaraj of CIVIC Bengaluru led persons from Nagarika Shakti Bengaluru, Mangalore Civic Group, Jagruta Nagarikara Vedike and Janapara Seva Sansthe among others from different cities. The PIL was necessitated because it was found that each Municipal Corporation in Karnataka was following its own agenda of nominating members to ward-level committees and Area Sabhas. Such nominations were being done arbitrarily, citing different laws. The current practice is inconsistent, illogical, and defeats the purpose of having ward committees and Area Sabhas. The petition also demanded that people’s participation structures and methodologies be uniform, transparent, fair, democratic and participatory in all Urban Local Bodies. After preliminary scrutiny, the HC had served notices to all the respondents including the Karnataka Government, Urban Development Department, the Principal Secretary, Urban Development Department, the Director, Directorate of Municipal Administration, and the Commissioners of the eleven Municipal Corporations (including BBMP). The court has also issued notice to respondents to hand over the complete set of documents to the government Advocate to enable him to seek instructions and to file a statement of objections. The 74th Indian Constitutional Amendment Act of1993 and the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) of 2005 had mandated ‘institutionalising citizen participation’ in Urban Local Bodies.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pil-seeks-effective-guidelines-for-constituting-ward-committees-area-sabhas-1043573.html
23-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After losing wife to black fungus, mourning ex-serviceman, 4 children end life||In an apparent suicide pact, five members of a family, including an ex-serviceman father, three daughters and son reportedly ended their lives by consuming poison at Borgal village in Hukkeri taluk. The incident came to light on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Gopal Dundappa Hadimani (46), daughters Soumya (19), Shweta (16), Sakshi (11) and son Srujan (8). Hadimani had three acres of agricultural land and a truck. He used to till the land and also rent the vehicle to make a living. After his wife Jaya succumbed to Mucormycosis ('black fungus') on July 6, last, the family had slipped into depression and remained withdrawn from others in the village. It is feared that they entered into a pact to end their lives and consumed poison on Friday night. Bodies of the deceased were found lying on the bed and on the floor on Saturday. Sources said the deceased have left behind a note and Rs 20,000 for funeral expenses. The Sankeshwar police have registered a case of natural deaths and an investigation is underway. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-losing-wife-to-black-fungus-mourning-ex-serviceman-4-children-end-life-1043458.html
23-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 371 new Covid cases, 7 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 371 fresh cases of Covid-19 and seven related deaths as the caseload reached 29,85,598 and toll 38,002. The state has 8,914 active carriers of the virus as of October 23. The day also saw 342 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,38,653. The positivity rate for the day was 0.30% while the case fatality rate stood at 1.88%.    Bengaluru Urban accounted for 193 new infections followed by Dakshina Kannada 34, Mysuru 25 and Hassan and Tumakuru 23 recorded fresh cases each. The state capital recorded four deaths while Dakshina Kannada, Kolar and Tumakuru reported one death each. As many as 1,20,073 samples were tested for Covid-19 and 2,45,505 doses of vaccine were administered on Saturday.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-371-new-covid-cases-7-deaths-1043526.html
23-10-2021||West||Mumbai high-rise fire: FIR registered against owner, others||"A case has been registered against the owner of the building, its occupant, the fire safety maintenance contractor and others under IPC sections 336 (rash or negligent act that endangers human life or personal safety of others), 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) and under sections of the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act at Kalachowki police station here," the police official said. The blaze had erupted on the 19th floor of the One Avighna Park building around 11.45 am on Friday. The fire brigade had categorised it as Level-4 (major) fire. Arun Tiwari, a 30-year-old security guard of the building, had got trapped in a flat on that floor and in order to save himself, he held on to the railing of the flat's balcony for some time before falling to death. The fire brigade personnel had rescued 16 stranded persons. "Initially a case of accidental death was registered," the official said. Police are probing the incident, he added.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-high-rise-fire-fir-registered-against-owner-others-1043365.html
23-10-2021||West||Venkaiah Naidu to be on four-day visit to Goa from October 27||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu will be on a four day visit to Goa from October 27, an official said on Saturday. The vice president's official visit will end on October 30, a spokesperson of the Goa government said. "During his visit, he will inaugurate the annexe of Sant Sohirobanath Ambiye Government College of Arts, Science and Commerce at Virnoda village in Pernem taluka of North Goa," he said.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/venkaiah-naidu-to-be-on-four-day-visit-to-goa-from-october-27-1043368.html
23-10-2021||West||Elephant herd spotted in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli||A herd of elephants has been spotted in the Gadchiroli district of the nature-rich Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. A group of 18 to 20 pachyderms, some of them calves, seems to have migrated from the neighbouring state of Chhattisgarh. The Maharashtra Wildlife Department (MFD) is taking necessary measures. "For the first time such a big herd of elephants has been seen in Maharashtra," Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (wildlife) Sunil Limaye confirmed to DH on Saturday. "It's a big herd and we are here. It's pretty huge," said Satpuda Foundation founder-President Kishor Rithe, who is a member of Maharashtra State Board for Wildlife, while speaking to DH. Rithe works extensively in the central Indian landscape. The Gadchiroli district does not have any records of regular and resident elephant population. But, there are reports of elephants passing by Gadchiroli after traversing from Odisha and Chhattisgarh. According to reports from Gadchiroli, the herd is moving but is still in the district.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elephant-herd-spotted-in-maharashtras-gadchiroli-1043371.html
23-10-2021||West||Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani visits NCB office||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani visited the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office here on Saturday morning, sources said. Dadlani arrived at the anti-drug agency's office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai around 10 am, carrying an envelope in her hand, they said. While stepping out of the office over an hour later, the media persons waiting outside tried to seek her comment, but she left the place without speaking to them. Aryan Khan (23), son of Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested by the NCB on October 3 following a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. On Thursday, an NCB team had visited the actor's residence 'Mannat' in suburban Bandra seeking some documents related to the investigation of the alleged drug seizure case. On Friday evening, the Shah Rukh Khan's bodyguard had visited the NCB office and handed over some documents in a sealed envelope on the actor's behalf. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shah-rukh-khans-manager-pooja-dadlani-visits-ncb-office-1043374.html
23-10-2021||West||Modi calls for continuation of 'double engine' government to make Goa self-sufficient||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for the need to have continuation of "double engine" government in order to realise the vision of making Goa self-sufficient. He said this while interacting with the beneficiaries and stakeholders of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa programme' via video-conferencing. His 'double engine' reference was to the BJP governments at the Centre as well as in the state. The Assembly polls in Goa, which is currently ruled by the saffron party, are due in February next year. "Goa can become 'swayampurna' (self-sufficient) only when it makes cent per cent use of the developmental avenues and possibilities," Modi said, adding that 'Swayampurna Goa' is a means to fulfil the aspirations of common people. "Swayampurna Goa is an assurance of well-being and health of our mothers and sisters. Swayampurna Goa will provide employment and self employment opportunities to youths and unemployed people," he added. Modi said that it is not just a programme of five months or five years, but it is a first phase of the vision for next 25 years. Each one from Goa will have to contribute to achieve the goal, he added. "That is why, Goa needs continuation of development by double engine government. Goa needs clear policies like the way they are today and a stable government," he said. The prime minister said that the coastal state needs "energetic leadership like today". "With the blessings of entire Goa, we can make the state swayampurna," he said. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant welcomed the prime minister during the event. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/modi-calls-for-continuation-of-double-engine-government-to-make-goa-self-sufficient-1043393.html
23-10-2021||West||PM Modi recalls his 'chaiwala' past during interaction with divyang man from Goa||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday comforted a divyang tea seller from Goa during his virtual interaction with beneficiaries and stakeholders of a government scheme by recalling his past as a 'chaiwala' or a tea seller. Modi interacted with the select beneficiaries and stakeholders of the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa programme' via video conferencing. '“Aap bhi meri tarah chaiwale hai (You are also a tea seller like me),” Modi told Rurki Ahmad Rajasaheb, a differently-abled small-time businessman and a para table tennis player from Vasco town. He runs a tea stall outside the Kadamba Transport Corporation' bus stand. Rajasaheb is one of the beneficiaries under the differently-abled category of the "Swayampurna Goa" programme, an extension of the Central government's 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' initiative. Rajasaheb told the prime minister about how he participated in the camp for the "Swayampurna Goa" scheme in December 2020 and subsequently became its beneficiary. Modi said the Central government has been working towards giving respectful life to the differently-abled persons. “The government is with you. If you progress, the country will progress,” the PM said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modi-recalls-his-chaiwala-past-during-interaction-with-divyang-man-from-goa-1043407.html
23-10-2021||West||Prostitution racket busted in Mumbai; three held; five rescued||At least five women were rescued and three persons arrested, after the Mumbai police busted a prostitution racket operating in the western suburb of Malad here, an official said on Saturday. Five victims, including two minors, were rescued in the operation that took place in Manori on Thursday evening, the official said. Acting on a tip-off, officials of the crime branch's Unit-11 raided two hotels, where they allegedly found that the victims were being forced into prostitution, he said. The police have arrested two managers of the hotels and a woman who was acting as a pimp, the official said. An FIR under relevant sections of the IPC, Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act (PITA) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered against the accused at Gorai police station, the official added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prostitution-racket-busted-in-mumbai-three-held-five-rescued-1043411.html
23-10-2021||West||BJP set to replace Goa CM ahead of assembly polls, claims AAP||The AAP on Saturday claimed that it has learnt from "reliable sources" that the BJP is set to replace Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant ahead of next year's assembly polls as people are unhappy with the performance of the state government under his leadership. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters, senior AAP leader Manish Sisodia claimed that the BJP has decided to appoint a new chief minister because it has understood that it would be difficult for it to go to polls in the state under Sawant's leadership. There was no immediate reaction from the BJP. People of Goa are unhappy with the state government under Sawant's leadership as his dispensation failed to deliver on various fronts during its term, Sisodia said. "We have learnt from very reliable sources that the BJP is going to replace Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant with someone else just two-three months ahead of the elections in the state," Sisodia told reporters. "The BJP has decided to remove Sawant and appoint a new chief minister as it has understood that it will be very difficult for the party to join the fray under his leadership because he did not work during his term. People are very unhappy with the Pramod Sawant government," he added. The AAP leader asserted that his party party will emerge victorious in the upcoming assembly polls in Goa even after appointment of a new chief minister by the BJP. "Just by changing the face, people will not be deceived. By replacing the current chief minister with someone else, mood of the people will not be changed. People will give their mandate to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the upcoming Assembly elections," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-set-to-replace-goa-cm-ahead-of-assembly-polls-claims-aap-1043442.html
23-10-2021||West||We have case where complainant has gone missing: Uddhav Thackeray's dig at Param Bir Singh||In an apparent dig at former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said there is a case in the state where the complainant has gone missing. Thackeray made the statement at the inauguration of two wings of the annex building at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijuju, Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud, and others were present on the occasion. "Justice D Y Chandrachud pointed out (during his address at the event) that a case is pending in Maharashtra since 1958 as the accused is absconding. But today we have a case where the complainant is missing," Thackeray said. "He gave a complaint making serious allegations but is now missing. We do not know where he is. This is something that also needs to be looked into," he added. Although the chief minister did not name anyone, his remarks were apparently targeted at the senior IPS officer, who had levelled allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. A few days ago, during a hearing of a plea pertaining to Singh, the Maharashtra government had told the Bombay High Court that his whereabouts were not known. Days after he was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner, Singh had claimed in a letter to the chief minister earlier this year that Deshmukh used to ask the police officers to collect money from restaurants and bars in Mumbai. Deshmukh, an NCP leader, resigned as a minister in April this year, although he has denied the allegations against him. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by Singh. During his address, the chief minister added that the state government is now planning to launch a project wherein a new high court complex will be built in Mumbai. "I would like to extend my invitation to Chief Justice of India N V Ramana right now to come to the function as and when it happens. I will try to ensure that the foundation laying of the new building complex and its inauguration are both done by my government," he said. His statement was apparently in response to minister Rijiju's remark that the foundation for this building (Aurangabad bench) was laid by former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, while Thackeray has come for its inauguration. Thackeray added that dispensing justice is teamwork involving all the four pillars of democracy. "We all have to work as a team to ensure that none of the pillars collapses," he added. Thackeray said that when Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar was framing the Constitution, he was asked about the rights of the central and the state governments, and he answered that except for a few rights to the Centre, the state will be equally sovereign. "Dr Ambedkar had made it clear that the state is equally sovereign, except for a few powers to the central government. But are these rights of the states being exercised today? We should check," he said. India has completed 75 years of Independence, he said, adding, "If we think that we should not lose our independence, I request that all the judges should guide the country about the meaning of independence." Occupying a certain position doesn't mean that your wish is your authority. Wishes and rights are two different things, someone should tell this, Thackeray said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-have-case-where-complainant-has-gone-missing-uddhav-thackerays-dig-at-param-bir-singh-1043447.html
23-10-2021||West||MNS chief Raj Thackeray, mother test positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray and his mother Kunda Thackeray tested positive for coronavirus infection on Saturday, a civic official said here. Both have mild symptoms, said the official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), adding that they were asked to isolate at their residence in the Dadar area. A senior aide of Thackeray confirmed that he has the infection. Thackeray (53) had recently been visiting Nashik, Pune and Thane and also meeting party leaders in Mumbai ahead of the next year's civic elections. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mns-chief-raj-thackeray-mother-test-positive-for-covid-19-1043488.html
23-10-2021||West||Sawant goes on 'private visit' outside Goa amid speculation of being axed as CM||Amid intense speculation of a leadership change in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday left the state on a "private visit", soon after Delhi deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia claimed that the BJP was likely to drop him from the top seat. State BJP leaders have dismissed reports about dropping Sawant from the Chief Minister's chair, saying such changes cannot be made with assembly polls scheduled to be held a few months later. Earlier on Saturday, Aam Aadmi Party leader Sisodia while addressing a press conference in Delhi had claimed that the BJP had resolved to drop Sawant from the CM's position on grounds of poor administration and inefficient handling of the Covid crisis. “We have learnt from very reliable sources that BJP is going to change its CM in Goa. Just two months before the assembly election, the party will replace Pramod Sawant and appoint a new Chief Minister. They have done this in Uttarakhand and in Karnataka. The BJP has now realised, just two months before the polls, that the people of Goa are very unhappy with Sawant," Sisodia told reporters in the national capital. "He and his government have done no work there. They have realised that they cannot contest the election under his leadership. This must be the first time in the history of the country that the ruling party realises two months before an election that their party has done no work and is now set to change the CM. The BJP is admitting it,” Sisodia told reporters in Delhi.  AAP, which is keen on making a political splash in Goa in the 2022 polls, has been taking on the BJP-led coalition government in the coastal state. Interestingly, Sawant, along with state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade and party organising secretary Satish Dhond had been summoned to Delhi at short notice on Friday. The state BJP leaders had met BJP national president JP Nadda, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP national general secretary BL Santosh and the party's Goa desk in-charge and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, with Sawant claiming that election-related issues were discussed at the joint meeting. However, soon after Sisodia's announcement in Delhi, Sawant took off once again from Goa on Saturday afternoon. Speaking to reporters at Goa's Dabolim international airport, the Chief Minister said that he was "not going to Delhi", but was travelling outstation on a personal visit. While sources said that Sawant was heading for Gujarat, the Chief Minister's office in a message said, "Hon CM is travelling out of the state for a personal program and will not be available in the state for Public Meetings till Monday 25 Oct 2021". "I do not know. These are rumours. CM is running the state government well. I feel no party will carry out such changes with just two months (to polls)," former state BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar said. Union Minister of State for Tourism and North Goa MP Shripad Naik has also denied that Sawant was likely to be dropped as Chief Minister. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sawant-goes-on-private-visit-outside-goa-amid-speculation-of-being-axed-as-cm-1043517.html
