24-10-2021||First Edit||Centre crossing the borders||The Union home ministry’s decision to extend the area of jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam up to 50 km from India’s international border with Pakistan and Bangladesh is lacking in rationale and bad for its arbitrariness. The ministry notified last week that the BSF’s jurisdiction has been increased from 15 km to 50 km in the three states and reduced from 80 km to 50 km in Gujarat. The decision has been opposed by the governments in Punjab and West Bengal as an “assault on federalism” as it amounts to an interference in the policing powers of the states without consultation with them. The BSF can search people and premises and make arrests and seizures in its area of jurisdiction. The Punjab government and the Opposition Akali Dal have said that this amounts to bringing half of the state under the Centre’s policing powers.  The ostensible aim of the decision is to curb the smuggling of drugs and weapons across the borders. But it is pointed out that the increase of jurisdiction by another 35 km would not give any greater advantage for the BSF as the first few kilometres are the most crucial in its anti-smuggling operations. No case has been reported of the state police forces refusing to cooperate with the central forces in carrying out their duties. Most of the borders that Punjab and West Bengal share with Pakistan and Bangladesh are fenced except for some riverine stretches which are also technologically secured. So the addition of more areas does not make much sense. The BSF is also not known to have sought an extension of its jurisdiction. It should be noted that the 15 km jurisdiction was given to the BSF in 1968 because transport and communication facilities in those days were inadequate. With the expansion of these facilities, the argument for a larger jurisdiction actually gets weaker. There is also a contradiction between increasing the BSF jurisdiction in Punjab and simultaneously reducing it in Gujarat. There is no convincing explanation for this.  Law and order is a state subject and so increasing the operational mandate of Central forces in states would naturally be considered as an encroachment into the states’ jurisdiction, especially when such a decision is taken without consultation with the states. In 2012, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the Gujarat Chief Minister, he had opposed a move to expand the BSF’s jurisdiction and called it an “attempt to create a state within a state’’ Federal relations are not at their best now and the Union government should not have given another reason for increasing the distrust through a unilateral and arbitrary decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/centre-crossing-the-borders-1043853.html
24-10-2021||In Perspective||Women's gradual exit from workforce||During the pandemic, while women endured the “problematic combination of informal work, poverty and gender bias”, the UN Women’s latest report revealed a decline in the number of employed women by 54 million in 2020 and altogether an exit of 45 million from the labour market. In India, the crisis widened the gender gap, as about 26.6% of women have been forced out from the workforce, as against 13.4% of men (March-April 2020). The gap shrunk a little by the end of last year, but continued to be 14% lower than December 2019, as against just 1% lower for men. In 2020, globally, less than half (46.9%) of all women remained in the labour force, as against nearly three in four (74.0%) men. As per International Labour Organisation (ILO) estimates, there was a loss of 140 million full-time jobs due to Covid-19 in 2020, and women’s employment was 19% more at risk than men. In India, when male employment recovered steadily as the economy unlocked from April to August 2020, women’s chances of being employed was 9% points lower than that of men as compared to April 2019 situation. While they faced a high rate of unemployment (17%) compared to men (6%) women “found it much harder than men to find a job, which suggests a bias against employing women”, commented a report by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). No wonder that so far the Indian story remained all about women’s gradual retreat from gainful employment. Even if they are in the job market, it is mostly in sectors with “low wages, few social benefits and less secure jobs”. The female labour force participation rate (FLFPR) dropped to 17.5% in 2017-18, the lowest ever in Indian history. India has the lowest FLFPR in the world, with only parts of the Arab world being lesser, even though it grew at a high rate of 7% and above (World Bank). Now, the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS, 2019-20) revealed an overall increase of 4.2 percentage points in FLFPR with a major push from the rural sector (an increase of 5 %) as against the urban (2.4%). Notwithstanding this, experts dubbed the marginal upward turn “nothing to be happy about, as it does not come from any good quality work but mostly from unpaid family work or from the informal sector, which, in no way, could promote gender empowerment”. Not surprising that the PLFS 2019-20 data also laid bare a jump from 9.6% to 11.1% (urban) and from 37.9% to 42.3% (rural) in women’s share of work as unpaid household workers. The Time Use Survey, 2021 (Ministry of Statistics, Planning and Implementation) also disclosed that 92% of women (15-59 years) spend nine times more time on household duties, as compared to men. Globally, India has the most unequal gender division of household work. Nevertheless, the increase in urban FLFPR is basically because of women’s increasing exposure to high-contact sectors like healthcare, hospitality, entertainment, retail et al (from 14% to 22%), which has made “their employment riskier and working conditions more precarious”. While a two-phased survey (April 20 and November 20) by the Institute of Social Studies Trust (ISST) in Delhi among about 2,000 women informal workers in sectors like domestic work, street-vending, waste-picking, home-based and construction work observed that “pre-lockdown employment was the strongest predictor of post-lockdown employment, and its effect is different for men and women, and for 64% of the respondents, who lost the means to work, the fear of lost livelihoods far outweighs the fear of contracting the virus”. In rural India, the rise in FLFPR to 76% in 2019-20 from 72% in 2018-19 is also “mostly in the sub-optimal category, and not in any productive employment, reflecting a deep distress in the rural economy”, experts commented. The agriculture sector grew by 3.4% and witnessed record food grain production even during the Covid crisis, “but this did not result in increased farm incomes, rather created disguised unemployment”, many experts opined. Indian agriculture underwent progressive “feminisation”, yet women’s status largely confined to being as farm labourers, owning just 12.8% of the country’s land. The census 2011 recognised 3.6 crores women as “cultivators” but did not identify them as “farmers”, which deprived them of institutional credits or subsidies, and thus greatly hindered women’s agricultural productivity, which researchers called the “feminisation of agrarian distress” (Oxfam India). The parliamentary standing committee on labour this year suggested a gender-sensitive socio-economic recovery strategy comprising universal healthcare, enhanced budgetary allocation for the rural MGNREGA and the creation of a similar urban labour demand-driven programme. Moreover, both public and private enterprises must devise gender-based employment targets and incentive-based capacity-building initiatives, while rural India needs more gender-focused cash-based social protection schemes and opportunities for productive non-farm and farm works. (The writer is former D-G, Doordarshan and AIR)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/womens-gradual-exit-from-workforce-1043856.html
24-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||1 dead, 4 injured in lightning strike in Chitradurga||A 40-year-old man died after being struck by lightning and four others sustained injuries in Hosadurga taluk of Chitradurga district on Saturday.  Siddappa of Hosadurga town was struck by lightning when he was standing below the banyan tree on the outskirts of Maragondanadibba village to protect himself from rains. Praveen, (19) who sustained severe injury due to a lightning strike was admitted to a hospital in Shivamogga and the three others Thippesh, Kumar and Murali are undergoing treatment in general hospital in Hosadurga town.   Meanwhile, as many as 13 sheep died due to a lightning strike in Challakere taluk.  Heavy rains in Shivamogga Heavy rains accompanied by lightning lashed several parts of Shivamogga district around 7:20 pm for more than an hour. Many roads in Shivamogga, Bhadravathi were waterlogged. People, who were out shopping, were forced to stay back at the shops due to heavy rains and many were also forced to remain in their vehicles. Low-lying areas in various parts of Shivamogga city were flooded. Davangere city also received heavy rains in the afternoon. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1-dead-4-injured-in-lightning-strike-in-chitradurga-1043599.html
24-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police raid pub in Mangaluru||The CCB sleuths along with Barkpe Police conducted a raid on a pub situated on MG Road in Mangaluru late night on Saturday. The police have booked cases under the Excise Act, KP Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. The pub was found operating beyond the deadline and the use of loud music was inconveniencing the people residing in the nearby areas. The raid was carried out by CCB inspector Mahesh Prasad and Barke Station Inspector Jyothirlinga, said city police commissioner N Shashi Kumar.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-raid-pub-in-mangaluru-1043718.html
24-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephant goes on rampage, destroys crops||A wild elephant that went on a rampage in Bharatavadi and Veeranahosahalli villages has destroyed crops, railway barricades, houses and compound wall of the Forest department's guest house. The elephant entered Nagapur haadi Phase VI, but the villagers managed to drive it away. Later, the it destroyed ginger and other crops in a nearby village. The elephant also damaged the cattle shed and house of one Choudamma in Veeranahosahalli and also damaged the Forest department's guest house's compound wall. However, the Forest department authorities managed to drive away the elephant into Nagarahole Reserve Forest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-goes-on-rampage-destroys-crops-1043776.html
24-10-2021||Main Article||The malady of malnutrition||The stubborn high child malnutrition rates in India have baffled all solutions. Is it because we have not focused on the crucial period of its setting in? The widely accepted concept of the First Thousand Days tells us that the crucial stage in a child’s development is from the date of conception up to the child’s second birthday, as this is when the child is being formed and rapidly develops. Neglect during pregnancy of the mother’s health and nutrition will damage the child’s prospects of being born healthy and already well-developed. It may result in low birth weight babies or stillbirths or high neonatal mortality (deaths within the first month of life). Often this is followed by the delay in starting breastfeeding, or not adhering to it exclusively for six months, and/or poor weaning and complementary feeding practices after that period. All these compromise the child’s development irretrievably. The new norms of the Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) policy and the restructured Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) scheme enshrine these key practices and safeguards, but are not implemented fully in different states, and necessary supportive measures and entitlements of pregnant and lactating woman have been diluted and restricted. The anganwadi worker and the ASHA are supposed to make regular home visits during a woman’s pregnancy, soon after childbirth and periodically as the child grows up. This appears to be followed mostly in the breach. Thus the interaction and counselling on the best practices in child-rearing and nutrition of the new mother and child are minimal, if at all provided. The National Family Health Survey (NFHS), a periodic series of survey data on many health and nutrition indicators related to children and women, has published the preliminary findings of NFHS-5 (conducted in 2019-20) for 17 states and five Union Territories, revealing that childhood stunting has increased in 13 out of 22 states/UTs, wasting in 12, and underweight in 16. Anaemia among all groups, children and adults, has increased. This phase of the NFHS-5 was carried out before the pandemic and the lockdowns, so it is likely that the situation will be even more alarming now. The situation in Karnataka is patchy, with some indicators being alarming. According to previous surveys, the state has been only midway among all the states/UTs for most health and nutrition indicators. Moreover, though the trends since the first NFHS survey of 1992-93 were encouraging for a number of mortality and nutrition indicators, NFHS-5 data are hardly better than most NFHS-4 ones. The current scores are 25 for IMR (infant mortality rate or infant deaths per one lakh live births), 16 for NNMR (neo-natal mortality rate or deaths in the first month of life), 35% children stunted, 20% wasted (of which 8% is severely wasted), 33% underweight and a whopping 66% anaemic. There are myriad causes for this sorry picture. Almost 21% of marriages and 5% of pregnancies are of girls below 18. These lead to higher maternal and infant mortality rates as well as more low birth weight and neonatal mortalities. Other causes are the poor health and nutrition levels of the mother. About 48% of women are anaemic, thus hampering the growth of the foetus. Over a fifth of women have low BMI or Body Mass Index. To prevent lower anaemia among pregnant women, they should take Iron Folic Acid (IFA) tablets, but many problems hamper full implementation — lack of regular supplies to non-compliance due to IFA’s side effects. Food taboos also stand in the way of the pregnant woman’s nutritional well-being. These issues lead to a woman’s depleted health and nutritional status, resulting in higher maternal and infant mortality, or higher child morbidity. Simple messages about the use of nutritious foods and practices need to be communicated repeatedly to the public for enhancing the consumption of nutrients. There are a lot of impediments to the optimal growth of the child even if born healthy and with normal weight. Traditional myths and taboos as also unethical promotion of breastmilk substitutes prevent the adoption of good breastfeeding practices. Poor weaning and feeding practices after the first six months further hamper a child’s development. Apart from continuing to be breastfed, the infant has to be gradually introduced to solids, such as any dal-rice/millet food available at home along with vegetables and fat, mashed well till the baby gets teeth. If the family desires, eggs and meat can also be introduced gradually. Sprouted grains and pulses are a great source of nutrition too for the older baby. An infant’s stomach is small, and so she must be fed several times a day. In her second year of life, the child may start to eat from the family pot, so to say, assuming that the pot is generally nutritious, which may not be true of the poorer households. Unfortunately, it is surprising how many infants are weaned on just rice gruel for months! Anganwadis often just give THF (take-home foods) to mix with the infant’s milk or give as laddus, or add the generic advice to give her more vegetables. Specific traditional foods that almost all in our state can access must be stressed, as also a diet diverse and balanced in nutrients. In conclusion, unless we pay close attention to the health and nutrition of the mother-to-be, breastfeeding practices, weaning and feeding of the child until two years or so, we will not see declines in stunting, underweight, anaemia or wasting in our children. Our current interventions certainly need to continue, but an edifice built on shaky foundations is obviously unstable. Following this Poshan Maah, let us focus more on the first thousand days for a strong foundation. (The writer is Trustee, Child Rights Trust, Bengaluru, and formerly Sr. Intersectoral Advisor, Unicef)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-malady-of-malnutrition-1043855.html
24-10-2021||National||Discontent wafts through India's air waves||The adamant march of technology has transformed television broadcasting. It reached our homes through rooftop antennas, then cable, subsequently satellite and now streaming. India’s public broadcaster Prasar Bharati says it is keeping in step, turning to digital streaming and cutting costs by switching off old technology. However, some of its recent actions, like shutting down the Amruthavarshini FM channel on Akashvani in Bengaluru, have triggered concerns that it was also throttling its diverse content that catered to India’s multilingual tapestry by either shutting down its regional Doordarshan and All India Radio (AIR) centres or consistently understaffing these. Between 2017 and October 21, 2021, the Prasar Bharati has switched off 978 of its 1,300 “obsolete” Analog Terrestrial TV Transmitters, or ATTs. It will switch off the rest of the ATTs, barring 50 that will continue in coastal and border areas for strategic reasons, by March 2022. As its CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati said, “Television viewing is no longer happening through rooftop antennas in India.” The phasing out of these antennas, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said, has already saved Rs 100 crore. The public broadcaster said it is only switching off its ATTs and not its Doordarshan, or DD, studios in regional centres, which will continue to generate local content. For example, Kalaburagi’s content will continue to be available on DD Chandana, the public broadcaster’s Kannada regional channel, and of DD Silchar’s on DD’s Assamese language channel. In a statement, the ministry committed that these DD Centres will maintain their presence on digital media via YouTube and social media. However, concerns have remained about the longevity of these DD Centres and the quality of their content given the significant numbers of vacancies that DD has not filled in its regional centres for years now. According to a reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha in April 2018, the Information and Broadcasting minister said DD Gulbarga (now DD Kalaburagi) has 19 employees against the sanctioned strength of 91. According to another reply in the Rajya Sabha in February 2019, the ministry produced an assessment of the number of vacancies in AIR and DD. The assessment was prepared in December 2016. It put the number of vacancies in DD at over 3,000 while AIR had over 12,500 unfilled posts. Interestingly, in the April 2018 reply, the minister said, “There were no plans to close down either the high-powered transmitters or the studio centre of Doordarshan at Gulbarga.” In a reply to another question in 2018, it said, “DD Kendra Sambalpur has been producing programmes with available manpower resources,” which were 42 vacancies against a sanctioned strength of 74. There are other concerns that India’s linguistic minorities worry about. When BJP Lok Sabha MP Annapurna Devi, now a Union minister, asked in March this year whether she can watch Doordarshan Jharkhand on DTH, the ministry replied, “No proposal is under consideration to notify Doordarshan Jharkhand as a mandatory channel to be carried by DTH/Cable Operators.” In July 2019, the minister told Parliament that AIR has not included many of its channels, including Akashvani Centres of Jharkhand, on DTH platform due to limited availability of slots to carry radio channels. It did, however, promise to expand the capacity of DTH platform for accommodating more radio channels. Reasons for closure Concerns erupted after the Prasar Bharati shut down Amruthavarshini. Vempati has defended the shutting down of the separate channel citing its declining popularity and saving costs. He said the content of the channel will now have a two-hour slot on the multilingual Raagam channel. But as former Dharwad AIR Station Director C U Bellakki stresses, we should not look at public service broadcasting from a financial perspective. “As preservers and promoters of culture, such channels promote local flavour, and that is Akashvani’s role.” Udayadri, former assistant director of the Bengaluru AIR station, says people in Bengaluru and those living in nearby villages, including youth, tuned in. “Few states and even particular regions in these states have Carnatic singers. Karnataka is one of them. The channel provided listeners with an opportunity to learn from renowned artistes and gave opportunities to many local artistes,” he says. Many see it as an assault on the rich heritage of Carnatic music and loss of opportunities to local talent. Vempati faced complaints on social media as well. Twitter users said the two-hour slot on Raagam cannot compensate for Amruthavarshini’s 8.5 hours of classical music broadcast per day, including live shows and interactive content. H S Saraswathi, former station director, who retired in 2018 and worked with both Raagam and Amruthavarshini, says Raagam relays tailored programmes sent from different states. Now, there won’t be live programmes, the amount of time dedicated to Carnatic music will reduce. Amruthavarshini also broadcasts folk music in its most original form. These hyperlocal broadcasts add to our rich archives, she says. Even if people do tune into Raagam, it won’t be in a language that they will understand. “Akashvani has an important responsibility to preserve and promote fine arts. It is a huge responsibility. To sustain an organisation, commercialisation may be important; we must draw the line somewhere. Channels like Rainbow FM may be conducive for this purpose, the same cannot be expected of channels like Amruthavarshini,” she says. Others, however, see a more insidious agenda than just the financial aspect. An official retired from Akashvani, Bengaluru, says there was an attempt to have one integrated programme broadcast from Bengaluru and most other regional stations would be converted to relay stations. He says the Prasar Bharati backtracked and denied existence of any such plan after language activists protested. Scaling down In Kerala, according to sources, Prasar Bharati dropped its plans to scale down operations owing to stiff resistance. Kerala MPs protested any plans to shut down AIR stations apart from the one in Thiruvananthapuram. Vempati denied there was any such move, but sources said protests forced rethink. In Tamil Nadu, which has 15 AIR stations of which five are relay stations and two are local radio stations, the Prasar Bharati was working on a plan to convert primary stations in Madurai, Coimbatore, Tiruchirappalli, and Tirunelveli as relay stations, which would mean they will not generate original content for their local audience. While efforts to reach AIR officials in Tamil Nadu proved futile, sources said converting primary stations into relay stations would take away the independence of local stations. “All stations will have the same content. This will not serve any purpose. For instance, programmes related to agriculture should be different for different regions. It cannot be the same for all,” a source said. In Kashmir, the Radio Kashmir station was renamed AIR Srinagar after the scrapping of Article 370 in August 2019. In 1990, when militancy erupted in Kashmir, local employees of Radio Kashmir managed to run the station despite threats and intimidations from the ultras. Radio Kashmir became an important medium during the 2014 deluge when all communication lines were shut. It worked as a bridge between the public and the administration. According to Maqsood Ahmad, a senior announcer at the station, the role of Radio Kashmir in preserving art, culture and languages is tremendous. The station still broadcasts programmes in Balti, Sheena, Pahari, Gojri and Punjabi languages. However, he says there were more than 50 programme executives and announcers in 1990 which has come down to seven now. Most of the senior employees have retired and no new recruitments are happening, which is affecting the quality of programmes at the station. (With inputs from Arjun Raghunath in Thiruvananthapuram, E T B Sivapriyan in Chennai and Zulfikar Majid in Srinagar)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discontent-wafts-through-indias-air-waves-1043621.html
24-10-2021||National||Drugs will become sugar powder if Shah Rukh Khan joins BJP, says Bhujbal||Maharashtra Minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Saturday mocked the BJP over the cruise ship drugs bust case, in which film superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan is one of the arrested accused, and said "drugs would become sugar powder" if the actor joined the saffron party. A massive consignment of drugs was seized in Mundra Port in Gujarat, but instead of probing this case, the Narcotics Control Bureau, a Central agency, was hounding Shah Rukh Khan, he alleged. "Drugs will become sugar powder if Shah Rukh Khan joins the BJP," the senior NCP leader quipped. Bhujbal, who was speaking at a Samta Parishad-NCP function, also said the Maharashtra government had got an ordinance passed on OBC quota but a BJP functionary had challenged it in court. He demanded to know if the BJP was against giving reservations to Other Backward Classes. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-will-become-sugar-powder-if-shah-rukh-khan-joins-bjp-says-bhujbal-1043624.html
24-10-2021||National||India needs to address consequences of instability in neighbourhood, says Bipin Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Saturday stressed that the country needs to ensure that the consequences of instability in its neighbourhood are addressed. He also said there is a possibility of threat to Jammu and Kashmir as well as to the North-eastern region due to the situation in Afghanistan which the Taliban has taken over a few months ago but the threat can be negated by working on internal monitoring. “India’s national security landscape is stressed on account of security scenario emerging from subcontinental threats... We need to address consequences of instability and volatility in our immediate and extended neighbourhood and it remains our immediate priority,” Gen Rawat said. Delivering the first Ravi Kant Singh Memorial Lecture here, he said a close watch should be kept on the situation in Myanmar as well as the Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh, with the danger of the latter being exploited by fundamentalist elements. He also said India’s relations with Bhutan and Nepal have always been robust and any issues with these countries have been addressed in a positive manner. Gen Rawat said internal security challenges of the NE region have serious international dimensions as extremist outfits have connectivity, including hideouts across the border, and their members frequently use porous borders to escape security forces. He, however, added that in recent years there has been a reduction of violence in the NE region and lauded the combined efforts of security agencies and civil society for achieving it. Gen Rawat said it was crucial that the land link of the region with the rest of the country is maintained through the Siliguri corridor. This vulnerable corridor will always remain a cause of concern and any attempt to block it by any element must be nipped in the bud, he added. "India has to be on alert of the possible impact of the situation in Afghanistan in Jammu and Kashmir. We have to seal our borders. Internal monitoring is essential,” he told a press conference. To a question if the change in regime in Afghanistan could pose danger to Assam and the Northeast, Rawat said a ‘likely threat’ could be there. “We have to defend ourselves. We need to educate our people on the need to be conscious of their own security,” he said. the North-eastern region, especially Assam, is advantageously positioned to project India's soft power to the world, the chief of defence staff said. "North East region including Assam is a land of potential. In fact, it has the potential to be the pivot for projection of soft power of India in the regional countries,” Gen Rawat said. He stressed the need for developing multi-model connectivity through development of means of transportations to access ASEAN and other markets. He also highlighted the potential of developing the manufacturing and services sector in the NE region, which can help it cater to the international market. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-to-address-consequences-of-instability-in-neighbourhood-says-bipin-rawat-1043625.html
24-10-2021||National||War of words between Congress, BJP over farmers' welfare ahead of Madhya Pradesh bypolls||The ruling BJP and opposition Congress in Madhya Pradesh sparred on Saturday ahead of the next week's byelections as the state government announced that it has transferred Rs 1,540 crore to farmers' accounts. “In the past, recovery notices were served to lakhs of farmers declaring them ineligible under the scheme. Officials are threatening such farmers daily for recovery, poor farmers are returning the amount by taking loans, pledging jewelry,” state Congress chief Kamal Nath claimed during his rallies. The government was transferring the money only because of the by-elections, he alleged. “As soon as the elections are over, the farmers will be sent recovery notices to recovery the money... this Kisan Samman Nidhi has become Kisan Apman (insult) Nidhi," he said. The BJP government had admitted that crop loans of 27 lakh farmers were waived during his 15-month tenure as CM, Nath claimed. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced at public meetings in Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency that he had transferred Rs 1,540 crore to the accounts of 77 lakh farmer families. “Congress feels pain as we have transferred money in the accounts of farmers,” he said, accusing the opposition party of betraying cultivators over the promise of farm loan waiver in the past. "While the Centre provides Rs 6,000 annually in three instalments to farmers, the state also provides them Rs 4,000 in two instalments," the chief minister said. Campaign for bypolls picked up on Saturday as Union ministers Prahlad Patel and Narendra Singh Tomar and former Union minister Uma Bharti in addition to BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya addressed public meetings. The polling for by-elections for Khandwa Lok Sabha seat and Raigaon, Jobat and Prithvipur Assembly seats will be held on October 30.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/war-of-words-between-congress-bjp-over-farmers-welfare-ahead-of-madhya-pradesh-bypolls-1043628.html
24-10-2021||National||DH Toon | Nehru family charisma out of stock!||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Wednesday suggested Congress should pick a person from outside the Nehru-Gandhi family as its next president instead of Rahul Gandhi. The Congress, currently led by its interim president Sonia Gandhi, had last week announced that the election of its new president will be held between August 21 and September 20 next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-nehru-family-charisma-out-of-stock-1043633.html
24-10-2021||National||No dousing this flare: Fuel rates hiked - check prices in your city||Petrol and diesel prices on Sunday were hiked for the fifth straight day by 35 paise per litre each, pushing pump rates to a new high across the country. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 107.59 a litre and Rs 113.46 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 104.38 a litre, while in Delhi, it costs Rs 96.32 per litre. This is the fifth consecutive day of the price hike. There was no change in rates on October 18 and 19, prior to which prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each on four straight days. While petrol has already hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all major cities of the country, diesel has touched that level in over one-and-a-half dozen states and UTs from Jammu & Kashmir to Tamil Nadu. West Bengal on Sunday became the latest state to have the nation's most used fuel above that level. Purulia, Krishnanagar, Baharampur and Cooch Behar districts of the state had diesel above Rs 100-a-litre mark. Prices differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of local taxes. Petrol price has been hiked on 21 occasions since September 28, when a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision ended. In all, prices have gone up by Rs 6.4 a litre. Diesel rates have been increased by Rs 7.70 per litre in 24 hikes since September 24. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. The diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 per litre during this period.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-dousing-this-flare-fuel-rates-hiked-check-prices-in-your-city-1043640.html
24-10-2021||National||India's coronavirus cases rise by 15,906||India added 15,906 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 3,41,75,468, while the active cases declined to 1,72,594, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,54,269 with 561 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has reconciled 399 fatalities from the previous period. Hence, the death toll is higher, officials said, adding that 65 deaths have been reported from Kerala in the last 24 hours. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 30 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 119 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.51 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.17 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,134 cases has been recorded in the total active number of Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 13,40,158 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 59,97,71,320. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.19 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.23 per cent, according to the  ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,48,605, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 102.10 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 561 new fatalities include 464 from Kerala and 33 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,54,269 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,998 from Maharashtra, 38,002 from Karnataka, 36,004 from Tamil Nadu, 28,229 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19045 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-cases-rise-by-15906-1043650.html
24-10-2021||National||100 crore vaccination success showed India's capability to world: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the success of India's Covid vaccination drive shows its capability and noted that the country is moving ahead with new energy after crossing the 100 crore vaccine doses milestone. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat broadcast, Modi hailed healthcare workers for the vaccine milestone and said he knew that they would leave no stone unturned to vaccinate the people of the country. The success of our vaccination drive shows India's capability and the strength of 'sabka prayas' (collective effort) mantra, he said. Modi said the country is moving ahead with new energy and enthusiasm after crossing the 100 crore Covid vaccine doses milestone. On October 21, India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark. In his Mann Ki Baat radio programme, Modi also said India has always worked for world peace and this is seen in the country's contribution to the UN Peacekeeping forces. India is also working to make Yoga and traditional methods of wellness more popular, he said. The prime minister also praised the rise in number of women police personnel and noted that it has jumped to over 2.15 lakh from 1.05 lakh in 2014. Referring to the 'vocal for local' campaign, the prime minister urged people to buy local products in the festival season. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-crore-vaccination-success-showed-indias-capability-to-world-pm-modi-1043665.html
24-10-2021||National||PM pays tributes to R K Laxman on 100th birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to legendary cartoonist R K Laxman on his 100th birth anniversary and said that through his cartoons, he beautifully conveyed the socio-political realities of the times.  Laxman, who was known for his cartoon creation The Common Man, chronicled Indian social-political history and regaled millions of readers daily in The Times of India and other publications where he worked for nearly seven decades. He died in January 2015 in Pune at the age of 93. "On his 100th birth anniversary, remembering the versatile RK Laxman. Through his cartoons, he beautifully conveyed the socio-political realities of the times," Modi tweeted. The prime minister also shared his speech from 2018, when he had released the book, 'Timeless Laxman' and lauded the contribution of the cartoonist.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-pays-tributes-to-r-k-laxman-on-100th-birth-anniversary-1043666.html
24-10-2021||National||G-20 summit: PM Modi expected to call for united approach to deal with Afghanistan crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to pitch for a united global approach in dealing with the situation in Afghanistan and combating challenges of climate change and coronavirus pandemic at the two-day G-20 Summit in Italy beginning October 30, people familiar with the development said on Sunday. Modi is likely to leave for the visit to Italy and Scotland either on Thursday or Friday, they said. The G-20 heads of state and government Summit will be held in Rome on October 30 and 31, with the participation of the leaders of the grouping and of representatives of some of the main international and regional organisations. The G-20 leaders are expected to deliberate on a number of key challenges such as recovering from the coronavirus pandemic, addressing climate change and overcoming poverty and inequality in various parts of the world. The situation in Afghanistan is expected to figure prominently at the summit, said one of the people cited above. Prime Minister Modi is likely to present India's perspective to combat the key challenges facing the globe and is expected to call for a united approach to the situation in Afghanistan as well to deal with the pandemic and climate change. In a virtual address at the G-20 Extraordinary Summit on Afghanistan earlier this month, Modi called for a unified global response to bring about desired changes to the Afghan situation and said the territory of Afghanistan must not become a source of radicalisation and terrorism. Modi will also have a series of bilateral meetings on the sidelines of the G-20 summit, the people said. The G-20 is a leading global forum that brings together the world's major economies. Its members account for more than 80 per cent of the global GDP, 75 per cent of global trade and 60 per cent of the population of the planet. The forum has met every year since 1999 and includes, since 2008, a yearly summit, with the participation of the respective heads of state and government. Since December last year, Italy has been holding the Presidency of the G-20. In Scotland's Glasgow, the prime minister will attend the COP-26 summit, billed as one of the biggest ever congregations of world leaders and experts in combating climate change. The COP-26 climate conference is taking place from October 31 to November 12 and the leaders and delegates are expected to delve into ways to bring climate change under control. On Thursday, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, highlighting India's climate action in meeting its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) related to the Paris climate agreement, said that New Delhi intends to go in with a strong message with full commitment to COP26. "We are perhaps the only G-20 country to have fulfilled our NDCs and outperformed them," Shringla said in a virtual address at the India Global Forum. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/g-20-summit-pm-modi-expected-to-call-for-united-approach-to-deal-with-afghanistan-crisis-1043669.html
24-10-2021||National||Modi govt has created records in 'giving trouble' to people: Priyanka Gandhi on fuel prices||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday attacked the Centre over rising prices of petrol and diesel, alleging that the Modi government has created records in "giving trouble" to people. Taking to Twitter, the Congress general secretary tagged a media report which said that this year petrol prices have increased by a record Rs 23.53. "Modi ji's government has made big records in giving trouble to the public. Highest unemployment: in Modi government. Government properties being sold: in Modi government. Petrol rates increased the most in a year: in Modi government," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. मोदी जी की सरकार ने जनता को कष्ट देने के मामले में बड़े-बड़े रिकॉर्ड बनाए हैं सबसे ज्यादा बेरोजगारी: मोदी सरकार में सरकारी संपत्तियां बिक रहीं: मोदी सरकार में Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also took a dig at the government by tagging the same media report and tweeting, "Achche Din" (good days). Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday by 35 paise per litre, pushing the total increase in rates on petrol to Rs 36 per litre and on diesel to Rs 26.58 since early May 2020 when taxes on the two fuels were raised to record levels. Petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 107.24 a litre and diesel comes for Rs 95.97, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-has-created-records-in-giving-trouble-to-people-priyanka-gandhi-on-fuel-prices-1043670.html
24-10-2021||National||Govt likely to introduce 2 key financial sector Bills in winter session||The government may introduce two key financial sector bills, including the proposed law for facilitating privatisation of public sector banks as announced by the finance minister in the Budget. The government is also likely to table amendments to the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) Act, 2013, to enable separation of the National Pension System Trust (NPS) from the PFRDA for ensuring universal pension coverage. The government is likely to table amendments in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, during the forthcoming Winter Session of Parliament, sources said. Apart from this, amendments would be needed in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980, for privatisation of banks, sources said. These Acts led to the nationalisation of banks in two phases and provisions of these laws have to be changed for the privatisation of banks, they said. A month-long winter session of Parliament is expected to start by the end of the next month. The second batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants, allowing the government to undertake additional expenditure other than the Finance Bill, would also be introduced for approval. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman while presenting the Budget for 2021-22 had announced the privatisation of public sector banks (PSBs) as part of disinvestment drive to garner Rs 1.75 lakh crore. "Other than IDBI Bank, we propose to take up the privatization of two Public Sector Banks and one General Insurance company in the year 2021-22," she had said. For ensuring privatisation of a general insurance company, the government has already received approval from Parliament for the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, in the monsoon session ended in August 2021. With the amendment in the PFRDA Act, sources said, powers, functions and duties of NPS Trust, which are currently laid down under PFRDA (National Pension System Trust) Regulations 2015, may come under a charitable Trust or the Companies Act. The intent behind this is to keep NPS Trust separate from the pension regulator and managed by a competent board of 15 members. Out of this, the majority of members are likely to be from the government as they, including states, are the biggest contributor to the corpus. The Trust was established by PFRDA for taking care of the assets and funds under NPS. The proposal to separate the two job roles has been under consideration for the last couple of years. The PFRDA was established for promoting and ensuring the orderly growth of the pension sector with sufficient powers over pension funds, the central record keeping agency and other intermediaries. It also safeguards the interest of members.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-likely-to-introduce-2-key-financial-sector-bills-in-winter-session-1043674.html
24-10-2021||National||100 crore vaccination doses claim 'false': Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut has alleged that the claim of administration of 100 crore vaccine doses against Covid-19 in the country was "false" and not more than 23 crore doses were given to eligible citizens so far. Addressing a party meeting at Nashik in Maharashtra on Saturday, Raut said he would give proof that the 100 crore vaccination claim was "false". "How much will you lie?" the Rajya Sabha member asked, without taking any names. "In the last fortnight, 20 Hindus and Sikhs have been killed, 17 to 18 soldiers have been martyred, China is creating problems in Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh, but we are celebrating 100 crore vaccination, which is not true," the Shiv Sena's chief spokesperson claimed. Who has counted these numbers? he asked. When contacted, Maharashtra BJP spokesman Keshav Upadhye said Shiv Sena leaders are used to making baseless claims. "Raut's comment on 100 crore vaccination, when the figures are clearly seen, is nothing but laughable," he said. On October 21, India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark, resulting in celebratory events in parts of the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had hailed the landmark, reached in little over nine months time since the countrywide vaccination drive was launched on January 16, as a "triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-crore-vaccination-doses-claim-false-sanjay-raut-1043681.html
24-10-2021||National||Indian researchers working on early landslide detection systems to reduce fatalities, damage||Widespread devastation, numerous road crashes and deaths caused by landslides in several parts of the country throughout the year have turned the spotlight on the urgent need for its early detection or monitoring systems. Several groups of researchers in the country are working upon solutions to reduce landslide-induced fatalities by providing early and accurate warnings so that traffic can be stopped on certain routes and people are relocated to safer places in time. Landslides are the third biggest natural disasters in the world, with India experiencing the biggest bulk of them -- 15 per cent of the country is prone to landslides and India has the highest number of landslide deaths in the world. According to experts, agencies like Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (Dehradun) and defence sector agencies like Boarder Roads Organization (BRO), Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO), Snow and Avalanche Studies Establishment (SASE) have been carrying out studies to minimise landslide-induced accidents and provide solutions. Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Mandi who claim to have developed the cheapest solution for landslide monitoring system across the globe are now experimenting with the same system across railway tracks. "We have patented a surface-level motion sensor-based early warning system developed by our team. The device gathers information about weather parameters, soil moisture, and soil movement and when it detects a large displacement of soil which could result in a landslide, it sends SMS alerts," Varun Dutt, Associate Professor, IIT Mandi told PTI. "The sensors alerted officials about an imminent landslide on the Mandi-Jogindernagar highway, which helped the police turn away vehicles from the road before it was washed away. The cost of installing our system is around Rs 80,000 which is the cheapest for such systems across the globe with the usual costs roughly being around Rs 2 crore," he added. Currently, 13 landslide monitoring systems are installed across Himachal Pradesh. "Three systems have recently been deployed in Dharampur along the Kalka - Shimla track with Indian Railways. Several other deployments are in the pipeline, which include several districts in HP, Maharashtra and Kerala," Dutt said. According to statistics shared by the Home Ministry in Parliament, nearly 6,800 people lost their lives in the country over the past three years due to hydro meteorological calamities such as flash floods, landslides and cyclones and West Bengal has recorded the highest deaths among all states. "Improved weather forecasting has definitely increased India's capacity to deal with cyclones. When fishermen are warned against going to the sea in advance, people along the coast are shifted to safer locations and emergency teams are on alert to deal with any eventuality. Such a system is lacking for landslides even though rainfall is the most common trigger that brings down the already destabilised slopes," said a road safety expert. Among the ongoing experiments for early detection of landslides is by Coimbatore-based Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, which has set up real-time landslide monitoring and early warning systems in Munnar (Kerala) and Gangtok (Sikkim). The multiple sensor-based system analyses rainfall infiltration, pore water pressure (pressure of groundwater held within soil), vibrations, movements, and slope instability. According to an analysis of 45,334 landslides by the National Remote Sensing Centre, ISRO, Rudraprayag (Uttarakhand), Tehri Garhwal (Uttarakhand), Rajouri (Jammu and Kashmir), Thrissur (Kerala) and Pulwama (Jammu and Kashmir) are the top five hill districts most vulnerable to the damage. These places not only have a large landslide-prone area, but also a high number of people, livestock, houses and roads exposed to these disasters. Among the states, Uttarakhand was found to be the most vulnerable owing to major pilgrimage routes. Researchers at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Technology, Mumbai believe an early warning system can be used to minimize the impact imposed by landslide on human, damage to property and loss of live. "The ability to monitor slope movements in timely fashion will inform the people of possible slope failures – giving them adequate lead time to relocate to a safer place as well as stop vehicular movement in the area. Landslide monitoring is based on geotechnical instrumentations using, for examples ultrasonic sensors, water level sensors, vibration sensors, accelerometer, inclinometer and rainfall sensor," said the lead researcher of a "Smart Road Safety and Landslide Detection System". "However, cable based monitoring systems are costly, require continuous maintenance, and are limited in their communication flexibility. To overcome these limitations, wireless sensor networks and Internet of things are a viable alternative technology. "State-of the-art wireless landslide monitoring systems collect environmental data from the slope and transfer it to connected computer systems for persistent storage. It monitors and detects the landslide and alert people from landslide hazards through android app," he added.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-researchers-working-on-early-landslide-detection-systems-to-reduce-fatalities-damage-1043685.html
24-10-2021||National||India's biggest aromatic garden developed at Lalkuan||India's biggest aromatic garden boasting of 140 species has been developed at Lalkuan in the Nainital district. The garden has been developed over an area of three acres by the research wing of the Uttarakhand Forest Department, Chief Conservator of Forest (research) Sanjeev Chaturvedi said. The project has been funded under the Centre's compensatory afforestation scheme (CAMPA). Initiated in 2018, it aims to conserve various aromatic species, create awareness about them, promote research, and link them with the livelihood of local people, Chaturvedi said. Lalkuan was selected as the site for the garden to offset the perpetual stench that comes from the paper industries in the area. The aromatic garden has a ‘Tulsi Vatika' which contains more than 20 species of tulsi, including Rama tulsi, Shyam tulsi, van tulsi, Kapoor tulsi as well as African, Italian and Thai tulsi. Besides Tulsi Vatika, it has eight different sections comprising aromatic leaves (lemon balm, rosemary, Kapoor and various mint species), aromatic flowers ( chameli, mogra, rajnigandha, kewda), aromatic trees (Chandan, neem chameli, naglingam, parijat), aromatic rhizomes (aama haldi, kali haldi), aromatic seeds ( kasturi bhindi, badi ilachyi, timur, ajwain), aromatic grasses (lemongrass, Java grass, khas grass), aromatic bulbs (red ginger, sand ginger) and aromatic roots (pattharchur, vach). Chandan from South India, Agarwood from Northeast, kewada from coastal areas, and Parijat from terai zone, apart from neem chameli, Hazari mogra, sontaka, chameli, raat ki rani, din ka raja and anant are some of the most fragrant popular species present in the aromatic garden. It has nine different species of jasmine, four different species of mint, four different species of ‘Haldi (turmeric), and three different species of ginger. The extracts of these aromatic plants are used in cosmetics for flavouring and fragrance purposes. These plants are also of great utility in making spices, pesticides and repellents. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-biggest-aromatic-garden-developed-at-lalkuan-1043691.html
24-10-2021||National||'Army, police not just meant for men', PM Modi lauds rise in number of women cops||Lauding the jump in the number of women police personnel, Prime Minister Narendra Modi noted on Sunday that it has doubled between 2014 and 2020 and expressed hope that they will lead the "new age policing" in future.  In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast, he said a notion existed earlier that the services like the Army and police were meant for men but it was no longer so and cited a Bureau of Police Research and Development figure to say that the number of women police personnel rose to over 2.15 lakh against 1.05 lakh in 2014. His government had come to power in 2014. Their numbers in the last seven years have almost doubled in the central armed police forces as well, he said.  Women are now undergoing what is considered a very difficult training as "specialised jungle warfare commandos" to become part of the CoBRA battalion, an elite CRPF unit to target violent extremist and insurgent groups, and are also visible as security personnel at Metro stations, airports and government offices, Modi said. He added, "It has a most positive impact on our police force and the morale of our society. The presence of women security personnel brings natural confidence among people, especially women. They feel connected to them naturally. People tend to trust them more because of the sensitivity of women." Saying that women cops are becoming role models for girls, the prime minister urged them to visit schools once they open and interact with girl students. It will show a new direction to our new generation, he added "I hope that women will join police forces in even more numbers in the future and will lead our country's new age policing," he said.  In his address, the prime minister also highlighted the unique role Indian women have played in increasing the influence and strength of the United Nations, which had officially come into force on this day in 1945. In 1947-48, when the Universal Declaration of UN Human Rights was being drafted, it was being inscribed in that declaration that "all men are created equal" but following objection from an Indian delegate, Hansa Mehta, it was changed to "all human beings are created equal," Modi noted.  "This was in consonance with India's age-old tradition of gender equality," he said.  Another Indian delegate Lakshmi Menon had also strongly put forth her views on the issue of gender equality, while in 1953 Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit became the first woman president of the UN General Assembly, he noted.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-police-not-just-meant-for-men-pm-modi-lauds-rise-in-number-of-women-cops-1043697.html
24-10-2021||National||Congress slams govt over rising fuel prices; Rahul Gandhi alleges 'tax dacoity'||The Congress on Sunday slammed the Centre over rising fuel prices with former party chief Rahul Gandhi taking a dig at the government, saying the "tax dacoity" on petrol prices is rising and there would be some respite from it if elections take place somewhere. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also attacked the Centre over rising prices of petrol and diesel, alleging that the Modi government has created records in "giving trouble" to people. Taking to Twitter, the Congress general secretary tagged a media report which said that this year petrol prices have increased by a record Rs 23.53. "Modi ji's government has made big records in giving trouble to the public. Highest unemployment: in Modi government. Government properties being sold: in Modi government. Petrol rates increased the most in a year: in Modi government," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Taking a swipe at the government, Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet in Hindi, said, "Tax dacoity over petrol prices is rising. There would be some respite from it if elections take place somewhere." He used the hashtag 'TaxExtortion' with his tweet. पेट्रोल दामों पर टैक्स डकैती बढ़ती जा रही है। Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also took a dig at the government by tagging the same media report shared by Priyanka Gandhi and tweeting, "Achche Din" (good days). Petrol and diesel prices on Sunday were hiked for the fifth straight day by 35 paise per litre each, pushing pump rates to a new high across the country. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 107.59 a litre and Rs 113.46 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 104.38 a litre, while in Delhi, it costs Rs 96.32 per litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-slams-govt-over-rising-fuel-prices-rahul-gandhi-alleges-tax-dacoity-1043699.html
24-10-2021||National||Amit Shah reaches Jammu; inaugurates new campus of IIT||Amid tight security, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday arrived here and inaugurated the new campus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jammu, officials said. Shah, accompanied by Union ministers Jitendra Singh and Dharmendra Pradhan and Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, reached Jammu airport from Srinagar and started his engagements with the inauguration of the new campus of the IIT-Jammu, they said. Shah is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, his first after the Centre revoked the erstwhile state’s special status and bifurcated it into union territories on August 5, 2019. The officials said the new campus of IIT-Jammu, built at a cost of Rs 210 crore, has all the facilities like hostel, gymnasium, indoor games, along with higher education for the students. After inaugurating the new campus of the IIT-Jammu, Shah reached the Bhagwati Nagar area to address a public rally. Heavy rains lashed Jammu on Saturday, casting a shadow on the scheduled public meeting of the Union home minister. However, with an improvement in the weather, the local unit of the BJP and the administration worked overnight to ensure the success of the rally. Policemen and paramilitary personnel were deployed in strength in and around the venue. Shah arrived at the rally amid thunderous applause and sloganeering by the participants who had reached the venue in large numbers to hear the home minister. An official of the IIT-Jammu said, "It is a state-of-the-art research centre to cater to students of various disciplines. It is meant for research and development." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-reaches-jammu-inaugurates-new-campus-of-iit-1043703.html
24-10-2021||National||Govt makes fresh push with states to operationalise special fast track courts for sex offence cases||The Centre has made a fresh push with certain states to operationalise special fast track courts launched on Gandhi Jayanti two years ago to deliver swift justice in sexual offence cases. After the passage of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act in 2018, the Central government had decided to set up 1,023 fast track special courts (FTSCs), including 389 to deal exclusively with cases related to violation of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, in 31 states and union territories. Against the total intended FTSCs, 674 including 367 POCSO courts have been made operational in 27 states and UTs, and till August this year they have disposed of 56,267 cases despite the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. According to government sources 28, states and UTs have given their consent for the FTSC scheme. West Bengal, which was earmarked 123 such courts, Andaman and Nicobar, which was to get one FTSC and Arunachal Pradesh, which was earmarked three FTSCs, have not yet given their consent. Arunahal Pradesh has told the Department of Justice in the Law Ministry that for the time being, such courts are not required in the states due to low number of cases. Goa was earmarked two FTSCs. It gave consent for one FTSC, but is yet to operationalise it, the sources said. The consent of states is a must as FTSCs are part of a centrally sponsored scheme where both the Centre and the state chip in with funds. The Department of Justice is corresponding with states which are yet to operationalise all or some of the FTSCs earmarked to them. Fresh letters were sent to these states recently, the sources said. There are 10 states which are yet to operationalise all the FTSCs earmarked to them. For instance, Andhra Pradesh has operationalised nine out of 18 such courts. Bihar was earmarked 54 FTSCs, but 45 have so far been operationalised. Similarly, Maharashtra, with a quota of 138, has so far operationalised 33 such courts. There are 17 states, including Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Nagaland which have operationalised all the FTSCs earmarked to them. Each FTSC was conceived to try between 65 and 165 cases per annum. The annual expenditure to run one court was pegged at Rs 75 lakh with one judicial officer and seven support staff. On August 4 this year, the Union Cabinet had approved the continuation of 1,023 Fast Track Special Court, including 389 exclusive POCSO courts as a centrally sponsored scheme (CSS) from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2023 with an outlay of Rs 1,572.86 crore (Rs 971.70 crore as central share and Rs 601.16 crore as state share). The central share is to be funded from Nirbhaya Fund. The Scheme was launched on October 2, 2019. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-makes-fresh-push-with-states-to-operationalise-special-fast-track-courts-for-sex-offence-cases-1043714.html
24-10-2021||National||Nobody will be allowed to disrupt peace in J&K, says Amit Shah||The time for sidelining the people of Jammu has come to an end and now both Kashmir and Jammu will be developed together, Home Minister Amit Shah told a public rally here on Sunday. Shah is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, his first after the Centre revoked the erstwhile state's special status and bifurcated it into union territories on August 5, 2019. Addressing the rally in Bhagwati Nagar area, the home minister said no one will now be able to create any hurdle in the development of Jammu and Kashmir. He said Rs 12,000 crore worth of investment has already come to the union territory and the government aims at a total of Rs 51,000 crore by the end of 2022. If the youth join the development of Jammu and Kashmir, terrorists will fail in their sinister design, he asserted. The home minister said the government is aiming that no civilian gets killed in violence and terrorism is wiped out from Jammu and Kashmir. Shah arrived at the well-attended rally amid thunderous applause and sloganeering by people. Police and paramilitary personnel were deployed in strength in and around the venue.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nobody-will-be-allowed-to-disrupt-peace-in-jk-says-amit-shah-1043717.html
24-10-2021||National||Social justice ministry suggests avoiding jail term for those consuming small amount of drugs||The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry has recommended decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs for personal consumption in its review of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act submitted to the Revenue Department. Currently, there is no provision for relief or exemption under the NDPS Act and it only gives addicts immunity from prosecution and imprisonment if they volunteer for rehabilitation. In its recommendations shared with the Department of Revenue last week, the ministry suggested decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs for personal consumption, officials said. The ministry suggested that the compulsory treatment in government centres must be given to those caught with small quantities for personal consumption instead of a jail term, an official said. Possession of drugs is a criminal offence in India and Section 27 of the NDPS Act prescribes imprisonment of up to a year or a fine of up to Rs 20,000, or both, for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance. Actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has been arrested under this section. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/social-justice-ministry-suggests-avoiding-jail-term-for-those-consuming-small-amount-of-drugs-1043724.html
24-10-2021||National||Process of sanctioning new China border battalions for ITBP in final stage: Nityanand Rai||The process to authorise new battalions for the ITBP, guarding the LAC between India and China, is in the last stage and the government is determined to provide transport and logistical support to all security forces, Union Minister Nityanand Rai said on Sunday. Addressing the 60th Raising Day event of the mountain-warfare-trained Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Rai said the government had last year sanctioned 47 new border posts and a dozen staging camps (operational bases for troops undertaking border patrol) to the force. "Deliberations for providing new manpower and battalions for the ITBP are in the last stages," Rai, the minister of state for home affairs, said. Officials said the force is expected to get a sanction of seven new battalions comprising about 8,000 personnel for its new border posts that will mainly come up in the Arunachal Pradesh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on India's eastern flank. The proposal for sanctioning new ITBP battalions and a sector headquarter in the northeast has been under the consideration of the Home Ministry for over two years now. But with the last year's sanction of the new border outposts and staging camps, the proposal is expected to get approval soon, they said. An ITBP battalion has a strength of just over 1,000 personnel. At the rising day event, Rai lauded the ITBP for their bravery and for giving a "befitting reply" to their opponents during the clashes between Indian and Chinese forces in Ladakh during May-June last year. He also decorated 20 ITBP officers and personnel as he pinned police medals for gallantry on their uniform for displaying bravery and courage during the clashes. These medals were announced by the Centre on Independence Day eve. The minister said the 'Operation Snow Leopard' conducted by the ITBP in Himalayan ranges gave a "big message that India will never compromise on its sovereignty and security." The force proved it was "second to none" when it came to guarding the country, Rai said, adding, "It is a matter of pride that the ITBP won these many bravery medals in one instance for the first time in its history." Rai said the county's security forces have got "independence to operate and decide" under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The minister said the Modi government was working to plug all gaps along India's international borders and trying to enhance the capabilities of the security forces and also equip them with better weapons and technology. ITBP Director General Sanjay Arora also praised his troops for their gallant action during the clashes with the Chinese People's Liberation Army last year in the Ladakh area. He recounted the initiatives taken by the force to combat the coronavirus pandemic in the country by operating health facilities in the national capital region. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is in Jammu and Kashmir, greeted the personnel and their families through a Twitter message. "ITBP is well known for protecting the motherland in the toughest of terrains and serving the nation during natural calamities. India is proud of ITBP's valour and determination," he said. The about 90,000-personnel strong ITBP was raised on this day in 1962 in the aftermath of the Chinese aggression.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/process-of-sanctioning-new-china-border-battalions-for-itbp-in-final-stage-nityanand-rai-1043725.html
24-10-2021||National||Ganga's quality improved since 2014, 68 of 97 locations compliant with bathing standards: NMCG DG||Ganga's water quality has significantly improved since 2014 with the entire length of the river having more dissolved oxygen than the prescribed minimum level, and 68 out of 97 monitoring locations compliant with bathing standards in terms of biochemical oxygen demand, a senior official said. In an interview to PTI, National Mission for Clean Ganga Director General Rajiv Ranjan Mishra said 32 out of 53 locations monitoring biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) were compliant with the primary water quality criteria for bathing in 2014, whereas in 2021 the total monitoring stations increased to 97, out of which 68 monitoring locations were found compliant with BOD criteria for bathing. BOD represents the amount of oxygen consumed by bacteria and other microorganisms. The greater the BOD, the more rapidly oxygen is depleted in the stream, which means less oxygen is available to higher forms of aquatic life. Mishra said the dissolved oxygen level of the Ganga has also improved. "At present, the entire length of Ganga has more dissolved oxygen (DO) than the prescribed minimum level of 5 mg/l. The river water quality has shown improvement between 2014 and 2021," he said.  The water quality of Ganga is assessed as per primary water quality standard for outdoor bathing in terms of dissolved oxygen (≥5mg/L), BOD (≤3mg/L) and faecal coliform (FC) (≤2500 MPN/100ml) and (pH) (6.5-8.5). Mishra said the steps taken to improve the water quality include abatement and control of source pollution by establishment or upgradation of wastewater treatment plants for the towns located on Ganga main stem and its tributaries, construction of crematoria, surface cleaning activities, solid waste management on the riverbanks and floodplains and refraining trash from drains falling into river Ganga by installation of trash racks at the mouth of drains. "The outcome of these projects has started showing significant results and the water quality of river Ganga will further improve as more and more projects are operationalised," he said. Mishra said in Uttarakhand up to Haridwar, the river is meeting class A criteria, which is the highest level i.e., it meets DO, BOD and FC criteria. "The NMCG's efforts towards cleaning of the river have been targeted towards meeting bathing quality criteria for river water. Out of the 351 polluted river stretches identified by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in India, no stretch of river Ganga falls in the top three priority categories," he said. Noting that the cleaning of river Ganga is a continuous process, he said many initiatives have started yielding results and the water quality of the river will further improve as more and more projects are commissioned. Mishra said during the Covid-triggered lockdown, there was visible improvement in the quality of Ganga water. "It mostly happened due to the shutdown of industrial activities and also no solid waste disposal on ghats as people were not able to visit the ghats and other public places. But at the same time, we also have to realise that the sewage generation continued to take place, which was treated at sewage treatment plants (STP), several of them came during the last few years. They were monitored closely and ran without any disruption," he said. The NMCG DG said the flow of water was relatively good due to the sufficient rainfall at that time. Under the NMCG, Mishra said an extensive cadre of volunteers have been developed all along Ganga and major tributaries. "The cadre is kept energised and dedicated work is ensured by frequent interaction as well as conducting a series of activities on a continuous basis to further the community engagement and awareness to conserve and preserve the Ganga river. "The major activities include organising events, workshops, seminars and conferences and numerous Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities were also organised such as Ganga Utsav, Ganga Quest, 5th India Water Impact Summit, rallies, campaigns, exhibitions, 'shram daan', cleanliness drives, competitions, and plantation drives," Mishra said. He said the efforts made to integrate the diverse components such as sewerage infrastructure, municipal solid waste, river front development, afforestation, river sensitive urban planning, aquatic biodiversity and public engagement are meant to show the long-term impacts on the overall health of river Ganga. "The short-term results are already visible and with the continuous efforts towards the river rejuvenation, the long term impacts will certainly reflect in the future," he added. In 2015, the government launched the Namami Gange or National Mission for Clean Ganga with an indicative cost of Rs 20,000 crore, as an umbrella programme with an aim to integrate previous and currently ongoing projects and new initiatives planned as its part. Under the programme, 347 projects were sanctioned against the cost of Rs 30,255 crore. The projects comprise infrastructure and non-infrastructure development towards rejuvenating river Ganga. The projects directly related with the cleaning process include development of sewerage infrastructure, industrial effluent treatment plants, rural sanitation, and river surface cleaning. The other activities or projects such as development of ghats and crematoria, ghats cleaning, afforestation and others are also indirectly contributing to the cleaning process of Ganga.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gangas-quality-improved-since-2014-68-of-97-locations-compliant-with-bathing-standards-nmcg-dg-1043727.html
24-10-2021||National||PM Modi to visit Italy, UK for G-20, COP26 summits||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will travel to Italy and the United Kingdom from October 29 to November 2 to attend the G-20 summit and the United Nations climate change summit, COP 26, respectively. The Prime Minister’s tours to Italy and the UK are going to be his third foreign visit this year and after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. He visited Bangladesh in March and the United States in September this year after avoiding foreign tours for more than a year. Modi will hold bilateral meetings with Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi on the sideline of the G-20 summit in Rome and the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on the sideline of the United Nations climate change summit, COP 26, at Glasgow in the UK, the Ministry of External Affairs stated in New Delhi. Draghi will host the forthcoming G-20 summit from October 30 to 31, themed on ‘People, Planet, Prosperity'. It will focus on the areas of recovery from the pandemic and strengthening global health governance, economic recovery and resilience, climate change, energy transition and sustainable development and food security. This will be the 8th G-20 Summit that Modi would be attending after taking over as the Prime Minister in May 2014. The G-20 over the past few years emerged as the premier global forum for international economic cooperation. India will host the G-20 Summit for the first time in 2023. Modi will also attend the World Leader’s Summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) at Glasgow in the UK on November 1 and 2. The COP26 is being hosted by the British Prime Minister and the summit will be attended by Head of State and Head of Government of more than 120 countries. The COP26 was originally slated to be held in 2020 but was deferred to 2021 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister last attended the climate change summit in Paris in 2015, when the Paris Agreement was concluded. The implementation of the Paris Agreement commenced this year. The leaders will discuss Paris Agreement implementation guidelines; the mobilisation of climate finance; actions to strengthen climate adaptation, technology development and transfer; and keeping in reach the Paris Agreement goals of limiting the rise in global temperatures. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-visit-italy-uk-for-g-20-cop26-summits-1043729.html
24-10-2021||National||43% teachers unhappy with online mode of teaching in pandemic: Survey||Around 43 per cent of teachers said that they were not satisfied with online teaching during the pandemic while nine per cent of them expressed complete dissatisfaction with the mode of education, according to a survey. A total of 220 school teachers participated while 20 people, including eight teachers, were interviewed for an online survey published in the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights' (DCPCR) first journal -- Children First: Journal on Children's Lives. A majority of teachers (43 per cent) expressed that they were not satisfied with teaching online and nine per cent of the participants were not at all happy with it, the survey said. The key issues that the teachers identified as the teaching went online due to the pandemic were absenteeism (14 per cent), children with special needs not being considered (21 per cent), the low attention span of students (28 per cent), emotional issues expressed by the students (19 per cent), and no assessment or assignment completion by the students (10 per cent). The participating teachers and students also stated that online emotional support and group engagements by the counsellors and social workers helped children to be more expressive and participatory in online education. The teachers stressed that the involvement of parents became necessary in school education because only they have regular access to children and can directly engage with them during this period. The students who participated in the study expressed that they missed many school activities, including meeting friends, interacting with people, celebrations, and friendships. Some of the participants also expressed that they are overloaded with academic exercises, according to the survey. Teachers also shared their challenges of keeping up with online teaching schedules and fulfilling their responsibilities at home. The survey concluded that for a successful transition to the online mode, some things are necessary -- accessibility and affordability of digital platforms, need-based curriculum and pedagogy, and sufficient capacity building of the learning community. "The pandemic shifting of those necessities still poses a major challenge to online learning," it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/43-teachers-unhappy-with-online-mode-of-teaching-in-pandemic-survey-1043732.html
24-10-2021||National||Ex-diplomat emphasises on promoting Buddhist tourism in India to counter China||Noting China’s aggressive territorial claims in the region, former High Commissioner to Pakistan, G Parthasarathy, said that India should take on the challenge using the full gamut of diplomatic and strategic advantages. Among the advantages in India’s strategic toolbox is its standing as the birthplace of Buddhism, the expert noted. “China is surrounded by countries whose territories it is claiming. A UN tribunal at the Hague was convened in 2013, under the provisions of the Law of the Sea to rule on an arbitration case filed by the Philippines government, contesting the outrageous claims made by China on its maritime boundaries. The court ruled in favour of the Philippines, stating that the ‘nine dash line’ under which China made its claims had no legal basis. Beijing refused to accept the international court’s verdict. We need to see if we have taken full diplomatic and strategic advantages,” he said.  He added that it is no surprise that China has shown scant respect for land borders with India, Nepal, Bhutan, Laos, Mongolia, Myanmar, South Korea, North Korea and Tibet. “Beijing also faces opposition to its maritime boundary claim from Taiwan, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Japan, South Korea, North Korea, Singapore and Brunei. We need to focus on that,” he added. In this situation, India’s greatest advantage was not military force but its Buddhist heritage sites, he added, calling on the government to promote strategic interests across the eastern neighbourhood.   “Myanmar for one, has stated that it can never harm India as it is the ‘Land of Buddha.’ This is something that India should tap into,” Parthasarathy said. “This whole region is full of Buddhists, and our exploitation of that fact is minimal. We have not done enough on the promotion of Buddhist tourism. Even the present government has looked at it in smaller terms. Not only Myanmar but countries like Vietnam, even Japan, South Korea are all Buddhist, in one form or another. And we have not built any pilgrimage spots,” he added.  He also warned that Chinese policy consideration of India is that it is an adversary to be shown its place. “It follows a policy of ‘strategic containment’ of India by funding parties which have anti-India bias and use Pakistan as its principal instrument for reinforcing its efforts,” he said. Parthasarathy also claimed that despite their differences, the members of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) maintain unity when it comes to issues of regional economic cooperation.  “Most of the ASEAN countries are worried about China’s growing assertiveness and therefore the presence of countries like India and Japan does assure them that no single power can exclusively dominate the Indo-Pacific region,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-diplomat-emphasises-on-promoting-buddhist-tourism-in-india-to-counter-china-1043741.html
24-10-2021||National||Kisan Credit Cards to be extended for all fishermen, says Union Minister Murugan||The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for extending the benefits under the Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) to all fishermen were getting ready, Union Minister of State L Murugan said here on Sunday. “Our government is already issuing Kisan Credit Cards to farmers and we are working for extending that facility to fishermen too”, the Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, told reporters after reviewing the activities of the National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB). “This (KCC) facility has to be extended to all fishermen. Every fishermen has to get this facility and we are working on that and very soon the fishermen will get the KCC. Under Parshottam Rupala ji’s (Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying ) guidance we are taking it forward,” he said adding the SOPs are getting ready. The government has plans to increase export of marine food products and five fishing harbours in the country would be modernised to international level with facilities for processing units, cold storage among other facilities, Murugan said. He further said a seaweed park would come up in Tamil Nadu. “It is a new concept and our government is encouraging seaweed cultivation," he added. NFDB Chief Executive C Suvarna was among other officials who were present.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kisan-credit-cards-to-be-extended-for-all-fishermen-says-union-minister-murugan-1043743.html
24-10-2021||National||NCB’s Wankhede has not done anything wrong, says Athawale; slams Malik for targeting him||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Sunday termed the allegations levelled by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik against NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede as "baseless" and "mischievous", and defended the officer saying he has not done anything wrong. Athawale also said the state government should ensure that Wankhede is not harmed and that there is no threat to his life. Malik, a leader of the ruling NCP, has been repeatedly targeting the NCB and Wankhede, who had supervised the raid on a cruise liner off the Mumbai coast earlier this month that led to the alleged recovery of drugs and the arrest of Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan. A few days back, Malik had dubbed Wankhede as "bogus" and asserted that once "proof" against him is out, he cannot remain in government service even for one day. He had also said that the officer will lose his job in one year and eventually land in jail. Wankhede has, however, refuted the allegations. Addressing a press conference here, Athawale accused Malik of trying to give a religious and casteist colour while targeting Wankhede. "The state government should ensure there is no threat to Wankhede's life," the Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment said, adding that the NCB officer shouldn't be harmed. Athawale claimed that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has enough proof against Aryan Khan in the cruise ship drugs case, which is why he has been denied bail. "Wankhede hasn't done anything wrong. He and the NCB are working to save the youths from the drugs menace. Instead of supporting this, Malik is targeting Wankhede because action was taken against his son-in-law Sameer Khan. The allegations levelled by Malik against Wankhede are baseless and mischievous," he added. The NCP leader's son-in-law was arrested by the NCB for alleged possession of drugs in January this year and was granted bail last month. Malik has repeatedly claimed the case related to the alleged recovery of banned drugs from the cruise ship was fake and arrests were made just on the basis of WhatsApp chats. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-s-wankhede-has-not-done-anything-wrong-says-athawale-slams-malik-for-targeting-him-1043747.html
24-10-2021||National||ICAI Prez asks members to promote, adopt Hindi in their work; elicits criticism||ICAI President Nihar N Jambusaria has asked its members to promote Hindi, adopt it in their work and interactions with other stakeholders, eliciting criticism from certain quarters where concerns have been raised about overtones to impose the language. "Realising the power of our mother tongue Hindi, ICAI is trying to incorporate more use of Hindi into its work culture," he said in his monthly newsletter that was released recently. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), set up under an Act of Parliament, is the country's apex body for chartered accountants. It has more than three lakh members. About the message eliciting concerns in certain quarters, Jambusaria said that there is no compulsion on using the Hindi language for the members. "There is no compulsion (on using Hindi). It is a choice... If you want to write in whatever language you want, there is no restriction on anybody," he told PTI on Sunday. Jambusaria also said that he would clarify the issue in the institute's next monthly newsletter. Under the sub-title 'Promoting the Hindi Language' in the newsletter, Jambusaria mentioned September 14 being marked as Hindi Diwas and said he believes that there should not be a specific day for Hindi, "rather, Hindi should be part of our life". "This day reminds us of our heritage and linguistic identity. We should be proudly speaking our Rajbhasha on any occasion. Realising the power of our mother tongue Hindi, ICAI is trying to incorporate more use of Hindi into its work culture. "As part of the professional behaviour, all the employees took the Rajbhasha Pledge to use and promote Hindi in our lives on this day. Members are also encouraged to adopt the Hindi language in their work and interactions with other stakeholders," he said. According to him, at a time when the whole world is looking at India as a global leader, successor and torchbearer, our language must also be a global beacon. "With the government's focus on making India, 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', it also focuses on us being 'Aatmanirbhar' with our mother tongue and its nationalistic approach," he said in the newsletter. Some ICAI members and others have taken to the social media against the remarks, alleging that there is an effort to impose Hindi on the members. This assumes significance considering that Hindi is not a common language in the southern parts of the country. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icai-prez-asks-members-to-promote-adopt-hindi-in-their-work-elicits-criticism-1043748.html
24-10-2021||National||Kisan Rail completes 700 trips on Central Railway||The Central Railway ran its 700th Kisan Rail from Sangola to Adarsh Nagar Delhi on Saturday, marking a noteworthy feat for one of Railway's most successful initiatives furthering farmers' prosperity.  Ensuring access to bigger and new markets for the farm produce with quick transportation, zero wastage, 50 per cent subsidy, the Kisan Rail has brought prosperity, joy and hope to the farmers of Maharashtra.  Ever since the introduction of the first Kisan Rail, 2,43,524 tonnes of perishables have been transported in 700 trips by Central Railway.  Central Railway ran the first Kisan Rail on August 7, 2020 and the 100th trip of Kisan Rail on December 28, 2020 which was flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually. The 500th trip of Kisan Rail ran on August 12, 2021.  According to a Central Railway press release, pomegranate, grapes, lemon, capsicum, muskmelon, guava, custard apple, ber (Indian Plum) from Solapur region, flowers from Latur and Osmanabad region, onions from Nashik region, Banana from Bhusaval and Jalgaon region, oranges from Nagpur region and other fruits and vegetables reach distant markets like Delhi, Bihar, West Bengal quickly and freshly through Kisan Rail. The government has also extended a subsidy of 50 per cent resulting in railways becoming the first choice of the farmers for their transportation. Central Railway General Manager Anil Kumar Lahoti said 700 trips of Kisan Rail elucidates its immense benefits to the farmers with quick and safe transportation and access to new bigger marketsCentral Railway presently runs 7 Kisan Rails viz. Devlali-Muzaffarpur, Sangola – Muzaffarpur, Sangola-Adarsh Nagar Delhi, Sangola-Shalimar, Raver-Adarsh Nagar Delhi, Savda-Adarsh Nagar Delhi and Godhani - Adarsh Nagar Delhi. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kisan-rail-completes-700-trips-on-central-railway-1043750.html
24-10-2021||National||Flower festival of Telangana 'Bathukamma' showcased on Burj Khalifa||Telangana's traditional 'Bathukamma' (floral festival), celebrated by the women folk, was showcased on the world's largest screen on Burj Khalifa in Dubai. TRS MLC K Kavitha-led cultural organisation 'Telangana Jagruthi', made arrangements to play the Bathukamma documentary on the big screen for invited delegates and separately for the local people on Saturday night, a release from Kavitha's office said here. "Dubai's Burj Khalifa witnessed a unique show that celebrated Telangana's 'Bathukamma' on October 23. The show was live across various platforms around the globe," it said. The screening featured the map of India, the map of Telangana, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, Bathukamma flowers, with ‘Allipoola Vennela’ playing the background as the heritage of India and Telangana outshined at Burj Khalifa. The slogans of Jai Hind, Jai Telangana, and Jai KCR on the Burj Khalifa screen echoed with tears of joy and pride among the viewers, it said. The event was attended by Kavitha along with dignitaries from UAE and India, who witnessed the historical moment. In October first week, Kavitha and filmmaker Gautham Vasudev Menon had launched a special Bathukamma song 'Mallipoola Vennela' composed by music maestro A R Rahman. This year the nine-day long festival was celebrated from October 6 to 14. Telangana Jagruthi, a cultural and literary organisation that was formed during the statehood movement for Telangana, has been working to preserve and celebrate the cultural heritage of Telangana, it said. Led by Kavitha, Telangana Jagruthi has been working to empower the spirit of Telangana nationally as well as globally, the release added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flower-festival-of-telangana-bathukamma-showcased-on-burj-khalifa-1043756.html
24-10-2021||National||Internal Facebook documents show struggle with misinformation, hate speech in India: Report||Internal documents at Facebook show "a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence" in India, the company's biggest market, with researchers at the social media giant pointing out that there are groups and pages "replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content" on its platform, US media reports have said. In a report published on Saturday, The New York Times said in February 2019, a Facebook researcher created a new user account to look into what the social media website will look like for a person living in Kerala. "For the next three weeks, the account operated by a simple rule: Follow all the recommendations generated by Facebook’s algorithms to join groups, watch videos and explore new pages on the site. The result was an inundation of hate speech, misinformation and celebrations of violence, which were documented in an internal Facebook report published later that month," the NYT report said. "Internal documents show a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence in the country, the company’s biggest market,” said the report based on disclosures obtained by a consortium of news organisations, including the New York Times and the Associated Press. The documents are part of a larger cache of material collected by whistle blower Frances Haugen, a former Facebook employee who recently testified before the Senate about the company and its social media platforms. The NYT said that in a separate report produced after the 2019 national elections, Facebook found that “over 40 per cent of top views, or impressions, in the Indian state of West Bengal were fake/inauthentic”. One inauthentic account had amassed more than 30 million impressions. In an internal document titled 'Adversarial Harmful Networks: India Case Study', "Facebook researchers wrote that there were groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content” on Facebook. The internal documents also detail how a plan "championed" by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to focus on "meaningful social interactions” was leading to more misinformation in India, particularly during the pandemic. The NYT report added that another Facebook report detailed efforts by Bajrang Dal to publish posts containing anti-Muslim narratives on the platform. "Facebook is considering designating the group as a dangerous organisation because it is “inciting religious violence” on the platform, the document showed. But it has not yet done so,” the NYT report said. The documents show that Facebook did not have enough resources in India and was not able to grapple with the problems it had introduced there, including anti-Muslim posts. A Facebook spokesman, Andy Stone, said Facebook has reduced the amount of hate speech that people see globally by half this year. "Hate speech against marginalised groups, including Muslims, is on the rise in India and globally,” Stone said in the NYT report. “So we are improving enforcement and are committed to updating our policies as hate speech evolves online." In India, "there is definitely a question about resourcing" for Facebook, but the answer is not "just throwing more money at the problem," said Katie Harbath, who spent 10 years at Facebook as a director of public policy, and worked directly on securing India’s national elections. The NYT report said Facebook employees "have run various tests and conducted field studies in India for several years. That work increased ahead of India’s 2019 national elections”. In late January 2019, a few Facebook employees travelled to India to meet with colleagues and speak to dozens of local Facebook users, it said. "According to a memo written after the trip, one of the key requests from users in India was that Facebook 'take action on types of misinfo that are connected to real-world harm, specifically politics and religious group tension',” the report said. The report added that after India’s national elections had begun, “Facebook put in place a series of steps to stem the flow of misinformation and hate speech in the country, according to an internal document called 'Indian Election Case Study'. "The case study painted an optimistic picture of Facebook’s efforts, including adding more fact-checking partners — the third-party network of outlets with which Facebook works to outsource fact-checking — and increasing the amount of misinformation it removed. "The study did not note the immense problem the company faced with bots in India, nor issues like voter suppression. During the election, Facebook saw a spike in bots — or fake accounts — linked to various political groups, as well as efforts to spread misinformation that could have affected people’s understanding of the voting process." Citing the Facebook report, the NYT said that of India’s 22 officially recognised languages, Facebook has trained its AI systems on five. But in Hindi and Bengali, it still did not have enough data to adequately police the content, and much of the content targeting Muslims "is never flagged or actioned." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/internal-facebook-documents-show-struggle-with-misinformation-hate-speech-in-india-report-1043758.html
24-10-2021||National||Khalid Jamil becomes first Indian head coach of ISL club, to manage NEUFC||Khalid Jamil has become the first full-time Indian head coach in the history of the Indian Super League with NorthEast United FC offering him the top job ahead of the upcoming season. Jamil, 44, guided the Highlanders to the semi-finals after taking over in an interim capacity from Gerard Nus last season. Jamil oversaw a remarkable reversal of fortunes last season as the team, after a spate of defeats, made the last four following an unbeaten nine-match run. A former midfielder, Jamil is an experienced campaigner in Indian football having coached the likes of Mohun Bagan and East Bengal. His biggest success story though came at Aizawl FC, guiding the Mizoram club to a stunning I-League triumph in 2017. He had previously coached Mumbai FC for seven years keeping the club afloat in the top division. Born in Kuwait to Indian parents, Jamil was a midfielder in his playing days and represented clubs like Mahindra United, Air India and Mumbai FC also had offers from Kolkata heavyweights Mohun Bagan and East Bengal. He also played quite a few matches for the Indian national team. Jamil joined NorthEast United FC as an assistant coach ahead of the 2019-20 season. The Highlanders kick off their next ISL campaign on November 20 against 2018-19 champions Bengaluru FC at the Athletic Stadium in Bambolim, Goa. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/khalid-jamil-becomes-first-indian-head-coach-of-isl-club-to-manage-neufc-1043763.html
24-10-2021||National||Kashmiri Pandit community in US condemns targeted killings of civilians in Valley||The Kashmiri Pandit community here has strongly condemned the recent targeted killings of civilians in the Valley by the militants and urged the Indian government to take steps to ensure the safety of the minorities there. The community organised a two-day event at the popular National Mall where participants said that targeted killings have been especially gruesome, and the home-grown terrorist insurgency remains dependent on resources and inspiration from Pakistan. "The killings of the minorities by the Pakistan-based terrorist in the Kashmir Valley needs to be stopped,” said Dr. Shakun Malik, a Kashmiri Pandit activist from the Washington DC area. "Indian Govt must take steps to ensure the safety of local minorities of Kashmir valley who remain targets for the future,” she said. Eleven civilians, including two teachers, a pharmacy owner and five non-local labourers, have been killed by militants in separate attacks in the valley this month. In a press release, the community said that the murder of Makhan Lal Bindroo has "brought back the tragic memories of the 1990s when more than half a million indigenous Kashmiris were forced leave their lives in the Kashmir valley.” Bindroo, a prominent Kashmiri Pandit and owner of Srinagar's most famous pharmacy, was shot dead at his shop earlier this month. Organised on the grounds of the National Mall here, the event coincided with October 22 as on this day in 1947, Pakistan invaded the Jammu and Kashmir as part of 'Operation Gulmarg', aimed at conquering Jammu and Kashmir on the basis that the region has a Muslim majority. "Pakistan continues its proxy war with India via border infiltration in Kashmir,” release added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmiri-pandit-community-in-us-condemns-targeted-killings-of-civilians-in-valley-1043770.html
24-10-2021||National||CSC now authorised to provide NOC for sale of used vehicles||The government-promoted CSC E-Governance India Ltd (CSC) has said it has now been authorised to provide the No-Objection Certificate (NOC) for the sale of used vehicles.  CSC has partnered with the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) to make this service available across India. The service will be available across four lakh CSC franchisees in the country. This service will help citizens to access the NOC from the nearest CSC. NCRB has requested State governments to integrate CCTNS (Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems) services with Digital Seva Portal so that these can be delivered and made accessible to citizens through the network of CSC. CSC will also create awareness about these services in the community they operate, said a statement from the CSC. “Citizens particularly in rural areas can benefit from this partnership as they don’t have to travel long distances to visit NCRB offices and can get NOC from their nearest CSC,” Managing Director, CSC Special Purpose Vehicle, Dinesh Tyagi said. To extend this service to citizens, CSC Digital Seva Portal will relate to Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS). CSC VLEs (Village Level Enterprises) will use the Vehicle matching facility of this service to search vehicle details and generate NOC by providing Registration Number, Chassis Number and Engine Number, said the statement. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-now-authorised-to-provide-noc-for-sale-of-used-vehicles-1043793.html
24-10-2021||National||China passes new land border law amid military standoff with India||Asserting that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of China is "sacred and inviolable", the country's national legislature has adopted a new law on the protection and exploitation of the land border areas, which could have a bearing on Beijing's border dispute with India. Members of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC) approved the law at the closing meeting of a legislative session on Saturday, state-run Xinhua news agency reported. The law, which becomes operational from January 1 next year, stipulates that "the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the People's Republic of China are sacred and inviolable", it said. The state shall take measures to safeguard territorial integrity and land boundaries and guard against and combat any act that undermines territorial sovereignty and land boundaries, the report said. The law also stipulates that the state shall take measures to strengthen border defence, support economic and social development as well as opening-up in border areas, improve public services and infrastructure in such areas, encourage and support people's life and work there, and promote coordination between border defence and social, economic development in border areas, it said. The state shall, following the principle of equality, mutual trust and friendly consultation, handle land border-related affairs with neighbouring countries through negotiations to properly resolve disputes and longstanding border issues, it said. The law states that the Chinese military “shall carry out border duties” including “organising drills” and “resolutely prevent, stop and combat invasion, encroachment, provocation and other acts”. A significant aspect of the new law includes state support for the construction of border towns, improving their functioning and strengthening supporting capacity for the construction. China in recent years has been strengthening the border infrastructure including the establishment of air, rail and road networks. It also launched a bullet train in Tibet which extends up to Nyingchi, the border town close to Arunachal Pradesh. Besides that, China also began constructing a number of villages close to the border with proper infrastructure in Tibet which have become an essential and effective part of border defence, state-run Global Times reported on October 19. “By the end of 2020, Tibet had built more than 600 well-off, high-standard border villages. The roads connecting border villages are also quite accessible. At least 130 border roads have been newly built or reconstructed with a total length of 3,080 km” it quoted a report by the state-run Xinhua news agency. The new law calls for the establishment of trade areas and borders economic cooperation zones at the borders. It also calls for improving the ecological environment along the border besides epidemic control and maintaining flood and fire control. India and Bhutan are the two countries with which China is yet to finalise the border agreements, while Beijing resolved the boundary disputes with 12 other neighbours. Last week, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh have "seriously disturbed" the peace and tranquillity in border areas, and this has obviously had an impact on the broader relationship too. The foreign secretary, in his remarks at a seminar on "Leveraging China's Economy" on October 21, also referred to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's remarks that the ability of India and China to work together will determine the Asian century. "For this to materialise, peace and tranquillity in the border areas is a sine qua non. He (Jaishankar) has also clearly articulated that development of our ties can only be based on mutuality -- mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests should guide this process," Shringla said. "We hope that the Chinese side will work with us to bring a satisfactory resolution to the current issues so as to make progress on our bilateral relations keeping in view each other's sensitivities, aspirations and interests," the foreign secretary said. While India-China border disputes cover 3,488-km along the Line of Actual Control, China-Bhutan dispute covers about 400 km. The new land border law was adopted amid the continued standoff between Indian and Chinese militaries in eastern Ladakh. On October 14, China and Bhutan signed an MOU firming up a three-step roadmap for expediting the boundary negotiations, which Beijing said will make a “meaningful contribution” to speed up the border talks and establishment of diplomatic ties. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-passes-new-land-border-law-amid-military-standoff-with-india-1043794.html
24-10-2021||National||Railways working on recruitment system overhaul||The Indian Railways is working to overhaul its recruitment process by holding common entrance examinations on the lines of National Defence Academy (NDA) to hire talent to meet the latest technological needs. The Railway is deliberating holding exam on the lines of NDA and doing away existing recruitment system. This was the recommendation made in a report ‘Rationalisation of Government Bodies Proposal for Ministry of Railways’ by Sanjeev Sanyal, principal economic advisor in the finance ministry. The report, which made number of suggestions on bringing reforms in functioning of national transporter, is being discussed within the railways. The proposal also includes attracting young talents and train them in the railways. If NDA model is followed, candidates will be selected after Class 12 and absorbed in the railways, said an official in the railways. According to the report, 12th completed students should be shortlisted through a separate exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission and provided with structured degree and diploma courses as per the requirement of rail transport sector. The new system would overhaul the current recruitment process, where engineering graduates or other graduates enter the railway services after qualifying through the Indian Engineering Services or Civil Services exams conducted by the UPSC. With railways aiming major transformation in its functioning including speed, management, modernisation of coaches, signaling, passenger facilities, there is a need to recruit talent directly and train them, said the report. The report also said that the current practice of hiring graduates from regular academic institutions and training them in the domain of railway-specific technology is delays their induction and also waste of resources. Sanyal also suggested that railways may conduct exams through National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts common entrance exams for higher educational courses. He also recommended that the 21 Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) be subsumed under the NTA. Currently, the Indian Railways has its own set of recruiting bodies in the form of RRBs. The railways, single largest employer in the government sector, has about 14 lakh employees. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-working-on-recruitment-system-overhaul-1043798.html
24-10-2021||National||Most farmers supporting Centre's agri-marketing laws: Narendra Singh Tomar||Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday said most farmers and their unions were supporting the three agri-marketing laws brought in by the Centre. Speaking to reporters in Bhopal before leaving for campaigning in Gudikheda and Pandhana, part of the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, where a bypoll is scheduled on October 30, he said the three agricultural laws have been brought in for the benefit of the farmers. "Most farmers and their unions are in support of these laws. However, some people have difference of opinion. We discussed this issue with them earlier with sensitivity, and whenever they will bring proposals in future, the Centre will definitely discuss them," Tomar said. In reply to a question about the shortage of DAP compost, he said there was a "slight shortage of DAP fertilizer because we import it and prices have also gone up" "When the prices of DAP had increased in the last season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a decision to provide subsidy of Rs 1,200 per bag to reduce the burden of farmers. Now, prices of DAP fertilizers have increased at the international level and it has been decided to subsidise it at Rs 1,650 per bag," he informed. He said DAP was being being made available and being supplied but added that farmers must continue to look at other options as well. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/most-farmers-supporting-centres-agri-marketing-laws-narendra-singh-tomar-1043800.html
24-10-2021||National||Centre in overdrive to cool edible oil prices||The Modi government is feeling the heat of rising prices of edible oil in the midst of the festive season and has launched an overdrive to ensure that the steps taken to cool down prices reach the common man. Over the past few weeks, the Centre has imposed stock limits, slashed import duty and banned futures trading on mustard to arrest the rising prices of the kitchen essential. In the three days, the Centre has written to the states twice asking them to impose stock limits to ensure availability of edible oils during the ongoing festive season and called a meeting of state officials on Monday to review the situation. For instance, during 2008-18, Rajasthan had imposed a stock limit of 10 quintals on retailers and 100 quintals on wholesalers, while Gujarat had imposed a stock limit of 45 quintals on retailers and 600 quintals on wholesalers in the same period, the letter said. On Friday, the average retail price of mustard oil was ruling at Rs 185.55 per kg, groundnut oil at Rs 182.86 per kg, sunflower oil at Rs 168.21 per kg, soya oil at Rs 154.91 per kg, vanaspati at Rs 138.31 per kg and palm oil at Rs 132.64 per kg. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-in-overdrive-to-cool-edible-oil-prices-1043803.html
24-10-2021||National||Gandhian organisations oppose Sabarmati Ashram makeover, say govt turning it into 'entertainment zone'||The protest march "Sevagram-Sabarmati Sandesh Yatra" against the redevelopment of Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram concluded on Sunday with the participants from several Gandhian organisations condemning government intervention and alleging that the plan would turn the Ashram, an embodiment of Gandhi's simplicity, into a "grand tourist and entertainment zone". "It is our duty to preserve this place and stop the government from turning it into a tourist place. It will destroy the core of the Ashram. You (government) have a lot of money...there is so much poverty and unemployment in the country. Use the money to solve these issues. There is no need to spend money to create an entertainment zone at the Ashram, " said Ramchandra Rahi, Chairman of New Delhi-based Gandhi Smarak Nidhi. The organisations started the march on October 17 from Sevagram Ashram in Wardha, Maharashtra and reached Ahmedabad on October 23. They stayed at Gujarat Vidyapith, a university founded by Gandhi back in 1919. However, none of the trustees from Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust (SAPMT), which manages the Ashram, participated in the event the marchers held on Saturday at Gujarat Vidyapith or prayer meet at the Ashram on Sunday. "We had already met the trustees earlier this month and told them that we didn't come here to quarrel but to keep the sanctity of the Ashram," said Rahi while answering the media query. Several other participants alleged that the government has kept "everyone in the dark about its plan which came to the surface after creation of a new trust was announced to manage the redevelopment of the Ashram. On October 18, a day after the march began, the chief minister's office released a short film on social media revealing its plan for the Ashram. The film disclosed the creation of "Mahatma Gandhi Sabarmati Ashram Memorial Trust", which will look after redevelopment work and the subsequent management of the Ashram precinct. Sources said that the name is said to have been chosen despite objections lodged by the SAPMT trustees. During the press conference organised by the marchers, President of Gujarat Sahitya Parishad Prakash N Shah said, "We have been discussing the issue with Ashram trustees (SAPMT) and they have made it clear that every process (of redevelopment plan) will be transparent.  The trustees have also said that since the issue is related to Gandhi, it is not an issue just between Ashram and the government, but even civil society is involved. We welcome this decision. But, we are against the government's intervention and creation of the new trust. This is the first time that the government is directly interfering with the ashram." The day the yatra was started, SAPMT announced that the state government has asked it to prepare a "concept note" on " interpretation and exhibition and indeed the experience a visitor would have when he/she visits the Ashram and the larger proposed area". To develop the concept note, the trust said in a public statement, suggestions of "various groups, institutions and individuals concerned with the future development of the Ashram", will be taken.   Among the participants were Kumar Prashant, President, Gandhi Peace Foundation, New Delhi), who left the march midway due to some other commitment, Sarvodaya leader Uttam Parmar, Rajendra Singh, President, National Water Fraternity, who is also known as "Waterman of India." Annamalai, Director, National Gandhi Sangrahalaya, New Delhi), Asha Bothra, spokesperson, Sarva Seva Sangh, Sanjoy Singha, secretary, Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, New Delhi, among others. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gandhian-organisations-oppose-sabarmati-ashram-makeover-say-govt-turning-it-into-entertainment-zone-1043805.html
24-10-2021||National||Army Commanders to meet, focus on security scenario along borders with Pakistan, China||The commanders of the Indian Army will discuss the security situation along the country’s disputed boundaries with China and Pakistan during a four-day conference beginning on Monday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat will address the commanders of the Indian Army during the conference. The Chief of Army Staff, Gen M M Naravane, will lead the discussion on current and emerging security scenarios around the nation, particularly along the disputed boundaries with China and Pakistan. The commanders will discuss administrative aspects to chart the future course for the Indian Army. They will also discuss the challenges imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of Defence in New Delhi. The biannual Army Commanders’ Conference is held in April and October every year. The conference is an institutional platform for conceptual level deliberations, culminating in making important policy decisions for the Indian Army. The conference is also a formal forum for the senior leadership of the Indian Army to interact with the senior officials of the Department of Military Affairs and Department of Defence. The chiefs of the Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force will also address the senior leadership of Indian Army on avenues for promoting tri-service synergy. The conference is being held at a time when the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) are still engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Though the two sides mutually withdrew front-line troops from the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso in February and from the Gogra Post in August, the talks for disengagement from other remaining face-off points along the LAC hit an impasse. The continued build-up by the Chinese PLA and the recent incursions in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh of India fuelled speculation about tension escalating again, not only in the western sector, but also in the middle and eastern sectors of the disputed boundary between the two nations. The Pakistan Army too of late restarted flouting ceasefire along the Line of Control and infiltration of terrorists from Pakistan into Jammu and Kashmir of India also resumed. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-commanders-to-meet-focus-on-security-scenario-along-borders-with-pakistan-china-1043822.html
24-10-2021||National||Chhattisgarh: TS Singh Deo's purported supporter heckled during speech||Differences within Chhattisgarh Congress spilled out in the open again on Sunday when a party leader, considered as a supporter of state Health Minister T S Singh Deo, was allegedly stopped and heckled while he was delivering a speech during a convention of party workers in Jashpur district. AICC's secretary in-charge of Chhattisgarh Saptagiri Ulaka was also present at the event. A video of the purported incident shows former Jashpur district Congress president Pawan Agrawal addressing the function from the stage. Suddenly another leader, Iftikhar Hasan, is seen trying to snatch a mike from Agrawal and pushing him away. The convention was held in a community hall in Jashpur town, located around 400 km away from Raipur. Agrawal said he was allegedly heckled and manhandled by Hasan and others when he questioned the delay in elevating T S Singh Deo as chief minister as per the purported power-sharing agreement during his speech. “As a Jashpur Congress president from 2013 till 2018 end, I worked extensively for the party in the district. In the 2018 assembly elections, Congress snatched all three seats- Pathalgaon, Jashpur and Kunkuri from the district from BJP. After the assembly elections, I was removed from the post of district president despite my efforts for the party's victory,” Agrawal told PTI over the phone. He claimed the agreement of rotational chief ministership was made when Congress came to power in 2018. “After the completion of half of the five-year term of (incumbent chief minister) Bhupesh Baghel, why there is a delay in replacing him with Singh Deo ji? I was raising the same issue in front of Ulaka ji. But supporters of Baghel attacked me on the stage,” he said. Kunkuri MLA UD Minj, Jashpur MLA Vinay Kumar Bhagat, Jashpur district Congress president Manoj Sagar Yadav was also present on the stage, he said. Meanwhile, Hasan refuted Agrawal's claim. The Chhattisgarh BJP also shared the video clip on Twitter with a post saying the incident reflects the culture of the Congress party. “There was a fight on the stage during the Congress event.. Congress culture was seen. In the race for the chair in @INCChhattisgarh, now there is a fight too! When the leader reminded Rahul Gandhi of the promise of a two and a half years formula, he was assaulted in front of the in-charge,” the state BJP tweeted. The tussle for power between Baghel and Singh Deo appears to have quietened at the top, but the feud is very much visible at the lower level in the ruling Congress. Last month, a local unit of the Congress in Bilaspur had demanded the expulsion of a party MLA after he protested against the registration of a police case against another local leader, a supporter of Singh Deo. The demand for a change of guard was renewed after Baghel completed two-and-a-half years as chief minister in June 2021. The Singh Deo camp claimed the high command in 2018 had agreed to hand over the post to him after the government completed half its term. It appeared that Baghel had won that round when he told reporters upon return that party leader Rahul Gandhi had agreed to visit the state 'on his invitation', and those talking about rotating the CM's post were promoting political instability. However, Singh Deo had said the decision on the leadership change lies with the party high command. Several Congress MLAs, considered close to Baghel, had visited Delhi multiple times in the past two months apparently to express solidarity to the CM. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-ts-singh-deos-purported-supporter-heckled-during-speech-1043831.html
24-10-2021||National||Use Buddhism to quell Chinese expansion: Expert||Noting China’s aggressive territorial claims in the region, the former High Commissioner to Pakistan, G Parthasarathy said that India should take on the challenge using the full gamut of diplomatic and strategic advantages. Among the advantages in India’s strategic toolbox is its standing as the birthplace of Buddhism, the expert noted. Speaking on the last day of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh conclave at Yelahanka Air Force station on Sunday, Parthasarathy said that China was sowing discord in the region through its expansion activities. This, he suggested, potentially played into India’s hand. “China is surrounded by countries whose territories it is claiming. A UN tribunal at the Hague was convened in 2013, under the provisions of the Law of the Sea to rule on an arbitration case filed by the Philippines government, contesting the outrageous claims made by China on its maritime boundaries. The court ruled in favour of the Philippines, stating that the ‘nine dash line’ under which China made its claims had no legal basis. Beijing refused to accept the international court’s verdict. We need to see if we have taken full diplomatic and strategic advantages,” he said. He added that it is no surprise that China has shown scant respect for land borders with India, Nepal, Bhutan, Laos, Mongolia, Myanmar, South Korea, North Korea and Tibet. “Beijing also faces opposition to its maritime boundary claim from Taiwan, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Japan, South Korea, North Korea, Singapore and Brunei. We need to focus on that,” he added. In this situation, India’s greatest advantage was not military force but its Buddhist heritage sites, he added, calling on the government to promote strategic interests across the eastern neighbourhood. “Myanmar for one, has stated that it can never harm India as it is the ‘Land of Buddha.’ This is something that India should tap into,” Parthasarathy said. “This whole region is full of Buddhists, and our exploitation of that fact is minimal. We have not done enough on the promotion of Buddhist tourism. Even the present government has looked at it in smaller terms. Not only Myanmar but countries like Vietnam, even Japan, South Korea are all Buddhist, in one form or another. And we have not built any pilgrimage spots,” he added. He also warned that Chinese policy consideration of India is that it is an adversary to be shown its place. “It follows a policy of ‘strategic containment’ of India by funding parties which have anti-India bias and use Pakistan as its principal instrument for reinforcing its efforts,” he said. Parthasarathy also claimed that despite their differences, the members of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) maintain unity when it comes to issues of regional economic cooperation. “Most of the ASEAN countries are worried about China’s growing assertiveness and therefore the presence of countries like India and Japan does assure them that no single power can exclusively dominate the Indo-Pacific region,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-buddhism-to-quell-chinese-expansion-expert-1043840.html
24-10-2021||National||Protect country without worry, Modi govt will take care of your families: Shah to troops||Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited the International Border (IB) in Jammu on Sunday evening and lauded the bravery of soldiers guarding India's frontiers. Shah, who is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, interacted with BSF jawans and said they should protect the country without any worry as the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will take care of their families. The Home Minister also visited the last border hamlet of Makwal and told residents that the Modi government is committed to providing every facility and ensuring development in the border areas. Shah, along with Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, visited Makwal border Out Post (BoP), where he met the BSF jawans and spent some time with them, officials said. He was received by the BSF's Additional Director General (ADG) N S Jamwal. The minister also presented some gifts to jawans and interacted with them, they said. During the interaction, he praised the dedication of the security personnel towards defending India. "On the behalf of all the countrymen, I salute the bravery of our security forces and express my gratitude," Shah said in a tweet later. The minister said that the central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi is fully devoted to the welfare of the security personnel guarding the country and their families. "I want to tell everyone that you should protect the country without any worry. The Modi government will take care of your families", Shah said. Shah later visited Makwal hamlet, the last village on IB in Jammu to know about the living conditions of the villagers, they said. He interacted with villagers and admired their resilience. Shah also visited border bunkers, where the residents take shelter during cross-border shelling. "As much as a citizen living in the national capital has the right to the resources of the country, so do the citizens living in the border villages (on the resources of the country)", he said. The home minister on Sunday began the second leg of his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir by inaugurating a multi-disciplinary research centre and laying the foundation stone of the third phase of the Indian Institute of Technology at Jagti on the outskirts of Jammu city. Shah said that nobody can stop the era of development that has started in the Union Territory. "It's the land of temples of Mata Vaishno Devi, of Prem Nath Dogra, the land of Syama Prasad Mukherjee's sacrifice. We won't let any disruption of peace in Jammu and Kashmir," he said. This is Shah's first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019. On the first day of his visit on Saturday, Shah met families of soldiers and civilians killed in a spate of terrorist attacks in the Valley throughout the month. He also addressed a youth conclave. Shah held a security review meeting in Srinagar where anti-terror measures were discussed. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protect-country-without-worry-modi-govt-will-take-care-of-your-families-shah-to-troops-1043845.html
24-10-2021||National||Jharkhand woman died due to 'multiple injuries' during police search: Autopsy report||The post-mortem examination on the body of the 75-year-old woman who died during a police search at a village in Jharkhand's Ramgarh district earlier this week revealed that she lost her life due to multiple injuries, a senior official said on Sunday. Malo Devi was a resident of Barkipona village under Rajrappa police station, the site of a clash over burning of the effigy of Ravana on Dussera defying a government order. She died allegedly after police personnel broke open the door of her hut during a search operation injuring her fatally on the night of October 20. The autopsy report revealed that the elderly woman died of severe injuries including those on the head, Deputy Commissioner Madhvi Mishra said. A three-member medical board conducted the post-mortem examination in presence of a magistrate and the report was submitted to the deputy commissioner on Saturday. Mishra said it was sent to the police authorities for further legal action. The woman's family members filed a complaint at Rajrappa police station against cops, the deputy commissioner said. Ramgarh SP Prabhat Kumar on Saturday said a probe has been ordered into the death of Malo Devi and assured her family of lawful action against persons who will be found guilty. Malo Devi was injured when the police broke open the door as she was near it, her family said. The effigy of the mythical 10-headed king of Lanka was burnt in the village on October 16 in defiance of the protocol of the state government to stop the spread of COVID-19. Violence erupted when policemen tried to stop the ritual. Deputy Superintendent of Police Sanjiv Kumar Mishra and Rajrappa police station in-charge Vipin Kumar had suffered injuries in the violence, which led to massive night search operation by cops to apprehend the culprits. Altogether 26 villagers were arrested so far in connection with the violence, police said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-woman-died-due-to-multiple-injuries-during-police-search-autopsy-report-1043846.html
24-10-2021||National||Bajrang Dal activists ransack set of 'Ashram-3' web series for 'wrong portrayal', throw ink on Prakash Jha||A day after the set of filmmaker Prakash Jha's web series 'Ashram' was ransacked in Bhopal over alleged wrong portrayal of Hinduism, a Madhya Pradesh minister on Monday said producers and directors will have to inform the authorities about objectionable content or scenes in their stories before seeking permission for shooting in the state. Bajrang Dal activists had, on Sunday evening, vandalised the set of the third season of web series 'Ashram' and also threw ink on Jha, accusing him of portraying Hindus in a bad light, following which four people were arrested for the ruckus. “We are going to issue a permanent guideline following the dispute over the shooting of Ashram-3. Now, (the producer-director) will need to show the script of the story to the administration before seeking permission, if they are going to shoot objectionable scenes which hurt the sentiments of any religion,” MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters on Monday. He said the state government welcomes filmmakers to shoot their projects here but they should inform authorities about objectionable scenes before seeking permission, and those who have objections to a script or scene must complain to the administration. Replying to a query, Mishra further said he supports the Bajrang Dal's demand to change the name of the web series from Ashram. “I also support this. Why is the web series named Ashram? They will understand (the consequences) if they name it (web series or stories) after others' (religion)? We consider the ransacking as wrong. Four persons were arrested and further legal steps will be taken. But, Jha saheb (Prakash Jha), think about your mistakes too," Mishra said. Later, Mishra tweeted, "In the name of the web series, an attempt is being made to deliberately target Hinduism for a long time. Considering the spirit of the majority society, Prakash Jha should consider changing the name of his web series Ashram.” Meanwhile, Bhopal South Superintendent of Police (SP) Sai Krishna Thota said Bajrang Dal activists raised objections and staged a protest over the name of the web series when its shooting was underway at Old Jail Premises located in Arera Hills. The protesters threw ink on Prakash Jha, pelted stones due to which the windscreens of two buses were damaged and one person was injured, the SP said. Bajrang Dal state convener Sushil Surhele asserted that his activists would not allow Ashram to be shot in Bhopal as "Prakash Jha wrongly portrayed the arrangements in a Hindu ashram in its previous seasons by showing the exploitation of women by gurus". "There have been ashrams in Sanatan Dharma since the past thousand years and these have played an important role in building social values. There is no truth in what has been shown in this web series," Surhele, who admitted Bajrang Dal activists threw the ink on Jha, claimed.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bajrang-dal-activists-ransack-set-of-ashram-3-web-series-for-wrong-portrayal-throw-ink-on-prakash-jha-1043851.html
24-10-2021||National||Islamists give two-day deadline to Pakistan govt to release party chief and expel French envoy||A radical Islamist party, whose tens of thousands of supporters are camping on the way to Islamabad, on Sunday gave a two-day deadline to the Pakistan government to release their party chief and expel the French ambassador or face sit-in the national capital. After talks with the banned Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), Pakistan’s Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid said on Sunday that the protesting Islamists will not march on Islamabad as detained TLP workers will be released. "Under an agreement signed with the TLP earlier, the issue of expelling the French ambassador will be taken to parliament for debate,” said the minister, who held talks with both a TLP delegation and jailed TLP chief Saad Hussain Rizvi at Kot Lakhpat Jail here. "About 10,000 Islamists are camping from Muridke to Gujranwala (on G T Road), some 80 kms from Lahore. They are waiting a signal from their leadership to march on the capital,” a Punjab government official told PTI. "At present, the protesters are told to stay there for a couple of more days as the Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf government has promised to release their leader (Rizvi) and take steps with regard to French envoy's expulsion over blasphemous cartoons by Tuesday,” the official said. In a statement issued to the media, TLP said: "The government has sought time from us till Tuesday to implement the agreement with us (to expel French envoy) and release of our leaders and workers including the party chief Saad Rizvi. Besides, the government will quash all illegal FIRs against our workers and leaders. Our protest march will only end after acceptance of our demands." On Saturday, the TLP supporters had managed to bulldoze all security layers of police after fierce clashes and entered Gujranwala limits. Three policemen and seven TLP workers have died in the clashes so far that erupted on Wednesday. However, no clashes took place on Sunday as the talks were held between the government and TLP delegation. "A total seven TLP activists have been killed by direct firing of police and over 700 suffered injuries in Lahore so far,” TLP official Ibn-i-Ismail said. He said the condition of many injured workers is critical. On Saturday, Shahdara and adjoining areas (outskirts of Lahore) turned into battlefields. Police fired teargas shells to disperse the protesters who in return pelted the law enforcers with stones. Many TLP workers carrying clubs appeared to be fighting back when the riot police tried to disperse them. The Rangers remained behind the police force and did not take part directly in dispersing the protesters. Police in Gujranwala have dug up a 12-foot-deep ditch and filled it with water to prevent Islamists from heading towards Islamabad. Heavy contingent of police deployed around the protesters. The Islamabad police have also written to the Punjab inspector general of police seeking 10,000 trained policemen for deployment in the federal capital. Police have placed containers on main arteries at twin cities of Islamabad and Rawalpindi. TLP’s founder late Khadim Rizvi's son Saad Hussain Rizvi has been detained by the Punjab government since April last under the maintenance of 'public order' (MPO) following the party’s protest against the blasphemous caricatures of Islam’s Prophet published in France and its demand that the French ambassador be sent back and import of goods from that country be banned. Subsequently, the TLP agreed to call off protests across the country on the Pakistan government's assurance that it would present a resolution on the expulsion of the French ambassador in the National Assembly. However, the government had called the NA session to debate the French envoy's expulsion and before a vote could take place on the resolution, the speaker announced the formation of a special committee to discuss the matter and asked the government and the opposition to engage with each other to develop consensus on the issue. No meeting of this special committee has been held since April. The TLP shot to fame in 2017 when it held a massive protest for three weeks in the busy Faizabad interchange near Islamabad. The party lifted the lockdown of the city after the then government sacked the law minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/islamists-give-two-day-deadline-to-pakistan-govt-to-release-party-chief-and-expel-french-envoy-1043852.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||Goa high on TMC radar; Mamata to visit on October 28||The Trinamool Congress has made it clear that its intent in Goa is to capture power in next year's Assembly elections with the announcement of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's visit to the coastal state next Thursday. It does not want to be counted as a 'political tourist' in the state where it believes it can overcome the challenge of the ruling BJP and push the Congress behind it with an in-house analysis promising a fertile ground for its national expansion plans. The Trinamool's entry into the state comes months after Mamata returned to power for the third time in Bengal that cemented her place as one of the prominent Opposition faces against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. It also marks the party's wish to throw off the shackles of being just a Bengal-based party and increase its footprint beyond. In this exercise, it has added Tripura to the list along with Goa. Mamata's “maiden” visit to Goa marks her confidence that her party has a space in Goa. She tweeted an appeal to “all individuals, organisations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda” as Goans have “suffered enough over the last 10 years." The Trinamool has assigned its Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien to prepare the party for the next elections and it started with a bang as it pocketed senior Congress leader and two-time Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro and independent MLA Prasad Goankar. It was the election victory in May that gave Trinamool the confidence to expand after a ground study to assess its chances. Party leaders point out two developments in June for the renewed push by the Trinamool – electing Mamata's nephew Abhishek Banerjee as General Secretary and giving a five-year contract to election strategy firm I-PAC for another term. "After taking over, Abhishek Banerjee was very clear that the party should stop fighting elections everywhere. He said there was no point in winning one or two MLA seats in a state. He told us that if we are entering a state and fighting elections, it is to win," a senior Trinamool leader said. Inputs from I-PAC and senior leaders' political assessment led to the “obvious” choice of neighbouring Tripura. Goa was chosen as the second destination by early September after the I-PAC's advice. The Trinamool assessment was that the BJP has a high disapproval rating in Goa while the Congress faces a “perception” issue after 10 of its MLAs crossed over to the saffron party soon after the 2017 elections. It also does not consider the AAP as a major player in Goa where the Arvind Kejriwal-led party, the Trinamool thinks, would not be investing much in resources due to its preoccupation with the Punjab Assembly polls. While it is looking for a Hindu face for the polls, the Trinamool is not much enthused about alliances and wants “mergers”. They cite the previous examples where smaller parties fight elections together and then jump the ship to join another alliance post polls. Sources said the party chose Goa with 40 seats and Tripura with 60 seats in Assembly while "consciously deciding" not to venture into states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu or Uttar Pradesh where Opposition allies are in a stronger position. "We don't want to waste our resources and money in such states," the leader said. “We are fighting for just 40 seats next year (in Goa) and 60 seats (Tripura) in 2023. Nothing more. In Lok Sabha elections, we look at around 50 seats – 42 from Bengal and two each from Goa and Tripura as well as 3-4 more from other states,” the senior leader said. In both Tripura and Goa, the Trinamool's gain could be Congress' loss though Congress leaders are of the view that it can reverse the misfortunes it faced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/goa-high-on-tmc-radar-mamata-to-visit-on-october-28-1043632.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||Manish Tewari slams Harish Rawat, says 'daily soap opera in Punjab Congress still continues'||The woes in the Punjab Congress seem to be far from over. Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari on Sunday slammed former Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat alleging that the soap opera is still continuing in Punjab. Tewari, who is also a prominent face of G-23, said in a statement that was tweeted, "I have never seen such chaos & anarchy as what is playing out in Punjab Congress today. Repeated open defiance of AICC by a PCC President, colleagues squabbling publicly with each other like children. Guttural language against each other that even fish wives would not use. For the past 5 months, it is Punjab Congress versus Congress in Punjab. Do we think that the people of Punjab are not disgusted by this daily soap opera? The irony is that those who complained loudest of transgressions and aberrations were unfortunately and continue to be worst offenders themselves." The Congress MP has also slammed the Kharge committee and said, "History would record that the appointment of the Committee that ostensibly heard perceived and real grievances was a serious error of judgement. Where is progress on the issues that agitated these MLA's and other eminences - Bargari, Drugs, Power PPA's, illegal sand mining. Has there been any movement forward." he asked. Tewari, who is close to Amarinder Singh, has hit out at Harish Rawat for his recent comments in the media about former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and himself. Tewari said that he has been in Congress for the past 40 years, but did not see such type of chaos in the Punjab unit. The Congress on Friday appointed Harish Chaudhary as Punjab in-charge, which has not gone down well with the camp which is anti-Sidhu in the state, as Chaudhary was instrumental in the removal of Amarinder Singh and is said to be close to Rahul Gandhi. Now Chaudhary has a tough task to manage the disgruntled groups in the party and also coordinate with Sidhu and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Both do not share a good rapport and Sidhu has been attacking the Chief Minister as he has been upset with the choice of cabinet and the appointments in the state's various bodies. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/manish-tewari-slams-harish-rawat-says-daily-soap-opera-in-punjab-congress-still-continues-1043664.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||Punjab must come back to 'real issues' that concern every Punjabi, says Navjot Singh Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday asked party leaders to “stick to real issues” facing the state as a war of words broke out between rival camps after personal attacks on former chief minister Amarinder Singh. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari had slammed his colleagues for “squabbling publicly with each other like children” and wondered aloud whether the people of Punjab were “not disgusted by this daily soap opera”. Tewari, a former Union Minister, also slammed the appointment of the Mallikarjun Kharge Committee set up by the AICC to end factionalism in Punjab Congress as a “serious error of judgement”. Tensions simmering in the Punjab Congress since the change of chief minister last month boiled over last week after state Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa ordered a probe into the alleged ISI links of Aroosa Alam, a Pakistani national and a close friend of former chief minister Amarinder Singh. Amarinder lashed out at his detractors for “personal attacks” which soon turned into free for all battle. Randhawa took to Twitter to assert that the former chief minister was friends with Alam for years and that she stayed in India as the Centre extended her visa from time to time. Sidhu’s strategic adviser Mohammad Mustafa shared a photograph of Alam with the then Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta and the then chief secretary Vini Mahajan. Amarinder’s media adviser Raveen Thukral hit back by posting photographs of Alam with Mustafa’s wife and Cabinet Minister Razia Sultana. Tewari found it ironic that those who complained the loudest of transgressions and aberrations were the worst offenders themselves. “For the past five months, it is Punjab Congress v/s Punjab Congress. Do we think that the people of Punjab are not disgusted by this daily soap opera,” he asked. Sidhu took to Twitter to calm down tempers and asked leaders to come back to raise real issues that concern every Punjabi and future generation. “How will we counter the financial emergency that stares upon us? I will stick to the real issues and not let them take a backseat,” he said in a series of Tweets. “The choice is clear between irreparable damage and the last chance for damage control. Who will bring back the state’s resources to the state’s coffers, instead of them going to private pockets? Who will lead the initiative for the resurrection of our great state to prosperity,” Sidhu said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-must-come-back-to-real-issues-that-concern-every-punjabi-says-navjot-singh-sidhu-1043696.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||AAP, TMC will be 'marginal players' in Goa Assembly polls: P Chidambaram||The Aam Aadmi Party and the TMC will be "marginal players" in the Goa Assembly polls and the Congress is best positioned to defeat the BJP and form the next government, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Sunday. Chidambaram, who is the Congress' senior election observer for the Assembly polls next year, asserted that the Trinamool Congress' entry into Goa "appears to be an imposition from the top that is based in West Bengal" and said he does not know the Mamata Banerjee-led party's motive in trying to start a unit in Goa by "encouraging defections" from other parties. In an interview with PTI, Chidambaram said any alliance with smaller parties for the Goa Assembly polls is only possible if a party accepts that the Congress will be the pivot of the non-BJP formation. "Goa is one of the five states going to elections early next year. All states are equally important and, in that sense, Goa is important. Congress and the people of Goa have had a long and special bond. Congress understands that Goa, Goans and Goa’s way of life are unique," the Rajya Sabha member said. "We enter the election arena with the intention of winning the election and forming a Congress government in 2022," he said, adding that the party's preparations are "methodical and strong". Noting that the two major parties in Goa are the Congress and the BJP, Chidambaram said any alliance with smaller parties can only be possible if a party accepts that the Congress will be the pivot of the non-BJP formation. "I suppose it may be possible to accommodate smaller parties in a few seats if they are so inclined. I cannot speculate about any party," he said. Asked how he sees the AAP and TMC's Goa election bid, Chidambaram said, "In our assessment, AAP and TMC will be marginal players in the 2022 Goa election." He said that while AAP tested the waters in 2017 but did not make an impact, TMC entered Goa in September 2021 and there were no local, grassroots workers who sowed the seeds of the party in Goa. "TMC's entry appears to be an imposition from the top that is based in West Bengal. I do not know the TMC's motive in trying to start a unit in Goa by encouraging defections from other parties," he said. "As far as the Congress is concerned, we consider the Congress is best positioned to defeat the BJP and form a government. Smaller parties can help if they are so inclined," Chidambaram said. On whether the Congress will announce a chief ministerial face ahead of polls, he said the time to decide whether the party should name a CM face or not is after it has announced the full list of candidates. "We will take a decision at the appropriate time," he added. Asked about former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro quitting the Congress and joining the TMC, Chidambaram said defections have been the bane of Goa politics and the people of state resent defectors more than anything else. "I was sorry to see Mr Luizinho Faleiro join the band of defectors. The people, especially the voters in his Assembly constituency, resent his defection. Hence, his defection has not dented our worker-base in the constituency. Congress will field a strong candidate in that Assembly constituency," he said. Asked whether the party was better prepared for a 2017-like situation when it emerged the single largest party but failed to form the government, Chidambaram said there is "huge anti-incumbency" against the BJP government in Goa and the 2022 elections will not throw up a hung assembly. "We are confident that the people will give a clear verdict in favour of the Congress. They nearly did in 2017...but we failed to stop defections," he said. Alleging that the current BJP government in Goa is a "government of defectors", Chidambaram said in 2022, "we will make sure there are no defections from the Congress". There are ways to ensure there are no defections, and the Congress will live by its promise that there will be no defections from it, he asserted. The Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House in the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, restricting the main opponent BJP to 13. But the saffron party moved to ally with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of Manohar Parrikar, now deceased. The Congress had accused the BJP of "stealing" the mandate, a charge the saffron party rejected. Over the years, the Congress's strength in the Legislative Assembly dwindled to four after many of its MLAs switched sides and joined the ruling BJP. The ruling BJP, opposition Congress, Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP, TMC, Shiv Sena and regional parties like the Goa Forward Party (GFP) and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party are all in the poll fray with not much clarity yet on forging of alliances. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-tmc-will-be-marginal-players-in-goa-assembly-polls-p-chidambaram-1043698.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||Secularism constitutional, moral commitment for BJP: Naqvi||Senior BJP leader and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday took a swipe at opposition parties and said they treat secularism as their “political proprietorship” to “deceit” its constitutional essence. Inaugurating the BJP's Minority Morcha national executive, he said secularism is the constitutional and moral commitment for the BJP but the “pseudo-secular syndicate” has misused it as a “vote-catching tool”. He also cited figures to assert that a large number of minorities have benefitted from the Modi government's welfare policies, like building houses for the poor, free cooking gas connections, and cash transfers to farmers. Attacking the Congress, he alleged that since independence "political merchants of minority votes” have played tricks to dupe the minorities and conspired to grab their votes by creating an atmosphere of fear, raising the bogey of intolerance, spinning a web of religion, and spreading rumours, according to a statement. He said the Modi government is committed to “sabka sath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas, sabka prayas” to ensure development with the dignity of all sections, including the minorities. "The pseudo-political champions of secularism deliberately neglected the socio-economic-educational empowerment of minorities. Political parties which enjoyed power for the maximum time in the country adopted the path of divide and rule by using secularism for their political convenience," Naqvi alleged. He said opposition parties have treated secularism as their “political proprietorship” to “deceit” the constitutional essence of secularism. Minorities have to remain cautious of the parties wearing the "veil of secularism” while peddling conspiracies, he said, claiming that they have now understood the reality and supporting the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP's policies. The BJP believes in "development with dignity” and “development without discrimination”, he said. The government during the last seven years has worked for inclusive empowerment with a commitment to constitutional values and has ensured all the sections of society become an equal partners in the development process, Naqvi said. The Modi government's Inclusive development has finished off “appeasement politics”, he claimed. He said "historic" steps taken by the Modi government to ensure progress and prosperity of minorities include employment and employment opportunities to more than 5.50 lakh artisans, craftsmen through “hunar haat”, scholarships to more than five crore minority students, and a decrease in school drop-out rate among Muslim girls from 70 per cent to about 30 per cent. Out of over two crore people who benefitted from the Modi government's housing project, 31 per cent are minorities, while 33 per cent of 12 crore farmers “Kisan Samman Nidhi” are also minorities, he said. Nearly 37 per cent of eight crores “Ujjwala Yojana” beneficiaries are minority women, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/secularism-constitutional-moral-commitment-for-bjp-naqvi-1043721.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||Priyanka is 'Twitter Vadra', big achievement if Congress retains its 7 seats: UP Dy CM Keshav Maurya||Dismissing any challenge from Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Uttar Pradesh Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya on Sunday mockingly called her "Twitter Vadra" and said it would be a big achievement for her if the Congress retains its seven seats in next year’s Assembly polls. The senior BJP leader also brushed aside contest from the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), saying they should feel happy if they secure the number of seats they got in the 2017 polls. Maurya also refused to accord any importance to the Aam Aadmi Party and Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM, describing them as "vote katwa" (spoiler of votes). Asked as to who will be the CM face of the BJP in the elections, Maurya who had lost the race to Yogi Adityanath last time sounded evasive, saying it is his party’s central leadership that decides after consultation with legislators. Downplaying the announcement made by the Congress leader that her party will give 40 per cent tickets to women, Maurya said it would be "big achievement" for the Congress if it repeats its feat of getting seven MLAs in the polls. "The Congress does not exist in UP. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, they got two MPs from UP and in 2019 Lok Sabha election, it was further reduced to one MP," he said. "Similarly, in the 2017 UP Assembly elections, the Congress got seven seats and in the 2022 polls, if it manages to repeat the figure of seven, then it will be a big achievement," he told PTI in an interview. "Almost the same is the condition of the SP and the BSP, whose tenure people have not forgotten, and will never forget as corruption, crime, encouragement to mafia, casteism and appeasement dominated," Maurya said. The SP had bagged 47 seats out of 403 in the previous elections while Mayawati's party had to settle for 19 seats. Maurya said though both parties are talking about backwards, Dalits and upper castes, they are not well-wishers of anyone. "They only want to gain power, exploit people and fill their pockets with public money," Maurya alleged. When asked as to whether he feels that Priyanka has established herself as an alternative to the BJP in UP, Maurya said, "I think you (media) are seeing her more in the role of an opposition. I call Priyanka Gandhi Vadraji as Twitter Vadra. I don't think that barring those interested in getting their photographs clicked, there is anyone in the Congress.” "Yes, they have an expertise in getting their photographs clicked, be it Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Rahul Gandhi or any other leader of the Congress. In the race of getting their photos clicked they are ahead of the SP and the BSP. But, these three parties have failed to make any place in public's heart," he claimed. On the question who will be the CM face of the BJP, Maurya said, "Who am I to decide this. We have our central leadership. The central observers come and the leader of the legislative party is elected by newly-elected MLAs in the presence of central observers." "At present, respected Yogi Adityanathji is our chief minister, and Yogiji and we are making efforts to ensure victory for the BJP in the UP elections," he added. Maurya, who as the BJP state unit chief had played a crucial role in mobilising support of the non-Yadav OBC castes for the party in the 2017 elections, said there is "no challenge" to the BJP. "In the 2017 UP Assembly elections, we won 325 seats and our endeavour is that how can we win more than 325 seats this time. This is a challenge for us,” he said. Most promises that the party had made to people have been fulfilled and this has been done in a span of three-and-half years, he claimed, adding that about one-and-half year was lost to Covid-19. The work done by this government will comprehensively outweigh the work done by the SP and the BSP in 15 years, he claimed. On SP chief Akhilesh Yadav claiming that his party will win 400 seats, Maurya said, "How many seats was Akhilesh Yadav claiming to win in 2014 Lok Sabha polls and in the 2017 UP Assembly elections? In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, he even dreamt of becoming the prime minister. Eventually, the claims of the SP were found to be hollow.” "At the ground level, their organisation has no one except criminals and mafia. They do politics on the basis of caste and appeasement, from which Uttar Pradesh has come out," he said. On the opposition parties resorting to "soft-Hindutva", Maurya said, "This is the ideological victory of the BJP." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-is-twitter-vadra-big-achievement-if-congress-retains-its-7-seats-up-dy-cm-keshav-maurya-1043728.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||'What is this alliance?': Lalu Prasad Yadav questions Congress's usefulness as an ally in Bihar||Rashtriya Janata Dal president Lalu Prasad Yadav on Sunday scorned the Congress as he questioned the party's usefulness as an ally and wondered if his party should have left an assembly bypoll seat in the state for the national party so that it could lose even its deposit.    "Kya hota hai Congress ka gathbandhan? (What is this thing about an alliance with the Congress)," he shot back when asked about a virtual breakup of their alliance in the bypolls to two assembly seats over the RJD's refusal to concede a seat to the national party.    "Should we have given one seat (to Congress) for it to lose? So that it could lose even its deposit?" he said disdainfully.    He also mocked Congress leader Bhakta Charan Das, the party's in-charge for Bihar who has been targeting the RJD.   Das had recently said that Congress is no longer part of the RJD-led alliance in the state.    The RJD's decision to field its candidate from Kusheshwar Asthan, a seat from where the Congress had contested in the 2020 assembly polls, has rankled the Congress.    The Congress' poor show in the assembly polls compared to a much better strike rate of the RJD has prompted a section of the leaders of the Bihar party to question the national party's role in the alliance.    The RJD believes that Congress had been given more seats than its real strength in the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-is-this-alliance-lalu-prasad-yadav-questions-congresss-usefulness-as-an-ally-in-bihar-1043737.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||UP election: Congress' poll promises force rivals to revisit strategy||As Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra continues promising sops like farm loan and power bill waiver, government jobs and monetary help to the poor in poll bound Uttar Pradesh, the rival parties have been forced to revisit their election strategy. The ruling BJP, which dismissed Priyanka's announcements as an "election stunt", was preparing a dossier containing details of the state government's achievements on various fronts to 'counter' her. "We will soon come out with details about the number of government jobs given to the people during the four and half year of our government, initiatives for the benefit of the farmers and women," a senior UP BJP leader here said while speaking to DH on Sunday. The UP government on Sunday announced Rs 50,00 cash each to the next of the kin of those, who lost their lives in the second wave of Covid-19 in the state. On whether the saffron party would also come out with reservation for women in ticket allocation in the forthcoming Assembly polls, the leader said that the BJP had always given adequate representation to the women. The Samajwadi Party (SP), which has so far refrained from commenting on Congress' promises, was also considering to include the issues concerning farmers' loans, power bill as well as monetary help to the pandemic affected families. "We have always supported the farmers....we are committed to do everything to help them," a senior SP leader here said. Although both BJP and SP have been asserting that Congress is a fringe player in the electoral politics of UP, Priyanka's poll promises have caused unease within their ranks. UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu said that the election manifesto of his party was being given final touch and added that more promises could be included in it. "They are not mere promises....they are our vows and we are committed to them if Congress forms the next government," he said. Priyanka has promised waiver of loans of the farmers, providing government jobs to 20 lakh people in the state, cut power bills by half of every consumer while completely waiving off the power bills during the pandemic, hiking the procurement rates of paddy, wheat and sugarcane, besides 40 per cent reservation to women in allocation of tickets in the Assembly polls in the state and smartphones and electric scooters to girls. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-election-congress-poll-promises-force-rivals-to-revisit-strategy-1043749.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||Drone industry poised to take-off with Rs 500 crore orders from armed forces, says PM Modi in 'Mann ki Baat'||India’s nascent drone manufacturing industry is poised for take-off with Rs 500 crore orders from the armed forces, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday and asked the youth to take advantage of the new opportunities in the sector. In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ address, Modi also narrated how drones were being used in diverse sectors ranging from farming, maintaining law and order, delivery of goods, medicines and vaccines besides a variety of applications in the military sector. “I am happy to inform you that after the introduction of the new drone policy, foreign and domestic investors have invested in many drone start-ups. Many companies are also setting up manufacturing units,” he said. The Prime Minister said that the Army, Navy and Air Force have also placed orders worth more than Rs 500 crore with the Indian drone companies. “And this is just the beginning. We must not stop here. We have to become a leading country in Drone Technology,” he said. The government unveiled the new drone policy in August this year that eases regulations in the sunrise sector. It is expected to make it easier and cheaper for individuals and companies to own and operate drones. “For this, the Government is taking all possible steps. I will also urge the youth of the country to certainly think about taking advantage of the opportunities created after the Drone Policy and come forward,” Modi said. Modi also said that the new drone policy has ensured that the hassle of filling several forms is not there and also the earlier requirement to make the payment has been done away with in the new regime. He also highlighted that India was among the few countries in the world to use drones to digitise land records in its villages. Modi said earlier the real potential of drones were not being utilised as there were several restrictions. “The technology, which should have been seen as an opportunity, was seen as a risk. If you wanted to fly a drone for any work, then the license and permission used to be such a hassle that people used to give up. We decided to change the mindset and adopt new trends”, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/drone-industry-poised-to-take-off-with-rs-500-crore-orders-from-armed-forces-says-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat-1043767.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||BJP attacks opponents seeking to take out rallies in Tripura; TMC woman MP not spared: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday accused the BJP of beating up political opponents if they dare to take out rallies in Tripura, and claimed that even a woman MP is not spared. She was referring to the attack on Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev allegedly by BJP workers in Tripura during a public outreach programme near Agartala on Friday. The TMC seeks to dislodge the saffron party from power in the North-eastern state in the 2023 assembly election. Denying the BJP's claims of violence on its workers in West Bengal, the TMC supremo said, "There is peace in West Bengal and it is not the peace of the graveyard." "In contrast look at the happenings in your state (Tripura). Whoever dares to take out rallies opposing the BJP is hit with sticks. They don't even allow the injured TMC workers to be treated at a hospital. A young party worker was thrashed and he had to be rushed to the SSKM Hospital (in Kolkata)," Banerjee said at a rally in Siliguri. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-attacks-opponents-seeking-to-take-out-rallies-in-tripura-tmc-woman-mp-not-spared-mamata-1043774.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||Remove hoardings of PM from petrol pumps, says Goa Congress||The Goa Congress on Sunday slammed the Centre for the continuous rise in fuel prices and demanded that hoardings of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at dispensing pumps be removed. Goa Congress chief Girish Chodankar said it seemed as if the PM was laughing at people distressed by the rising prices of petrol, diesel, and cooking gas. "When people are spending their hard-earned money to fill high priced petrol or diesel, Modi can be seen laughing at them on the hoardings at petrol pumps,” he told reporters in Mapusa. Chodankar said his party will use powers within the purview of the state government and bring down prices of fuel through tax cuts etc if voted to power in Goa. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/remove-hoardings-of-pm-from-petrol-pumps-says-goa-congress-1043779.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||Congress is still a reliable ally in Bihar: RJD's Manoj Jha||Congress’ Bihar in-charge Bhaktacharan Das has levelled allegations against the RJD following the latter deciding to contest both the seats going to bypolls. Has the Grand Alliance in Bihar collapsed? Das has not only said that there is no Grand Alliance in Bihar. He went on to attribute unimaginable motives like we are in cohorts with the BJP-RSS. Not even an ordinary voter of Bihar is able to digest what he said. The RJD has suffered fighting the BJP on the streets as well as in the Assembly and Parliament. He has also said that Congress is willing to contest all the 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar. I wish him good luck. Why only 40 seats in Bihar? Das should contemplate contesting 543 seats all over the country and defeat the BJP. We shall be more than happy. But the reality is different. I don't know whether his statements have the support of the Congress central leadership. I doubt he has the support of the central leadership. Congress had demanded Kusheshwar Asthan, one of the two seats going to bypolls in Bihar On October 30. It had contested the seat earlier. Why did RJD take a decision to ignore the Congress demand and contest from there? There is a bit of history to the seat many are unaware of. There is this community called Musahars, which has remained unrepresented from that constituency till now. We were keen to field a Musahar candidate. The Congress was not willing to come on board. We had two choices – go ahead discarding the fact that this community needed representation or stick to something called ‘coalition dharma’. RJD is practising ‘coalition dharma’. We were keen that Musahars should be represented. Congress was not keen. I think that was the turning point. We thought Congress being a national party would understand that one by-poll seat doesn't matter. The last four times, they had contested the seat and were losing it. Does this move to take over the seat have something to do with the latest developments including the induction of CPI's Kanhaiya Kumar into the Congress? This question has nothing more than a gossip value. There used to be a popular Hindi magazine 'Manohar Kahaniyan'. This story is best suitable for 'Manohar Kahaniyan'. RJD chief Tejashwi Yadav has led this Grand Alliance and almost brought it to victory in 2020. If the administration had not intervened with a dubious design, we would have been in power. Anybody saying it is because of this or that, it makes no sense at all. You referred to Das' allegation that RJD is helping the BJP. What will be your specific response to this? My response will be that the people of India should check the record of fighting the BJP. We don't need to provide any proof. My party has suffered, my leader has suffered and he is still suffering because he stays committed to certain ideas and principles. What should I say about Congress? Where are their five past state presidents? Records will tell you. Do you still consider Congress as a reliable ally in Bihar? Of course, yes. I have been maintaining that the Congress central leadership has a very robust relationship with the RJD and Lalu Prasad ji. We have had many battles together. We have seen good times. We have seen bad times. I am sure that the Congress central leadership will look at the larger picture and probably rein in its state leadership. There is also a rift within the RJD between Tejashwi Yadav and his brother Tej Pratap Yadav. Is RJD in the doldrums? Not at all. I tell you this is another story that a section of the media loves to circulate. There are certain issues but these are issues that can be resolved. It is between the family. The party is not impacted by it. It will be resolved. How do you see the JD(U)'s chances in these bypolls? Will it be a referendum? Every election is a referendum. The 2020 Bihar Assembly election was a referendum. Despite being reduced to 40-odd seats, JD(U)'s Nitish Kumar chose to remain in power. So that tells you his ideological moorings. I am campaigning in both the seats going to bypolls. I can tell you that people desperately want to see that the RJD wins these two seats. People want these two seats to be the harbinger of change in the government. There are many JD(U) MLAs who are actually not very happy with the kind of governance they are seeing. In five months time, we will see elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. Several say the results will set the tone for the 2024 elections. What impact will these elections have on the 2024 polls? Every election is a new election. I personally don't subscribe to calling some elections semi-finals or quarter-finals. Elections should be on people's issues. How can the country forget the highest unemployment rate recorded recently or unaccounted Covid-19 or disaster sort of situation owing to rising prices? I think these are the kind of issues where the entire opposition should stand together. I know there will be some hiccups, but setting aside those blocks, building a narrative shall probably pave the way for 2022 and subsequently 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-is-still-a-reliable-ally-in-bihar-rjds-manoj-jha-1043782.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||ED will not come after me as I am a BJP MP: Sanjay Patil||Sanjay Patil, BJP's Lok Sabha member from Sangli in Maharashtra, on Sunday quipped that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) will not come after him as he is a BJP MP. He made the remark while speaking at a function in Sangli. "The ED won't come after me since I am a BJP MP...We have to take a loan in order to purchase luxury cars worth Rs 40 lakh to show off. The ED will be surprised to see the amount of loan we have..," he said in a lighter vein. Recently, BJP leader Harshavardhan Patil had quipped that he was getting "sound sleep" in the saffron party as there are "no inquiries", a remark that came on a day when NCP chief Sharad Pawar alleged the misuse of the central agencies like the CBI, ED, and NCB to target the Opposition. Harshvardhan Patil, a former MLA from Indapur in the Pune district, had quit the Congress and switched over to the BJP before the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress - have been accusing the BJP-led government at the Centre of misusing the central agencies to target the leaders of the three ruling parties in the state. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ed-will-not-come-after-me-as-i-am-a-bjp-mp-sanjay-patil-1043804.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||BJP govt anti-farmer, only few industrialists prospering, says Nana Patole||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Sunday said the BJP-led government at the Centre was anti-farmer and cited the difference in international and domestic prices of soyabean to bolster his point. He said soyabean was being procured at Rs 11,000 per quintal in the country while it was being imported at Rs 18,000 for the same quantity. Addressing a gathering in Ambajogai taluka, he said some industrialists were prospering under the Narendra Modi government while common citizens were distressed due to rising prices of fuel and essential items. He said Other Backward Classes got quota due to the efforts of then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, but the BJP was opposed to it and was not providing empirical data on OBC numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-govt-anti-farmer-only-few-industrialists-prospering-says-nana-patole-1043808.html
24-10-2021||National Politics||BJP made mistake by indiscriminately inducting TMC leaders ahead of WB poll: Party national Secy||BJP's top brass made a mistake by indiscriminately inducting TMC leaders ahead of the assembly polls in West Bengal, the saffron party's national general secretary Anupam Hazra said on Sunday. Speaking to reporters in Bolpur, Hazra said that many of those inducted were not loyal to the BJP and had no respect for the party's ideology. "Loyal, old-time BJP workers felt ignored. They were not consulted during the high-voltage campaign before the assembly polls. Undue importance was given to these new entrants who joined the BJP for power. The party's top brass made a mistake by indiscriminately inducting TMC leaders," he claimed. "Many performers (actors) had joined the BJP without knowing the party's ideology. They were fielded in the polls without consulting the rank and file who work for the party throughout the year," Hazra added. Reacting to the comments, state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said the party was assessing the reasons behind the setback but no real party man should air his views in the press. "Anupam has cited some factors and we are also assessing the reasons, but if he talks about inducting TMC leaders as an issue, he himself had come from Trinamool," Bhattacharya said. The TMC said the BJP was facing internal squabble after defeat in the assembly polls. "It will grow more intense in the coming days," TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh claimed. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-made-mistake-by-indiscriminately-inducting-tmc-leaders-ahead-of-wb-poll-party-national-secy-1043841.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Man rapes 7-year-old girl in Delhi; DCW issues notice to police seeking action||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man in central Delhi’s Ranjeet Nagar area, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday when the victim was going to a place near her residence where food was being distributed for free, police said. It is suspected that the accused lured the minor and raped her, police said, adding that the girl is stable. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act has been registered and an investigation is underway, a senior police officer said. Footage from CCTV cameras in the area was analysed and the accused has been identified. Several teams are conducting raids to nab him, the officer added. Meanwhile, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) issued a notice to the Delhi Police on Saturday seeking immediate action in the matter. According to a statement released by DCW, the commission was informed that a seven-year-old girl was lured by a man who offered her a Rs 10 note and raped her. The DCW chairperson took cognizance of the matter and issued notice to the Delhi Police. The commission has asked the police to take immediate action in the matter and also sought the details of the FIR, it said. DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal said, “I am very anguished over the incident. It is a matter of great concern and shame that we have to go through with such matters of sexual assault with children on frequent basis." "Only stringent measures can stop incidents of rapes with girls. I seek immediate action by the Delhi Police in the matter, accused must be immediately arrested and punished with capital punishment,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-rapes-7-year-old-girl-in-delhi-dcw-issues-notice-to-police-seeking-action-1043626.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Give final push to end terror in J&K: Amit Shah to forces||Asserting that the August 5, 2019, decision reduced terrorism, nepotism and corruption in Jammu and Kashmir, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday asked the security agencies to give a final push to end militancy in the region. Shah, who arrived in Srinagar on a three-day visit to J&K, said strict action will be taken against those who want to ruin the peace in J&K. “No one can obstruct development here and it’s our commitment,” he said while interacting with members of J&K Youth Club, in Srinagar. Justifying the abrogation of Article 370, the home minister asked, “The transparency and corruption-free governance Jammu & Kashmir has witnessed since 2019 is the pillar of the region’s development. Would it be possible without abrogating Article 370?” “5th August 2019 will be written in golden letters. Kashmir has seen a new beginning from fear, terrorism, corruption and family-based politics to peace, development, and prosperity. The youth of Jammu & Kashmir has strengthened this change. Before August 5, 2019, what did the 70 years of Independence give J&K — 87 Assembly, 6 Lok Sabha seats and three families. I do not need to name those families,” Shah said. Shah, who is on his first visit to the UT since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019, said the delimitation will happen in the UT followed by elections and then restoration of statehood.   Earlier, during a high-level security meeting chaired by the home minister here, Shah sought answers as to why radicalisation and home-grown militancy were on the rise in Kashmir and asked them to give a final push to end terrorism in the region. “Shah sought answers from the heads of various security agencies as to why despite a massive build-up of forces and extensive outreach efforts by the Center, the twin threats of radicalisation and home-grown terrorism were on the rise,” sources told DH. Besides, they said, the spate of recent targeted killing of civilians, and an increase in cross-border infiltration were other issues discussed during the meeting. Top officials, including Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, and senior security officials from the army, CRPF, police and other agencies, attended the meeting. Shah also met the family of J&K police inspector Parvaiz Ahmad, who was shot dead by militants on June 22 near his home in Nowgam on the outskirts of the city. He offered his condolences to the family and handed over documents of appointment to a government job to Ahmad’s widow, Fatima Akhtar, on compassionate grounds, an official said. Cosmetic steps won’t address actual problem: Mehbooba Regional PDP president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday said “cosmetic steps” like the inauguration of international flights and medical colleges by Union Home Minister Amit Shah will not address the actual problem in the region. “HM inaugurating international flights from Srinagar & laying the foundation of new medical colleges isn’t new. Half a dozen medical colleges were sanctioned by the UPA govt & are functional now. Post Article 370 abrogation & an engineered crisis, J&K has been thrown into chaos (sic),” she tweeted. “This crisis is of GOI’s making & instead of reaching out they opted for cosmetic steps that don’t address the actual problem. Ideally, HM’s visit should have been preceded by following up on PM’s assurance post the all party meeting,” she said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/give-final-push-to-end-terror-in-jk-amit-shah-to-forces-1043627.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||UP govt to rename Faizabad railway station||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to rename the Faizabad railway station, a tweet by the office of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday. It will be called the Ayodhya Cantt railway station, the tweet said, adding that the decision was taken by the chief minister. In another tweet, the CM’s office said the Centre too has granted its consent to the decision and Adityanath has given green signal to issue a notification in this regard. Earlier in 2018, the Yogi Adityanath government had renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya. The BJP government had also changed the name of Allahabad to Prayagraj and Mughalsarai railway junction as Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay junction. Meanwhile, the opposition dubbed the move as an attempt to "play with Hindu sentiments" for political benefits. The chief minister, however, justified renaming, saying it is part of efforts to "restore the rich historical and cultural identity" of the place. Opened in 1874, the Faizabad railway station comes under the Northern Railway zone. It falls under the Lucknow-Varanasi section.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-to-rename-faizabad-railway-station-1043631.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||J&K counter-insurgency operation: Arrested Pakistani terrorist killed, 3 security personnel injured||An arrested Pakistani terrorist was killed, while three security personnel were injured on Sunday when militants opened fire on a joint search party of the Army and police inside a forest in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. Heavy firing and explosions were reported from Bhatta Durrian forest of Mendhar which along with nearby forest areas adjoining Surankote (Poonch) and Thanamandi in Rajouri district is witnessing a massive search operation, the officials said. The operation, which saw nine Army personnel losing their lives in separate ambushes in Surankote and Mendhar on October 11 and 14, entered the 14th day on Sunday. The arrested Pakistani terrorist affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Zia Mustafa, had been taken by the security forces to identify a hideout in Bhata Durian forest in Mendhar area of border Poonch district, couldn’t be retrieved because of the heavy volume of fire, a police officer said. He added that two policemen and an Army jawan along with Mustafa were injured in firing by terrorists in Bhatta Durrian forest this morning. "'During the search when the team approached the hideout, terrorists again opened fire on the joint team of police and Army personnel in which two policemen and an Army jawan sustained injuries,” the spokesperson said. “When the search party approached the hideout, militants again opened fire in which two policemen and an army jawan sustained injuries. Mustafa also sustained injuries and he could not be extracted from the site due to heavy fire,” he said and added the militant may have got killed. Officials said Mustafa, a resident of Rawalakot in Pakistan occupied Kashmir, was lodged in Kot Bhalwal jail for the last 14 years and was shifted to Mendhar on police remand after investigation revealed his link with the hiding terrorists. Mustafa had sneaked into this side from the same route before he was arrested from south Kashmir, the officials said. The operation in the forest areas in the twin border districts commenced on October 11 when terrorists ambushed a search party killing five soldiers including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) in Surankote forest of Poonch before another gunfight in nearby Thanamandi on the same day. On October 14, the terrorists struck again and killed four soldiers including a JCO in Nar Khas forest in Mendhar as the security forces extended the cordon and search operation to neutralise the fleeing terrorists. Drones and helicopters were pressed into service to assist the marching troops, which included para-commandos, in the jungle at a distance of four km from the Line of Control (LoC), the officials said. Ten persons, including two women, were detained for questioning after it came to light that they allegedly provided logistic support including food and shelter to the terrorists, the officials said. An Army official said on Saturday that a major part of the forest was cleared and now the search area is restricted to a location housing a number of natural caves. “There was no contact with the terrorist after the initial gunfights on October 11 and October 14. The search area was expanded in search of the terrorists,” the official had said, hoping to conclude the operation with the clearance of the natural caves within a day or two depending on the weather conditions. Traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended as a precautionary measure for the ninth day on Sunday in the wake of the ongoing operation. Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-counter-insurgency-operation-arrested-pakistani-terrorist-killed-3-security-personnel-injured-1043651.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri probe: Ashish Mishra hospitalised with dengue||Ashish Mishra, son of union minister Ajay Mishra Teni and the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, is reportedly suffering from dengue and has been hospitalised. According to sources, Ashish's health deteriorated and he had to be admitted to the jail hospital. Ashish who was taken on police remand on Friday, had complained of fever and his blood reports on Saturday confirmed that he was suffering from dengue. He was admitted to the jail hospital at 10 pmm on Saturday after his condition deteriorated. Ashish Mishra was arrested in connection with the violence that was triggered after he allegedly ran his car over protesting farmers in Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three new farm laws was staging a demonstration against the visit of UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers, a driver and a journalist were killed in the violence that followed. Meanwhile, three more persons were arrested on Saturday in connection with the case, taking the total number of arrests to 13. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-probe-ashish-mishra-hospitalised-with-dengue-1043658.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Civilian killed in firing incident in Shopian in J&K||A civilian, reportedly a milkman, was killed in a firing incident near a CRPF camp in Zainapora area of south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Sunday. While the police said he was killed in “cross-firing” between security forces and militants, the circumstances that led to the killing were not clear yet.   A local news gathering agency KNO, quoting an unnamed police official, reported that Shahid Aijaz from neighboring Anantnag district was killed in “cross-firing after a CRPF party retaliated a militant attack in the area.” Police said that the CRPF party “was out for area domination when militants fired upon them, which they (CRPF) retaliated.” “During cross-firing, one person died. Credentials are being ascertained,” police said. This is the second incident in October when a civilian was killed in an incident involving the Central Reserve Police Force in Kashmir. On October 7, a man was shot dead by the CRPF in Anantnag district after the driver of his car failed to stop the vehicle at a checkpoint. Besides these two deaths, 11 civilians, including non-local labourers, have been killed in Kashmir this month. The Resistance Front, believed to be an offshoot of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit, has claimed responsibility for most of the civilian killings.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civilian-killed-in-firing-incident-in-shopian-in-jk-1043671.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Standoff clashes with China: 20 ITBP personnel honoured with gallantry medals||Twenty personnel of the India-China LAC guarding Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) force, who displayed bravery during the violent clashes and ongoing military standoff between the two countries in the eastern Ladakh region in May-June 2020, were on Sunday decorated with police gallantry medals. Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai pinned the medals on the chests of the personnel and handed them certificates during the 60th Raising Day celebrations of the force here. These medals were announced on the eve of Independence Day on August 14 this year. The central paramilitary is deployed shoulder-to-shoulder with the Army as part of its primary mandate to guard the 3,488 km-long icy Line of Actual Control (LAC). Out of the 20, eight personnel have been awarded the police medal for gallantry (PMG) for their gallant act, meticulous planning and tactical insightfulness and for defending the motherland in Galwan Nalla on June 15 last year, a spokesperson for the force said. Six personnel have been awarded the PMG for gallant action during violent face-off on May 18 in the Finger IV area while the rest six have been decorated with the same medal for their gallant action near Hot Springs in Ladakh on the same day, the force had said earlier. It had been said that in eastern Ladakh, the ITBP troops not only effectively used shields to protect themselves but also responded fiercely to Chinese PLA advancing troops and brought the situation under control during "fierce" face-offs and skirmishes.  "With the highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder-to-shoulder and also brought the injured (Army) troops to the rear. "Even when the ITBP troops fought the whole night, they received minimum casualties by giving befitting reply to the stone pelters of the PLA," the force said in their citation. At certain places, it said, they gave a "determined" standoff for about 17-20 hours throughout the intervening night (June 15-16) in extremely challenging conditions.  "Due to the high-altitude training and survival experience of the force at the icy Himalayan deployments, ITBP troops kept the PLA troops at bay and due to the all out and befitting response of ITBP troops at several fronts, many areas were safeguarded. "The ITBP troops showed the highest level of devotion, courage, determination, utter disregard to personal safety even in injured condition and exhibited great professional skills in the face of a violent physical scuffle with the PLA," it had said. Twenty Army soldiers were killed during these clashes while China has claimed the casualty figures on its side to be five, which is widely believed to be much higher. Three other ITBP personnel were also decorated with the PMG for displaying courage, grit and determination in anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh. Deputy Inspector General (veterinary) Sudhakar Natarajan was also decorated with the police medal for meritorious service during the event for rendering exceptional service in the animal transport wing of the force, the lifeline for ensuring rations and logistics to its mountainous border deployments. Natarajan, who joined the ITBP in 1992, is credited with introducing the first batch of Belgian Malinois infantry patrol dogs in the ITBP, which was followed by all other Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF). The about 90,000 personnel strong ITBP was raised on this day in 1962 in the aftermath of the Chinese aggression. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/standoff-clashes-with-china-20-itbp-personnel-honoured-with-gallantry-medals-1043684.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Man arrested for raping minor in Delhi||A 20-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly raping a minor girl in central Delhi's Ranjeet Nagar area, police said. The accused has been identified as Suraj, a resident of Raghubir Nagar, they said. He was arrested from Kalanaur, Rohtak district, Haryana. He was previously arrested under the POCSO Act for allegedly harassing a minor under Khyala police station limits, police said. "We checked footage from hundreds of CCTV cameras and obtained his photograph. The accused is in no way related to the victim and he is not a resident of that locality. There was no phone number, no vehicle, etc. that could help us in identifying the accused. Several police teams from the central district worked tirelessly for 36 hours to nab him. "When the accused realised that the police were looking for him, he tried to flee from Delhi. Our teams followed him and intercepted him at Kalanaur," Deputy Commissioner of Police (central) Shweta Chauhan said. In a purported CCTV footage that has gone viral, the accused could be seen going with the girl. The incident took place on Friday when the girl was on her way to a place where food was being distributed for free. Police said the place was close to her residence. It is suspected that the accused lured the minor and then raped her, police said, adding the girl is stable. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act has been registered. The Delhi Commission for Women issued a notice to the Delhi Police on Saturday seeking immediate action in the matter. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-for-raping-minor-in-delhi-1043701.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||SC slams Uttarakhand govt for filing 'frivolous' appeal in attempt to murder case, warns of penal action||The Supreme Court has slammed the Uttarakhand government for filing a "frivolous" appeal challenging reduction of sentence of a man in a case of attempt to murder. A bench of Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Vikram Nath noted that the counsel for the accused did not challenge the conviction before the Uttarakhand High Court and only argued for reduction of sentence and the lawyer for the state did not oppose such a prayer for reduction of sentence. The top court dismissed the petition filed by the Uttarakhand government with a warning to the state that any other attempt of frivolous litigation in this court may be visited with penalisation of the officers responsible for sanctioning. "It is rather disturbing to note that in such a matter, where the state's counsel before the high court did not even oppose the prayer for reduction of sentence and the high court made slight modification in the sentence considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality, the state has chosen to approach this court seeking special leave to appeal without any justification. "The present petition could only be said to be a frivolous litigation by the state," the bench said in its October 20 order. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by Uttarakhand challenging judgement and order dated August 20, 2020 passed by the high court in which it maintained conviction of the accused of offences under Sections 307 (attempt to murder)/34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act. The high court, however, reduced the sentence in relation to the offence under Sections 307/34 IPC to rigorous imprisonment of four years and five months instead of seven years and also reduced the fine amount to Rs. 15,000 instead of Rs 20,000. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-slams-uttarakhand-govt-for-filing-frivolous-appeal-in-attempt-to-murder-case-warns-of-penal-action-1043706.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Empty gas cylinders at scrapyard prompt Congress attacks on Centre's Ujjwala scheme||Visuals of empty LPG cylinders at a scrapyard in Madhya Pradesh prompted Congress to attack the Modi government's Ujjwala scheme, with the Opposition saying that people had sold off the cylinders because of the surge in prices.  MP Congress chief and former CM Kamal Nath tweeted a video clip of empty gas cylinders dumped at a scrapyard in the state's Bhind district. "In Bhind, Madhya Pradesh, the gas cylinders and stoves of the Modi government's most publicized Ujjwala scheme are being sold in a pile of straw. This situation is of the state where the Home Minister of the country had started the second phase of the Ujjwala scheme in Jabalpur," Nath wrote. मध्यप्रदेश के भिंड में इस तरह कबाड़ में बिक रहे है मोदी सरकार की सबसे ज़्यादा प्रचार-प्रसार वाली वाली उज्ज्वला योजना के गैस सिलेंडर और चूल्हे भूसे के ढेर में पड़े है। "We are daily wage labourers. I have four children. We are short of money on days I don't get work. How can we get LPG cylinders refilled? We stopped getting them refilled after prices crossed the Rs 600 mark," a labourer told the publication.  A gas agency employee in the district reportedly said that the scheme's beneficiaries book the cylinder for a refill but people don't receive them citing high prices.  Avdhesh Pandey, supply officer for Bhind district, claimed he is not aware of empty cylinders being sold to scrap dealers and that the issue needs to be investigated. "Under the Ujjwala Yojana now, beneficiaries get the gas connection, stove and the first refill for free. We cannot provide further refilling for free," he told the publication.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/empty-gas-cylinders-at-scrapyard-prompt-congress-attacks-on-centres-ujjwala-scheme-1043709.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba slams CDS Rawat's remarks on curbs in Kashmir||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday charged that “repression” was the Centre's only method to deal with the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. Reacting to the remarks by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat warning of further curbs in Kashmir to tackle the recent violence, Mehbooba also said his statement “contradicts” the official narrative that all is well in the valley. “Even after turning Kashmir into an open air prison, Bipin Rawat's statement comes as no surprise because repression is GOIs only method to deal with the situation in J&K. It also contradicts their official narrative that all is well here,” she alleged on Twitter. While delivering the first Ravi Kant Singh Memorial Lecture in Assam on Saturday, Rawat said the freedom of movement that people in Jammu & Kashmir were starting to enjoy in recent times may be disrupted due to the current situation and urged for people's cooperation in tackling the situation. The PDP chief wondered what more measures were left to be implemented after “stringent, harsh & repressive measures” like “mass arrests”, suspension of internet at will, and setting up new security bunkers. “After taking such stringent, harsh & repressive measures like mass arrests, suspension of internet at will, frisking people (not sparing even kids), seizing bikes plus two wheelers & setting up new security bunkers all over what is left to do?” the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-slams-cds-rawats-remarks-on-curbs-in-kashmir-1043711.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi High Court asks AIIMS to pay over Rs 50 lakh to illegally terminated employee||The Delhi High Court has directed the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to pay over Rs 50 lakh to a former employee, who was illegally terminated from service, noting that the man has been running from pillar to post for the last several years. Raj Singh, who was appointed as a driver by AIIMS sometime in the 1980s, will also be paid Rs 19,900 as a pension every month. According to the petitioner, he was illegally terminated after which he approached the labour court. The labour court in December 1998 held that the termination of service was an unfair labour practice, Singh said in his petition. The labour court's order was challenged before various forums and finally, the Special Leave Petition (SLP) filed by AIIMS was dismissed by the Supreme Court on June 3, 2016. Petitioner Singh, represented through advocate B T Kaul, served a legal notice to authorities seeking compliance of the award and payment of the amount, but it was not paid. Thereafter, he approached the high court. Justice Prathiba M Singh directed that the man be paid Rs 50,49,079 towards salary for the period from December 4, 1998, which is the date of award, and the date of superannuation, which is October 31, 2016, his leave encashment and his gratuity. It was directed that Rs 19,900 be paid to him as monthly pension. This amount was calculated by the authorities and the court was informed about it. However, the basis for the computation has still not been explained. "However, considering that the petitioner (Singh) has been running from pillar to post since 2016 when the Supreme Court dismissed the SLP till date, the respondents (authorities) are directed to pay the amounts in terms of order dated March 9, 2021, on or before October 30, 2021, to the petitioner workman," the high court said in its October 12 order. The court was also told by advocate Sonali Malhotra, representing AIIMS officials, that the workman was also required to deposit Rs 30,000 as a lifetime validation amount for being enrolled under the Employees Health Scheme. To this, the court said that in view of the long duration for which Singh has been fighting the present litigation, the amount of Rs 30,000 shall now be deposited on his behalf by AIIMS itself, in lieu of costs for the long-drawn litigation. It said all the amounts due and payable shall be released by October 30 and a compliance affidavit giving the details of the computation and the manner in which it has been done, as also confirming the payment, shall be filed on or before November 15. The court asked the petitioner’s counsel to give details of the workman’s bank accounts to the counsel for AIIMS for remitting the payment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-asks-aiims-to-pay-over-rs-50-lakh-to-illegally-terminated-employee-1043726.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to inaugurate 9 medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh, launch development projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate nine medical colleges and launch several development projects in Uttar Pradesh on Monday during a visit to the poll-bound state. He will inaugurate medical colleges from Siddharthnagar and will launch later in Varanasi "Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana", the PMO said in a statement and added that he will also inaugurate various development projects worth more than Rs 5,200 crore for his Lok Sabha constituency. Prime Minister Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana (PMASBY) will be one of the largest pan-India scheme for strengthening healthcare infrastructure and will be in addition to the National Health Mission, the PMO said. Its objective is to fill gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. It will provide support for 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high focus states. Further, 11,024 urban health and wellness centres will be established in all the states. The PMO said critical care services will be available in all the districts of the country with more than five lakh population through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services. People will have access to a full range of diagnostic services in the public healthcare system through a network of laboratories across the country, and integrated public health labs will be set up in all the districts. Under PMASBY, a national institution for one health, four new national institutes for virology, a regional research platform for WHO South East Asia Region, nine biosafety level-III laboratories, five new regional national centre for disease control will be set up, the PMO said. Nine medical colleges to be inaugurated are in the districts of Siddharthnagar, Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur, and Jaunpur.  Eight medical colleges have been sanctioned under the centrally sponsored scheme for “establishment of new medical colleges attached with district/referral hospitals” and one medical college in Jaunpur has been made functional by the state government through its own resources, it said. Under the centrally sponsored scheme, preference is given to underserved, backward, and aspirational districts. The scheme aims to increase the availability of health professionals, correct the existing geographical imbalance in the distribution of medical colleges and effectively utilize the existing infrastructure of district hospitals. Under three phases of the scheme, 157 new medical colleges have been approved across the nation, out of which 63 medical colleges are already functional, the PMO said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-9-medical-colleges-in-uttar-pradesh-launch-development-projects-1043731.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Govt does not believe in buying peace in J&K: L-G Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha Sunday warned those who incite people to trigger violence, saying the government does not believe in "buying peace" but is firm on ensuring peace on the ground. Sinha made these remarks at a public rally with Union Home Minister Amit Shah who is on his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir after the repeal of Article 370 in August 2019. Sinha said Kashmiri migrants faced "grave problems" and his administration launched an online portal to address them. "We received 6,000 complaints and out of which 2,000 have been resolved and rest will be resolved too." He said some people are making "unholy attempts to incite emotions among of the people of Kashmir to trigger violence". "I want to tell them that they should know whose government is there in Delhi and who India's home minister is," he said, warning the trouble-mongers, "The government does not believe in buying peace, but it believes in firm implementation of peace on the ground in J&K." The L-G said the government will defend peace and ensure the life of people in Jammu and Kashmir is safeguarded. "We want to assure you -- the way the Union home minister conveyed to us in the security meeting -- I want to reassure you that it is our prime duty and responsibility to safeguard the life and properties of 1.25 crore people of this UT, particularly those belonging to the minority community," he said. The L-G also mentioned the killings of 11 civilian in the valley in October alone. Five of those killed were labourers from Bihar, while three, including two teachers, belonged to minority communities in Kashmir. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-does-not-believe-in-buying-peace-in-jk-l-g-manoj-sinha-1043738.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Centre notifies 10 additional judges as judges in Punjab and Haryana HC||The Centre has issued orders to appoint 10 additional judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court as permanant judges there. In a notification, the Ministry of Law and Justice said, the President is pleased to appoint the additional judges as judges with effect from the date they assume charge of their offices. The additional judges appointed as judges are Justices Suvir Sehgal, Smt Alka Sarin, Jasgurpreet Singh Puri, Ashok Kumar Verma, Sant Prakash, Smt Meenakshi Mehta, Karamjit Singh, Vivek Puri, Smt Archana Puri and Rajesh Bhardwaj. The Centre has acted on the recommendation made by the CJI-led Collegium on October 7 in this regard. As on October 1, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had a working strength of 45 judges against the sanctioned number of 85 judges. Out of sanctioned strength of 1,098 judges in 25 High Courts, there are vacancies of 471 judges. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-notifies-10-additional-judges-as-judges-in-punjab-and-haryana-hc-1043745.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Congress MLA joins BJP ahead of Khandwa LS bypoll||Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Sachin Birla on Sunday joined the ruling BJP in the presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan at an election rally for the Khandwa Lok Sabha bypoll. Birla had won the Assembly election on a Congress ticket from the Badwah seat in Khargone district in 2018. Badwah Assembly seat represented by Birla falls in Khargone district, but it is a part of Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, where the bypoll is scheduled on October 30 along with three other Assembly seats in the state. "MLA Sachin Birla joined the BJP in the presence of the chief minister," BJP's media in-charge Lokendra Parashar said in a tweet while sharing the video that showed Birla being welcomed by Chouhan, Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel and other BJP leaders on stage during a rally at Bedia. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-congress-mla-joins-bjp-ahead-of-khandwa-ls-bypoll-1043754.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||First Zika virus case reported in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur||A Zika virus case has been reported in this district of Uttar Pradesh, a health official said on Sunday. He said a warrant officer in the Indian Air Force (IAF) was diagnosed with the infection on Saturday, the first in Kanpur. Chief Medical Officer Nepal Singh said that the IAF officer was suffering from fever for the past several days and was admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the district. Following mysterious symptoms in the case, the blood sample was collected and sent to Pune for proper examination which confirmed that the patient was Zika virus positive, he said, adding the report was received on Saturday. Twenty-two more samples of persons who came in contact with the patient and those who have the same symptoms have also been sent for examination, Singh said. Health and civic bodies’ officials have been put on alert to deal with the situation. Besides, several teams have also been tasked to check the spread of the virus in the district, officials said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-zika-virus-case-reported-in-uttar-pradeshs-kanpur-1043764.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand disaster toll climbs to 77||Bodies of five out of six trekkers feared dead on Suderdhunga trek in Bageshwar district were found on Sunday as the cumulative death toll in rain-related incidents in Uttarakhand rose to 77. However, search is still on for another trekker in the area, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) sources here said. Meanwhile, 19 people stranded in Kafni glacier were brought to their village Chuni and 33 stuck in Pindari glacier were evacuated to safety, they said. Two trekkers missing on way to Chitkul via Harsil in Uttarkashi district are yet to be found, they said. Bodies of seven trekkers -- part of the 11-member team -- were recovered on Sunday while two other members of the group rescued alive have been under treatment for a couple of days. Bodies of trekkers from West Bengal were sent home after a postmortem examination while the last rites of a woman trekker from Delhi was performed by her family members in Uttarkashi, district disaster management officer Devendra Patwal said. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday visited the damaged Gaula bridge in Haldwani and said work on war footing will be done to restore traffic movement. Accompanied by Cabinet ministers Yatishwaranand and Dhan Singh Rawat, Dhami said the state government stood with the affected people who will be given all help. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-disaster-toll-climbs-to-77-1043778.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||BKU protests against 'misbehaviour' by toll plaza employees||The Bhartiya Kisan Union here on Sunday staged a protest against alleged misbehaviour by the employees of Mahuvan toll plaza on NH 2 here. During the hour-long protest, the toll was made free for the movement of vehicles of commoners, said BKU State Vice President Buddha Singh Pradhan. He said the activists were travelling from Agra for ‘Ashthi Visarjan’ (immersion of ashes) of “martyred farmers” and lone journalist of Lakhimpur into the Yamuna river. The BKU activists demanded stern action against toll employees. They eventually agreed to lift the Dharna after the head of the toll plaza apologised. “After persuasion, the farmers lifted Dharna,” Circle Officer Sandeep Kumar Meena said. Prior to calling off the Dharna, Pradhan said: “The misbehaviour with activists of BKU at any toll would not be tolerated.” “It was inhuman on the part of toll employees, not to realise the gravity of the situation. Instead of supporting the cause for which farmers were coming from the Agra side to Mathura, they created hurdles,” he added. The BKU leader stressed that the farmers would be forced to go on a hunger strike for unlimited period toll employees misbehaved with them again. After the protest, they immersed the ashes into Yamuna at Gokul Barrage. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bku-protests-against-misbehaviour-by-toll-plaza-employees-1043823.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Abdullah expresses surprise over Shah’s comment on restoration of J&K statehood||National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah on Sunday expressed surprise over Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement that Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood would be restored after assembly elections. He said “urges and aspirations of people have to be satiated for lasting peace” in the Union territory. Abdullah expressed surprise over the logic being advanced by the central leadership that the statehood will be restored after completion of the delimitation of constituencies and holding of elections. “It is strange,” he said and recalled the all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi a few months ago in which he took up these issues. “Modi had at that point of time asserted that the gap between New Delhi and J-K would have to be bridged by winning over the hearts… Hearts cannot be won by undermining the status of Jammu and Kashmir, which was bifurcated and then downgraded,” the NC leader said while addressing a public meeting at Mendhar in Poonch district. Defending the BJP-led NDA government's decision to revoke Jammu and Kashmir's special status, Shah had on Saturday said August 5, 2019 was written in golden letters in the history of Kashmir. He had reiterated that elections would be held in J-K after the delimitation exercise to be followed by restoration of statehood. "Elections will happen. (Politicians from Kashmir want that the) Delimitation be stopped. Why? Because it hurts their politics. Now, such things will not stop in Kashmir. “The youth of Kashmir will get opportunities, so a right delimitation will be done, which will be followed by elections and then the status of the statehood will be restored. I have said this in the country's Parliament and this is the roadmap," Shah had said. Abdullah further said it must have happened for the first time that a state is transformed and downgraded as a Union territory. “The urges and aspirations of the people have to be satiated for lasting peace,” he underlined. Pitching for India-Pakistan dialogue, the NC president said peace in the region will remain elusive unless a conducive atmosphere is made for talks between the two neighboring countries. He also decried attempts of dividing the society for political gains and said this is not good for the unity of the country and integration of people. “The nation cannot afford to get fragmented into bits and pieces on the basis of religion. Elections were not to be fought on religion, as these provide an opportunity to put in place responsive governments which serve the people in terms of development and economic emancipation,” he said. The former chief minister expressed grave concern over loss of life, and damage to standing crops and orchards due to heavy downpour, hailstorm and stormy winds across Jammu and Kashmir. Abdullah, who is on a four-day visit to Jammu Province, also sought an exhaustive assessment by expert panels on the damage caused, saying preliminary relief in terms of financial assistance should be provided to the affected till the assessment is completed. He also sought immediate release of compensation to the next of kin of those killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abdullah-expresses-surprise-over-shah-s-comment-on-restoration-of-jk-statehood-1043833.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Ghaziabad police move to slap Goonda Act on Yati Narsinghanand||The Ghaziabad police has initiated the process of slapping the Goonda Act on Dasna Devi temple head priest Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, who was recently appointed the mahamandleshwar of influential Juna Akhara. Police forwarded a file in this regard to the subdivisional magistrate for approval, after which it will sent to the district police chief and the DM for nod. Saraswati had recently shared on his Facebook page his appointment as the mahamandleshwar of the Juna Akhara. SSP Pawan Kumar told PTI that they initiated action keeping in mind his anti-social activities like manhandling, attempt to murder, use of derogatory language and obstructing police checking outside the temple. Saraswati is becoming a danger for law and order of the district, the officer said. Known for his controversial remarks, Saraswati had earlier this month had charged that a minor Muslim boy had been sent to snoop on him and in the boy's community, there are "trained killers" of his age. In a video clip that surfaced on social media, Narsinghanand could be heard accusing the boy standing next to him of entering the temple premises to carry out a "recce". Earlier, he had also called former president APJ Abdul Kalam a "jihadi", saying, "Any Muslim in the top echelons of the country cannot be pro-India." He accused the late Kalam of "supplying the formula of the atom bomb to Pakistan as DRDO chief". He was also booked around two months ago for derogatory remarks against women. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghaziabad-police-move-to-slap-goonda-act-on-yati-narsinghanand-1043844.html
24-10-2021||North and Central||Phase of Covid pandemic almost over in UP: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the phase of Covid-19 pandemic is almost over in the state. Addressing a programme here after inaugurating and laying the foundation stones of various projects, he said, "The state has made a record with more than 12.6 crore vaccination and over 8.24 crore tests. About 1.8 lakh beds are ready in the hospitals and today, Uttar Pradesh is not weak in any way, but among the leading states in the country. We need to carry forward this development. With the joint efforts of all, the phase of Covid-19 pandemic is almost over in the state." Hitting out at the previous governments in Uttar Pradesh, the chief minister said, "They did not implement the development schemes that were supposed to be implemented in the state seven years ago. In the last four-and-a-half years, we have implemented all the schemes, which have brought a positive change in the lives of people. And now, the state is number one in the implementation of 44 schemes." "Earlier, people were scared of coming to Gorakhpur, but now it has become an example of development. Next month, a fertiliser plant and an AIIMS will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he added. Adityanath inaugurated a multi-level parking lot built at the cost of Rs 38.32 crore and also laid the foundation stones of 358 development projects worth around Rs 142 crore. Later, participating in a seminar organised by NABARD, he said, "Prime Minister Modi included the agriculture system into the government's agenda and arranged agriculture infrastructure worth Rs 1 lakh crore to make the dream of a self-reliant India a reality. Before 2014, farmers were committing suicide." "After 2017, Uttar Pradesh became number one in producing foodgrains. The state made a record payment of Rs 1.45 lakh crore to the sugarcane farmers. About 5,000 paddy purchase centres are being opened. In four years, the state has reached from the sixth to the second position in terms of economy," he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/phase-of-covid-pandemic-almost-over-in-up-adityanath-1043848.html
24-10-2021||Oasis||Be an eagle||The two permanent residents of a rain tree in front of our house were a crow and an eagle who built their nests on the topmost branch of the tree. They co-existed harmoniously with little tiffs here and there until about recently when the crow’s nest was completely destroyed by the eagle in a fit of rage. The entire nest came crashing down which did not go well with the crow family. Their relatives soon pitched in to support the struggling couple left without an address and started chasing the eagle wildly. Shortly, the skies above were flooded with squads of crows cawing and chasing the lone eagle in all directions. Our block almost resembled the satanic abode as the crows roared back at the eagle whenever it tried to return to its nest. In bits and pieces, the crows tried to break the eagle’s nest. Plastic bottles, masks, twigs, nylon ropes and cloth bits came flying down in instalments. Yet, the nest looked quite intact from below. After a couple of days into this unending chase, there was an air of calmness in the skies… the eagle suddenly disappeared. Subsequently, when the crows returned back to their usual routine, the eagle discreetly decided to move back in and restored his nest in which he now sits proudly. Situations in our life are similar to these eagles and crows… While the crows represent challenges, negativity or problems that each of us faces, the eagle teaches us to soar high above instead of getting trapped in them. The loud unsuccessful battle went in vain for the crows even with their entire community support. The eagle on the other hand never sought any help nor chose to respond to the attacks. In Abdul Kalam’s words, “All birds find shelter during a rain. But eagle avoids rain by flying above the clouds. Problems are common but attitude makes the difference.” Stay focused till you achieve your goals and never allow the little worries to pull you down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/be-an-eagle-1043860.html
24-10-2021||Opinion||History tells us economic growth cannot be taken for granted||Earlier this month, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) reduced India’s potential growth rate over the medium term to around 6% per year. It was at 6.25% earlier. The IMF said this reflects “a more persistent impact from the pandemic.” “The lagged impact of the pandemic on corporate and financial sectors will likely contribute to lower investment…including in MSMEs,” it added. The potential growth rate is the rate at which an economy can grow without leading to high inflation. While Covid has had a significant negative impact, the Indian economy was already slowing down much before the pandemic struck. Growth had fallen to 3.3% in Oct-Dec 2019, having started on that path in early 2018. Of course, if you live in Bengaluru and work for an IT outsourcing company or a start-up unicorn, you might be wondering, what’s this guy talking about. Let me just say, as the old cliché goes, there are always exceptions that prove the rule. The larger point is, India has come a long way from the time when politicians, economists, analysts, fund managers, you and me, took a growth rate of 8-10% per year as a given. Now, we are talking about 6-7% as being very good. (Of course, growth in the current year is likely to be higher than 6%, but that is from the low base, indeed economic contraction by nearly 8%, of last year). In percentage terms, the fall may not sound big, but it’s indeed a big deal. Consider this: In 2020, the Chinese GDP (in constant 2010 $) stood at $11.8 trillion; India’s was at $2.7 trillion. At a growth rate of 6% per year, India will take 25 years to get to where China was last year. If it grows at 10%, instead, it would get there in 15.5 years. That is the difference. Of course, assuming that a country will grow at 6% per year over the next 25 years is itself a highly optimistic assumption to make. Such growth over a long period has been extremely rare in history. As Ruchir Sharma wrote in his 2013 book Breakout Nations, very few countries are able to grow at 5% or more over long periods. “Just six countries (Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Hong Kong) have maintained this rate of growth for four decades, and two (South Korea and Taiwan) have done so for five decades.” Also, since 2013, India and China have also joined the list of countries that have achieved a growth of greater than 5% for a period of up to four decades. The interesting thing is that every decade has had its share of countries that were expected to be the next big thing and have then fallen by the wayside. As Sharma wrote: “In the 1960s, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Burma were billed as the next East Asian tigers, only to see their growth falter badly.” The point is, even a 5% growth rate, let alone 8-10%, is difficult to sustain. Of course, IMF has predicted 6% per year for India. But remember, it is the potential, not a given. As Lant Pritchett and Lawrence Summers wrote in a 2014 paper titled Asiaphoria meets regression to the mean: “Episodes of super-rapid growth (> 6%) tend to be extremely short-lived.” China’s massive growth, they say, is the exception to the rule. “So, China’s experience from 1977 to 2010 already holds the distinction of being the only instance, quite possibly in the history of mankind, but certainly in the data, with a sustained episode of super-rapid growth for more than 32 years.” Chinese growth has slowed down since 2010. It was 2.3% in 2020 and 5.95% in 2019. The days of double-digit growth rates are past. In fact, a good portion of Chinese growth since 2010 has come through the expansion of the real estate sector, accompanied by people speculating in it. As Thomas Orik wrote in China—The Bubble That Never Pops: “For China’s government, real estate is the ballast that keeps the economic ship afloat.” An estimate made by economists Kenneth Rogoff and Yuanchen Yang in an August 2020 working paper suggested that the real estate sector contributes around 29% of the Chinese GDP. While this has kept the growth going, things have now reached a stage where the Chinese real estate sector is in deep trouble because of over-lending, and will possibly have to be rescued by the government. Hence, economic growth is not a given. History tells us that very clearly, and we need to respect that. Also, one point that experts keep harping is that India has favourable population demographics with a fairly young population and this is good for economic growth. Nevertheless, as Ruchir Sharma reminded us in The 10 Rules of Successful Nations: “﻿Good demographics are often a necessary condition for rapid growth, but never a sufficient condition. The ﻿“dividend” pays off only if political leaders create the environment necessary to attract investment and generate jobs.” As he further pointed out: “India, too, had assumed that its booming population would provide a demographic dividend, but now it struggles to generate jobs for all its youth.” And that’s the long and short of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/history-tells-us-economic-growth-cannot-be-taken-for-granted-1043613.html
24-10-2021||Opinion||Time to reframe the 'Hindu vs Muslim' problem||Within the space of a few days this month, communal rifts opened up across the subcontinent in dramatic fashion. In Kashmir, almost a dozen civilians were killed within two weeks; militants targeted Hindus and Sikhs, triggering a massive exodus of minorities for the first time since the 1990s. In Bangladesh, Islamist fundamentalists attacked Hindu temples and torched hundreds of houses and businesses belonging to Hindus. Across India, Muslim businesses and meat shops were targeted ahead of Navratri. There was also a bizarre epidemic of attacks against inter-faith couples and friends – including random people who were found talking to each other on the street. In Karnataka alone, there were at least 11 separate incidents within the month. A Muslim man was beheaded by a Hindu militant group for falling in love with a Hindu girl. A Hindu man was harassed for dropping off a female Muslim colleague home. A Muslim man and a Hindu woman who were riding together on a bike were stopped and threatened. Journalists and commentators often call these instances of “moral policing”, but it is far more sinister than that. Ethnic cleansing is already happening on a localised scale across the region. The persecution of Shias in Pakistan has been going on for years. The resurgence of the Taliban has endangered the lives of Hazaras in Afghanistan. In India, there are villages in parts of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh where Muslims have been driven out almost completely through sustained violence against them. The same thing is now almost complete in Kashmir: According to some reports, about a third of the Pandits who had arrived in Kashmir under various schemes during the 2000s have left in the last few days. The violence is abhorrent, but there is one critical problem exposed by these incidents: It’s becoming increasingly difficult for South Asians to rally together or mobilise against religious fundamentalism because it is far too varied. Ethnic cleansing in South Asia isn’t as simple, if horrific, as Jews being thrown into concentration camps nationwide, as in Germany in the 1930s. It is localised, and the victims are of different identities in different places, depending on which community is dominant. On their part, religious extremists take full advantage of the subcontinent’s diversity. In Pakistan and Bangladesh, majoritarian politics casts Hindus as the enemy, and in India, it casts Muslims as the enemy. Attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh are used as justification for the oppression of Muslims in India – and vice versa. In the last few days, Hindutva ideologues have defended the discriminatory Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) by citing the ongoing violence against Hindus in Bangladesh (though the CAA does nothing for any victim who arrives in India after 2014). Meanwhile, Islamists in Bangladesh have cited such discriminatory Indian laws to rile up anger against Hindus in that country (it’s convenient because the BJP has claimed that India is the “natural home” of Hindus). South Asia’s misfortune is that Hindu and Muslim religious extremists are pitted on supposedly “opposite sides” – though they often pursue the same ends in their respective strongholds. The war is conveniently dressed as being between Hindus and Muslims, rather than as between religious extremists and everybody else. Civil society activists, liberal voices and secular politicians across the subcontinent must reframe the “Hindu versus Muslim” problem as a clash of values: religious extremism versus civility. Unless there is more broad-based political mobilisation and leadership bold enough to reject religious identity politics, South Asia will have to brace itself for ever more communal conflict – and millions of refugees, too, going in all directions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/time-to-reframe-the-hindu-vs-muslim-problem-1043614.html
24-10-2021||Opinion||Songs of Freedom||In Bob Marley’s 1980 folk ballad Redemption Song, he implores his listeners to: Emancipate yourselves from mental slavery/ None but ourselves can free our mind. Marley takes the lyric from fellow Jamaican and pan-Africanist leader Marcus Garvey, who was speaking about the political achievements of the black nationalist movement in America. The black nationalist movement struggled for the emancipation of blacks suffering under white oppression – it was a social and political fight for freedom. But ‘freedom’, ‘emancipation’, ‘nation’, are all laden terms; they mean different things, depending upon the context. Marley, for example, seems to take the objective (‘political’) sense of freedom implied by Garvey in his speech and render it subjective (‘personal’) in his song. Marley had just learned of his cancer prior to writing the song and was in the process of coping with his immanent death. Earlier this month, we celebrated the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Anyone who knows anything about Gandhi knows that ‘freedom’ for him was not reducible to the objective condition of national self-determination. Self-government, political freedom, could not be equated to good, choice-worthy government, which demanded a great deal more from each of the individuals who comprised the political community, the State and the Nation. It also, perhaps even more importantly, entailed the kind of subjective element expressed in Marley’s verse, Emancipate yourselves from mental slavery... ‘Emancipation’, too, must be thought of as an idea that cannot be limited only to its civic or political sense. As its greatest champion, Karl Marx, had explained: It is doubtless a worthy goal to struggle for political emancipation (civil rights); but we must not lose sight of the wider historical challenge of securing true human emancipation – the freedom of the human person as such. Here, the distinction is not one between the subjective (personal) and the objective (political), but rather between the political/objective and the absolute (the human as such). It is the absolute, of course, that Bob Marley was evoking through his notion of ‘redemption’: Redemption songs/These songs of freedom/Songs of freedom. My personal freedom, my community’s freedom, my nation’s freedom, true human freedom: There are struggles, many and varied, to redeem them all. And there are innumerable songs that sing their various stories. Sometimes a just and righteous fight within one of these theatres of struggle will put us at odds with the others. It usually depends on where we are standing, our social location (what freedoms we already have the privilege to enjoy or what oppressions we have the misfortune to suffer), that determines which freedom struggles we champion and which, instead, we condemn. The ‘upper’ castes, for example, have long excoriated Babasaheb Ambedkar for not having taken an active part in agitating for India’s national self-determination. But for those who long-suffered under the brutal oppression of Brahmanism, Ambedkar was the Freedom Fighter par excellence. Gandhi, of course, recognised that Ambedkar was dedicated to national service. As he said during his first meeting with Ambedkar: “From the reports that have reached me of your work at the Round Table Conference, I know you are a patriot of sterling worth.” But Ambedkar, in reply, brushed aside the dominant framework that equated patriotism to the national freedom struggle and reduced all freedom struggles to nationalism: “If in my endeavour to secure human rights for my people, who have been trampled upon in this country for ages, I do any disservice to this country, it would not be a sin.” Ambedkar saw clearly what we, blinded by our privileges, so often fail to see: There are as many kinds of freedom struggle as there are varieties of bondage. Our circumstances will dictate which ones we must join, and what sacrifices this will entail. Each, in the short term, may bring those other freedom fighters into conflict with our own struggle. But ultimately, all these different freedom movements, like so many songs of freedom, push us forward collectively on the long-wending path to human emancipation. That is why Bob Marley, facing the end of his life, reposited all of his hope in them: Won’t you help to sing/These songs of freedom? Cause all I ever had/Redemption songs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/songs-of-freedom-1043615.html
24-10-2021||Opinion||When the fence eats the crop||Unlike in many countries, the military in India has not destabilised democracy through a coup, but the country’s internal security agencies have come close to doing so at the bidding of “the ruling elite.” Josy Joseph, the daring investigative reporter with a solid grasp of the realities of security administration in India, asks us to recognise this alarming reality in his recent book, The Silent Coup: A History of India’s Deep State (Context, 2021). The Silent Coup is a no-holds-barred account of how the misuse of the security establishment -- “a loose network of organisations such as the military, state police forces, paramilitaries, and the intelligence and investigation agencies” -- by the political masters at the Centre has corroded India’s democracy over the decades. The handling of terrorist attacks in Mumbai, Malegaon, Delhi and Ahmedabad, of the violent political dissent in Kashmir, Punjab, Sri Lanka, Manipur and Chhattisgarh, and of the encounter deaths in Gujarat, extend the occasions for recognising the sordid aspects of the security establishment. Unreliable informants, low-quality intelligence, the absence of proper audit, political interference, indifference to citizens’ rights, a cavalier resort to fake narratives and, in more recent times, blatant communal prejudice, have added up to make for this worrying state of affairs. The post-9/11 realities, with surveillance technologies allowing for unprecedented violations of individual privacy, make for additional worry. Two parallel concerns hold Joseph’s analysis: the country’s security establishment ought to become more professional in its methods and abide by the Constitution; and it ought to enjoy autonomy from political interference. He writes, “a security establishment without biases and dark corners, and with deep understanding of the situation on the ground, is critical for a democracy.” Had the intelligence reports been judged correctly, Joseph argues, the 2008 Mumbai attacks could have been averted, and many innocent individuals wouldn’t have suffered at the hands of the police. Secure information networks, he also points out, would have saved the lives of many Indian soldiers in Sri Lanka during the IPKF operations. In 2019-20, according to the Ministry of Home Affairs, an average of five persons died in police custody every day. Joseph notes that “many of these deaths would have been due to torture.” Further, anti-terror laws such as the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act 1967 (UAPA), the Prevention of Terrorism Act 2002, etc., are resorted to even in unwarranted cases. For instance, only 2.2% of the around 2,000 cases filed under UAPA between 2016 and 2021 resulted in convictions. Several factors erode the autonomy of the police and the investigation agencies. For instance, the continuation of a colonial era legislation that made the police dependent on the political executive, which has allowed for police chiefs to be handpicked by the Chief Minister, has simply meant that the police chief’s loyalty rests with the Chief Minister and the interests of his or her political party. The directives of the Supreme Court, issued in 2006 for ensuring the autonomy and neutrality of the police, Joseph observes, have been ignored by state governments. The Silent Coup isn’t a monochromatic account of continual abdication of responsibility by the security agencies, though. Several officers, we learn, continue to stay upright at the risk of losing political favour and indeed, at times, their own lives. Also, the years of the coalition government “in the latter part of the 1990s” saw the Supreme Court take measures to “ring-fence the CBI and the ED from the political executive.” “Since 2014,” Joseph adds, “the slow gains of that process have been fully scuttled.” Joseph helpfully offers a brief historical background to each of the political events he examines, many of which have now receded from public memory. His book therefore is also a rich chronicle of the major episodes of political violence in independent India. In independent India, investigation agencies like the CBI, ED and IB and the police have mostly inspired fear and anxiety, and have rarely seemed the neutral institutions of security essential in modern societies. Armed with intimate knowledge of the workings of the security agencies, Joseph’s even-keeled narration with clear details of dates, people, places and organisations goes a long way to illustrate how it came to be this way. The Silent Coup also asks that not a moment be lost in caring for how to lift ourselves out of this deadly predicament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-the-fence-eats-the-crop-1043616.html
24-10-2021||Opinion||Babushka doll-style layering of stories||Stories within stories are a popular plot device in Sanskrit. The Kathasaritsagara is full of stories within stories, as are the Panchatantra and the Hitopadesha. This Babushka doll-style layering forces us to look more carefully and think more deeply about a story, because the stories don’t conclude, but instead loop back to a different one. A Sanskrit work called the Shukasaptati, for instance, has the opening story of a young woman whose husband is away travelling on business. Since travels took much longer back then, and there was no Zoom, she is bored, and plans to meet a lover. But her pet parrot, determined to keep her from infidelity, begins to narrate an arresting suspenseful story each evening as she is about to leave. The woman in the opening story is so curious about how the story ends that she stays back each day, and by the time the parrot finishes, it is morning again. So far, so good. But things get interesting when you note that each of the stories the parrot tells is about a clever woman committing adultery. Imagine the tension between the frame story, trying to keep a woman from cheating, and the stories within the frame -- telling her about clever women who did cheat and get away with it! Stories within stories are all the more interesting because authors can play around with earlier ideas, quoting and criticising them, giving alternative explanations, or even parodying them. One such story is that of the phrase Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, usually translated as “The world is one family.” It is so familiar that a translation seems superfluous, and it gets used in so many contexts, be it charitable organisations or international vaccine diplomacy. This phrase can be traced to the Mahopanishad, of unknown antiquity, but it is also in the Hitopadesha. But it is not meant, as you might think, to be upright, high-minded advice that urges us to adopt an enlightened outlook. In fact, it is the very opposite. It mocks itself. Hear the story of the deer who fell for the platitude and was overcome by fraternal love for a jackal. A deer and a crow were good friends. Once, when the deer was roaming in the forest, he caught the eye of a jackal who was planning his next few meals. The deer was plump and the jackal was mightily tempted. He decided to befriend the deer and eventually make a meal of it. The jackal approached the deer to introduce himself. The startled deer wanted to know who he was. The jackal introduced himself as a very lonely animal who had given up on relationships, until he saw the deer and found a new enthusiasm for life. The unsuspecting deer agreed to be his friend and took him home. The crow, unlike the deer, was sceptical. He insisted: “You should never give shelter to someone who you know nothing about! How could you just agree to be his friend and bring him by?” The crow even told the deer a story of how others got cheated by taking a stranger at his word. At this point, the clever jackal objected: “If one never spoke to strangers, how would one make any friends? When you and the deer first got introduced, were you not strangers, too?” And for good measure, he throws in the clever line: “It is only the narrow-minded who say, ‘This person is my own, this one is a stranger’. For the magnanimous, the whole world is one family!” The deer falls for it. A few days later, the jackal shows the deer a new field where he could feast, knowing full well that it was a field where hunters set traps regularly. One day, the poor deer gets trapped. When he pleads with the jackal to bite at the net and save him, relieved that his friend is nearby, the jackal decides he is on a fast and cannot bite anything that whole day. Luckily for the deer, the crow swoops in and advises him to play dead when the hunter approaches. As soon as he undoes the net, the crow tells the deer to flee. So, the next time some clever fellow utters Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, ask yourself: What does he want?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/babushka-doll-style-layering-of-stories-1043617.html
24-10-2021||Panorama||Games of risk: Gambling laws look to shut out loot boxes||The Karnataka Legislature recently introduced amendments to the Karnataka Police Act, 1963, under the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The state sought to prohibit online gambling, namely online games. One of the objects of the amendment is to “curb the menace of gaming through the internet, mobile app”. This led to significant doubts both in the Assembly and among the public whether the state sought to prohibit online gaming in its entirety. However, the amendments targeted only online games that involved games of chance and payment of real money that resulted in uncertain dividends, i.e., gambling. Online games or video games that have no element of chance based on the payment of real money are not covered under the ambit of the proposed legislation. Although the amendment directly affects various online portals that offer online casinos and other traditional gambling-based card games in an online avatar, here we are analysing the impact of the amendment on a specific area —  loot boxes in online games. Loot boxes can be simply defined as in-game purchases (with real money) where the players do not know what is in a box until they have bought it. This virtual ‘box’ is akin to a sealed treasure chest full of highly desirable goodies that the player purchases without knowing its contents. The purchase is a gamble regarding the contents of the boxes. It could sometimes contain highly desirable virtual commodities such as virtual weapons, armour or other perks that can be used in the game to ensure victory. Most of the time, however, the loot boxes contain nothing, and the player would have lost real money. The practice of offering loot boxes can be traced to 2004 with the prevalence of ‘free-to-play’ games that required players to invest real money to purchase desirable or sometimes necessary items. This practice thereafter expanded to games that consumers purchased at full prices so that the developers could turn a bigger profit. Major developers such as EA, Blizzard and Activision have defended loot boxes at various points in time. Loot boxes are presented in an ornate graphical design that animate vividly when purchased and open in a great reveal after the consumer has paid for them. Most game developers also made purchasing such loot boxes incredibly easy by pre-linking credit cards at the time of installation of the game. The trend caught on very quickly and major games such as ‘Fortnite’, ‘PUBG’ and ‘Call of Duty’ also started offering loot boxes in various forms till 2019. Most children who play these games would lose significant amounts of money online with the hope of securing better virtual weapons, virtual attire, etc. In 2020, the UK’s National Health Service mental health director Claire Murdoch said that loot boxes are “setting kids up for addiction by teaching them to gamble”. Loot boxes have drawn similar condemnation from many other countries in the EU, the US and Australia. Additionally, since gaming is a large industry with its own e-sport arena, professional e-gamers and consumers also started to protest these practices. In response to overwhelming protests and strict regulations across the world, many major developers stopped offering loot boxes. Fortnite, PUBG and Call of Duty do not offer loot boxes as before, whereas Counter Strike permits players to preview the content of loot boxes prior to purchase. However, some games (both mobile and console/PC) continue to offer loot boxes in exchange for real money. Consequently, gamers continue to gamble away real money in exchange for virtual perks. The definition of ‘gambling’ and ‘online gaming’ in the proposed amendment to the Police Act applies squarely to loot boxes. ‘Gaming’ has been defined to mean and include online games, involving all forms of wagering or betting, including in the form of tokens valued in terms of money paid before or after issue of it, or electronic means and virtual currency, electronic transfer of funds in connection with any game of chance. An explanation is inserted where any act of risking money, or otherwise on the unknown result of an event, including on a game of skill shall also fall within the prohibition under the amendment. Notably, game developers are also included vide an amendment to the definition of ‘place’ under the Act. The term ‘place’ will also include cyberspace and virtual platforms under its ambit, thereby penalising game developers who offer loot boxes under S.78 of the Police Act. The developers will therefore fall under the definition of persons offering a ‘gaming house’ under the Act and will be liable for strict penalties that may include imprisonment for up to three years and fines up to Rs 1 lakh. Further, the amendment also penalises participants and gamers with less stringent penalties in contrast to the developers. This part of the amendment would mean that all persons who purchase loot boxes in Karnataka would also be liable to punishment with imprisonment for a period ranging between six months and 18 months and fines ranging between Rs 10,000 and Rs 20,000.  Loot boxes are often offered in an extremely cloaked and nuanced manner. The investigation will therefore require sophistication and expertise from the investigating agencies. These games and loot boxes are often offered by developers and persons who do not operate within the territory of India. Investigation and punishments of offenders under the amendment will require significant resources of the agencies to trace the developers and the players. Thereafter, the state government will also require the support of the Union if it seeks to block games/apps under S.69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000. These challenges are apart from the challenges faced by the judicial system in deciding trials under special laws. The promulgation of the amendment is a promising start and will benefit consumers if the amendments are implemented in letter and spirit. In view of the mass consumer appeal of video games, appropriate regulations to prevent developer greed are most welcome. (The writer is an advocate practising in the Karnataka High Court)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/games-of-risk-gambling-laws-look-to-shut-out-loot-boxes-1043857.html
24-10-2021||Right in the Middle||The 'navarasas' during the pandemic||The pandemic came unannounced and is holding us by the scruff, making us acutely aware of things we did not pay heed to. Wading through uncharted territory, we have been forcibly slowed down to look keenly around us and experience everything deeply. At the end of another day which looked pretty much like all the other days of the past year, the one thought that came to me was how we are going through the 'Navarasas', or nine emotions, almost on a daily basis and how almost everything has been brought to fore, all guns blazing. There are days I wake up feeling nothing but absolute and pure Love for family and friends and just being thankful for their presence in my life, without whom I wouldn't exist as I am today. I try and express my love and gratitude more than ever to make sure they know and know it well. They bring in happy moments, conversations, Laughter and joy. Family and friends listen to you whine about having no one to help with household chores, being a nomad in your own house since all the habitable spaces are 'occupied' for working from home and online classes. There are days when I wake up in Anger at the strange circumstances, seeing my daughter spend her precious childhood indoors with no playdates or park time. There is anger at not being able to visit ageing parents and care for them. There is anger at having to give up on simple pleasures like having little celebrations (Zoom call celebrations really are not the same!). At the same time, there is Compassion for those less fortunate, who have lost loved ones and livelihoods. Compassion for Covid warriors who are no less than legends. Their Courage in serving humanity is selfless. We seek the courage to go about each day normally if only to maintain our sanity and not pass on the fear to our children. For Fear is in abundance, all you need to do is look around you. Sadly, Disgust is felt too in some measure at callous behaviours of the public who go about without masks or do not pay heed to social distancing norms! Through all this, we have been surprised by several things, we watched in Wonder how nature started healing itself as humans locked themselves inside, we saw the world adapt to working from home, online classes, everyone chipping in with household chores, and learnt to focus on health with utmost priority. Most importantly, there are fleeting moments when I feel an overwhelming sense of Peace, knowing that family and friends are doing ok. A sense of peace emanates from gratitude — gratitude for the food on the table, shelter over our heads and good health. And the daily battle is ON to try and hold on to this elusive 'rasa' for as long as I can.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-navarasas-during-the-pandemic-1043859.html
24-10-2021||Second Edit||The language of intolerance||Fabindia is this year’s Tanishq, as both are victims of a senseless campaign that misrepresented their advertisements and vilified them for speaking a language that well represented India in its excellence and essential reality. The clothing and furnishing brand was targeted by an online mob for putting out an advertisement for a festival collection, described by a sparkling Urdu phrase Jashn-e-Riwaaz, which means celebration of customs. Tejasvi Surya, MP from Bengaluru, called it an attempt to Abrahamise a Hindu festival and objected to the depiction of models without traditional Hindu attire. He was referring to the models in the ad who did not sport the traditional bindi, and he warned Fabindia of “economic costs’’ for its “misadventures’’. After the outrage and uproar on social media and the MP’s warning, Fabindia had no courage to back up its phrase and faces, and withdrew the ad.  Last year, jewellery brand Tanishq withdrew an advertisement that featured a baby shower for an interfaith couple after it was attacked for allegedly promoting “love jihad’’. Both advertisements should actually have been praised for what they were. The Tanishq ad presented a commendable social ideal. The other used a bright Urdu expression to light up the idea of Deepavali, and the lack of bindis did not take anything away from the meaning and appeal of the festival. Urdu was born in India and is one of the country’s 22 scheduled languages. It is spoken by large numbers of people. If it is banished it is a part of India that gets banished. A Hindu without a bindi is as much a Hindu as one with it and it is wrong to prescribe dress codes for models. But Urdu is disowned and dubbed as the language of the other and maligned, and that is the reason for the opposition to the ad. That is a sign of intolerance and bigotry that is increasingly ruling our public life and shaping the responses to people and events. The attempt is to polarise society in such a way that everything common between sections of people, including language, is broken and there is no conversation between them. The opposition to the Fabindia ad violates freedom of speech and expression and, more than that, the idea of an inclusive and composite society that expresses itself in different languages, ways of worship and life, customs and dresses. To insist that the appearance of models in an advertisement should conform to someone’s idea of tradition is to extend the dress code to new areas. The fact that Fabindia was cowed down, like Tanishq last year, shows that the defences are breaking down. That does not help either the business or society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/the-language-of-intolerance-1043854.html
24-10-2021||South||Poor bear the brunt of nature's fury in Kerala||Bilal M was crestfallen when he returned to his home in Koottickal, a town in Kottayam district, central Kerala, on Friday. A fruit seller, the 57-year-old had spent an agonising seven days at a relief camp after he abandoned his home when the Manimala river swelled due to torrential rains. “This house was built from the savings I made after meeting the requirements of my family,” Bilal told DH sitting in his home that suffered extensive structural damage after being submerged in water for several days.  “We already had financial liabilities that worsened with the Covid lockdown. So I don’t know how to go on with my life now.”  Like Bilal, scores of economically weak families living along the banks of Manimala in Koottickal and Mundakayam towns in Kottayam and Idukki districts saw their homes and entire hard-won earnings swept away in the floods and landslides that struck parts of the state in October. Many houses have been reduced to rubble, while several more could collapse any time. Furniture, vehicles, home appliances, vessels, books and other valuables have been irrevocably damaged, resulting in emotional scenes for families. Women are still desperately searching among the debris for any valuables they can retrieve.  Sunny, a resident of Mundakayam in Kottayam district and a daily wage labourer, said he didn’t panic when water level in Manimala rose as he had seen it earlier as well. He remained in his home and so did others. But when the water level kept on rising, he knew he had to leave. Families fled with whatever they could carry, said Sunny, whose house is now precariously perched close to a stream, with a portion of its basement washed away. Several aged women and children staying near the landslide spot in Koottickal, where 10 lives were lost, are too shaken to recollect the frantic moments of their escape on hearing the thundering sound of the landslide. One of them is Rasheeda, who is yet to come out of the shock. Rasheeda took shelter at the house of bus driver Jebi KT, situated right on the river bank, along with her children and grandchildren. But out of fear, all of them moved out of the house. A little while later, the house plunged into the river along with two other adjacent houses, a video of which went viral on social media. “It is our entire life-time savings that now remains as concrete rubble on the river bank,” laments 53-year-old Jebi. For the shopkeepers, it was indeed a double whammy. Already reeling under the impact of Covid lockdown, their goods suffered extensive damage in the floods. Luxurious houses along the river banks were also not spared in nature’s fury as the water level rose to over 10 feet in many areas in the two towns. Even those sitting in the comfort of their first floor homes had to desperately seek help, which was never anticipated by locals. Mundakayam native Shameer, who was actively engaged in rescue efforts, said that many residing in two-storey houses had initially declined to shift to safe places, but they changed their mind once water level rose alarmingly. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/poor-bear-the-brunt-of-natures-fury-in-kerala-1043619.html
24-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin hops on to city bus, takes passengers by surprise||Passengers of a city bus on Saturday were in for a pleasant surprise when Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin boarded the vehicle and briefly interacted with them. The chief minister was on his way to a vaccination camp, held as part of the sixth mega Covid-19 inoculation drive across the state, at Kannagi Nagar here when he boarded the "M-19 b Kannagi Nagar-T Nagar" service, much to the delight of the passengers. மாநகரப் பேருந்தில் ஆய்வு செய்தபோது, மகளிர் முகத்தில் கண்ட மகிழ்ச்சி என்னையும் தொற்றிக்கொண்டது! He mainly enquired with the women about the government's free bus travel scheme for them, an official said. Later, in a tweet, Stalin said "the joy on the women's face spread to me as well while taking up the review in the city bus."   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-hops-on-to-city-bus-takes-passengers-by-surprise-1043649.html
24-10-2021||South||Kerala to launch project to keep school children off drugs||In a major initiative to wean school children away from the growing scourge of alcohol, narcotics and substance abuse, Vimukthi Mission of the Excise Department in Kerala is all set to launch a project to channelise the energies of students into creative pursuits of arts and sports, besides helping them improve their academic performance. The project, 'Unarvu', which means 'Awakening', will be carried out by the Vimukthi Mission, in association with Parents and Teachers' Association of the concerned schools, representatives of civic bodies and residents associations besides traders of the locality. 'Unarvu,' seeks to dissuade children from using drugs, instill confidence and train them in creative pursuits, turn their minds from pernicious habits in a bid to spot and nourish their talents in arts and sports, thus saving their future from being wrecked, the state government said in a release. The move comes as a follow-up to the Governor's Address to the Kerala Assembly this year that had envisaged the implementation of such a scheme by the Vimukthi Mission founded five years ago. "To begin with, the project will select four schools from each of the 14 districts of the state. Excise officials will visit the education institutions, study the drugs-related issues and form a committee that will chart out an action programme. Its activities will be carried out under the guidance of a high-powered panel at the Excise Commissionerate which includes sports experts," the release said. The centres of Vimukthi Mission will provide counselling and treatment to children suspected to be using drugs. Students will be given training in arts and sports at their schools, keeping in view the pertinent specialties of the local culture. "Realising the need for sports equipment and playgrounds to insulate students from drugs, ‘Unarvu’ will provide basic infrastructure and training facilities at schools through financial aid from the government besides corporate CSR funds,' it said. The programme will be implemented in select government schools and aided schools with support from cultural organisations after obtaining permission from local self-government institutions. The excise department plans to implement the programme on an experimental basis, in four schools in Thiruvananthapuram. "Excise officials make themselves available in these schools even during intervals in order to ensure that students do not come in contact with drug mafia and fall into their trap. The officials will arrange the facility for counselling children suspected to be using drugs. The interventions by the initiative will definitely inculcate discipline among the students," it said. Vimukthi Mission, under the aegis of the Excise Department, is working in close tandem with anti-drugs clubs at the school and college levels, National Service Scheme (NSS), Kudumbashree, Student Police Cadets and similar voluntary organisations besides associations by students, youth and women towards realising the dream of making the state free from the menace of drugs and alcohol consumption. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-launch-project-to-keep-school-children-off-drugs-1043760.html
24-10-2021||South||TRS plenary on Oct 25; KCR set to emerge party president unopposed||The stage is set for Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s plenary meeting on October 25 with the election of the party’s president being one of the main agendas. Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao is all set to be elected unopposed as the party’s president as there were no nominations other than that of KCR. “To mark #20Years of existence of #TRSParty. The celebrations will be SkyRocketing from tomorrow. Had a visit to see the proceedings for tomorrow’s #TRSPartyPlenary at Hitex along with #TeamKCR, TRS Rajya Sabha MP Santosh Kumar tweeted. The party which just began its journey with just Rao in 2001 completed 20 years of its existence. TRS party working president KT Rama Rao earlier said as per the party bylaws, the party president's election should be held every two years and also it is a tradition to organise the party plenary on April 27 every year marking the party’s foundation day. However, both of them could not take place for last 3 years due to Lok Sabha polls in 2019 and Covid-19 pandemic over the last two years.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-plenary-on-oct-25-kcr-set-to-emerge-party-president-unopposed-1043795.html
24-10-2021||South||Kerala: IMD issues orange alert to 4 districts, yellow to others||The India Meteorological Department on Sunday issued an orange alert to four districts of Kerala for October 26 and a yellow alert to other districts for Monday. The orange alert denotes rainfall of 6-20 cm while a yellow alert means 6 to 11 cm of heavy rains. The four districts are Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, and Idukki. The other districts for which a yellow alert has been issued exclude Kannur and Kasaragod. "With the likely setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over the Bay of Bengal and extreme south Peninsular India, the southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country during the next 48 hours. Simultaneously, the northeast monsoon rains are also likely to commence over southeast Peninsular India during the next 48 hours," the IMD said in a statement. Meanwhile, Malappuram and Palakkad districts reported heavy rains resulting in many rivers overflowing. However, there are no reports of any loss of life yet. Kerala has witnessed heavy downpours on October 15 and 16 resulting in widespread damage to life and property. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-imd-issues-orange-alert-to-4-districts-yellow-to-others-1043817.html
24-10-2021||State||Doctor arrested for killing wife with lethal injection||Nine months after investigation, the Davangere police cracked a murder case that seemed natural death initially and nabbed a doctor on charges of killing his spouse. Sources in police stated that Channeshappa, serving as a doctor in Rameshwara in Nyamathi taluk, was the accused in the case. After killing his wife Shilpa (36) by giving a lethal injection to her on February 11 this year, he phoned his father-in-law and told him that she was suffering from low blood pressure and died on her way to the hospital. All the family members believed him initially. But the injection marks on her left shoulder and bleeding marks from the mouth led to suspicion. Parents of the woman lodged a complaint at Nyamathi police station alleging that it was not a natural death but murder. The couple had a son and daughter.  The post mortem report confirmed that she died of lethal injection. During the interrogation, Channeshappa said that his wife used to take tablets for headaches. However, her parents denied that she had any health disorder. It is said that the doctor, an alcoholic and believer of black magic, was harassing his wife to bring money from her parents to construct a house in Shivamogga. During the interrogation, he admitted that he killed his spouse. Police have filed a charge sheet against him in court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/doctor-arrested-for-killing-wife-with-lethal-injection-1043598.html
24-10-2021||State||Teacher robbed of Rs 2 lakh in Mysuru||A teacher was robbed of Rs 2 lakh after his attention was diverted by a gang of three persons, at Bhuvaneshwari Circle, Mysuru, on Friday. Shivakumar, a resident of the city who is constructing a house in Nanjangud, was carrying Rs 2 lakh in a bag to pay wages after visiting a bank. A man, who followed him, sprayed some kind of chemical on him while he was waiting for a bus. When Shivakumar left the bag full of money to wash his burning eyes, the thieves allegedly escaped with the bag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/teacher-robbed-of-rs-2-lakh-in-mysuru-1043601.html
24-10-2021||State||Siddaramaiah extends support to reservation hike demand||Extending support to backward classes' demand for hike in reservation in education, employment, Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah said there is nothing wrong with their demand when Brahmins and Rajputs, who had opposed the reservation system in the past, are now availing 10 per cent reservation benefits.  He was speaking at the Congress workers' meeting at Kubaturu in Sorab taluk on Saturday. He said, "When Janata Dal was split into two in 1999, myself and some leaders were with H D Deve Gowda and built Janata Dal (Secular). But now, it has become a family party. So, it must be renamed as JDF, F means family." The former chief minister claimed that there is an undeclared emergency situation in the country. "Those who criticise the Centre are being termed as anti-nationals, Naxalites and terrorists. Those who question the Modi-led government at the Centre have to face raids by the Income Tax department and Enforcement Directorate. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who went to console family members of farmers who died in Lakhimpur Keri violence in Uttar Pradesh, was arrested. Media houses that tell the truth to people are being given notices," he charged. Referring to by-polls in Hangal and Sindagi, he said there is a direct fight between BJP and Congress and JD(S) is not a rival in the bypolls. "BJP is a communal party while JD(S) is an internal communal party," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiah-extends-support-to-reservation-hike-demand-1043609.html
24-10-2021||State||75 CBNAAT TB-testing machines idle in Karnataka as cartridges run out||As many as 75 CBNAAT (Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test) machines (each costing at least Rs 13 lakh) used to test tuberculosis (TB) are idling in the state for want of test cartridges. Ever since the Central TB Division (CTD) decentralised the procurement of these cartridges, the state has been able to source very few cartridges through local purchase with the amount sanctioned. In the first quarter of the current financial year, 67,680 sputum smear microscopy examinations were done. If the sputum has less than 5,000 bacilli/ml, smear microscopy is highly unlikely to diagnose pulmonary TB. Thus it has an overall low sensitivity. In comparison, CBNAAT needs only 150 bacilli per ml of clinical specimen to be positive. There are 2,900 TB patients in the state. Limited stocks of cartridges of around 50-200 are being reserved for emergency cases like HIV-TB, ICU patients and paediatric age groups, in seven districts of the state: Chikkaballapur, Belagavi, Bagalkot, Bangalore Rural, BBMP, Tumakuru and Bangalore Urban. In Bengaluru, the state has a stock of the last five cartridges. In all other districts, cartridges have stocked out. "We used to have perennial supply of CBNAAT cartridges. In the past, we didn't face a shortage a single day. Now a tender is being called in Belagavi (which is left with 100 cartridges) for Rs 50 lakh to procure 3,000 cartridges. We could test 22,000 samples in a month in the past. These many patients can benefit with early diagnosis and better treatment outcomes every month if these machines are up and running," said a source. "Considering that we tested a whopping 67,680 samples with sputum microscopy, we can't rely on Truenat machines alone to shoulder the load, which can test only four to six samples a day in three cycles. In August, we did 20,000 Truenat tests. Considering we are a high-burden TB state which did 10 lakh sputum examinations in 2019 alone, we need to deploy all testing tools and cannot afford to have them gathering dust," he said. Despite having 100 Truenat machines, which is a point-of-care test, having CBNAAT cartridges will help the state do 22,000 additional tests in a month. Dr Ramesh Reddy, Joint Director, TB, said, "At present, we don’t have stock of CBNAAT cartridges. This used to be supplied by CTD. They have decentralised the process and asked us to them procure locally. We have called for tender with the amount sanctioned to us. We have also sought additional funds from the Centre to procure adequate quantity." Reddy said the state had 62,600 Truenat MTB chips and 16,300 Truenat RIF chips.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/75-cbnaat-tb-testing-machines-idle-in-karnataka-as-cartridges-run-out-1043610.html
24-10-2021||State||Setting up of healthcare units for elderly in every Karnataka district hit by pandemic||Under the National Programme for Health Care of the Elderly (NPHCE), 10-bedded full-fledged geriatric units were supposed to be set up in every district of the state. But so far, work has begun only in 13 districts while 17 others are waiting for land to be identified. These were supposed to be elder-friendly dedicated facilities with trained human resources, equipment, consumables and drugs. Elder-friendly restrooms, anti-slip surfaces, railings, adequate lighting, separate entry/exit points and a single-window facility for outpatients, admission, investigation, and drug delivery (to avoid standing in queue with the general public) are some of its features. In six districts while existing in-house wards are being renovated, units in seven other districts are under construction. Dr Rangaswamy H V, Deputy Director, NPHCE, said, "At Davangere, Koppal, Raichur, Mandya and Chitradurga districts, the units are under construction. In Bangalore Urban district, the site has been identified. It is ready in Shivamogga's Shikaripur, and at Tumakuru and Kolar. BMCRI's 30-bedded regional geriatric centre has also been operational since May, 2017." "In districts where existing wards will be renovated into geriatric units as per NPHCE guidelines, Rs 20 lakh is being provided for renovation. Rs 40 lakh will be provided for wards that require repurposing. Rs 80 lakh will be provided where construction has to be done from scratch. For example, at the new Chikkaballapur hospital, an existing ward will be renovated into this unit for elderly," he added. Dr Srinivas, Joint Director, NPHCE, told DH, "Because of Covid, work is on only in 10 districts. In the rest of the 20 districts, approval is yet to come. For the past two years, we have been asking for it. But because of the Covid-19 pandemic, no new projects have been taken up. We could not physically inspect any sites to check the stage of construction. "Five beds will be reserved for women while five beds will be reserved for men. Medical colleges are not interested in participating in national programmes as they're more inclined towards academics." Treatment for typical ailments that the elderly suffer from like backaches, osteoarthritis, and physiotherapy will be provided in the district hospital premises. "Separate physician, staff nurse, physiotherapist and counsellors will man these units," he said. On the bright side, Dr P G Girish, Director, Medical Education department, told DH, the 30-bedded regional geriatric centre at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) that was sanctioned a grant of Rs 5.85 crore has in 2020-2021 provided OPD services to 1,223 senior citizens and admitted 472 elderly. "Out of Rs 5.85 crore, the state government released Rs 2.5 crore, out of which we utilised Rs 1.69 crore till March this year," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/setting-up-of-healthcare-units-for-elderly-in-every-karnataka-district-hit-by-pandemic-1043611.html
24-10-2021||State||Karnataka rechecks 1.3K genomic sequences for UK Delta Covid sub-variant||Members of the state Covid-19 Genomic Surveillance Committee have reanalysed more than 1,300 Covid samples for the presence of AY.4.2, a sub-lineage of Delta and a variant under investigation, which is already rising in the UK. Though no AY.4.2 has been detected in the reanalysed samples so far in Karnataka, researchers have noted the presence of both mutations A222V and Y145H individually in a number of samples. These are the two key mutations in the spike protein of the newly designated AY.4.2. According to data aggregating site Outbreak.info, in India 13 AY.4.2-positive samples have been found in 63,136 samples sequenced so far. In comparison, in the UK, it has been found in 13,895 samples out of 10,45,504 sequenced. In Russia, researchers have reportedly said this Delta subvariant maybe 10% more infectious than the original Delta and could ultimately replace it. Explaining the situation in Karnataka, Dr Vishal Rao, member of the state Covid-19 Genomic Surveillance Committee said, “In the last four runs, more than 1,300 samples were sequenced at Strand Life Sciences, which were reanalysed for the presence of AY.4.2. No AY.4.2 has been detected so far. “We have, however, noted the presence of both mutations A222V (in 140 samples in total, eight in the AY.4 lineage) and Y145H (four in total, of which three are in the AY.4 lineage) individually in the 2,671 samples sequenced mostly between June and October this year.” Citing the UK Health Security Agency’s Technical Briefing on October 22, Dr Vinod Scaria, a scientist at CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, tweeted saying the growth rate of AY.4.2 was 17% and that the secondary attack rate among household contacts was 12.4% when for Delta it was 11.1%. Secondary attack rates are based on positive tests among contacts in household settings. According to the briefing document, there are 15,120 confirmed AY.4.2 cases in the UK as of October 21.  Scaria told DH the rule of thumb now is to sequence more proportions of Covid samples when the cases are less, since the maximum diversity is observed when cases are low. “Sequencing more only at the peak of a wave is going to capture more of the same kind, the variant which was successful. We need to sequence more now, especially sequence travellers who are positive. AY.4.2 is what the UK found. There are probably many more which nobody is looking for and not finding. We are probably missing it. The UK consistently finds new variants because of a nationwide and comprehensive sequencing programme,” Scaria said. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-rechecks-13k-genomic-sequences-for-uk-delta-covid-sub-variant-1043622.html
24-10-2021||State||Karnataka needs 16,800 Delamanid tablets; essential TB drug stocked out||For the past four months there has been a stockout of an essential Tuberculosis (TB) drug — Delamanid — in Karnataka, used to treat drug-resistant (DR) TB.  But officials say there is nothing to worry about as only 25 new TB patients are expected to need 16,800 tablets (672 tablets in each course) and in the absence of the drug they can use Bedaquiline instead. Members of Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF (Doctors Without Borders)) who are fighting for patients' access to this drug say the state is downplaying the drug shortage. Delamanid is on the draft National List of Essential Medicines in India. There are around 3,000 drug resistant (DR-TB) patients in the state. Out of these, around 1,500 patients are H mono poly resistant, another 1,000 are rifampicin-resistant and another 500 are resistant to both rifampicin drug and additional TB drugs too. "We have stock only for patients who are already on Delamanid who are only eight in number. There are also children among these but only a few. We placed the order some time ago for two pouches -- each pouch has 672 tablets -- for new patients who will need the drug. But there has been no supply from the Union government," said Dr Ramesh Reddy, Joint Director, TB, state health department. "In the absence of Delamanid, we can treat the new patients with older regimen, with injectables, which will take up to 12 months instead of nine months," he said. Dr Reddy added, "New patients will be started on all-oral shorter regimen with Bedaquiline without Delamanid which is equally effective." Leena Menghaney, South-Asia Head for MSF's Access Campaign and lawyer working on public health, told DH, "Shorter oral Bedaquiline regimen of nine months is not for patients with Pre-XDR-TB (denotes resistance to rifampicin and isoniazid) and fluoroquinolone resistance. This can't be a substitute. They require the full 18-month regimen."  "It cannot be just 25 patients. According to the government's own DR-TB survey, at least 20% are resistant to fluoroquinolone, which is 600 patients. The state is downplaying the figures. If the state is saying there are 500 patients eligible for the longer regimen then all 500 are eligible to receive Delamanid. This is the patient's right. Karnataka is not implementing the Programmatic Management of Drug-Resistant TB guidelines," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-needs-16800-delamanid-tablets-essential-tb-drug-stocked-out-1043623.html
24-10-2021||West||Satish Maneshinde, Bollywood’s most preferred lawyer||After Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt landed in trouble for possessing an AK-47 which was part of the consignment that landed ahead of the March 12, 1993, serial blasts, he was initially represented by the legendary high-profile lawyer Ram Jethmalani. However, when Ram Sahab left the brief, the late Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray suggested the name of budding lawyer Satish Maneshinde to his dear friend and actor-politician Sunil Dutt. Once a replacement of Jethmalani and extremely hardworking, Maneshinde took up the case of Sanjay Dutt. He secured bail for him, got him acquitted of the terror charges in the TADA case and conspiracy behind the serial blasts though the actor served a five-year jail term for keeping a Kalashnikov assault rifle under the Arms Act. The case gave Satish Maneshinde international limelight. Slowly he became one of Bollywood’s most preferred lawyers, having represented the likes of Salman Khan. Now he is representing Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, who is involved in a case of a party and alleged seizure of drugs onboard cruise ship Cordelia. For Maneshinde, the only shortcut to success is hard work. And that’s what he tells his juniors and law students. Maneshinde comes from a humble family from Bijapur (now Vijayapura) in Karnataka and is a proud ‘Ajeet’. He studied at Sainik School in Bijapur, where all students are referred to as ‘Ajeets’. Later he studied law at the Karnatak University in Dharwad, where he secured the third position.  After he landed in Mumbai, then Bombay, in the early eighties, he happened to meet Jethmalani, and mustered the courage to request him to take him as an understudy — a big break for him — and rest is hard work. “Satish is a ‘pucca’ Ajeet… he was a good student and hard worker. He comes from a humble background and he was always a confident man,” says one of his Mumbai-based friends, who was junior to him in the Sainik School. In fact, Maneshinde’s batchmate is late Colonel MB Ravindranath, who commanded the Indian Army’s 2 Rajputana Rifles battalions that successfully captured the strategic heights of Tololing, Point 4590 and Black Rock in the Drass sector that dominated the Srinagar-Led Highway — which changed the course of the Kargil Conflict. “I missed the NDA and so did Satish... I took up engineering and Satish joined law... He was never dejected, never looked back but never forgot his roots,” said the schoolmate wishing anonymity. “What I am today is because of my school upbringing,” Maneshinde often says with pride in formal and informal gatherings. When he came to Mumbai he had a dream but today he has a name. “I had known Maneshinde since I started covering the Mumbai serial blasts trial. At the advice of Balasaheb, the late Sunil Dutt gave the brief of his son Sanjay Dutt to him,” recalls veteran legal affairs journalist Sunil Shivdasani, who now spends time between Mumbai and Bengaluru.  According to him, Maneshinde is methodical, strategic and a good planner. “He handled the case (of Sanjay Dutt) very well after Jethmalani withdrew from the case,” he says. “Whatever the case may be, when he rises to address the court, he is very articulate, very brief and to the point in his arguments and legally very clear,” says Shivdasani. “In fact, Sanjay Dutt was very comfortable with Maneshinde and the actor often referred to him as “Sir” or “Uncle”... he has a knack for making his clients feel at home,” he said. “In fact, even before the serial blasts case, he assisted Jethmalani in the AR Antulay case,” says journalist-turned-public relation professional, who is now involved in environment and nature initiatives. Maneshinde has represented Salman Khan in the blackbuck poaching case. In 2020, after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Maneshinde defended the late actor’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik who were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drugs case. He secured bail for the brother-sister duo. After the mob lynching case in Palghar, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government appointed him as the Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) in the case. Maneshinde has handled encounter-specialist Daya Nayak’s disproportionate assets case, the Shobhan Mehta match-fixing scandal and underworld don Chota Rajan’s wife Sujata Nikhalje in an organised crime case. He also represented the Adarsh building society. Maneshinde may be a celebrity lawyer, legal luminary and a highly paid lawyer, but for friends, he is just “Satish” and his love for fish continues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/satish-maneshinde-bollywood-s-most-preferred-lawyer-1043630.html
24-10-2021||West||Physiotherapist held for raping teenage girl with disabilities at Mumbai clinic||Police have arrested a 40-year-old physiotherapist here for allegedly raping a 16-year-old physically challenged girl at his clinic in suburban Santacruz, an official said on Wednesday. The accused, who was nabbed on Thursday, had allegedly been sexually assaulting the girl, suffering from speech impairment and other physical disabilities, for more than a year whenever she used to visit his clinic, the police official said. The crime came to light on Tuesday when the girl sent a text message from her mobile phone to her parents, informing them about the offence. Her shocked parents filed a police complaint on Thursday and the girl also revealed details of the offence to police, the official said. During a probe into the case, the police found that the accused allegedly used to rape the girl whenever she visited his clinic. Her parents always sat outside the physiotherapist's cabin and hence, were unaware of the crime, the official said. It is suspected that the accused committed similar offence on other children also, he said. After the girl's parents filed the complaint, the police nabbed the accused from his clinic and registered a case against him under various Indian Penal Code sections, including 376 (rape), and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said. The accused was later produced before a local court which remanded in police custody for seven days, he added.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/physiotherapist-held-for-raping-teenage-girl-with-disabilities-at-mumbai-clinic-1043677.html
24-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs case: Witness makes bribery allegations against NCB's Sameer Wankhede||A witness in the cruise ship drugs case has made grave allegations of bribery and wrongdoing against Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai Zonal Director of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), adding a new twist to the incident that has made national news following the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan. Mumbai resident Prabhakar Sail (40), who made the allegation of pay-off, is the personal bodyguard of independent witness KP Gosavi, a private detective based in Kuala Lumpur, whose photo with Aryan went viral recently. A signed affidavit of Sail and a video statement pertaining to the October 2-3 raids on cruise ship Cordelia, which led to the arrest of Aryan and 19 others, and the sequence of events was released on social media platforms. The allegations were denied by the NCB, with Wankhede writing to the Mumbai Police seeking protection from action on "false charges". Shiv Sena spokesman Sanjay Raut termed the claims of a witness being made to sign blank papers "shocking", while Maharashtra minister and NCP spokesman Nawab Malik demanded a special investigation team probe into the matter.  One of the 9 witnesses listed by the NCB, Sail claimed that he was made to sign 10 blank papers by the agency and now feared for his life. In his affidavit, Sail alleged that he “overheard” Gosavi and a man named Sam D’Souza discuss a deal of Rs 24 crore and settling for Rs 18 crore, of which Rs 8 crore would go to Wankhede. He claimed that he saw SRK’s manager Pooja Dadlani arrive at the NCB office after Aryan's arrest and also saw her talking with Gosavi and D’Souza inside her vehicle. Sail claimed that Gosavi directed him to collect Rs 50 lakh from a spot near Indiana Hotel and asked him to give the bags to D’Souza near Trident Hotel, where he discovered that it contained Rs 38 lakh. “I say that KP Gosavi is missing now and I now fear that NCB officials and other persons involved may kill me or abduct me like KP Gosavi. As seen in big cases witnesses often are killed and taken away and therefore I want to state the truth,” his affidavit states. 'Decriminalise small amount of drugs' The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry has recommended decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs for personal consumption in its review of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act submitted to the Revenue Department. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-case-witness-makes-bribery-allegations-against-ncbs-sameer-wankhede-1043720.html
24-10-2021||West||Corruption allegation against NCB top cop Wankhede reaches DG Pradhan||The allegations of wrongdoings and corruption involving NCB’s Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede has reached the table of the federal agency’s Director-General SN Pradhan.  According to NCB’s Mumbai-based Deputy Director-General Mutha Ashok Jain, Wankhede has categorically denied the allegations vis-a-vis the statement of Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the case involving Aryan Khan. “As some of the contents of the affidavit relate to vigilance matters, I am hereby forwarding the affidavit to DG, NCB and requesting him for further necessary action,” Jain said in a statement. According to him, the affidavit has come to his notice through social media and Prabhakar has given details of his movements and activities of October 2, the day when the crime was registered. “As he is a witness in the case and the case is before the court and sub-judice, he needs to submit it before the court and not social media if he has anything to say.  In addition, there are certain vigilance related allegations against certain persons in the affidavit which are based on overhearing by Prabhakar,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/corruption-allegation-against-ncb-top-cop-wankhede-reaches-dg-pradhan-1043746.html
24-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs case: Maharashtra govt alleges Centre misusing agencies to portray state in a bad light||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra on Sunday accused the Centre of misusing government agencies to portray the state in a bad light in the wake of the Cordelia cruise ship drug bust and arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan. The three parties - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress - demanded an independent probe into the entire episode. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said: “A witness in Aryan Khan case being made to sign on blank paper by NCB is shocking. Also there are reports that there was a demand for huge amounts of money.” In a tweet, in which he tagged Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state home minister Dilip Walse-Patil, he said that the police should take suo motu cognisance of the issue and take action. He also released a video of Aryan Khan with witness K P Gosavi at the NCB’s office. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Atul Londe said that it was a serious issue. "It's a case of misuse of central agencies,” he said. “The Supreme Court should take care of this attitude and take appropriate action against misuse of agencies politically,” he added. NCP chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said that he would meet Thackeray and Walse-Patil and seek a probe by the Special Investigation Team into the issue. Malik reiterated his allegations that NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede was involved in extortion and terrorising the Mumbai film industry. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-case-maharashtra-govt-alleges-centre-misusing-agencies-to-portray-state-in-a-bad-light-1043755.html
24-10-2021||West||'The man who knows too much': Witness hammers NCB on cruise raid||The revelations by an 'independent witness' on the circumstances preceding the cruise ship party raids seem to knock the wind out of the sails of the Narcotics Control Bureau's claims in the cruise drugs raid, in which 8 youngsters were arrested, including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood megastar Shah Rukh Khan. Prabhakat R Sail, 40, released the affidavit of October 23, on Sunday with revelations on his 'boss', Kiran P Gosavi, currently absconding, on the events prior to the rave party raided by NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede and his team on October 2. He mentioned how he was ordered to remain present near the NCB office on October 2 morning when Gosavi was closeted with the agency sleuths, came out with one officer and left with him and at noon summoned him to the Green Gate. There, Sail and Gosavi food which they took inside the Green Gate near the boarding pad of the cruise ship, and he distributed the eats to Wankhede and other NCB staffers. Sail remained in the waiting area of the International Cruise Terminal and that afternoon Gosavi sent him few pictures on WhatsApp with instructions to keep a lookout for them. He identified one of the persons and informed Gosavi who replied that he along with 12 others was caught by the NCB. At 7 pm that day, Gosavi asked Sail to bring his Innova car inside after telling the CISF security personnel Sameer Wankhede's name, but the security did not permit the vehicle, forcing him (Gosavi) to come out, change his clothes and again enter the Green Gate. That night, around 10.30 pm, Gosavi summoned Sail to the cruiser boarding area where he noticed Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and others in one of the cabins with the NCB sleuths who had just 'raided' the ship. Shortly after midnight, Gosavi and an NCB officer took Aryan Khan in the Innova car to the NCB office, while Sail walked down. Just then, Sail said he got a call from Gosavi instructing him to become a 'witness' in the case, and at the NCB office, Wankhede directed him to one aide named Salekar who took his signature on 10 blank papers, and provided a soft copy of his Aadhaar Card. Later, Gosavi came down to meet one person named Sam D'Souza, after their brief meetings around the NCB office. Then, Sail said he and Gosavi left in their Innova, while D'Souza followed them in his Innova Crysta, till the Worli Big Bazaar. During the early morning ride, Sail said he heard Gosavi telling D'Souza to "put a bomb of Rs 25 crore" and finally settle at Rs 18 crore as "we have to give Rs 8 crore to Sameer Wankhede". Subsequently, SRK's manager Pooja Dadlani reached there in a blue Mercedes car, after the quick meeting, Sail and Gosavi went near Mantralaya to meet someone, and then they went to Vashi. Again, Gosavi asked Sail to go near the Indiana Hotel at Tardeo and collect cash, from someone who came in a white car around 9.45 am, handed over two bags full of cash which he (Sail) promptly took to his 'boss' in Vashi. That evening, Gosavi called D'Souza and told Sail to go and hand over the cash bags to him near Inorbit Mall in Vashi, but D'Souza asked him to come near Trident Hotel instead. After D'Souza counted the cash it was only Rs 38 lakh and Sail returned to Vashi. "I say that Gosavi is missing now and I now fear that NCB officials and other persons involved may kill me or abduct me like Gosavi. As seen in big cases, witnesses often are killed or taken away and I therefore want to state the truth," Sail signed off. Though Wankhede has denied Sail's allegations, the NCB Deputy Director, South West Region Mutha Ashok Jain has taken strong congnisance and sent them to the NCB headquarters, New Delhi for suitable action. Sail's closing sentence is reminiscent of the brutal end to Manshukh Hiren, probably "the man who knew too much", about the incident of planting a car with some explosives near the home of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in February. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/the-man-who-knows-too-much-witness-hammers-ncb-on-cruise-raid-1043792.html
24-10-2021||West||Covid-19 death toll crosses 1.4 lakh in Maharashtra||The number of coronavirus deaths in Maharashtra crossed 1.40 lakh on Sunday with 18 more succumbing to the virus in the past 24 hours. The state saw 1,410 new cases on Sunday taking the progressive total to 66,02,961, while the death toll now stands at 1,40,016.  During the day, 1,520 patients were discharged taking the total treated patients to 64,35,439. According to the Public Health Department, the recovery rate in the state was 97.46 per cent and the case fatality was 2.12 per cent.  As of now, 1,91,401 people are in home quarantine while 903 people are in institutional quarantine.  On  Sunday, in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region, 400 and 702 cases are reported respectively, taking the progressive total to 7,54,507 and 16,96,894, respectively.  The first Covid-19 cases were detected on March 9, when a Pune-based couple, who during the last week of February 2020, had visited Dubai and later tested positive.   The first death was reported in Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra was on March 17, 2020 when a 64-year-old person, with a travel history to Dubai, passed away. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-death-toll-crosses-14-lakh-in-maharashtra-1043802.html
24-10-2021||West||NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede fears false implication, approaches city police chief||Narcotics Control Bureau's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Sunday approached the Mumbai police commissioner seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue. In his single-page letter addressed to Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, Wankhede, who is at the centre of controversy surrounding the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in a drugs case, stated he came to know that some "precipitate" legal action for falsely implicating him is being planned by unknown persons in relation to the alleged vigilance related issue in NCB Cr. N. 94/2021. He further mentioned that Deputy Director General (DDG) Mutha Ashok Jain has already referred the said matter to the Director General (DG) of NCB for necessary action. Without taking names, Wankhede, an IRS officer of the 2008 batch, claimed the threat of jail and dismissal have been issued against him on public media by highly respectable public functionaries. He requested the police commissioner to ensure that no such precipitate legal action is carried out to frame him falsely with ulterior motives. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-mumbai-zonal-director-sameer-wankhede-fears-false-implication-approaches-city-police-chief-1043820.html
