25-10-2021||First Edit||Aryan case raises questions||While the raid conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast in which Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, and some others were detained has become controversial, the refusal of a special court to grant him bail has raised more questions. The NCB has claimed that the raid was conducted on the basis of information about a drug party on the cruiser and the youngsters were detained after drugs were seized from them. But some suspicions have been raised about the raid as there are claims that persons not linked to the NCB were involved in it. Such claims have led to charges that the NCB action had a political angle and the targets could be Shah Rukh Khan or Bollywood as such. Now, there are also serious allegations of an NCB official receiving a payoff.  While these issues may be discussed in the public fora or may be raised at a later stage in the case if it is pursued, questions of immediate relevance are about the denial of bail to Aryan Khan by two courts. A magistrate court had rejected his bail application on October 8 and the special court that hears narcotics cases did so last week. Aryan Khan has been booked under various provisions of the stringent Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act) but it has been pointed out that no drugs were found in his possession, he has no previous history of crime or drug abuse, and no blood test was carried out on him. A small quantity of contraband was found on a friend of his, and the court has taken this to be “conscious possession”. The court also accepted the prosecution argument that the WhatsApp chats on his phone could point to a conspiracy and that he might tamper with evidence.  The case is similar to that of Rhea Chakraborty, who was also accused of violation of the NDPS Act, faced similar charges, and had to undergo what finally turned out to be harassment by the NCB. She was granted bail by the High Court. Aryan Khan’s case is also set be heard by the Mumbai High Court. The judicial norm is that bail is the rule and jail is an exception, and there are many judgements from the Supreme Court and other courts upholding the principle. Last year, the top court underlined this when it granted bail to journalist Arnab Goswami, declaring that “deprivation of liberty even for a single day is one day too many.” It is unfortunate that the principle has not been internalised by all courts. Most people who are denied bail suffer in silence as they are unable to pursue their cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/aryan-case-raises-questions-1044161.html
25-10-2021||In Perspective||What shall we do with 'Azadi' then?||Last year around this time, jewellery brand Tanishq was forced to withdraw an advertisement showing a baby-shower organised by a Muslim family for their Hindu daughter-in-law. The advertisement was criticised and trolled on social media by Hindutva supporters for allegedly promoting “love jihad”. A few days later, following social media outrage and threats, Tanishq pulled another advertisement that talked about a cracker-free Diwali. This month, popular clothing brand Fabindia was forced to take down its tweet and advertisement following an uproar on social media that accused the brand of “defacing the Hindu festival of Diwali and terming it Jashn-e-Riwaaz.” Many tweets slammed the brand for needlessly uplifting secularism over a Hindu festival. The Fabindia tweet and ad showed models wearing their new Diwali 2021 collection with the caption: “As we welcome the festival of love and light, Jashn-e-Riwaaz by Fabindia is a collection that beautifully pays homage to Indian culture.” It didn’t take long for the hashtag #boycottFabindia to trend on Twitter, with vicious attacks, many seeking an immediate boycott of the brand. The BJP’s Yuva Morcha president and Member of Parliament, Tejasvi Surya, jumped on the bandwagon tweeting: “Deepavali is not Jashn-e-Riwaaz. This deliberate attempt of abrahamisation of Hindu festivals, depicting models without traditional Hindu attires, must be called out. And brands like @FabindiaNews must face economic costs for such deliberate misadventures.” One Twitter user said Fabindia is “de-Hinduising Deepawali,” while another, apparently a loyal buyer of the brand, claimed he ripped off clothes he had bought from Fabindia and turned them into dusters and shoe-cleaners. Such backlash on social media to anything that doesn’t find favour with the right-wing Hindutva groups seems to occur with appalling regularity. What’s worse is, their intimidatory tactics and threats of violence force companies to cave in, fearing risk of physical assault and damage to assets. Coming to the Fabindia advertisement, the use of the Urdu term ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’, which means ‘celebration of tradition’ has “hurt the religious sentiments of the Hindus”. Isn’t Urdu a language born in India and isn’t it one of India’s officially recognised languages? Prime Minister Narendra Modi and many Gujaratis use “Saal Mubarak” and “Diwali Ni Mubarak” to greet people. US President Joe Biden tweeted last year: “To all those taking part in the Festival of Lights, Happy Diwali and Saal Mubarak.” Aren’t these Urdu/Persian words? Why weren’t they called out? Surya, in his tweet, alleged “abrahamisation of Hindu festivals”. Many have pointed out how Surya has tweeted using an Abrahamic language. Moreover, Surya, like many of us, wears trousers and shirts, which are not of Indian origin but were introduced by Europeans into India. Now, let me allude to what Sudheendra Kulkarni, writer and aide to former Prime Minister A B Vajpayee rightly pointed out in a recent article. The official name for the celebration of the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence is “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” — the celebration of the elixir of freedom. “Azadi” is a Persian/Urdu word. He also reminded Surya that the one patriotic song that’s invariably sung alongside the national anthem Jana Gana Mana on Independence Day and Republic Day is Allama Iqbal’s Sare Jahan Se Accha Hindustan Hamara. “Why don’t you post a tweet calling for a boycott of “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” and demanding an end to this “abrahamisation” of India’s patriotic celebrations?” Kulkarni asked. Surya’s threat that Fabindia should face “economic costs” for its “misadventures” was criticised as economic terrorism and objectionable by many. Fabindia and Tanishq aren’t the only brands to buckle under right-wing pressure in recent times. Last month, BJP MP Ananthkumar Hegde targeted tyre company CEAT over an advertisement featuring Bollywood actor Aamir Khan, where he advises people not to burst crackers on the roads. An advertisement by clothing brand Manyavar, featuring actor Alia Bhatt in wedding attire, was seen as an attack on Hindu wedding rituals. In 2019, an advertisement by Surf Excel received similar flak as it showed children of two different religions celebrating the festival of Holi. Zomato, Hindustan Unilever and others, too, have faced similar backlash. It is tragic that such incidents have become common, attacking our freedom of expression, destroying the very fabric of a democratic, secular, multicultural, multi-religious, multi-lingual India, known all along for its unity in diversity. Books, films, plays, ads, speeches, social media posts — they all come under the selective scanner of the ‘gate-keepers of our culture’ who decide what is right and what is wrong, threatening action if anyone doesn’t fall in line. Is there an end to all this, or is this the new normal? Are we not entitled to celebrate diversity? Should we give in to bullying, bigotry, hate-mongering, intolerance by playing it safe in the interests of peace and well-being?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/what-shall-we-do-with-azadi-then-1044156.html
25-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan girl to serve UN Peacekeeping Force||M B Preethi, a native of Bettasathenahalli, in Holenarasipur taluk, has been selected for the United Nations Peacekeeping operations. Preethi has been serving the Indian Army as the Commandant for the last eight years. She is the only woman from Hassan district serving the Army.  Preethi became eligible to serve the UN Army by excelling in the Army rifle shooting contest. She is the only woman selected from Karnataka. After becoming eligible to the United Nations Army, she will be serving the peacekeeping force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-girl-to-serve-un-peacekeeping-force-1043874.html
25-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Crocodile drags 15-year-old boy into Kali river||A 15-year-old boy was dragged by a crocodile while he was fishing in Kali river near Dandeli on Sunday. The victim has been identified asMoeen Mohammad Gulbarg, a resident of Vinayak Nagar in the town. The incident occurred when he went fishing in Kali river along Halyal Road on the outskirts of the town. He had cast the fishing net and was waiting for a catch when a crocodile pounced on him and dragged him into the river, according to the locals. The police and Fire and Emergency Service personnel, along with Jungle Lodge Resorts staff, have taken up search operation. The authorities have stopped outflow from Supa dam to aidsearch operation. The search teams were unable to trace the body till late evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/crocodile-drags-15-year-old-boy-into-kali-river-1043878.html
25-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cancer unit will be started at SDM Hospital in Dharwad, says Veerendra Heggade||Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari D Veerendra Heggade said that a cancer treatment unit will be started at SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Dharwad within two years. He announced a series of welfare programmes on account of his 54th Pattabhisheka Vardhanthyutsava programme held at Dharmasthala on Sunday. Heggade said C T scan machines will be donated to four hospitals at a cost of Rs 6 crore. Dialysis machines will be donated to Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru and 11 dialysis machines will be installed at SDM Hospital in Ujire shortly. Through SKDRDP, desilting work on 365 lakes have been taken up in the state. The silt will be removed from 120 lakes in the state during the year. Already, financial assistance has been given to 843 temples for the renovation works. The Dharmothana Trust has renovated 250 old temples in the state and 12 temples will be renovated through the trust during the year. A 300-bed Naturopathy Treatment Centre will start functioning in Bengaluru within three months, said Dharmadhikari. Retired deputy commissioner of Tumakuru C Somashekar also spoke on the occasion. SKDRDP Community development wing regional director Anand Suvarna said that equipment worth Rs 2.46 crore have been distributed to 11,124 physically challenged persons in the state. Balakrishna Poojary, serving in agriculture wing, and Shubhachandraraj, serving in land documents wing of the temple office, were felicitated on the occasion. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cancer-unit-will-be-started-at-sdm-hospital-in-dharwad-says-veerendra-heggade-1043883.html
25-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Child labour survey to begin from November 1, says Udupi DC||Udupi Deputy Commissioner Kurma Rao said that survey of child labour will begin in the district from November 1. Chairing a meeting to discuss the child labour project in district, he said that engaging children in work will hamper their growth and deprive them of education. Everybody should join hands with district administration in eradicating child labour from the society, he added. The DC said, "There is a possibility of engaging children in hotels, restaurants, quarry, and crusher units. The survey should be conducted in all these places, and a comprehensive report should be submitted to the district administration by month-end."  "Children's gram sabha will be held in the month of November. The officials should create awareness on the ill effects of child labour system and also conduct rehabilitation programmes for the rescued child labourers," he instructed. He stated that efforts should be put in to declare the district free of child labour. Additional DC Sadashiva Prabhu, Zilla Parishad deputy secretary Kiran Fadnekar and others were present. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/child-labour-survey-to-begin-from-november-1-says-udupi-dc-1043886.html
25-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||To give more lung space, MUDA plans 15 more parks||The Mangalore Urban Development Authority (MUDA) is mulling over laying 15 new parks in Mangaluru City Corporation jurisdiction, to give more lung space for the citizens. The parks will be developed on vacant available government land. At least one park will be developed for four wards in the city. The survey of the land is in progress and likely to be completed shortly, said MUDA Chairman Ravishankar Mijar to DH. “With the urbanisation, greenery is fast disappearing in the city. The parks aimed at developing green zone to help the citizens to go for a morning or evening walkand spend their leisure time,” he said. If the available land is small in size, then the MUDA is mulling over developing Miyawaki garden, he added. “We are in touch with Ramakrishna Mission in Mangaluru, which has already developed such Miyawaki urban forest in the city. The Miyawaki will increase greenery and also beauty of the city,” he explained. Miyawaki is a technique pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, that helps build dense and native forests. It involves planting saplings of dozens of native species of trees in the same area. Already, one Miyawaki urban forest has come up near Zilla Panchayat at Kottara. Apart from Kadri Park, there is no big park in the city. There are parks in front of Town Hall, Tagore Park, Mannagudde, Valencia, Jeppu and near Nehru Maidan in the city. A large park can not be developed in the city due to lack of available land for the same. Accordingly, efforts are on to develop small parks for the benefit of the citizens in the surrounding areas. The park will have play area with few play equipment for children as well, said Mijar. Though there are 60 wards in MCC limits, it is not possible to develop parks in all the wards. Hence, one park for every four wards is being planned. Mangalore South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath too has submitted a proposal on laying 40 new parks in the city to the MUDA. Even Mangalore North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty too had submitted a proposal to the MUDA on developing the parks. The MUDA is planning to have new design for the parks. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/to-give-more-lung-space-muda-plans-15-more-parks-1043890.html
25-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Schools reopen for students of classes 1 to 5 in Dakshina Kannada||Schools in Dakshina Kannada reopened for students of classes 1 to 5 after a long gap owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Students were seen running to their classrooms and enjoying chatting with their friends, who they are meeting after several months. Several schools had made special arrangements by decorating premises and classrooms to welcome students. Some had even welcomed children with sweets and chocolates. There are 1,57,563 students studying in classes 1 to 5 in Dakshina Kannada. Classes will be held on alternate days till October 30 and regular classes will commence from November 2, said sources in the Department of Public Instruction. “I'm happy to come back to school and meet my friends.  Now I can meet my teacher directly,” said a student of class 4. The schools also had sanitised all the classrooms. The district administration had laid down certain rules such as screening for Covid-19 symptoms at the entrance, classrooms with only 50 per cent capacity, provision of hand sanitisers, no crowding at school entry and exit, and disinfecting classrooms daily after class hours using 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution. Only teachers and staff who have been vaccinated with two doses would be allowed to interact with students of classes 1 to 5. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V in the guidelines had asked all the teachers who are above 50 years of age to use a face shield. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/schools-reopen-for-students-of-classes-1-to-5-in-dakshina-kannada-1044050.html
25-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka to spend Rs 2,600 crore in next 5 years on health infrastructure, says Sudhakar||Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that Karnataka in the next five years will spend more than Rs 2,600 crore to improve its primary, secondary and tertiary health centres. Speaking to media persons on Monday at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi after participating in the live telecast of the Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission launch by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi, Sudhakar said that the Union government will provide nearly 60% of the total funds under the 15th financial plan, while the remaining amount will be footed by the State government. The main aim of the scheme has been to develop medical centres in slums and underprivileged areas, he said and added that the government would concentrate on urban health centres, as their numbers are less compared to rural primary health centres. “All the 30 districts of the State would benefit from this scheme and the 17 medical colleges will get Health Centre units. Efforts will be made to provide the best possible health care facilities at all the primary, secondary and tertiary centres,” he said. Not prestige issue Sudhakar said that Hangal bypolls election is not a prestige issue for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. “Of course, there is a curiosity in the results of Hangal by-polls as it is the home district of CM. However, as Bommai has said on day one of the by-polls, it's not a matter of his prestige but development of the constituency that will benefit if the BJP candidate wins,” he said. Genomic sequencing The health minister said the government has instructed the officials to conduct genomic sequencing of Covid patients on regular basis to ensure the prevention of the third wave. “We are aware that a few countries are reporting the third wave of Covid. In Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, the governments have started genomic sequences of the virus. So has the Karnataka government,” he said. The minister said since the reopening of schools and colleges, the State has not witnessed a spike in Covid cases. Based on these studies we have re-opened schools from class 1 on Monday. “The government will monitor the situation and if any school reports more than 1% of the positive rate, such schools will be asked to close for 14 days.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-to-spend-rs-2600-crore-in-next-5-years-on-health-infrastructure-says-sudhakar-1044126.html
25-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Kumaraswamy turns emotional, says never indulged in money politics||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Monday turned emotional as he recalled efforts behind building a regional party, and asserted that he has never indulged in money politics. "Building a regional party is not that easy, we don't have contact with big and rich people while going for every election. Our contact is with you- innocent village people, we have grown from you," an emotional Kumaraswamy said. Addressing a gathering at a party event at Gubbi near here, he said, "In our family, we have never done politics with money. We have worked with the support of lakhs of workers like you, and with your blessings." "...some great people are talking about me asking for a suitcase (containing money), if God is there, he will take care of them," he added. The former Chief Minister was referring to allegations levelled against him during a campaign for Sindagi and Hangal bypolls by his former confidant and now Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan of indulging in "suitcase politics." Stating that he has gone through a lot of pain and has put in all efforts to build the party despite ill-health, Kumaraswamy said, " I would have died during my Israel visit (2017), but I survived because of the good deeds of my parents...after going through heart surgery for the second time, within one month I travelled across the State to build the party." Questioning as to which leader has travelled with him across the State to build the party other than party supremo H D Deve Gowda despite his old age, he said, "In this part (old Mysuru region) you show affection to me as people belonging to my community are there, but I will have to go to north Karnataka and build the party. I will go there as well. Despite all these efforts, today we are in a position to win 28-40 seats." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kumaraswamy-turns-emotional-says-never-indulged-in-money-politics-1044134.html
25-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Shettar calls D K Shivakumar a 'helpless party chief'||BJP leader and MLA Jagadish Shettar on Monday ridiculed KPCC president D K Shivakumar calling him a helpless party president and having no guts to take action against V S Ugrappa who has spoken badly about him. "Shivakumar suspended Salim Ahmed, who belongs to minorities, for speaking against him in the whispering case. But he keeps quiet by just issuing a notice to opposition leader Siddaramaiah's staunch supporter Ugrappa. Ugrappa is a legal expert. If any action is taken against him, we may have to listen about Constitutional Articles," he ridiculed at a press conference at Hangal.  Shettar said Siddaramaiah, who is an experienced politician, is not behaving well. "His behaviour is not up to his stature. Siddaramaiah should support the good works of Modi like his own party leader Shashi Tharoor has praised Prime Minister for achieving the 100 crore target in vaccination," he remarked. He questioned why Congress made JD(S) leader a chief minister if it calls JD(S) the B team of BJP.  He also alleged that Kumaraswamy is criticising RSS after reading a book of a Delhi-based Leftist journalist.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shettar-calls-d-k-shivakumar-a-helpless-party-chief-1044162.html
25-10-2021||Main Article||A worrying sign: Brace for inflation||Corporate profitability, at least of the large companies, is improving dramatically, as seen in the results for the July-September quarter. Profits are rising due to higher demand, and higher prices being commanded. This is true for companies across sectors like fast-moving consumer goods (i.e., foods and staples), white goods like washing machines and toasters, home furnishing and improvement, fashion, and even commodity sectors like metals, cement, construction materials, chemicals. Sales are booming on e-commerce sites. Fintech companies are recording higher sales and higher valuations. Even banks seem to be doing well, with ICICI Bank reporting the highest-ever quarterly profit. The automotive sector is also perking up, although the demand for high-end vehicles is rising more steeply whereas the same for two-wheelers is slow.  This reflects a K-shaped recovery. The upper leg of the K signifies goods and services consumed by the higher income, urban bracket, and the lower leg of the K signifies lower-income households and rural areas. The upper leg of the K is also representative of the segment of the population that has hugely benefited from the rise in stock market wealth.  Though retail participation in stock markets is increasing, especially through mutual funds, it still represents the higher income brackets. The value of all securities held in the National Securities Depositories Limited (NSDL) recently crossed $4 trillion, which is a third bigger than the size of the GDP. This is a new peak. All this surging demand and shopping frenzy is prior to the next quarter, which is when the festival buying push will be truly felt. If indeed the economic momentum is good, then even this Diwali and Christmas quarter should fetch good profitability.  But there is a looming worry. And that has been expressed by many company officials reporting their handsome profits in the September quarter. The telling remarks were by the Chairman and Managing Director of Hindustan Unilever, which is a leading manufacturer of all sorts of consumer goods, from shampoos to detergents to ice cream, i.e., makers of soaps, oils, skincare and food products. He warned that the pace of input cost-escalation is the steepest in more than a decade.  This sentiment is echoed by many other companies, too. The input cost-escalation is best captured by the Wholesale Price Index (WPI)-based inflation, which has been running at double digits for several months. It includes energy and logistics costs (of oil, petrol, diesel, coal), raw materials including metals and chemicals, and of costs imposed by supply chain disruptions that are being felt globally.  The gap between Consumer Price Index (CPI) and WPI-based inflation is too wide, and is bound to narrow. This means that consumer price inflation will surely rise. Companies like Asian Paints have indicated that the third quarter may see a steep increase in the prices of their products. This is likely to be emulated by other companies in many sectors.  The price of a matchbox was doubled, the first price hike of this humble product in the past seven years. Price revisions in shampoo bottles or noodles, toothpaste or edible oil, are all sure to lead to consumer inflation. Indeed, the RBI itself is unsure of reaching its own target of consumer inflation of 4% before 2023. For nearly two years, India’s CPI inflation has been at or above the 6% mark, which is the top end of the band allowed by the RBI.  America, too, is experiencing record consumer inflation of about 5.5%, and so is Europe. The cost of gas used for home heating in the winter, and also of oil, has spiked up. The Food and Agricultural Organisation says that the global food price index is the highest in the past seven years. The Bloomberg commodity price index, which captures energy, metals, fibres and chemicals, has also risen sharply. Ocean freight costs are still very high and will persist. All of these are called “input costs” but sooner or later will feed into consumer inflation.  To add to input cost pressure are high fiscal deficits that need higher taxes (such as on petrol and diesel in India) which can only aggravate inflation. A good agriculture harvest cannot offset these high costs. Inflation can suddenly spike up like the second wave of Covid. It does not rise steadily and predictably. And if we get into a wage-cost spiral (the government has already revised the DA rates), then putting the inflation genie back into the bottle might not be easy. Inflation fears have already made stock markets somewhat nervous. Some downward correction has started.  The inflation expectations as captured by RBI’s survey shows near double-digit expectations. It is difficult to bring it down, once it is stuck at higher levels. One other indicator of inflation anxiety is when people start buying more gold. If gold prices start climbing, that too indicates demand arising from a desire to hold on to something which is a hedge against rising prices. But this is by a wealthier and smaller section of the population. On the other hand, there have been a number of distress sales of gold. And as such, gold loans have gone up by a whopping 62% in the past year or so. This indicates the distress of inadequate incomes. Gold loans are often used to finance consumption spending, such as children’s education, weddings, illnesses, or to even meet household expenses.  If growth in income keeps pace with relatively higher inflation, then nominal GDP will rise faster, and so will tax revenues. This may have a salutary effect on the fiscal situation. But if growth slows down, and inflation remains high, then we stare at a stagflation kind of situation. Chances are that demand drivers are still strong to avoid stagflation. The leading indicator is growth in bank credit. And a lagging indicator of a rising economy is growth in hiring and recruitment, quality jobs and labour-force participation. This is something that must be closely watched. If the infrastructure spending, and labour-intensive exporting sectors, software and IT, see massive job growth, some of the pinch of inflation can be lessened.  (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)  (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-worrying-sign-brace-for-inflation-1044159.html
25-10-2021||Mysuru||Heavy rains pound Mysuru||One person was washed away in a drain due to the heavy downpour in Mysuru city on Sunday late night. Cars that were parked on Ring road were seen floating in the rain water as the road was inundated. More than 10 houses have collapsed in the taluk. A portion of the Panchagavi mutt, on the foot of Chamundi Hill had collapsed. Mysuru city recorded 9 cm rainfall. A car that was moving on the Ring Road near Sathagalli was washed away in the gushing rain water. The passengers in the car alerted the Fire and Emergency Services, who rushed to the spot, stopped the car and rescued them. A person is said to have washed away in the drain in Siddharthanagar. The authorities are searching for him at Karanji lake where the water gets drained. Several areas like Police Layout, IPS Nagar and others resembled lakes. Rain water entered houses in low-lying areas causing inconvenience to the residents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/heavy-rains-pound-mysuru-1044092.html
25-10-2021||National||Goa TMC cartoon showed Mamata crushing PM Modi, Shah, claims BJP||The BJP on Sunday claimed the Goa unit of the Trinamool Congress posted a cartoon on Twitter that showed party supremo Mamata Banerjee trying to crush Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant under her foot. A statement by Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's office claimed the tweet by the AITC (All India Trinamool Congress) was deleted immediately. The CMO has circulated the screenshot of the purported tweet. Goa TMC leader Yatish Naik didn't answer phone calls. The screenshot shows a huge foot in a blue-bordered white saree wearing a slipper about to crush the PM, Shah, and Sawant. “BJP takes strong objection to cartoon released by TMC. The TMC has deleted the tweet showing Goa CM, PM Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah under Mamata's chappal with the intention to crush them," the statement said. The cartoon with the punchline "Haters Beware! She is Coming" was posted ahead of Banerjee's visit to election-bound Goa on October 28. “Having murdered, raped and tortured BJP workers in Bengal, TMC plans to further their agenda of crushing people and democracy in Goa. On behalf of the people of Goa, we condemn such blatant display of violent tendencies,” the Goa unit of BJP tweeted. BJP's Goa unit general secretary Narendra Sawaikar said, “Post-poll violence in WB is the true colour of the TMC and its leadership. With the blessings of Devi Shri Shantadurga, Goans are wise enough to understand and do that which subserves Goa's interest.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-tmc-cartoon-showed-mamata-crushing-pm-modi-shah-claims-bjp-1043887.html
25-10-2021||National||PM Modi to visit Italy, UK for G-20, climate summits||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will travel to Italy and the UK from October 29 to November 2 to attend the G-20 summit and the United Nations climate change summit, COP-26, respectively. Modi’s tours to Italy and the UK are going to be his third foreign visit this year following his trips to Bangladesh in March and the US in September this year. Modi will hold bilateral meetings with Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi on the sidelines of the G-20 summit in Rome and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on the sidelines of the UN climate change summit at Glasgow in the UK, the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi. The G-20 summit being hosted by Draghi from October 30 to 31 is themed ‘People, Planet, Prosperity’. Modi will also attend the climate summit in Glasgow on November 1 and 2. The COP-26 being hosted by Johnson will be attended by 120 countries.  Modi last attended the climate change summit in Paris in 2015, when the Paris Agreement was concluded. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-visit-italy-uk-for-g-20-climate-summits-1043899.html
25-10-2021||National||India's first indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant begins second phase of sea trials||India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant set sail on Sunday for the second sea trials, ahead of its planned induction into the Indian Navy by August next year. The 40,000-tonne aircraft carrier, the largest and most complex warship to be built in India, successfully completed a five-day maiden sea voyage in August. Following the first sea trials, the Navy had said that the performance of key systems of the warship was found to be satisfactory. “Indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant sailed out on Sunday from Kochi for the second sea trials,” said an official. The warship has been built at a cost of around Rs 23,000 crore and its construction propelled India into a select group of countries having capabilities to build state-of-the-art aircraft carriers. The warship will operate MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, MH-60R multi-role helicopters. It has over 2,300 compartments, designed for a crew of around 1,700 people, including specialised cabins to accommodate women officers. Vikrant has a top speed of around 28 knots and a cruising speed of 18 knots with an endurance of about 7,500 nautical miles, officials said. The IAC is 262 metres long, 62 metres wide and it has a height of 59 metres. Its construction began in 2009. The warship has been built by Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL). India currently has only one aircraft carrier -- INS Vikramaditya. The Indian Navy has been focusing on significantly bolstering its overall capabilities in view of China’s growing efforts to increase its military presence in the Indian Ocean Region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-indigenous-aircraft-carrier-vikrant-begins-second-phase-of-sea-trials-1043901.html
25-10-2021||National||DH Toon | What would become of our cyber bullies?||India’s loss to Pakistan on Sunday night was humiliating in the sporting sense of it. What happened in the aftermath was utterly shameful. That India bowed to Pakistan for the first time in a World Cup didn’t sit well with a section of Indian fans. They took potshots at almost all players with Mohammed Shami coming in for some fierce online attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-what-would-become-of-our-cyber-bullies-1043909.html
25-10-2021||National||Oneness biggest strength of Indian culture: Gadkari at Lokmat national inter-religious conference||Oneness is the biggest strength of Indian culture and has enabled us to become a 'vishwa guru' (world teacher), according to Union minister Nitin Gadkari. Speaking on 'Global Challenges to Communal Harmony and the Role of India' at the National Inter-religious Conference organised by the Lokmat media group on Sunday to celebrate the golden jubilee year of its Nagpur edition, the senior BJP leader also said Indian culture was truly secular. Respecting all religions, communities and ideologies is the uniqueness of Indian culture, and not associated with any ‘dharma’, Gadkari said. "Oneness is the biggest strength of Indian culture and this is what makes us capable of becoming a vishwa guru, which was predicted earlier by Swami Vivekananda," he said. Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar said the demand of human life was diversity but there was hatred against diversity due to our lack of understanding as well as stress. There was a need to walk together and respect one another as all communities are important, he said. In a video message, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said ‘dharma’ unites but it was being used as an instrument to divide due to lack of mutual interaction. "India believes the world is full of diversity. There may be differences in appearance and name, but from inside, we all are one,” Bhagwat said. Speaking at the event, yoga guru Baba Ramdev stressed on values of unity, equality, freedom and universal brotherhood. Religious, economic, political and medical terrorism were the biggest dangers to the world, he said. The chairman of the Editorial Board of Lokmat Media and former Rajya Sabha member Vijay Darda said Lokmat upheld the importance of secularism right from day one. “Our stand has been of sarva dharma samabhav. No religion is bigger than humanity and we upheld these values. Lokmat respected all religions and creeds. People have been living together since ages and ' Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' is the culture of the country,” Darda said. The guidance of dharmacharyas on social harmony is important in the backdrop of the fundamentals in the current situation that were created in the name of religion. He said. Editor-in-chief of the Editorial Board of Lokmat Media Rajendra Darda said that at a time when people are being murdered in the name of religion globally, the world is looking to India for a solution to this problem. “India's responsibility at the global level has increased as it has been following the ideas of non-violence preached by Lord Mahavir, Tathagat Buddha, Guru Gobind Singh and Mahatma Gandhi. Only the path of peace and harmony can save the world,” he said. "Let us not focus on differences but on what unites us. India is home to many religions and is the flag-bearer of the ‘vasudhaiva kutumbakam’ thought process. We have a rich legacy of people from diverse traditions living together and it is the noble responsibility of spiritual leaders to preserve and promote it," said Cardinal Oswald Gracias. Haji Syed Salman Chishti of Dargah Ajmer Sharif talked about patience and gratitude, which, if followed, cannot be defeated. Ahimsa Vishwa Bharti Acharya Lokesh Muni, Founder of Jeevanvidya Mission Prahlad Wamanrao Pai, Founder of Mahabodhi International Meditation Centre Bhikkhu Sanghasena and Brahmaviharidas Swami from the US also spoke at the conference.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oneness-biggest-strength-of-indian-culture-gadkari-at-lokmat-national-inter-religious-conference-1043937.html
25-10-2021||National||India sees 14,306 new Covid-19 cases, 443 deaths||India logged 14,306 new Covid-19 cases, taking the virus tally to 3,41,89,774, while the active cases declined to 1,67,695, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,54,712 with 443 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has reconciled 363 fatalities from the previous period, officials said, adding that 71 deaths have been reported from the state in the last 24 hours. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 31 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 120 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.49 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.18 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 4,899 cases has been recorded in the total active number of Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.43 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.24 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,67,367, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 102.27 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 443 new fatalities include 363 from Kerala, 18 from Maharashtra and 15 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 4,54,712 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,016 from Maharashtra, 38,007 from Karnataka, 36019 from Tamil Nadu, 28,592 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,055 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-14306-new-covid-19-cases-443-deaths-1043941.html
25-10-2021||National||Shah Rukh Khan's latest Cadbury ad has a powerful message, wins internet||In a new advertisement by confectionery maker Cadbury, Shah Rukh Khan is seen turning brand ambassador for hundreds of local brands and uplifting them in the post-Covid era. The ad begins with saying how big businesses have found a foothold in the market despite the pandemic, however, small businesses are still struggling to regain the speed and revenue that they had before the pandemic.  Shah Rukh Khan is now the brand ambassador for several small businesses across the country. The actor appeared dressed up in a cream-coloured sherwani, took the names of different shops and urged the viewers to buy clothes, shoes, sweets, gadgets etc., from them. Cadbury came up with the idea to make the actor the brand ambassador for all these hundreds of small businesses using technology. The makers of the ad used machine learning to recreate the actor's face and voice to take the local stores' names in the ads. “It is impossible to cover all the stores, so we gave the power to the people to create their own version of ‘Not Just a Cadbury Ad’,” a narration in the ad said. The video has gone viral with many praising the company’s initiative. Netizens were quite impressed with the idea behind the ad and the fact that it was helping small businesses flourish again. Some even went on to hare the ad on their social media handles. Not just use of technology, but emotions, a national celebrity and most importantly, helping your neighbourhood store.. This new ad of Shah Rukh Khan brought a smile on fans facesShah Sir Sherwani Looking So Amazing..🔥Such an amazing message delivered by Srk and Cadbury India, the small stores too deserve a Happy Diwali!!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shah-rukh-khans-latest-cadbury-ad-has-a-powerful-message-wins-internet-1043951.html
25-10-2021||National||NCB drug bust: Witness Sail bought food for Wankhede, more details emerge||The two panch-witnesses - Prabhakar Sail and KP Gosavi - in the Cordelia cruise drug bust case - were made to bring Frankie rolls for NCB’s Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede.  The NCB has listed 10 witnesses in the sensational case so far - which include Prabhakar Sail, KP Gosavi, Manish Bhanushali, Aubrey Gomez, Adil Usmani, V Waigankar, Aparna Rane, Prakash Bahadur, Shoib Faiz and Muzammil Ibrahim. While Gosavi is a private detective - and according to his Facebook profile claims to be based in Kuala Lumpur, Sail is his personal bodyguard.  In the notarised affidavit and video statements, Sail revealed the chain of events and how they unfolded on October 2, 3, when the raid was carried out.  Sail said that he was asked to to remain present near the NCB’s Ballard Estate office on the morning of October 2 when Gosavi was closeted with agency sleuths. Gosavi came out with one officer and left with him and at noon summoned Sail to the Green Gate.There, Sail and Gosavi bought a lot of food. “…Gosavi instructed me to come to Green Gate and wait. I accordingly went there and he got into the car and went to buy rolls, Frankie rolls, water and cold drinks. We went back to the Green Gate and went inside. We went near the boarding and were told to distribute the food. I distributed Frankie rolls to Sameer Wankhede and other staff. I was thereafter told not to leave the premises and instructed to wait at the waiting area for the cruise near the Green Gate,” Sail said in the affidavit.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-drug-bust-witness-sail-bought-food-for-wankhede-more-details-emerge-1043975.html
25-10-2021||National||Six Indian naval ships arrive in Sri Lankan ports to boost bilateral defence cooperation||For the first time, the six ships of the Indian Navy's first training squadron have arrived in Sri Lanka on a four-day visit to further bolster the bilateral defence cooperation and to enhance the interoperability of the two forces, officials said. The ships arrived in the ports of Colombo and Trincomalee on Sunday to conduct training with their Sri Lankan counterparts. "The visit marks a milestone in the history of bilateral relations, wherein for the first time such a large number of Indian Navy ships have visited Sri Lanka,' the Indian High Commission said in a statement. “Training has been one of the strongest and most enduring pillars of India - Sri Lanka bilateral defence cooperation and this visit will provide further impetus to the same. In line with the vision of both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Gotabaya Rajapaksa to increase people to people connect between both countries, this visit will positively contribute towards strengthening the existing bonds of camaraderie and friendship between defence personnel of both the countries," the statement said. The deployment is aimed to broaden the horizons of young officers and officer-trainees by exposing them to the socio-political and maritime facets of different countries in the Indian Ocean Region. The deployment will also expose the trainees onboard towards the conduct of IN warships in various evolutions at sea, port familiarisation and above all, foster the bridges of friendship with foreign nations. The visit of the six Indian naval ships to Sri Lanka comes amidst China's increasing forays in this island nation and Beijing's efforts to step up defence ties with it. Sri Lanka is expected to play an important role under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), an ambitious global infrastructure development strategy adopted by Beijing to enhance its influence and also promote inter-regional connectivity. The ships are part of Southern Naval Command (SNC), which is the Training Command of the Indian Navy and is headed by Vice Admiral AK Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command (SNC). The Indian Navy has been imparting training to international trainees for more than four decades now. A large number of officers and sailors from Sri Lanka are undergoing various ab-initio to advanced courses at the SNC. During the four day long deployment IN ships Magar and Shardul alongwith trainees of 101 IOTC will visit the Colombo harbour, while IN ships Sujata, Sudarshini, Tarangini and CGS Vikram will visit Trincomalee with the trainees of 100th IOTC. Various training activities are planned to be conducted between the Navies of the two countries with the aim to enhance the interoperability of the two forces, according to an official press release by the Ministry of Defence in New Delhi. A total of 75 officers, 153 officer cadets, 10 NCC cadets and 530 sailors form part of the visit. During their stay, a series of professional, training, cultural and sports interactions are scheduled between the ships’ crew and Sri Lanka Navy personnel. The First Training Squadron which comprises six ships, including two sail ships, is a part of the Indian Navy’s prestigious Southern Naval Command (SNC). Ships from the First Training Squadron had last visited Sri Lanka in 2015. SNC is the Training Command of the Indian Navy which conducts the entire range of naval training for officers and sailors, including those from friendly foreign countries. As one of the finest destinations for training, the Indian Navy has trained more than 11,000 international trainees from over 40 countries in the last four decades. The ships are scheduled to leave on October 27 and 28. Meanwhile, Indian High Commissioner Gopal Baglay met Vice Admiral Chawla, whose visit to Sri Lanka coincides with the visit of the six ships of the Indian Navy's 1st Training Squadron, the High Commission tweeted. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-indian-naval-ships-arrive-in-sri-lankan-ports-to-boost-bilateral-defence-cooperation-1043981.html
25-10-2021||National||Firing resumes in J&K's forest, search operation enters 15th day||Heavy firing was reported from a forest area as a massive search operation to track down hiding terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir's twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri entered the 15th day on Monday, officials said. It was not immediately clear whether the firing in Bhatti Durrian forest was the result of a fresh contact with the terrorists, believed to be hiding in caves deep inside the forest, the officials said. Nine Army personnel including two JCO's and an arrested Pakistani terrorist have been killed and three security men injured since the commencement of the operation on October 11.  While five Army personnel were killed on the first day of the operation in Surankote forest of Poonch, four other soldiers lost their lives in Bhatti Durrian area of Mendhar on October 14.  The Pakistani terrorist, who was shifted from Kot Bhalwal Central Jail Jammu to Mendhar on police remand for questioning in connection with the ongoing operation was killed when the security forces accompanying him to identify a hideout came under fire from hiding terrorists on Sunday. Besides Surankote and Mendhar, the search operation also continued in nearby Thanamandi forest in Rajouri district.  The officials said Army helicopters made several sorties over the besieged forest area, while drones are also being used to keep a tight surveillance to ensure that the terrorists are not able to flee. Nearly a dozen persons including two women were also detained for questioning after it came to light that they allegedly provided logistic support including food and shelter to the terrorists, the officials said.   Traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended as a precautionary measure for the 10th day on Monday in the wake of the ongoing operation. Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/firing-resumes-in-jks-forest-search-operation-enters-15th-day-1043986.html
25-10-2021||National||India to highlight achievement in defence R&D at DefExpo in Gujarat||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said that India’s export of military hardware had grown by 334 per cent over the past five years. “It is because of the collaborative efforts of entities from all over the world that our defence exports have grown by 334 per cent in (the) last five years and now India is exporting to more than 75 countries,” Singh said, addressing foreign diplomats at an event aimed at briefing them about the DefExpo 2022. The next edition of the DefExpo is expected to provide an overview of what India has been able to achieve in terms of defence research and development, production and application of modern technologies for use by the military. Gandhinagar in Gujarat will host the 12th edition of India's mega defence exhibition -- the DefExpo -- from March 11-13 next year. “Our export performance is a strong indicator of the quality and competitiveness of our defence products,” Singh said, addressing more than 200 delegates, including ambassadors, heads of missions and defence attaches of foreign countries. Inviting the foreign delegates to attend DefExpo 2022, Singh said that India was open to conducting business on a mutually beneficially collaborative basis, in the spirit of give and take, for all-round welfare of everyone. He said that DefExpo 2022 would bring all the latest technologies under one roof and provide a myriad of opportunities to the stakeholders in the aerospace and defence industry. “Resurgent India, where defence manufacturing is an identified pillar of growth, will display its ability to take lead at DefExpo 2022.” The Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari, Secretary (Defence Production) Raj Kumar and other senior officials of the Ministry of Defence and Government of Gujarat were also present at the event. The Defence Minister stated that the Indian aerospace and defence manufacturing sector is ready to soar to newer heights and it has the potential for R&D in space, cyberspace, futuristic capabilities and disruptive technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Block-chain, Virtual Reality, 3D Printing, Digital Frontier and Internet of Military Things.       Chek out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-highlight-achievement-in-defence-rd-at-defexpo-in-gujarat-1043995.html
25-10-2021||National||Same-sex couple in Karwa Chauth ad draws mixed reactions||An advertisement showing a same-sex couple celebrating Karwa Chauth from Dabur has drawn mixed reactions online. The advertisement, for the company's Fem Creme bleach, shows the couple discussing the importance of the festival while preparing for their first Karwa Chauth. A third woman then meets them and gives them new saris for the event. The ad ends with the couple breaking their fast with each other. The ad has drawn mixed reactions, with some people praising it as 'a nice film for a traditional, often-criticized festival by an otherwise conservative brand,' while others taking exception to "another Hindu festival being targetted" by a brand for marketing. Well done, Fem/Dabur! "The “tradition” is criticized with good reason. adding a queer angle to it doesn’t change that. and also, perpetuating the regressive desire to “glow” (euphimism for “fair”)," wrote one user. the “tradition” is criticized with good reason. adding a queer angle to it doesn’t change that. and also, perpetuating the regressive desire to “glow” (euphimism for “fair”) 🤮 Some used the promo to mock BJP and its supporters after the drama surrounding FabIndia's advertisement on Diwali. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/same-sex-couple-in-karwa-chauth-ad-draws-mixed-reactions-1043999.html
25-10-2021||National||'Don’t cast doubt on vaccination', says SC rejecting plea against mass inoculation||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to consider a plea against mass vaccination through Covishield and Covaxin, saying that it is the key to protect people from Covid-19. "We do not want this matter to be argued at all. Let us not cast doubt on the vaccination,” a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna said. The court rejected the plea by an advocate for petitioner Mathew Thomas, who asked the bench to hear his arguments in details, claiming clinical trials had not been completed for vaccines. Making it clear that it was not keen on entertaining the plea, the court told the petitioner’s counsel that it found no error with the Karnataka High Court order in the matter. The top court was hearing a special leave petition against the High Court order, which dismissed a PIL seeking directives to stop mass vaccination using Covishield and Covaxin. The court had then also imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on the petitioners for wasting precious time of the court.  In May this year, the High Court, while dismissing the plea, had said the petition was not filed in public interest and it was a fit case to impose exemplary costs as it had consumed 45 minutes, which could have been devoted to deal with important issues arising out of Covid-19.  In the High Court, the petitioner’s counsel had contended that it was not clear under what authority of law the Centre permitted vaccination without completing clinical trials. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/don-t-cast-doubt-on-vaccination-says-sc-rejecting-plea-against-mass-inoculation-1044010.html
25-10-2021||National||DAP fertiliser shortage amid rabi season triggers political wave||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday held a meeting to review the availability and demand of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilisers amid claims by the Opposition that farmers are running from pillar to post as there is a shortage of these fertilisers. Earlier this month, Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya directed all manufacturers not to increase retail prices of DAP and other phosphatic fertilisers as part of the government's efforts to ensure the availability of crop nutrients at affordable prices during the ongoing rabi season. However, in Haryana and other agriculture-dependent states, a low supply of these fertilisers has meant farmers are running between dealers and official agencies to ensure that they can get their hands on the crucial material as their fields lie ready to be sown. Why is DAP so important? What caused the shortage? The shortage is owing to lesser imports amid a hike in DAP prices in the international market. According to an Icra report in August, fertiliser imports declined in the current financial year. The report said as for the fertiliser production volumes, they have largely remained stable in four months of FY22 compared to corresponding months of FY21, whereas imports have declined by 16 per cent. The production and import volumes have jointly declined by only 6 per cent in the period under review, whereas the retail sales have declined by 11 per cent, indicating availability of fertiliser inventory with the fertiliser companies, according to the report. "With limited availability of DAP in the international markets and steep rise in import prices, the availability of the same for the upcoming rabi season would be a concern, as the situation may further exacerbate with China banning fertiliser exports," it stated. The current situation could be a result of this. However, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) Haryana unit secretary, Balbir Singh Thakan, told the publication that the shortage was a result of mismanagement on the part of the government, “The Central government imported the fertiliser late which resulted in its shortage.” Why is it turning political? Three days ago, Haryana Agriculture Minister J P Dalal had claimed that there is no shortage of DAP fertilisers in the state and added that black marketeers are trying to project an artificial shortage. The Opposition has flagged the issue and targeted the central government for causing farmers to scurry around looking for supplies. With the floods, and increased crop production targets, non-availability of fertiliser could mean a major setback for farmers. Meanwhile, Haryana CM Khattar has appealed to the farmers to only purchase DAP fertilisers according to requirement and not to store extra so that it can be distributed equally to all farmers. (With agency inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dap-fertiliser-shortage-amid-rabi-season-triggers-political-wave-1044022.html
25-10-2021||National||Under pressure to conserve mangroves, JNPT drops Eco Park project||Under pressure to hand over mangroves in the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) jurisdiction to the Maharashtra Forest Department for conservation, the country’s largest container port has dropped the idea of building a mangrove park at Belpada in Uran, the official response to an RTI application shows. The JNPT had proposed the Mangrove Park in consultation with the State Mangrove Cell which in turn directed the port to the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM). The port authorities had even proposed an MoU with FDCM. JNPT itself informed Navi Mumbai-based NatConnect Foundation in its response to an RTI query from the latter that the Mangrove EcoPark feasibility was being studied in consultation with the FDCM. Environmentalists, however, opposed the JNPT project on the ground that the port itself has been destroying mangroves and wetlands and that it should leave the sea forests alone. In fact, JNPT has been fined Rs one lakh by the Forest Department for killing 4,500 mangroves in its container terminal-IV project. In fact, NatConnect asked FDCM: “Is the Eco Park on buried wetland and mangrove zone justified?” NatConnect and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan have been complaining to the government that JNPT has also been burying mangroves for its SEZ project and presented pictures of how lush green zones have been converted into virtual desert lands. Moreover, the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has confirmed in its RTI response to NatConnect that the JNPT SEZ does not have CRZ clearance. “It is in this backdrop that we wanted to know the details of the Mangrove EcoPark,” said NatConnect Director B N Kumar who moved to the Forest Department seeking details of the project. Kumar said they wanted to know if the Eco Park project is viable after the destruction of thousands of mangroves and vast stretches of wetlands, including the one at Belpada and Sawarkhar. The FDCM’s Thane divisional office has responded saying that the mangrove park idea has not been approved and hence no further information was available. FDCM also appended a letter from the JNPT that the port authorities have decided not to enter into an MoU for the Mangrove Park as the process of handing over all mangroves under it to the Forest Department has started. On a query from Mangrove Cell for handing over the mangroves as per the Bombay High Court judgement of September 2018 to protect all mangrove forests, JNPT said it would transfer the sea plants after a high-resolution mapping by Maharashtra Remote Sensing Application Centre (MRSAC). Kumar has expressed his happiness that all mangroves under JNPT would now be conserved. Nandakumar Pawar of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan said JNPT must be made accountable for the environmental destruction, particularly the mangroves and mudflats in Uran, that has impacted the livelihoods of the fishing community. Belpada is located in the southwest direction of the proposed NMIA adjacent to Speedy Services container yard, and next to JNPT Toll Plaza, the Baseline Survey of Birds at the Proposed Navi Mumbai International Airport by BNHS shows.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/under-pressure-to-conserve-mangroves-jnpt-drops-eco-park-project-1044023.html
25-10-2021||National||Facebook reduced itself to 'Fakebook', need JPC probe on its role: Congress||Congress on Monday demanded a probe by the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) against Facebook for its suspected role in "influencing" Indian elections, "undermining" democracy in the country trying to "shape" opinion through "fake" posts, as it accused the social media giant of reducing itself into "Fakebook". The demand came as fresh revelations by whistle-blower Frances Haugen claimed that Facebook struggles to curb hate speech in India with internal documents showing that bots and fake accounts allegedly linked to the ruling BJP spread information that were "fake/inauthentic" but were not taken down. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged that BJP sympathisers have "infiltrated" in Facebook and the social media giant is acting like an "ally", which is pushing the ruling party's ideology He said that Facebook's "tryst with bias" favouring the BJP is "nothing new" and one remembers the incident involving Ankhi Das, who was questioned by a Parliamentary panel on alleged bias in dealing with hate speeches, including her own internal postings detailing her "explicit support" for the ruling BJP. "But, despite her resignation, the camaraderie and nexus between the BJP – Facebook never ended," he said. Khera said that Facebook's safety team had in 2020 reported that Bajrang Dal supported violence against minorities across the country but when it came to designating them as a "dangerous organisation" and ban them from the platform, the social media giant's security team took a different stand, saying it could be a business risk as it may make the BJP angry.  Why hasn't Facebook designated the Bajrang Dal as 'dangerous organisations' based on its own internal reports? he said. "We demand a probe by the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) into the role of Facebook in influencing the elections, undermining our democracy and trying to shape the opinion of people through fake posts. Facebook has reduced itself to Fakebook in this country," Khera told a press conference. Training guns at the Narendra Modi government, Khera said the government had been "extremely pro-active" against Twitter citing social media rules but the question is why are they not uttering a word now. "The internal reports and recommendations of Facebook’s security team went against the recommendations of Facebook’s safety team insofar as they prioritised commercial interests over safety of Indian citizens, and yet no action has been taken by the Government, doesn’t this clearly implicate the presence of a quid pro quo?" he said adding that is why there is a need for a JPC probe. He said the latest expose showed that Facebook was not equipped to filter hate speech especially in Hindi and Bengali and despite knowing it, it did not take any action. "An internal assessment by Facebook suggested that only 0.2% of reported hate speech was being taken down, which shows that Facebook was and continues to be having damningly acute awareness about content against a particular section of Indian society and has consciously chosen not to act against it. This only goes on to prove that Fakebook is nothing but a subjugated vicious diabolical tool used by the ruling regime and its proxies to propagate bigotry, hate and fear in the minds of the oppressed and marginalized in India," he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-reduced-itself-to-fakebook-need-jpc-probe-on-its-role-congress-1044028.html
25-10-2021||National||India committed to supplying Covid-19 vaccines to other nations; exports to resume by year-end||India is committed to supplying Covid-19 vaccines to other nations and such supplies are likely to begin by the end of this year, as the abundant production will not just meet domestic needs but also generate surplus for exports. a top government official said on Monday. The official, however, added that the supply of vaccines to other nations will have to be balanced against the country's vaccination program. "India's commitment to provide vaccines to other nations stands. It has been reiterated by the Indian leadership... However, major supplies to other nations will have to be balanced against India's own needs of vaccines for the country's vaccination program," the official told PTI on condition of anonymity. India, the world's largest producer of vaccines overall, had suspended exports of Covid-19 vaccines in April to focus on inoculating its own population following a sudden spike in infections. "We do foresee that there will be spare supplies, and in fact going into late 2021 and beyond, there will be generous vaccine supplies, which would then become available for exports, so the situation is being watched carefully, it is a dynamic situation," he said. According to the official, currently the priority is to cover the eligible population of India effectively and in the shortest possible time. "The export needs and commitments are also carefully watched and monitored," he said, adding that going forward, the calibrated approach to exporting vaccines would be taken. The official said: "India would particularly like to fulfil its commitment to COVAX." COVAX is a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines directed by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, and the WHO. The Ministry of External Affairs on October 14, had said that coronavirus vaccines have been sent to Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Iran as per the government's decision to resume their supplies. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government has decided to send the supplies to neighbouring countries initially. India had suspended exports of Covid-19 vaccines in April. Last month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced that India will resume supply of coronavirus vaccines abroad. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi said recently at the UN General Assembly that India will resume supply of coronavirus vaccines. We have decided to start with the neighbourhood," Bagchi had said. On October 21, India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark. More than 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, with nine states and union territories administering the first dose to all eligible people. Over 31 per cent of the country's around 93 crore adults have been administered both doses, according to health ministry officials. Three vaccines — Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Sputnik V — are currently being used in the country's Covid vaccination drive. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-committed-to-supplying-covid-19-vaccines-to-other-nations-exports-to-resume-by-year-end-1044029.html
25-10-2021||National||Southwest monsoon withdraws from India, seventh-most delayed retreat since 1975: IMD||The southwest monsoon withdrew from the entire country on Monday, making it the seventh-most delayed retreat since 1975, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “In view of a significant reduction in rainfall activity over most parts of the country, the southwest monsoon has withdrawn from the entire country today (October 25, 2021). Simultaneously, with the setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels, the northeast monsoon rain has commenced over extreme south peninsular India today,” the IMD said in a statement. “The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon 2021 from the entire country is the seventh-most delayed withdrawal (on or after October 25) during 1975-2021,” it said. The southwest monsoon retreated on or after October 25 five times between 2010 and 2021 – in 2017, 2010, 2016, 2020 and 2021, the IMD data showed. The southwest monsoon started receding from west Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat on October 6, making it the second-most delayed withdrawal since 1975. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from northwest India usually begins from September 17. The monsoon withdrawal started on September 28 last year, October 9 in 2019, September 29 in 2018, September 27 in 2017 and September 15 in 2016, according to IMD data. The country received "normal" rainfall during the four-month southwest monsoon season from June to September. All-India monsoon rainfall during June 1 to September 30 was 87 cm against the Long Period Average (LPA) of 88 cm of 1961-2010 (99 per cent of its LPA). This is for the third consecutive year that the country recorded rainfall in the normal or above normal category. Rainfall was above normal in 2019 and 2020. The rainfall over the country as a whole was 110 per cent in June, 93 and 76 per cent in July and August, respectively -- the months that bring the maximum rains. However, the shortfall of July and August was compensated in September which recorded rainfall 135 per cent of the LPA. The southwest monsoon made its onset over Kerala on June 3, after a delay of two days. It rapidly covered central, west, east, northeast and south India by June 15 It also covered many parts of north India, even Barmer and Jaisalmer -- its last outposts -- but the monsoon winds failed to reach Delhi, parts of Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh. It then witnessed a lull. It finally covered Delhi, parts of Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh, on July 13, five days after its normal onset date, belying IMD's forecasts. The northeast monsoon, which brings rainfall to southern states from October to December, is likely to be normal, according to the IMD. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/southwest-monsoon-withdraws-from-india-seventh-most-delayed-retreat-since-1975-imd-1044034.html
25-10-2021||National||Cruise drugs case: Actor Ananya Panday fails to appear before NCB||Bollywood actor Ananya Panday failed to appear before the Narcotics Control Bureau here on Monday for questioning in connection with her alleged WhatsApp chats with Aryan Khan, the son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in a drugs case, an NCB official said. Panday was earlier questioned by the NCB for two days last week and was called again on Monday. She was likely to appear before the anti-drugs agency around 11 am on Monday, but did not turn up for the third round of questioning, the official said. On Friday, Panday was questioned for nearly four hours in connection with her alleged WhatsApp chats with Aryan Khan linked to the case which relates to alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast early this month, sources earlier said. Prior to it, the 22-year-old actor, who made her Bollywood debut in 2019, was questioned on Thursday for about two hours. The NCB is probing the cruise ship drugs case, in which Aryan Khan (23) has been arrested along with 19 others. Aryan Khan is currently in jail under judicial custody and his bail plea is likely to be heard by the Bombay High Court on Tuesday. During the investigation into the case, the NCB had found some WhatsApp chats between Aryan Khan and Panday, the sources said. The NCB officials wanted to gather more information about the chats and hence, she was summoned. The NCB had seized Panday's laptop and mobile phone on Thursday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cruise-drugs-case-actor-ananya-panday-fails-to-appear-before-ncb-1044036.html
25-10-2021||National||Bengal minister Subrata Mukherjee shifted to ICU after breathing troubles||West Bengal Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee was shifted to the ICU of state-run SSKM Hospital on Monday morning, after he complained of severe breathing problems, sources at the medical facility said. The septuagenarian politician, who was admitted to the hospital for a regular check-up on Sunday, complained of chest pain and breathlessness at night, a senior doctor said.  "He is being treated in the ICU, and his condition is stable at the moment. A team of doctors are constantly monitoring the health condition of the minister," he told PTI. Mukherjee was also hospitalised in May with similar ailments, days after he was imprisoned in Presidency Jail, following a Calcutta High Court injunction on his bail plea in the Narada sting case.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-minister-subrata-mukherjee-shifted-to-icu-after-breathing-troubles-1044039.html
25-10-2021||National||Delhi HC's final hearing on same-sex marriages on November 30||The Delhi High Court Monday listed for final hearing separate pleas, including by two same sex couples, seeking a declaration recognising same sex marriages under the special, Hindu and foreign marriage laws. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh granted time to the parties for filing replies and rejoinders in the matter and listed it for final hearing on November 30. In the first petition, Abhijit Iyer Mitra and three others have contended that same-sex marriages are not possible despite the Supreme Court's decriminalising consensual homosexual acts and sought a declaration to recognise them under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and Special Marriage Act (SMA). The two other pleas are -- one filed by two women seeking to get married under the SMA and challenging provisions of the statute to the extent that it does not provide for same-sex marriages, and the other filed by two men who got married in the US but were denied registration of their marriage under the Foreign Marriage Act (FMA). Another petition seeks to allow a foreign-origin spouse of an Overseas Citizen of India cardholder to apply for OCI registration regardless of gender or sexual orientation. The petitioners are a married same-sex couple -- Joydeep Sengupta, an OCI, and Russell Blaine Stephens, a US citizen -- and Mario Dpenha, an Indian citizen and a queer rights academic and activist pursuing a PhD at Rutgers University, USA. During the hearing, advocate Karuna Nandy, appearing for the couple, said they got married in New York and the law applicable in their case are the Citizenship Act, the FMA and the SMA. She further submitted that the Citizenship Act is silent on gender and sexuality of the spouse and it provides that a person married to an overseas citizen of India whose marriage is registered and subsisting for two years should be declared eligible to apply as a spouse for an OCI card. Nandy pointed out that the government has not yet filed a reply to her petition. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, argued that a ‘spouse’ means either husband or wife and ‘marriage’ is a term associated with heterosexual couples and there was no need to file a specific reply regarding the Citizenship Act. “The law as it stands...personal laws are settled and marriage which is contemplated to be is between biological man and biological woman,” he said, adding that there is some misconception of petitioners regarding the Supreme Court’s verdict decriminalising consensual homosexual act. Check out the latest DH videos here: “The issue here is whether marriage is permissible between homosexual couples. Your lordships have to see that. There is some misconception regarding Navtej Singh Johar case. It merely decriminalises consensual homosexual act. It does not talk about marriage,” Mehta contended. To this, senior advocate Saurabh Kirpal, representing one of the petitioners, said while the apex court matter does not expressly allow same-sex marriage, the inevitable implication in the Constitutional matter favours recognising it and that this is how Constitutional jurisprudence works. The petition filed by equal rights activists Mitra, Gopi Shankar M, Giti Thadani and G Oorvasi contended that homosexual sex has been decriminalised by the apex court but same-sex marriages are still not being allowed under the provisions of the HMA. “In this view of the matter, it can be stated that it is against the constitutional mandate of non-arbitrariness if the said right is not extended to homosexual apart from heterosexual couples,” said the petition, filed through Raghav Awasthi and Mukesh Sharma. The two women, who were represented by senior advocate Maneka Guruswamy and lawyers Arundhati Katju, Govind Manoharan and Surabhi Dhar, have said in their plea that they have been living together as a couple for 8 years, in love with each other sharing the highs and lows of life, but unable marry as they are a same sex couple. The women, aged 47 years and 36 years, have contended that not being allowed to get married has denied them several rights -- owning a house, opening a bank account, family life insurance -- which opposite-sex couples take for granted. The two men, also represented by the same set of lawyers, were married in the United States, but their marriage was not registered under the FMA by the Indian consulate as they were a same sex couple. The couple, who were in a relationship since 2012 and got married in 2017, have also claimed that during the COVID-19 pandemic, non recognition of their marriage by the laws here continues to disentitle them to travel as a married couple to India. Central government has opposed same-sex marriage on the ground that marriage in India is not just a union of two individuals but an institution between biological man and woman. It also said that judicial interference will cause "complete havoc with the delicate balance of personal laws". Any interpretation other than treating a husband as a biological man and a wife as a biological woman will make all statutory provisions unworkable, it said, adding that marriage is essentially a socially recognized union of two individuals which is governed either by uncodified personal laws or codified statutory laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hcs-final-hearing-on-same-sex-marriages-on-november-30-1044042.html
25-10-2021||National||National Tribal Dance Festival to be held from Oct 28 in Raipur||Indian and international dance groups will take part in the National Tribal Dance Festival to take place in Raipur from October 28, the Chhattisgarh Tourism Board said in a statement on Monday. The three-day festival, organised under the tourism development plan of the Chhattisgarh government, will host artists belonging to diverse tribal communities from countries, including Uzbekistan, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Uganda, Syria, Mali, Palestine, and Kingdom of Eswatini. The artists from tribal areas of Bastar, Dantewada, Koriya, Korba, Bilaspur, Gariabandh, Mainpur, Dhura, Dhamtari, Surguja and Jashpur in Chhattisgarh will present their own distinctive history, culture and traditions. "Chhattisgarh is home to many indigenous tribes of India contributing to the vibrant culture of the state of which we are very proud. The National Tribal Dance Festival will promote and celebrate the uniqueness of tribal culture and showcase the richness and diversity of tribal life of Chhattisgarh and other states to the world," Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said in a statement. In 2019, the first edition of the National Tribal Dance Festival saw participation of tribal communities from across 25 states of India and six guest countries and an attendance of over one lakh people. The festival will feature special dance forms of tribes from Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Manipur, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir among 27 states this year. The dance performances will be held in two categories – ‘wedding ceremonies' and 'other prominent rituals'. Apart from highlighting tribal art and culture, the festival will also feature discussions on economic development initiatives of tribal communities. “The tribal population constitutes a major chunk of the total population of Chhattisgarh. Our objective is to preserve the tribal heritage by developing initiatives that promote the tangible and intangible parts of the tribal culture. National Tribal Dance Festival is a unique celebration that will not only showcase the various tribal dance forms but also help in conserving and promoting our tribal traditions and values," said culture minister Amarjeet Bhagat. The visitors will get the opportunity to enjoy delectable tribal cuisine of Chhattisgarh, explore tribal-inspired fashion exhibits and a craft market of local and tribal handicrafts, the statement said. The festival will come to an end on October 30. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-tribal-dance-festival-to-be-held-from-oct-28-in-raipur-1044047.html
25-10-2021||National||Rajnath Singh conducts surprise inspection of Defence Ministry offices||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday carried out a surprise inspection of the offices of his ministry at the South Block in the Raisina Hills area to check the work environment. He went around various office blocks and inspected cleanliness, work atmosphere and interacted with the employees, officials said. Singh passed necessary instructions wherever the need for improvement was identified, they said. The minister was accompanied by Secretary, Department of Defence Production, Rajkumar and other officials of the ministry during the surprise inspection, the officials said.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-conducts-surprise-inspection-of-defence-ministry-offices-1044053.html
25-10-2021||National||EWS quota: SC tells Centre to put NEET-PG counselling on hold||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Centre to put on hold counselling for NEET-PG until it decided the validity of OBC and EWS reservation in All India Quota (AIQ). In urgent mentioning of the matter before a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud, senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for petitioners, submitted that counselling schedule, as announced, began from October 24 and it would be concluded on October 29. He sought court’s intervention in the matter stating that the process will be completed during the pendency of the matter before the court. Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj contended that the notification was with regard to seat verification. The court, however, asked the authorities to put the counselling on hold. The top court is scheduled to consider the pending validity reservation for OBC and EWS in All India Quota seats on October 28. On October 21, the court had questioned the Union government over adopting similar criteria of OBC creamy layers of Rs eight lakh annual income for granting reservations under the Economic Weaker Section, though it suffered from no social and educational backwardness. The bench had then sought to know from Additional Solicitor General Nataraj by filing an affidavit, if the government had collected some demographic or sociological or socio-economic data before fixing the EWS criteria uniformly and if it had accounted for the differences in urban and rural purchasing power. "You just cannot pull out eight lakh from thin air. You are making unequals equals by applying the Rs eight lakh limit," the bench had told the law officer. The court had also expressed its displeasure over failure of the government to file an affidavit in this regard, despite its direction on last date of hearing on October 7. As many as 50 per cent seats in MS and MD courses in medical colleges across the country are filled through All India Quota from the candidates selected through NEET. The petitioners here challenged the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC, and EWS reservation in NEET-All India Quota from current academic session in Post Graduate courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ews-quota-sc-tells-centre-to-put-neet-pg-counselling-on-hold-1044057.html
25-10-2021||National||Classes for 4-year UG programme under NEP to begin from November 8||The multidisciplinary and holistic four-year UG programme under National Education Policy 2020, in all the UG colleges coming under Mangalore University jurisdiction, will begin from November 8, said Vice-Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya. He was speaking during a one-day workshop and interaction programme on the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020 held at Town Hall in Mangaluru. "The Board of Studies under various faculties have already submitted syllabus and curriculum under NEP, which will be placed before the faculty meeting on October 26 for approval. The same will be placed before the Academic Council meeting on October 27 for approval before the implementation", he said. The VC said that workshops on NEP for the teaching faculties will be organised at the cluster level in the coming days. The NEP aims at empowering and engaging teachers. On the apprehension that English is neglected while implementing the NEP, the VC said that English is not neglected and the students can learn the language under ability enhancement subjects and also as an open elective. The NEP will bring in competitiveness in the system. All the concerns and apprehensions related to the NEP will be addressed, he said.  Karnataka State Higher Education Council Executive Director Dr Gopala Krishna Joshi termed NEP as a collection of best practices from all over the world. The NEP ensures flexibility to students with multiple entries and exit options to complete his/her education during any time of life. In higher education, the NEP will focus on cognitive skills including critical thinking and problem solving along with non-cognitive skills of teamwork and collaboration. According to the All India Higher Education Survey (AISHE) 2019-20 released by the Ministry of Education, 32.7 % of the enrollment is into humanities and arts in higher education. The teachers will have to put in extra efforts to make higher education relevant to the needs of the country. The NEP will focus on employability skills, critical thinking and formative assessment long with multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary learning. Three courses — Digital Fluency, Artificial Intelligence, and Cyber Security will become part of the higher education curriculum under the NEP in Karnataka. They will be made available free of cost to non-Computer Science college students and faculty members of Higher Education Institutions of the state and the course is designed by the National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM). Teachers from any faculty can learn these courses and teach the students. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/classes-for-4-year-ug-programme-under-nep-to-begin-from-november-8-1044070.html
25-10-2021||National||No shortage of power in country, says R K Singh||Power Minister R K Singh on Monday exuded confidence that there will be no power shortage in the country amid the ongoing low coal stocks at power plants and stressed on timely payments by distribution companies to the plants for electricity supplied to them. The statement assumes significance in view of coal shortage faced by thermal power plants across the country. After the virtual launch of the green day market for sale of renewable energy on exchanges, Singh assured, "There won't be any back down...There was no (power) outage yesterday. There was no (power shortage) and it did not happen even before. If there is some outage, then that is because of our own (states') constraints." The minister informed that power plants in the country have more than 8 million tonnes of coal at present. According to the latest report of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) which monitors 135 plants with over 165GW capacity, thermal projects had 8.1 million tonnes of coal on October 23, 2021, which is sufficient for four days (for these 135 plants). Besides, the report showed as many as 49 non-pithead plants had less than four days or supercritical stock of dry fuel on Saturday compared to 62 such plants a week ago on October 16. This shows gradual improvement in the coal stock situation at thermal power plants in the country. About huge outstanding towards Coal India, he said, "There is around Rs 16,000 crore which has not been paid to Coal India.. unless and until discoms pays gencos (power generating firms) for the power supplied to them, the gencos would not be able to pay for coal." He further informed,"The dues of all generating companies (excluding states owned) are Rs 75,000 crore. How do you expect those generation companies to pay for coal or railways? This is not sustainable. Every state has to understand that electricity is not free." About the gas shortage, the minister said, "If you (states or power generators) have an agreement with GAIL (for gas supply) why don't you renew that.... People should not go scare mongering (about power outages)." The minister also drew attention towards inefficient management of captive coal mines by the states. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-shortage-of-power-in-country-says-r-k-singh-1044076.html
25-10-2021||National||TMC's Abhishek Banerjee hits out at Oppn, says Mamata only 'vaccine' against 'virus' BJP||TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee Monday courted controversy by calling BJP a "virus" and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee the "only vaccine" which will "eradicate" it in the next Lok Sabha poll in the country. Banerjee also slammed the saffron camp calling it the "enemy of the Hindus" for trying to allegedly polarise the upcoming assembly bypoll in West Bengal by using as a poll plank the violence against the Hindu minority in neighbouring Bangladesh. The de facto number two in the Trinamool Congress also criticised BJP for "thrusting" on the people the by-election in two of the four seats that will go to the poll later this week. "Winning BJP candidates Jagannath Sarkar (Shantipur) and Nisith Pramanik (Dinhata) had resigned as MLAs after being elected by the people. They had thought that they would become ministers after BJP wins in Bengal. But the party failed and they were no longer eager to continue," he said addressing a poll campaign rally here. The two resigned to retain their post as MPs. If they were so keen on holding on to their Lok Sabha seat, they should not have fought assembly election, Banerjee said. Pramanik was inducted to the central ministry as union minister of state for home and sports. By-election to two other seats - Gosaba and Khardah is being held following the death of their elected MLAs. "They (Sarkar and Pramanik) dishonoured the verdict of the people to retain their parliamentary berths. The BJP leaders used to visit Coochbehar regularly during the assembly poll but have stopped coming after their defeat. They had made false promises of a Narayani Sena in the central forces, but Mamata Banerjee has kept her promise of creating a Narayani battalion. This is the difference," the nephew of Mamata Banerjee pointed out. The TMC leader asserted that the party would make a "4-0 sweep" in the October 30 bypoll. "The entire country is eagerly waiting for the bypoll result. People of the country want a leader like Mamata Banerjee. That is why they raised slogans such as 'Desh ki netri kaisi ho, Mamata didi jaisi ho'. Like the vaccines that fight Covid-19, Mamata Banerjee is a vaccine against virus BJP," Elaborating, he said "Just as we have to take two doses of the vaccine to fight Covid , the first jab against virus BJP will be on October 30 through your vote in the by-poll. The second dose to eradicate the virus BJP will be during the next Lok Sabha poll." Banerjee contended that BJP is trying to win the by-election in Shantipur and Dinhata riding the wave created the recent communal violence in Bangladesh. "The BJP leaders are saying that they will benefit from the violence against the minorities in Bangladesh. The BJP, which boasts of being the saviour and the flag bearer of the Hindu religion, is trying to gain mileage from the communal violence in Bangladesh. What kind of Hindus are these BJP leaders who seek to gain mileage from the attack on fellow Hindus in Bangladesh?" he asked. BJP has kick-started a high pitch campaign in Dinhata and Santipur in Coochbehar and Nadia districts which border Bangladesh and has highlighted the atrocities on Hindus in the neighbouring country. The two constituencies have a sizeable number of voters who trace their roots to Bangladesh. They had to leave erstwhile East Pakistan during partition in 1947 or its Liberation War in 1971. Both the seats were won by BJP in the April-May state poll on the party's CAA poll plank. Banerjee also hit out at Congress for failing to fight against BJP and claimed that the TMC supremo is emerging as the "undisputed leader" from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. "There are several other national parties. But they have failed to put up a fight against the BJP. Congress has surrendered before the BJP in the last seven years. It is only TMC that has not bowed before the threats of the saffron camp," he said. The TMC leader asserted "We will never bow our heads - the more you threaten us, the more fearsome force we will turn into ... Mamata Banerjee is the spearhead to fight and defeat the Modi-Shah regime in the next general election," he asserted. TMC, he said, had already expanded its footprints in Tripura and Goa and is planning to venture out to a few other states in the days to come. "Our party is making its presence felt all over the country. We will win the Goa assembly poll in a few months and we will dislodge the BJP government in Tripura in 2023. Wherever BJP is in power, we will go there and fight against them," Banerjee said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmcs-abhishek-banerjee-hits-out-at-oppn-says-mamata-only-vaccine-against-virus-bjp-1044082.html
25-10-2021||National||BE hopes to roll out Covid-19 vaccine Corbevax by November-end||Biological E. Limited (BE) is expecting its Covid-19 vaccine Corbevax to be rolled out by the end of November even as the city-based firm is getting ready with 100 million doses for the launch, Mahima Datla, Managing Director, BE said on Monday. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of signing a financing agreement with US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC), she said currently the manufactured doses are being sent to Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL), Kasauli in Himachal Pradesh for regulatory testing. "Cobevax is in phase 3 trials. We are likely to complete all the studies by end of November which is when we are expecting licence (from the drug regulator). The licence for children should follow one month later. The study in children is underway as well," she said. Biological E's anti-coronavirus shot, Corbevax, is a RBD protein sub-unit vaccine and is currently undergoing phase 2/3 clinical trials on adults. The Phase 3 trials are going to be a study in comparison with the already licensed vaccines, though the study in children is not a comparative study, she further said. "We are submitting doses to Kasauli for release. So it is my hope that at the day of launch… it is always been our vision to have close to ten crore doses on the day. By end of November this may happen as soon as we get the license," she said. On the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing capacities, she said currently BE has the capacity to make one billion doses of Corbevax per annum, and 600 million doses of Johnson & Johnson's jab. Biological E Ltd had earlier said it entered into an agreement with Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, part of pharma major Johnson & Johnson, for creation and enhancement of production capabilities to manufacture the latter's Covid-19 vaccine. Meanwhile, DFC's Chief Operating Officer David Marchick and Mahima Datla today unveiled the expansion of Biological E.'s vaccine manufacturing facility here and finalised a US government financing arrangement formalising $50 million to expand the company's capacity to produce Covid-19 vaccines. "DFC’s partnership with Biological E will support capacity for production of more than one billion vaccine doses by the end of 2022 for India and for developing countries around the world," Marchick said in a press release. "We are pleased with the financial support from the US government, especially DFC, which was announced at the Quad Summit in March 2021. This investment will not only help us augment our capacity to produce more Covid-19 vaccines, but also help the global community that has been relentlessly fighting against the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic," Mahima Datla said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/be-hopes-to-roll-out-covid-19-vaccine-corbevax-by-november-end-1044086.html
25-10-2021||National||TRAI issues consultation paper on market structure, competition in cable TV sector||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Monday issued a consultation paper on issues related to market structure and competition in cable television services, and invited comments from stakeholders. The move has been initiated following a reference from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB), TRAI said in a statement. The authority said the MIB had sought its recommendations on issues related to monopoly and market dominance in cable TV services on December 12, 2012. Following a due consultation process, TRAI issued recommendations on the same on November 26, 2013, it added. "The TRAI has now received a back reference, dated February 19, 2021, from the MIB mentioning therein that a considerable time has passed since the recommendations were made and that the media and entertainment (M&E) landscape has changed drastically, particularly with the advent of new digital technologies in this sector," the authority said. "And, therefore, the MIB felt that some of the issues need further consideration by the Authority and it may provide a fresh set of recommendations in the matter looking at the subsequent developments/expansion in the M&E sector," it said. Accordingly, a consultation paper on market structure and competition in cable TV services has been issued, it said. "Written comments on the consultation paper are invited from the stakeholders by November 22, 2021. Counter comments, if any, may be submitted by December 6, 2021," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trai-issues-consultation-paper-on-market-structure-competition-in-cable-tv-sector-1044087.html
25-10-2021||National||Cruise drug case: Who is Sam D'Souza? The man named in 'extortion' affidavit||Ever since the controversy broke out over a witness going back on his statement, new chapters are emerging in the Cordelia cruise rave party bust. Now a new name has surfaced - Sam D’Souza.  In one of the videos of Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and independent witness KP Gosavi, Sam D’Souza could be seen sitting.  Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut tweeted the video of Aryan Khan, Gosavi and D’souza - apparently taken inside the NCB’s Ballard Estate office.  “Sam D'Souza is the biggest player in money-laundering in Mumbai and the country. It's a big game which has just started. Facts which came to light are shocking,” Raut said.  The Shiv Sena leader claimed that D’Souza is well connected with politicians, IAS officials and even Customs and Income Tax officials.  Coincidentally, the independent witness Prabhakar Sail has also included D'Souza's name in his 'extortion' affidavit.  Sail had stated in a notarised affidavit that he overheard KP Gosavi and Sam D'Souza say that "you put a bomb of Rs 25 crores, let's settle for Rs 18 crores and give 8 crores to Sameer Wakhende.” Sail further stated that he has seen Pooja Dadlani, the manager of Shah Rukh Khan, talking to Gosavi.  Sail claimed that Gosavi directed him to collect Rs 50 lakh from a spot near Indiana Hotel and asked him to give the bags to D’Souza near Trident Hotel, where he discovered that it contained Rs 38 lakh. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cruise-drug-case-who-is-sam-dsouza-the-man-named-in-extortion-affidavit-1044090.html
25-10-2021||National||Plea against Ramdev by doctors' association can't be thrown out: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Monday said that prima facie, a suit filed by several doctors' associations against Yoga guru Ramdev for allegedly spreading misinformation against allopathy amid the Covid-19 pandemic deserves consideration and cannot be “thrown out” at the first stage. Justice C Hari Shankar said at the present stage, it only needs “to see if allegations in the plaint make out a case to be entertained”.           “The allegations may be right or maybe wrong. He may say he did not say any such thing... It needs to be looked into,” said the judge.  “Prime facie, it appears that the present suit can't be thrown out at the threshold without granting leave to institute the suit,” said the court which had earlier sought Ramdev's stand on the institution of the proceeding. The court listed the matter on October 27 to enable the counsel for Ramdev to make his submissions. Three Resident Doctors' Association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Rishikesh, Patna and Bhubaneshwar as well as Association of Resident Doctors, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh; Union of Resident Doctors of Punjab (URDP); Resident Doctors' Association, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, Meerut, and Telangana Junior Doctors' Association, Hyderabad had moved the high court earlier this year. They alleged that Ramdev was misleading and misrepresenting to the public at large that allopathy was responsible for the deaths of several people infected by Covid-19, and insinuating that allopathic doctors were causing the deaths of the patients. Senior counsel Akhil Sibal, representing the associations, said that amid a pandemic, the Yog Gugu made unsubstantiated claims on Coronil being a cure for Covid-19, contrary to the licence granted to the drug for merely being an “Immuno-booster”. The senior counsel claimed that Ramdev's statements were not “bonafide opinions” but were made for marketing and commercial use.  “This is a person with no degree. He is dispensing medical opinion in a regulated field, endangering life amid a pandemic. People are gullible. He is a repeat offender. He claimed Yoga can cure AIDS and cancer. You can't just say things and dupe people. The commercial speech comes with some responsibility,” he said. “Everyone has a right to commercial gain. Profit is not really a ground. You have to make out a case for public nuisance. Making a profit is not a public nuisance,” the court observed during the hearing. In their plea filed through advocate Harshavardhan Kotla, the associations had submitted that the yoga guru, who is a highly influential person, was sowing doubts in the minds of the general public concerning the safety and efficacy of not only allopathic treatments but also Covid-19 vaccines. The plea alleged that the misinformation campaign was nothing but an advertisement and marketing strategy to further the sales of the product sold by Ramdev, including Coronil which claims to be an alternative treatment for Covid-19. The other defendants in the plea include Acharya Balkrishna and Patanjali Ayurveda.  The court had on June 3 issued summons to Ramdev on a plea by the Delhi Medical Association in connection with his alleged statements against allopathic medicines and claims regarding Patanjali's Coronil kit. The court had refused to restrain Ramdev at that stage saying the allopathic profession was not so fragile. It had, however, orally asked Ramdev's counsel to tell him not to make any provocative statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-against-ramdev-by-doctors-association-cant-be-thrown-out-delhi-hc-1044097.html
25-10-2021||National||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar admitted to AIIMS||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was on Monday admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here, sources said. He has been diagnosed with malaria and admitted to old private ward at the main AIIMS. "The governor was admitted at 3 pm. He has been admitted under the supervision of Dr Neeraj Nischal, additional professor in the Department of Medicine," a source said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-admitted-to-aiims-1044106.html
25-10-2021||National||SC notice to WB government on BJP leaders' plea in sexual assault case||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the West Bengal government and a woman complainant on a plea by senior BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya and others in a case of gang rape. A bench presided over by Justice M R Shah, however, asked the petitioners to approach the High Court for interim protection. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that it was alleged that the complainant was raped in 2018 but the complaint was filed in 2020. A closure report was filed in between but the High Court allowed a revision petition. As per the Constitution bench decision in the Lalita Kumari case, there was a preliminary enquiry and it was found that there was nothing in this complaint. The counsel said the petitioners were subjected to "illegal investigation". The petitioners were aggrieved with the order passed by the Chief Judicial Magistrate Alipore, directing lodging of FIR against them. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the West Bengal government, submitted that he would not argue on the merit of the matter. Senior advocate P S Patwalia, also appearing for the petitioners, asked the court to grant protection. The court, however, asked them to approach the High Court and put the matter for consideration after Diwali break. The complainant here alleged the petitioners, including Jisnu Basu and Pradeep Joshi, raped her at an apartment here on November 29, 2018, and had also assaulted her. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-wb-government-on-bjp-leaders-plea-in-sexual-assault-case-1044113.html
25-10-2021||National||Serum Institute of India seeks regular marketing authorisation from DCGI for Covishield||Pointing out that over 100 crore doses of Covishield have been supplied in India and many other countries, Serum Institute of India on Monday sought regular marketing approval for the Covid-19 vaccine, which is currently authorised for emergency use in the country, official sources said. The application sent to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) by Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII) comes just a couple of days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with domestic Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers. If the DCGI grants regular marketing authorisation, Covishied will be the second vaccine in the world to receive such approval. Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine has received full US FDA approval for use in individuals 16 years of age and older. The cumulative Covid-19 vaccines administered in the country has exceeded 102.27 crore. Of all the vaccine doses administered, around 90 per cent are Covishield and close to 10 per cent are Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Less than one per cent of the doses given are Sputnik V. The Pune-based SII has submitted the final phase 2/3 clinical study report of India with its application for grant of regular market authorization for Covishield, an official source said. According to the application by Singh, the firm has already submitted phase-3 clinical study results of 24,244 subjects from the UK, Brazil and South Africa on June 8, 2021, to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). Also, phase-3 clinical study results of 32,379 subjects from the US, Chile and Peru were submitted on July 9. "In addition to the successful completion of our phase 2/3 clinical study in India, till now more than 100 crore doses of our Covishield has been administered to people in our country and worldwide. "Such a large-scale vaccination with our Covishield vaccine and containment of Covid-19 infection is in itself a testimony to the safety and efficacy of Covishield," the official source quoted Singh as having stated in the application. Singh thanked the DCGI office and Subject Expert Committee for granting restricted emergency use approval to Covishield on January 3, because of which, he said, the vaccine played a crucial role in the pandemic control and has been the mainstay of India's Covid inoculation drive. "It is a matter of pride for us that we have been a part of the world's largest vaccination drive under the dynamic and visionary leadership of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji," Singh is learnt to have said in the application. Under the kind guidance of Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Team Government of India and leadership of CEO Adar C Poonawalla, Team Serum Institute of India has been working relentlessly to manufacture and supply Covishield vaccine for making the world's largest Covid vaccination drive successful, he said. "In line with our prime minister's clarion call of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, we have made our country Aatmanirbhar for Covid-19 vaccine. In view of the above-mentioned facts, we request for your kind approval for regular market authorisation of Covishield," Singh is learnt to have written in the application. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-seeks-regular-marketing-authorisation-from-dcgi-for-covishield-1044119.html
25-10-2021||National||Sameer Wankhede and other officers have impeccable service record, NCB tells court||Amid allegations of an extortion attempt by NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede and others in connection with the cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is arrested, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in an affidavit submitted before a special court here on Monday said Wankhede and other officers have an impeccable service record. Earlier in the day, the federal anti-drug agency and Wankhede filed affidavits before the special court, designated to hear cases related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, against the allegations of extortion attempts levelled against them. In the affidavits, the anti-drugs agency and Wankhede sought the court to pass an order saying no court should take cognisance of the affidavit prepared by the independent witness, Prabhakar Sail. As per the NCB and its zonal director, the allegations made by Sail were only an attempt to create hurdles and scuttle the investigation into the case. “It is emphatically stated that the NCB, as an organisation and/or its officers, the zonal director, who has an impeccable service record, replete with honesty and integrity, has no interest whatsoever as falsely alleged in the purported affidavit (of the witness),” the anti-drug agency said. “The NCB headed by its zonal director and its team was working tirelessly with the sole objective to eradicate the drug menace in the city of Mumbai and act in compliance with the aims and object of this stringent enactment (NDPS Act), to make the city drug free,” it added. The agency further said that at such a stage, the witness's claims was an attempt to tamper with and obstruct an ongoing investigation and hence stringent action ought to be taken against the witness. It added that the affidavit/application was filed by the agency in the interest of justice and to avoid an independent and reputed agency from being defamed and tarnished by unscrupulous elements who intend to further their own vested interests. Special Judge V V Patil disposed of the applications and refused to pass any blanket order. On Sunday, Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the case, in a statement to the media, claimed that Rs 25 crore was demanded by an official of the NCB and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan in the drugs case. Sail told media persons that he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede". Sail had said he would soon release evidence to support his claim. Aryan Khan and 19 others have been arrested so far in the case. Aryan is presently lodged at the Arthur Road prison. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sameer-wankhede-and-other-officers-have-impeccable-service-record-ncb-tells-court-1044120.html
25-10-2021||National||I am cancer free: Mahesh Manjrekar||Actor-filmmaker Mahesh Manjrekar on Monday announced he is cancer free, two months after he underwent a surgery for urinary bladder cancer. Manjrekar, 63, said he was diagnosed with the disease during the making of his upcoming directorial Antim: The Final Truth, starring Salman Khan and Aayush Sharma. The filmmaker shot the last leg of the actioner amid his chemotherapy sessions, he said. "During Antim, I was diagnosed with cancer, I shot the last portions when I had cancer and was taking chemotherapy. Today, I am happy to tell you all that I am cancer free," Manjrekar told reporters. The director was speaking at the trailer launch of the film, where he was joined by Khan and his co-star and brother-in-law Sharma. Manjrekar is known for helming acclaimed films like the 1999 drama Vaastav: The Reality, National Award-winning Astitva (2000) and the Amitabh Bachchan starrer Viruddh... Family Comes First. When asked if it was difficult to shoot the film while undergoing chemotherapy, Manjrekar said it was fortunate that the procedure didn't affect him a lot. "I had to take chemotherapy first before going in for a huge surgery. During the shoot, I was under chemotherapy but it didn't affect me that much. I have realised that work, passion drive you. I always think positive. "When I was told I have cancer, it didn't shock me. I accepted it. There are so many people who get cancer, (but) they fight and survive. So it didn't bother me too much. All of them (the team) were caring and helping, there was no problem. I was quite comfortable. Both of them (Salman, Aayush) were very supportive," he added. Antim is billed as a "gripping tale of two powerful men" with polar opposite ideologies; one a cop and the other a gangster, played by Khan and Sharma, respectively. Manjrekar, who also stars in the film, said he didn't want to feature in Antim but was forced by the 55-year-old star to do so. They have previously co-starred in many films like Wanted (2009), Dabangg (2010) and Dabangg 3 (2019). "I prefer not to act in films I direct, because you can't see yourself act, you can't say ok (to your own shot), you don't know what you have done... It was a nice, beautiful cameo, so I did it... I have known Salman for so many years. He is like a brother to me, we have done so many films together." "It was not difficult to direct him. It was easy because I knew exactly what I wanted from him - to say the lines and mean them... I was not overwhelmed or scared of him," the filmmaker added. Antim will be released in theatres worldwide on November 26. The film will be distributed globally by Zee Studios. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-am-cancer-free-mahesh-manjrekar-1044127.html
25-10-2021||National||PM Modi to attend virtually ASEAN-India summit on October 28||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend virtually the annual ASEAN-India summit on Thursday that will review the status of strategic partnership between the two sides and take stock of progress made in areas of trade and investment, post-Covid-19 economic recovery and connectivity. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said Modi will also attend the 16th East Asia Summit to be held virtually on Wednesday that will discuss matters of regional and international interest and concern including maritime security and terrorism. The 10-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is considered one of the most influential groupings in the region, and India and several other countries, including the US, China, Japan and Australia, are its dialogue partners. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend 18th ASEAN-India Summit to be held virtually on October 28 at the invitation of Sultan of Brunei," the MEA said. The ties between India and ASEAN have been on an upswing in the last few years with the focus being on ramping up cooperation in the areas of trade and investment as well as security and defence. The East Asia Summit is the premier forum in the Asia-Pacific region to deal with issues relating to security and defence. Since its inception in 2005, it has played a significant role in the strategic, geopolitical and economic evolution of East Asia. Apart from the ASEAN member states, the East Asia Summit includes India, China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the United States and Russia. The MEA said that the ASEAN-India summit will be attended by heads of state and governments of the member countries of the grouping. "The 18th ASEAN-India Summit will review the status of ASEAN-India strategic partnership and take stock of progress made in key areas including Covid-19 and health, trade and commerce, connectivity, and education and culture," the MEA said in a statement.   It said important regional and international developments including post-pandemic economic recovery will also be discussed. The two sides are also expected to review the maritime security scenario in the Indo-Pacific and the South China Sea.  Modi attended the 17th ASEAN-India summit held virtually in November last year. The upcoming summit will be the ninth ASEAN-India summit to be attended by him. "ASEAN-India Strategic Partnership stands on a strong foundation of shared geographical, historical and civilizational ties. ASEAN is central to our Act East Policy and our wider vision of the Indo-Pacific," the MEA said. The year 2022 will mark 30 years of ASEAN-India relations. The East Asia Summit is the premier Leaders-led forum in the Indo-Pacific. Since its inception in 2005, it has played a significant role in the strategic and geopolitical evolution of East Asia. "India, being a founding member of the East Asia Summit, is committed to strengthening the East Asia Summit and making it more effective for dealing with contemporary challenges," the MEA said. "It is also an important platform for furthering practical cooperation in the Indo-Pacific by building upon the convergence between ASEAN Outlook on Indo-Pacific (AOIP) and Indo-Pacific Ocean's Initiative (IPOI)," it said. The MEA said the 16th East Asia Summit will discuss matters of regional and international interest and concern including maritime security and terrorism. It said the leaders are also expected to accept declarations on mental health, economic recovery through tourism and green recovery, which are being co-sponsored by India. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-attend-virtually-asean-india-summit-on-october-28-1044128.html
25-10-2021||National||Post-poll violence in West Bengal triggered communal violence in Bangladesh: RSS||The West Bengal unit of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Monday blamed the post-poll violence in the state as the trigger behind the recent attacks on Hindu minorities in neighbouring Bangladesh and slammed the state's intellectuals for maintaining silence on the issue. Fundamentalists of Bangladesh were encouraged by the "attack on Hindus" following the defeat of the BJP in the assembly elections held earlier this year and this led to the violence in that country, RSS state general secretary Jishnu Basu claimed. "If you look at the modus operandi of the violence in Bangladesh, you will understand that the trigger behind the incident is the post-poll violence in West Bengal. The atrocious attack on Hindu Bengalis has sent out a message that Hindu Bengalis have been defeated and this encouraged the fundamentalists on the other side of the border to carry out attacks on Hindu minorities there," Basu told PTI. Violence had erupted in pockets of Bangladesh over an alleged blasphemy incident at a Durga Puja pavilion at Cumilla, around 100 km from Dhaka, following which paramilitary forces were deployed in many affected areas. However, sporadic clashes broke out between the police and bigots as media reported the vandalisation of Hindu temples and Durga puja venues. At least five persons were killed, and scores of others were injured in the clashes. "In Bangladesh, we have seen that police at least have taken some action, shot the rioters. But in West Bengal, the police are inactive," he said. Basu also questioned the silence of the state's intellectuals on the violence against the minorities in Bangladesh. "Those who had protested against the CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) have now gone silent. They are maintaining complete silence on attacks against minorities in Bangladesh. Those who opposed the CAA for political reasons do not think about the plight of the Hindus and other minorities in Bangladesh. We are from the very beginning supported the CAA," he said. When asked if he feels that both the Centre and West Bengal government should officially speak out against the attack on Hindus, Basu replied in affirmative. "Yes, they should. Lots of things are considered, such a diplomatic ties and the present government in Bangladesh. But before that, society needs to speak out. Those (Left minded intellectuals) obsessed with the happenings in Cuba and Nicaragua should also think about their fellow brothers in Bangladesh. There is nothing communal about speaking out against those attacks," the RSS functionary said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-poll-violence-in-west-bengal-triggered-communal-violence-in-bangladesh-rss-1044145.html
25-10-2021||National||Sameer Wankhede's father says his name is Dnyandev not Dawood, slams Nawab Malik||Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede's father on Monday said his name is Dnyandev and not Dawood as claimed by NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik. Speaking to a news channel, he said his son is like Abhimanyu from the epic Mahabharat who is surrounded by enemies, but he will come out of this 'chakravyuh' (a military foundation to surround enemies) like Arjun. Hitting back at Malik, who has claimed that Sameer Wankhede is a Muslim by birth and his real name is 'Sameer Dawood Wankhede', the Wankhede senior said the NCP leader was playing very low-level politics. Malik has released what he claimed the birth certificate of Sameer Wankhede and alleged that the latter had forged documents. Speaking to a regional news channel, the Wankhede senior said, “It is an absolute lie that my name is Dawood Wankhede. I think there is some malafide intention of Malik behind releasing that birth certificate of Sameer Wankhede and defaming us. My name is Dnyandev Wankhede since my birth and it is still the same”. “I completed my graduation and post-graduation and even served in a state government department. How is it possible that none of them knew my name was not Dnyandev and it was Dawood? How come Malik alone gets the suspicious document?" he questioned. Earlier in the day, Sameer Wankhede had denied Malik's allegations of forging documents, including his birth certificate, saying his father's name is Dnyandev, who was an excise official. "My wife died six years ago. She had once prepared an affidavit in which it is mentioned that my name is Dnyandev Wankhede. I even have a valid caste certificate with me. And not just me, even my relatives have similar documents to establish it," the Wankhede senior claimed. In a statement, Sameer Wankhede had mentioned that his father Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede retired as senior police inspector of the state Excise department, Pune, in June 2007. His father is a Hindu and his late mother Zaheeda was a Muslim, the official had said. “When my son and his first wife had a son, even on the latter's birth certificate my son's full name is mentioned in which my name is stated as Dnyandev Wankhede. Those people (Malik) should understand it. God knows from where Malik drew this connection,” he said. Sameer Wankhede had also mentioned that he had married Dr Shabana Qureshi in 2006 under the Special Marriage Act. Both of them divorced mutually through a civil court in 2016. Later, in 2017, he married Kranti Redkar. “It looks like Nawab Malik was hurt after his son-in-law (Sameer Khan) was put behind bars by the NCB earlier. He never uttered a word against the NCB when his son-in-law was in jail. Malik started speaking out only after he was released,” the Wankhede senior said. When asked about the allegations of pay-off raised by an NCB witness, he said if Sameer Wankhede wanted a bribe from Shah Rukh Khan, he would have asked the actor to deliver it at home. "He would not have arrested his (Shah Rukh Khan's) son (Aryan Khan) and then demanded it.” An NCB team led by Sameer Wankhede earlier this month allegedly seized drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following which Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3. Reacting to claims of bribery made by NCB independent witness Prabhakar Sail against Sameer Wankhede, the Wankhede senior said Sail seemed thrashed and then forced to give such a statement. “While talking Sail is coughing, drinking water. All these are signs of getting beaten up severely. Why was he quiet for so many days if he was made to sign some blank papers (after the alleged cruise ship raid by NCB officials)?” he asked. On Sunday, Sail, in a statement to the media, claimed that Rs 25 crore was demanded by an official of the NCB and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan in the drugs case. Sail told media persons that he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede". Sameer Wankhede had denied the allegations calling them as a bid to scuttle the probe in the drugs case. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sameer-wankhedes-father-says-his-name-is-dnyandev-not-dawood-slams-nawab-malik-1044164.html
25-10-2021||National||Delhi cops raid 37 places after SC probe order into Tihar officials, Unitech ex-promoters 'collusion'||The Delhi Police on Monday raided 37 locations in Haryana, Rajasthan and the national capital, days after the Supreme Court directed a probe into the alleged collusion of Tihar Jail officials with Unitech's imprisoned ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra. In a statement, Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said the Crime Branch teams conducted searches and seizure operations at the premises of Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra and the firm's imprisoned ex-promoters Ajay Chandra and Sanjay Chandra and their employees, as well as officials of Tihar jail. These searches and seizure operations were carried out at by 37 teams at 37 different locations in Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan, he said. Searches and seizures were conducted at the residences of former superintendent of Tihar jail number seven, former deputy superintendent, assistant superintendents, head warders and contractual staff of Tihar Jail, he added. "The crime branch team probing the case collected evidence in the form of mobile phones and have also seized essential documents. Further investigation is in progress," the statement quoting Biswal stated. The Supreme Court had on October 6 directed suspension of Tihar jail officials, registration of case against them and full-fledged probe into their collusion with Sanjay and Ajay Chandra, based on Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana’s report. Following this, the Delhi Police's Crime Branch had on October 12 registered a case after 32 officials of Tihar Jail were found complicit with Unitech's two ex-promoters. The FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code, and investigation was taken up. The former Unitech promoters had been shifted from the Tihar Jail here to Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Central Jail, following the Supreme Court order. On Supreme Court's direction, the Delhi Prisons Department had suspended 28 jail officials after they were found to be complicit with Unitech's imprisoned ex-promoters Ajay Chandra and Sanjay Chandra. According to jail administration, 28 officials of Tihar Jail number seven had been suspended while the services of two contractual employees were terminated. Two other officials were also suspended by the Delhi government.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-cops-raid-37-places-after-sc-probe-order-into-tihar-officials-unitech-ex-promoters-collusion-1044174.html
25-10-2021||National||Central Railway, Western Railway to start 100% services||After nearly 19 months, the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) will start 100 per cent suburban trains services in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) from 28 October.  The CR-WR will scale up the series to pre-Covid-19 level.  Due to Covid-19 lockdown from 22 March, 2021, train services were stopped completely. Later from 15 June, 2020, railways began suburban services for essential service categories as identified by the Maharashtra Government and approved by the Ministry of Railways.   The categories of commuters who were allowed by the State Government and approved by the Ministry of Railways were subsequently enlarged in August 2021 and in recent weeks to travel in suburban trains. Presently, CR and WR are running 1702 and 1304 suburban services on the Mumbai division of CR and WR respectively which is 95.70% of its total suburban services. From 28.10.2021, Central and Western Railways will run suburban services to Pre-covid level on Mumbai division of CR and WR i.e. 100% services viz. 1774 on Central Railway and 1367 on Western Railway. Only categories identified by the State Government and also as per the SOP released by them are permitted to travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-railway-western-railway-to-start-100-services-1044183.html
25-10-2021||National||Mother-in-law residing with her son-in-law is 'legal representative' under MV Act: SC||The Supreme Court has held that a mother-in-law may not be a legal heir of a man but she can be treated as his legal representative to claim compensation under the Motor Vehicle Act. "It is not uncommon in Indian society for the mother-in-law to live with her daughter and son-in-law during her old age and be dependent upon her son-in-law for her maintenance. She may not be a legal heir of the deceased, but she certainly suffered on account of his death," a bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said.  "Therefore, we have no hesitation to hold that she is a legal representative under Section 166 of the MV Act and is entitled to maintain a claim petition," the bench added. The top court disagreed with a view of the Kerala High Court that a mother-in-law cannot be legal representative. The matter related to award of compensation by the motor accident tribunal on death of a mathematics professor N Venugopalan Nair in a road mishap on June 20, 2011. The 52-year-old deceased resided with his wife, two daughters and mother-in-law. The High Court, here reduced the compensation awarded to the deceased family. It held the tribunal ought to have applied split multiplier for the assessment of the dependency compensation.    Allowing appeal against the High Court's judgement, the court directed the insurance company to pay a sum of Rs 85.81 lakh to the family. It noted that the materials on record clearly establish that the mother-in-law was residing with the deceased and his family members. She was dependent on him for her shelter and maintenance upon him. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mother-in-law-residing-with-her-son-in-law-is-legal-representative-under-mv-act-sc-1044185.html
25-10-2021||National||Amarinder Singh releases pictures of Aroosa with politicians, actors||Amid a row over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday released her pictures with some politicians and actors on his Facebook page. Asking that if all these leaders and actors accompanying the Pakistani journalists are ISI's contacts, Singh asserted that he would have invited her again had there been no visa restrictions between India and Pakistan. Amarinder Singh, who had faced an unceremonious exit from the state government, has been under attack from several Congress leaders over his friendship with Aroosa Alam. Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had gone to the extent of saying that a probe would be carried out to ascertain if the former Punjab CM’s friend Aroosa Alam has links with Pakistan's spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Singh on Monday released purported pictures of Aroosa Alam with former Union ministers Sushma Swaraj, Yashwant Sinha, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav, actors Shatrughan Sinha, Dilip Kumar, film director Mahesh Bhatt and some other dignitaries. “I am posting a series of pictures of Mrs Aroosa Alam with various dignitaries. I suppose they are all also contacts of the ISI. Those who say so should think before speaking,” said Amarinder Singh on his Facebook page. “Unfortunately, visas are banned at the moment between India and Pakistan. Otherwise, I would have invited her again,” he further said. “Incidentally I am going to be 80 in March and Mrs Alam 69 next year. Narrow mindedness seems to be the order of the day,” he further stated. Amarinder had resigned as the Punjab chief minister last month amid a bitter power tussle with Navjot Singh Sidhu. Charanjit Singh Channi replaced Amarinder Singh as the Punjab CM. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-singh-releases-pictures-of-aroosa-with-politicians-actors-1044187.html
25-10-2021||National Politics||BJP forms strategy to woo Muslim voters, candidates ahead of Assembly polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been working on the agenda of 'Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas' since 2014 but getting the support of the Muslims has been an elusive goal even now, as it was for the BJP's predecessor, the Bharatiya Jan Sangh, earlier. Keeping this in mind, the BJP is trying to dispel its "hardline right wing" image to woo all sections of society. There was a time when the BJP used to think that it would not get Muslim votes but now the party has started gaining the minority community's confidence, say party leaders. Talking to IANS, Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, who is one of the party's top Muslim leaders, said that the BJP makes constant efforts to win the trust of minority community and working for them to get their votes, but the party does not believe in making deals for votes. Citing several welfare schemes, including Ayushman Bharat, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Saubhagya Yojana, toilets, Ujjwala Yojana, food grains, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had recently told the Legislative Council that though Muslim population in the state is 17 to 19 per cent, it is bagging benefits of 30 to 35 per cent from these schemes. On the BJP's image and development works of the government, Naqvi said that some people take secularism as a "political facility", but for the saffron party, it has been a constitutional commitment. In seven and a half years of the Modi government and even during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, one cannot cry discrimination in the matter of development, he said, adding that "we are on the path of universal empowerment and the party and government follows it too". On the BJP's challenges in attracting support of Muslims, Naqvi said that the party is also well aware of this, so instead of running a big campaign to woo the community, it is making contact at personal level. Talking to IANS, BJP Minority Morcha national President Jamal Siddiqui said that the Morcha has prepared a list of booths, where more than 70 per cent of voters are Muslims, in all the states — Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur, and Goa — going to polls. In these booths, party's Muslim activists will go and spread awareness about welfare schemes run by the state and Central government and their achievements. Siddiqui claimed that parties like the Congress, the SP, and the BSP "sell lies" to Muslims, but now the saffron party would reach out to the minority community and expose their lies. For the upcoming Assembly polls, Siddiqui said the party is aiming to add 100 such people to each constituency who are either not very active now or are not directly associated with the party. On the BJP being blamed for not giving ticket to Muslim candidates, Siddiqui said under a campaign, the Morcha has asked people to come forward to contest polls. "If you can bloom a lotus on a Muslim majority seat, then you are also welcome to contest elections," Siddiqui said, adding that Morcha is also instructing its Muslim workers and leaders to prepare for contesting elections. It will be too early to say whether the BJP will succeed in winning Muslim votes or not, but it is determined not leave the field open for the opposition. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-forms-strategy-to-woo-muslim-voters-candidates-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1043924.html
25-10-2021||National Politics||Ahead of polls, PM Modi inaugurates 9 medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh||Ahead of the Assembly polls, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh's Siddarthanagar, giving a boost to the state's medical infrastructure. Built at a cost of Rs 2,329 crore, the medical colleges are located in Siddharthnagar, Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur districts. While eight medical colleges have been sanctioned under a Centrally sponsored scheme for establishment of new medical colleges attached with district or referral hospitals, the one at Jaunpur has been made functional by the state government through its own resources. Under the Central scheme, preference is given to backward and aspirational districts.  The scheme aims to increase the availability of health professionals, correct the existing geographical imbalance in the distribution of medical colleges and effectively utilise the existing infrastructure of district hospitals.  Under three phases of the scheme, 157 new medical colleges have been approved across the nation, out of which 63 medical colleges are already functional. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-polls-pm-modi-inaugurates-9-medical-colleges-in-uttar-pradesh-1043957.html
25-10-2021||National Politics||Sidhu slams Centre on BSF jurisdiction order, says it'll lead to 'torture, illegal arrests' in Punjab||Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday attacked the Centre over the issue of jurisdiction of the BSF, accusing it of “weakening the federal structure by creating a state within a state”. He also slammed the government for “disregarding the democratic rights of the people of Punjab” with extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) and expressed fear of “torture, false cases, arbitrary detention and illegal arrests” in the state. The Union government had recently amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50 km stretch, up from the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. In a series of tweets on Monday, Sidhu slammed the Centre as he participated in an all-party meeting chaired by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, convened to deliberate on the issue of jurisdiction of the BSF. Except for the BJP, representatives of the Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party, Lok Insaaf Party and other parties attended the meeting. “Centre is weakening country's federal structure, by creating a State within a State’ BSF means Border Security Force, What is the definition of the border? 50 kms?? Public order, which connotes public peace & safety is primarily the responsibility of State Govt (Entry 1, State list),” tweeted Sidhu. He alleged that the BSF "daily violated” the constitutional provision of the country in the name of security in West Bengal and “there is a possibility that instances of torture, false cases, arbitrary detention and illegal arrests would happen in Punjab too”. “There are a number of cases in West Bengal where BSF did not inform local police after firing incidents. The Bengal government in the last five years had lodged a total of 240 cases accusing BSF of extra-judicial torture, 60 cases of extrajudicial execution and eight cases of forced disappearance. “Of these, in 33 cases, the NHRC recommended compensation to the victims or to their next of kin. If UP Police can illegally detain @priyankagandhi Ji for more than 60 hours without any valid reason, Who takes guarantee of a common person if BSF detains him/her,” the Congress leader said in a series of tweets. He further said, “without obtaining the consent of the state government, the notification amounts to encroachment on constitutional rights of the states, disregarding the democratic powers of the people of Punjab vested in the state legislature and state executive”. The Punjab CM had earlier opposed the Centre's move and had said that his government would not allow enhancement of BSF's jurisdiction, saying it was against the spirit of federalism. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sidhu-slams-centre-on-bsf-jurisdiction-order-says-itll-lead-to-torture-illegal-arrests-in-punjab-1044060.html
25-10-2021||National Politics||Modi showers sops on poll-bound Uttar Pradesh; invokes Shiva, Buddha, Ganga||Prime Minister Narendra Modi invoked Lord Shiva, Buddha and Mother Ganga as he addressed public meetings in Siddharth Nagar and his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Monday and inaugurated nine medical colleges, besides launching the 'Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission'. Modi accused the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) government of 'blocking' development of the state, and lauded CM Yogi Adityanath, saying that the latter's government had been able to successfully tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and save the lives of thousands of children by checking the spread of Japanese Encephalitis in the eastern UP. "The previous government took no interest in developing the state.....its aim was to fill the coffers of some families...it was neck deep in corruption....the cycle of corruption was continuously moving," the Prime Minister said in a veiled reference to the then SP regime while addressing a rally at Siddharth Nagar. Speaking at the rally at Varanasi, Modi invoked Lord Shiva and Mother Ganga, said that any developmental project which was in Kashi (the old name of Varanasi) was bound to succeed as it would have the blessings of 'Baba Vishwanath' and the 'Mother Ganga'. The Prime Minister said that health was never the priority of the governments since independence. "There were no hospitals in the rural areas...no facility to treat serious diseases in district hospitals  and testing facilities were not available at block levels," he added. He said that the present government was alive to the problems of the poor, Dalits, backwards and medium class people and had taken steps to provide succor to every section of the society. Modi also listed the developmental projects being undertaken to beautify Varanasi and said that they would go a long way in easing the problem of traffic jams in the city. "Kashi would have been different had the previous regimes been honest in implementing the developmental schemes," he remarked. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-showers-sops-on-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-invokes-shiva-buddha-ganga-1044067.html
25-10-2021||National Politics||UP Congress leaders join TMC; Mamata says will visit Varanasi soon||Two senior Congress leaders of Uttar Pradesh, including party stalwart Kamalpati Tripathi's grandson, on Monday joined the Trinamool Congress, while West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she is likely to visit that poll-bound state after the Chhat Puja. The two leaders, Rajeshpati Tripathi and his son Lalitpati Tripathi, said they would carry on the fight to oust the BJP from power in UP and the Centre under the leadership of Banerjee, the TMC supremo. Rajeshpati Tripathi is an ex-MLC, while Laliteshpati Tripathi is a former UP Congress vice-president and an ex-MLA. Rajeshpati and Laliteshpati are the grandson and the great-grandson of former UP chief minister Kamalapati Tripathi respectively, TMC sources said. "The faith of people in the TMC is increasing. The joining of the two leaders testifies that we are now an all-India party which can give real fight to the BJP.... We have to move out to fight the BJP as the Congress has failed to put up any fight to it in Uttar Pradesh in the last 15 years," Banerjee told reporters. The TMC boss said two UP leaders who joined the party invited her to visit Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and she will go there after the Chhat puja. Assembly election is due in UP next year. Alleging that the BJP is preventing the TMC from organising political programmes in Goa, Banerjee said she would be going to the western state too in a few days. Former Goa chief minister and veteran Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro joined the TMC last month and the party said it will contest the assembly election there next year. Former Congress women's wing chief and senior leader from Assam, Sushmita Dev, had also switched over to the TMC sometime back. The Congress claimed the TMC seeks to help the BJP by trying to weaken the grand old party, while the saffron party did not want to attach much importance to the joining of leaders from other states to the TMC. Banerjee said, "We are an all India party. We can go anywhere. There is no Lakshman Rekha that can stop us. Lakshman Rekha should be for those who instigate riots. But it is the opposite in BJP-ruled Goa, Tripura, UP. They commit atrocities on Dalits, women, farmers in Hathras and Lakhimpur. They don't allow us to rush to the side of the distressed." "If necessary, I will sit on the road to organise our programmes in Goa if the BJP government doesn't allow us to organise our programme democratically," she said. On the late Kamalapati Tripathi, whose grandson and great-grandson joined the TMC, Banerjee said she met the veteran Congress leader during the AICC conference in 1983. While the Tripathis who belong to the family of freedom fighters and are integrated with the political spectrum of UP, several other families and organisations want to work with the TMC, she said. "Those who label the TMC as a regional party should keep in mind that every party has a place of origin. Yes, we have a place of origin but aren't we Indians? The Tripathis are from UP, but they are Indians. We hail from a region, but we are all Indians," she added. When asked about people leaving the Congress and joining the TMC, Banerjee declined to comment. State Congress president Adhir Rajan Chowdhury alleged that the TMC's main aim these days is to weaken the Congress nationally and in other states in order to help its "ally" BJP. "The TMC has constantly been attacking the Congress and poaching our leaders. The political posturing of the TMC is aimed at helping the BJP," he said. BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh declined to attach much importance to the development. "The Congress itself is a spent force in Uttar Pradesh, so their leaders joining the TMC hardly matters. The BJP would again return to power in Uttar Pradesh," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-congress-leaders-join-tmc-mamata-says-will-visit-varanasi-soon-1044074.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Rickshaw puller approaches cops after receiving I-T notice asking him to pay over Rs 3 crore||A rickshaw puller approached the police in this Uttar Pradesh district on Sunday after he was served a notice by the Income Tax (I-T) department, asking him to pay over Rs 3 crore. Pratap Singh, a resident of Amar Colony in the Bakalpur area, submitted a complaint at the Highway police station, claiming fraud, after he received the notice from the I-T department. Station House Office (SHO) Anuj Kumar said no case was registered on the basis of Singh's complaint but the police will look into the matter. Meanwhile, Singh uploaded a video clip on social media in which he narrated the sequence of events. He said on March 15, he applied for a PAN card at the Jan Suvidha Kendra in Bakalpur, owned by Tej Prakash Upadhyay, as his bank had asked him to submit I-T. Subsequently, he got a coloured photocopy of the PAN card from one Sanjai Singh of Bakalpur. Since he is illiterate, he could not differentiate between an original PAN card and a coloured photocopy of the same, the rickshaw puller said in the clip. He had to run from pillar to post for about three months to get his PAN card. Singh said he got a call from I-T officials on October 19 and was served a notice, asking him to pay Rs 3,47,54,896. He said the officials told him that someone had impersonated him and obtained a GST number on his name for running a business and the turnover of the trader for 2018-19 was Rs 43,44,36,201. Singh said he was advised by the I-T officials to get an FIR lodged as somebody had committed fraud impersonating him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rickshaw-puller-approaches-cops-after-receiving-i-t-notice-asking-him-to-pay-over-rs-3-crore-1043905.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Jackals should avoid stepping out, lion has returned: Tej Pratap after Lalu's return||After the return of RJD chief Lalu Prasad to Bihar on Sunday, his elder son Tej Pratap Yadav attacked leaders of ruling NDA, terming them "jackals". Uploading a photograph of Lalu Prasad and himself on Twitter, he, in a Hindi post, said: "Inform jackals ('gidarh') to avoid going outside their houses as lion has arrived in Bihar." He claimed that the ruling party has tried every possible method to shut the voice of the people of Bihar, but "truth can be victimised but cannot be defeated". As Lalu Prasad arrived in Patna after almost after four years, he was received by Tejashwi Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav, Jagadanand Singh, Shivanand Tiwari, Shyam Rajak, Jay Prakash Narayan Yadav, Reet Lal Yadav and many other senior RJD leaders at the airport. Lalu Prasad was looked in campaign mode. He was wearing green cap on the head and green towel on the shoulder apart from facial mask. As large number of party supporters also assembled at the airport, he did not react with media persons. Escorted by Tejashwi and Tej Pratap and other senior leaders to a waiting SUV, he headed towards the residence of wife and former Chief Minister Rabri Devi. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jackals-should-avoid-stepping-out-lion-has-returned-tej-pratap-after-lalus-return-1043929.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi promises free medical treatment up to Rs 10 lakh in Uttar Pradesh||Making another poll promise ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said free medical treatment of up to Rs 10 lakh will be provided to people of the state if her party is voted to power. The Congress leader had flagged off her party's "Pratigya Yatras" from Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district on Saturday with seven promises, including loan waiver for farmers and jobs to 20 lakh people if voted to power. Among the other promises made by the party are purchase of wheat and paddy at Rs 2,500 per quintal and Rs 400 per quintal for sugarcane. The party has also promised jobs to 20 lakh people, halving the electricity bill of all and a sum of Rs 25,000 to families who faced financial crunch amid the Covid crisis. Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls are scheduled early next year. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-promises-free-medical-treatment-up-to-rs-10-lakh-in-uttar-pradesh-1043950.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||At least 10 Kashmiri students in Punjab college face assault after India loses to Pakistan in T20 World Cup match||At least 10 students from Kashmir studying in two private educational institutes in Punjab on Monday alleged that they were assaulted, threatened and their hostel rooms vandalised after India lost to Pakistan in a T20 World Cup cricket match by 10 wickets on Sunday night. One incident was reported in the Bhai Gurdas Institute of Engineering and Technology located on the outskirts of Sangrur town, while another was reported from Rayat Bahrat University in Kharar in Mohali district. Acting on the complaints, police have started an investigation. Six victims of the engineering college accused their contemporaries belonging to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for assaulting them after entering their rooms. Even hostel staff didn't intervene on their complaints, they said. One of the students live-streamed the attack on Facebook while they were being attacked with rods and sticks. "The local Punjabi students came to our rescue and tried to save us from the attack," a victim student told the police. The students alleged that they were sitting in their rooms when the accused barged into their rooms and started assaulting them in retaliation for losing the match. In a similar incident, four students were assaulted and beaten up in Rayat Bahrat University. "Kashmiri students who were assaulted in Sangrur and Kharar Mohali told me that they were rescued by the locals and other Panjabi students. Students from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had barged into their rooms, thrashed them and went on a rampage," national spokesperson J&K Students Association Nasir Khuehami tweeted. He said such incidents have increased the sense of insecurity and anxiety among Kashmiri youth studying and working outside as well as among their parents and relatives in Kashmir. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-least-10-kashmiri-students-in-punjab-college-face-assault-after-india-loses-to-pakistan-in-t20-world-cup-match-1043969.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah offers prayers at Kheer Bhawani temple in Kashmir||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is on a three-day visit of Jammu and Kashmir, Monday paid obeisance at Mata Kheer Bhawani temple in central Kashmir's Ganderbal district. Reports said Shah, accompanied by J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, offered prayers at the temple of Mata Kheer Bhawani, situated in the middle of a spring in Tullamulla village of Ganderbal. Security was beefed up along the route to facilitate the Home Minister’s visit to the temple, which is the holiest temple shrine of Kashmiri Pandits, officials said. The Home Minister landed in a helicopter in Ganderbal and was then driven to the temple shrine about five kilometres away. On the first day of his visit on Saturday, Shah met some families of soldiers and civilians killed this month in a spate of militant attacks in Kashmir and held a security review meeting in Srinagar, followed by an interactive session with the members of Jammu and Kashmir's youth club. On Sunday, he addressed a rally in Jammu, besides visiting border outposts and taking stock of BSF preparedness. In the evening the Home Minister returned to Srinagar. He is scheduled to fly back to Delhi on Monday evening. This is Shah’s first visit to J&K after the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two Union Territories on August 5, 2019. Shah’s last visit to J&K had come more than a month before the abrogation of Article 370 on June 26, 2019. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-offers-prayers-at-kheer-bhawani-temple-in-kashmir-1043988.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Healthcare in focus in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh||Healthcare has emerged as the latest election issue in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh as Prime Minister Narendra Modi chose to unveil the mission to strengthen health infrastructure across the country from Varanasi. The temple town, Modi's Lok Sabha constituency, falls in eastern Uttar Pradesh – a region often in the news for inadequate healthcare facilities and outbreaks of diseases such as Japanese Encephalitis. The Pradhan Mantri Ayushmaan Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission, launched by Modi in Varanasi on Monday, is aimed at filling critical gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both the urban and rural areas. In anticipation of the big-bang launch, AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra announced free medical treatment of upto Rs 10 lakh to the people of Uttar Pradesh if the Congress is voted to power in the assembly elections next month. “Everyone saw the dilapidated condition of the health system of UP due to government neglect during the Corona period and now during the spread of fever. For ensuring good and cheap treatment, with the consent of the manifesto committee, the UP Congress has decided that if voted to power, our government will provide up to Rs 10 lakh for treatment of any disease,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Central initiative will provide support for 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 High Focus States. In addition, 11,024 urban health and wellness centres will be established in all the states. Congress has been targeting the Yogi Adityanath government's handling of the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh as also on the creaking health infrastructure in the state. Congress had finished fourth in the Uttar Pradesh assembly election in 2017, winning just seven seats in the 403-member state assembly. Under Priyanka's leadership, Congress is making efforts to emerge as the key opposition in the state where regional parties – SP and BSP had been calling the shots for the past couple of decades. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/healthcare-in-focus-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-1044000.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Army flags off motorcycle expedition 'Tornadoes' from Udhampur||The army on Monday flagged off a motorcycle expedition of world record holder Army service corps (ASC), nicknamed as "Tarnadoes", from Northern Command headquarters in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district on Monday, officials said. The expedition comprising of 11 riders on Royal Enfield Himalayan was flagged off by chief of staff (CoS), northern command, Lieutenant General S Harimohan Iyer from Dhruva war memorial inside Udhampur military garrison, PRO of Northern command said. The ASC motorcycle display team “Tornadoes”, led by Maj Shivam Singh, comprises of one officer and 10 other ranks. They will ride to Srinagar, Kargil, Leh, Khardung La, Siachen Base Camp, Pang, Shimla, Chandigarh and finally culminate at national war memorial in New Delhi on November 11, the PRO said. They will cover a total distance of 2,500 km over a rugged and treacherous terrain. The motorcycle expedition signifies the courage and glory of the Indian army and will pay homage at various war memorials enroute in the northern frontiers, including Rezang La, the PRO said. The ASC will celebrate its 261st corps day on December 8 and the Tornadoes motorcycle expedition aims to commemorate the rich history of the Corps by undertaking the challenging expedition, he said. The ASC Tornadoes have the honour of holding 32 certified World Records and have displayed their skills at various national and international gatherings, he added. The records include categories such as longest ride through tunnel of fire and highest and fastest pyramids. The team is based at the ASC Centre (South), Bangalore. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-flags-off-motorcycle-expedition-tornadoes-from-udhampur-1044004.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Ambulance service in Madhya Pradesh vehicle caught smuggling teak wood; 2 held||An ambulance of the 108 integrated call centre, which caters to medical emergencies in Madhya Pradesh, was caught carrying teak wood logs along with an oxygen cylinder in Katthiwada area of Alirajpur district, some five kilometres away from the Gujarat border, an official said on Monday. Local residents stopped the vehicle late Saturday night after suspecting it may be smuggling teak wood cut from the Bhavra area for liquor and then informed forest department personnel, the official said. "We got a tip off around 10pm on October 23 that a vehicle carrying teak wood from Bhavra was coming to Katthiwada. However, before we could arrive at the spot, the villagers had intercepted the vehicle. It was part of the 108 ambulance service with its registration starting with MP 02," Katthiwada forest ranger Yogendra Singh Bilwal told PTI on Monday morning. "The seized teak wood, the cutting of which is banned across India, is worth Rs 15,000. Driver Vikram Dhakat (29) and his helper Arun Bamania (30), who fled from the spot, were later arrested. They have told us the teak wood was being taken to a police constable's place," he added. The 108 ambulance service is run by the MP government under the public-private partnership model. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ambulance-service-in-madhya-pradesh-vehicle-caught-smuggling-teak-wood-2-held-1044011.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Centre sends multidisciplinary team to Kanpur after Zika virus case reported||The Union Health Ministry has sent a high-level multidisciplinary team to Uttar Pradesh where a case of Zika virus disease has been reported. A 57-year-old man from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh tested positive for Zika virus on October 22. In a statement, the ministry said the multidisciplinary team comprising an entomologist, public health specialists and gynaecologist drawn from the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, National Centre for Disease Control and RML Hospital, New Delhi has been deployed to assist the state health authorities for control and containment measures of Zika virus disease. The team shall work closely with the state health department, take stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether the Union Health Ministry's Action Plan for Zika Management is being implemented. The team will also recommend necessary public health interventions for management of Zika in the state, the statement said.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-sends-multidisciplinary-team-to-kanpur-after-zika-virus-case-reported-1044016.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Clash between Cong workers 'unfortunate', says CM Baghel||A day after a clash between Congress leaders during a convention of party workers in Chhattisgarh's Jashpur district, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday termed the incident as "unfortunate" and said it could have been averted. Talking to reporters at the Raipur airport before leaving for Lucknow, Baghel also said the issue of rotating the chief minister's post should not be raised again and again to disturb the atmosphere in the state. On Sunday, former Jashpur district Congress president Pawan Agrawal was allegedly heckled and manhandled while he was delivering a speech during the party workers' convention in Jashpur town. AICC secretary in-charge of the state Saptagiri Ulaka was also present in the event. Agrawal, considered a supporter of state's health Minister TS Singh Deo, had said he was allegedly stopped and assaulted by Iftikhar Hasan, a party colleague, and others on the stage during his speech, when he asked why there is a delay in elevating Singh Deo as CM as per the purported power-sharing agreement. A purported video of Sunday's incident also went viral on social media. When asked about it, CM Baghel said, “See, those things which had been clarified by the AICC state in-charge P L Punia sahab, should not be raised again and again to disturb the atmosphere. The incident (referring to Sunday's clash between party workers in Jashpur) could have been averted. It was unfortunate and it should not have happened.” Briefing about his Lucknow visit, Baghel, who has been made senior observer by the Congress for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls due next year, said there is a two-day programme in the UP capital during which discussions will be held with social organisations and political leaders. Baghel said he will subsequently visit Himachal Pradesh, where he will address an election rally. He is among the Congress's star campaigners for the October 30 bypolls in Himachal Pradesh. The tussle for power in Chhattisgarh between Baghel and Singh Deo appears to have quietened at the top, but the feud is very much visible at the lower level in the ruling Congress. Last month, a local unit of the Congress in Bilaspur demanded expulsion of a party MLA after he protested against the registration of a police case against another local leader, a supporter of Singh Deo. The demand for a change of guard reared its head after Baghel completed two-and-a-half years as chief minister in June 2021. The Singh Deo camp claimed the high command had in 2018 agreed to hand over the post to him after the government completed half its term. However, Congress in-charge of the state P L Punia has time and again denied that any such deal was struck in 2018, when the party came to power in the state by dislodging the BJP. It appeared that Baghel had won that round when he told reporters in August that senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi agreed to visit the state 'on his invitation', and those talking about rotating the CM's post were promoting political instability. However, Singh Deo had said the decision over leadership change lies with the party high command. Several Congress MLAs, considered close to Baghel, have visited Delhi multiple times in the past two months, apparently to express solidarity with the CM. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-clash-between-cong-workers-unfortunate-says-cm-baghel-1044037.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Trekkers to map ancient route to Char Dham||A group of trekkers on Monday embarked on a journey to trace the ancient routes used by sages and pilgrims criss-crossing the Himalayan mountain ranges to perform the Char Dham yatra. The initiative, backed by the Uttarakhand government, is aimed at promoting adventure tourism during the winter months in the hill state. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami flagged off a 25-member team of trekkers from 'Trek the Himalayas' who embarked on a 50-day expedition to do a recce of the traditional route of the Char Dham yatra. The expedition would see the trekkers traverse over 1,200 kms of mountain trails from Rishikesh to Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath to trace the traditional routes of the yatra.These ancient routes have been long forgotten as roads were developed connecting the four shrines nestled in the high Himalayas, making the once tough pilgrimages a lot easier.Before the development of road networks, pilgrims used to trek from Rishikesh to Devprayag to Tehri and move onward to Yamunotri and Gangotri. After worshipping at the two shrines the pilgrims trekked via Boodha Kedar to Kedarnath and then visited Badrinath traversing the mountains in Ukhimath, Chopta and Gopeshwar.Once the mountain trail is mapped, the Uttarakhand government plans to promote the route for adventure tourism by identifying homestays enroute and highlighting local culture and traditions, Uttarakhand Tourism Additional Director Poonam Chand told DH. The Char Dham Yatra began this year on September 18 after Covid-19 pandemic began receding in the hill-state. More than 2.70 lakh pilgrims visited the four shrines, which are set to close for winters after the Diwali festival next month.The revival of the ancient Char Dham route is said to be inspired by the Inca trail in Peru that takes tourists to Machu Picchu in the Andes mountains. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trekkers-to-map-ancient-route-to-char-dham-1044041.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Expelled BSP leaders Lalji Verma, Ramachal Rajbhar say they will join SP||Former BSP leaders Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar announced on Monday that they will formally join the Samajwadi Party at a rally in Ambedkar Nagar district on November 7 in the presence of party chief Akhilesh Yadav. Rajbhar is the MLA from Akbarpur and Verma from Katehari constituency in Ambedkar Nagar district. They were expelled from the BSP on June 3 on the charge of indulging in anti-party activities during the panchayat election earlier this year. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are slated for early next year. Once considered close to BSP chief Mayawati, the two leaders had served as cabinet ministers during the BSP regime in the state. "I was in BSP for 25 years and Rajbhar was there for 35 years. We both were dedicated BSP workers and were expelled on June 3," Verma told reporters at a press conference at the SP headquarters here in the presence of Yadav. "We are here to invite Akhilesh ji for 'Satta Parivartan Janadesh' rally in Ambedkar Nagar on November 7 wherein we, along with our supporters, will formally join SP," he said. He said that people were fed up with the BJP's misrule and that the SP is the only alternative in the state. Yadav said the number of people joining his party is increasing everyday. Check out  the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/expelled-bsp-leaders-lalji-verma-ramachal-rajbhar-say-they-will-join-sp-1044063.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Central Vista: SC asks Centre to file affidavit on issue related to change in land use||The Supreme Court on Monday told the Centre to respond within three days to a plea questioning change of land use in Central Vista Project parts for depriving Delhi residents of a vast chunk of green space and other recreational areas.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar that since the Prime Minister and Vice-President's houses are coming up there, therefore it would not be possible to have a recreational area in the vicinity.  He, however, agreed to seek instructions from the government and file a response.  The bench, also comprising C T Ravikumar, posted the matter for further hearing on Friday.  The plea filed through advocate Shikhil Suri contended that the Centre issued a notification on October 28, 2020, allowing a change in land use, which will deprive residents of Delhi, a vast chunk of highly treasured open and green space in the Central Vista area available for social and recreational activity.  It said that the notification went against the constitutional guarantee of the right to life under Article 21, necessary for the enjoyment of wholesome life.  “Since the subject plot no 1 takes over spaces of a children’s recreational park and bus terminal for public transport, heightened judicial scrutiny is required to cut through the well-disguised illegalities and infirmities to reach the violations of statutory laws," the plea said.  The plea has been filed by social activist Rajeev Suri, the original petitioner, who had challenged the project earlier citing an illegal change in land use and the absence of environmental clearance. The plea asked the court to issue direction to call records and quash the notification concerned issued by the Centre through the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.  It also sought directions to stay activities such demolition of buildings, cutting of trees, excavation of land and other action which may be irreversible.  The multi-thousand crore Central Vista redevelopment project covered a three-km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in Lutyens' Delhi. Several government buildings including the Parliament House and ministry offices will be rebuilt. In January, this year, the Supreme Court had cleared the decks for the project by upholding the environmental clearance and the notification for change in land use. The ongoing construction has been repeatedly criticised by main Opposition Congress party leaders for spending huge money on the project when the country was reeling under the onslaught of the Covid-19 pandemic. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-vista-sc-asks-centre-to-file-affidavit-on-issue-related-to-change-in-land-use-1044109.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||No talks with Pakistan, but will talk to people of Jammu and Kashmir: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday stated in categorical terms that the Centre will not talk to Pakistan but will talk to people of Jammu and Kashmir directly. Before addressing a gathering at the Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre (SKICC) in Srinagar on the final day of his visit, the Home Minister had a bulletproof glass shield removed. “Today I want to speak to you frankly, which is why there is neither bulletproof shield nor security here. I am standing before you like this,” Shah, who was wearing a pheran (Kashmiri gown), said. While snubbing regional National Conference (NC) president and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah for advocating dialogue with Pakistan, he said, “Let me clarify, if I will talk, I will talk to people of Jammu and Kashmir and its youth only, no one else,” On Sunday, Abdullah had called for talks with Pakistan for the “sake of peace in J&K.” Shah said that those who advocate talks with Islamabad and separatists should be asked what Pakistan has done in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). “Compare the development between this side and PoK. Do they have electricity, roads, healthcare and toilets? There is nothing (on the other side),” he said. Shah, who was on a three-day visit to J&K, said he is often asked by some people why curfew was imposed in Kashmir and why the internet was snapped after August 5, 2019 in Kashmir. “Let me answer today. This was done to protect and save the lives of our youth. We didn’t want vested interests and anti-peace elements to exploit the situation and push our youth on roads to face bullets. This step was taken to save the lives of Kashmiri youth,” he said. The Home Minister said that behind the Article 370 revocation there was only one intention – “to put Kashmir, Jammu and the newly-created Ladakh on the path to development. You will see the fruits of our efforts by 2024.” Shah said there was rumour-mongering in J&K after the abrogation of Article 370 that land and jobs of people would be snatched. “Give me one example, of any village, where land of any villager has been snatched,” he said. Without naming any party, the home minister said, “Three families which ruled Jammu and Kashmir are answerable to the people for their failure to develop the region over the past seven decades.” Shah said that militancy was on a decline in J&K and efforts to “replace guns with pens have borne fruit.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-talks-with-pakistan-but-will-talk-to-people-of-jammu-and-kashmir-amit-shah-1044121.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh notifies stock limits for edible oils; other states to impose curbs soon: Centre||As efforts continue to curb rising edible oil prices amid the festive season, the Centre on Monday said Uttar Pradesh has notified the stock limits for edible oils and many other states will follow suit soon. Food Secretary Sudanshu Pandey on Monday reviewed the status of stock limits for edible oils during a virtual meeting with representatives of various states. "Around 23 states participated in the meeting. UP has already notified the stock limits for different categories like retailers, wholesalers, bulk consumers, and refiners," Pandey told PTI. The Uttar Pradesh government has imposed stock limits in the range of 1-25 tonnes for different stakeholders and the same was notified on October 12.     Rajasthan, Gujarat and Haryana are almost in the final stages of notifying the stock limits for edible oils, he said. According to Pandey, nine other states/UT have confirmed that they initiated the process of fixing stock limits. The states are Maharashtra, Odisha, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Tripura and Chandigarh. Rest of the states have also initiated the process of fixing the stock limits.      After 2018, states are imposing the stock limits on edible oils/oilseeds and that's why it took sometime, Pandey pointed out. Noting that the meeting was very positive, the secretary said, "We hope that in the next few days, most of the states, taking the sensitivity of consumers into account, will be issuing stock limit orders and enforcing them also". States themselves understand the importance of the subject and are therefore pursuing it very rigorously, he said. On how much more edible oil prices are likely to fall once the stock limits are implemented by the states, Pandey said there has already been a Rs 7-8/kg decline in various edible oils in the domestic market. Now, two kharif crops -- soyabean and groundnut -- have come and price reduction is quite significant there also, he added.       "I would not like to be speculative about how much reduction it is going to lead to. We would be very strict in enforcing what has been issued," he said, adding that the market forces will determine the prices. He stressed that if sufficient stocks are available and get released in the market, then prices will start easing. Groundnut and soyabean crops are better than last year and that is why prices are coming down. "We are hopeful that they also impact the cooling down of the prices.. we hope that this step, in addition, is going to create a positive reduction scenario," Pandey noted. According to him, domestic demand for edible oils has been on the rise and consequently the country's edible oil imports in September also rose. This was mainly on account of improved Covid situation, opening up of markets and the hotel industry limping back to normalcy. On October 8, the Centre directed both consuming and oilseed producing states to impose stock limits to check prices. It had also advised to speed up the process of issuing stock limit notification in all states/UTs before the festive season. Citing global factors for rise in domestic prices of edible oils, the secretary explained that the global edible oil production fell and the market contracted after the pandemic. There was demand destruction during the pandemic and many countries reduced their production to avoid any glut. However, a series of steps taken by the government has led to reduction in the difference between international and domestic price in the range of Rs 8-12 per cent for different oils, he said. The Centre is closely monitoring the prices of edible oils and its availability to the consumers. Various steps have already been taken by the government based on the interaction with all the states and edible oil industry associations. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-notifies-stock-limits-for-edible-oils-other-states-to-impose-curbs-soon-centre-1044125.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Spurt in militancy belies Centre’s normalcy claims: Farooq Abdullah||On a day when Union Home Minister Amit Shah said that nobody will be allowed to disrupt peace in Kashmir, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah Monday said that ground situation in J&K belies the Center’s normacly claims post abrogation of Article 370. “Least to speak about ending militancy, it is on increase and Home Minister Amit Shah needs to answer why”, Abdullah said addressing a public rally in border Poonch district of Jammu region. He expressed apprehensions about containment of militancy and peace returning to Jammu and Kashmir “because of ill conceived policies of the BJP led central government.” “They (BJP) have deceived the people by snatching them from the unique special status, which owed genesis to the era of the Maharajas, who had incorporated permanent residence provision in view of special circumstances of the state,” Abdullah, a former CM of J&K, said. Cautioning people to remain steadfast in maintaining amity and brotherhood, he said the National Conference has surmounted these challenges since its inception by pursuing the cherished philosophy of secularism and democracy. “This has been the strength of this party in a diverse state like Jammu and Kashmir, which has maintained its glorious ethos in the most testing times,” octogenarian Abdullah added. He also exhorted the people to remain vigilant by elements “deployed by the RSS in every area to create apprehensions in the public mind about religion being in danger.” “This atmosphere is aimed at polarization to garner votes. This is the tested tool of those who want to remain in power at all costs,” the NC chief claimed, adding that the sagacious and politically matured people won’t get swayed by hate being spread by the divisive forces. Abdullah, who represents Srinagar Lok Sabha seat in the Parliament, exuded confidence that the people will foil all such attempts by keeping the flame of secularism shining despite provocations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/spurt-in-militancy-belies-centre-s-normalcy-claims-farooq-abdullah-1044131.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||Re-elect Yogi as UP CM to save Sanatan Dharma: New Akhara Parishad chief||Newly elected chief of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad, Mahant Ravindra Puri, on Monday called for a second term to Yogi Adityanath as Uttar Pradesh chief minister to save the Sanatan Dharma. Puri, the secretary of Niranjani Akhara, made this call soon after his election as the president of the all-important apex Hindu religious body of 13 monastic orders of the country at a meeting of seers here. The post of the Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) president was vacant since the death of Mahant Narendra Giri, the chief of Prayagraj-based Baghambrai Math. He had allegedly committed suicide on September 20. The meeting to elect the new ABAP chief was convened on the call of ABAP general secretary Hari Giri, the chief patron of the Juna Akhara. Out of 13 akharas of the country, the representatives of seven akharas had participated in the meeting while the Nirmohi Ani Akhara had sent its letter of support for Puri's election as ABAP chief, Giri told reporters after the meeting held in the premises of Niranjani Akhara, located at Mori Gate in Daraganj area of the city. Giri said the newly elected ABAP chief Puri, the mahant of Mansa Devi temple has over a 20-year-long experience of running several engineering and medical colleges of the country. He was considered the fittest person to head the ABAP and that’s why his name was proposed for his election as the president of the all-important apex body, said Giri. The president of ABAP happens to have a tenure of five years but as this election was a mid-term one after the death of Mahant Narendra Giri, Puri term will end in 2025, said Giri. Addressing reporters after his election as ABAP president, Ravindra Puri said the biggest concern of the All India Akhara Parishad today is to protect the Sanatan Dharma and bringing back the Yogi Adityanath government in the 2022 assembly election is a prerequisite for it. “If we do not re-elect the BJP back to power, the government of any other party will stop the construction of the Lord Ram temple. The construction of the Ram Temple can be completed only by a BJP government,” he said. Maintaining that his biggest mission is to re-install the Yogi government in UP, he said for this purpose he would also appeal to all seers of the state to spread this message among their devotees. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/re-elect-yogi-as-up-cm-to-save-sanatan-dharma-new-akhara-parishad-chief-1044133.html
25-10-2021||North and Central||DU announces special cut-off list||The Delhi University released a special cut-off list on Monday for candidates who were eligible for admission under the lists announced earlier but did not apply. Under the special list, some courses in prominent colleges that were closed after previous rounds have reopened, thereby offering an opportunity to those who did not apply then to grab a seat now. At the Hindu College, BA (Honours) Philosophy was closed for admission after the first list but it has opened under the special list. The cut-off for the course is at 97.75 per cent, same as the first list. Even at the Lady Shri Ram College, BA (Honours) Philosophy was closed for admission after the first cut-off list, but it is available under the special cut-off list at 97.50 per cent. Similarly, BSc (Honours) Mathematics had closed for admission at LSR after the first list but it has been reopened with the cut-off being pegged at 98.50 per cent. At Miranda House, BA (Honours) Economics, which was closed after the second cut-off list, has been reopened even though the required marks continue to be on the higher side at 99 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-announces-special-cut-off-list-1044136.html
25-10-2021||Oasis||Your constant companion||How can someone be lonely when they are with people? You go on an outing with family or just hang out with friends. You smile. You laugh. You exchange words on silly topics. And your friends/family think that you’re having a wonderful time. But, little do they know that within — deep inside your heart and mind where no one but you can perceive — a little ball of solitude is ever-present. And it has its tentacles entwined around your emotions as strongly as ever. Never letting you feel within what you appear to express without. Your true companion — always there inside you. No one is born with solitude as their partner. However, given life’s idiosyncrasies and quirks, it takes seed in those unfortunate few. And, once the seed is sown, it is all but impossible to stop it from taking root and growing. And, you start feeling the effects soon enough. A friend may call you to join him/her for a movie or lunch, and you think — do I really want to go? Or would I prefer being by myself just this one time? If the answer is the latter, the battle is over. And loneliness has won. That one ‘no, how about a raincheck?’ becomes more regular, and you start refusing quite a few invitations. After all, being by yourself is preferable, right? Unfortunately, by the time you realise that no one is an island, that no one can lead a solitary reaper’s life, it is late for you. Too late. You try and jump back into social activities. Dinners, movies... you are game for anything. And you do go on some outings. However, your best friend — solitude — goes along with you. And does not abandon you ever. There you are, surrounded by close friends, and yet a voice gently whispers in your ear — perhaps it’s time to be alone. You go for Hollywood’s latest blockbuster with your family, and that same little voice whispers — we could have watched this at home. You and I. And one day, you give up and accept that you only have one constant companion in this world. And that is the road to darkness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/your-constant-companion-1044157.html
25-10-2021||Opinion||Crypto is failing as money, only regulators can save it||Cryptocurrency has so far failed to sweep away government-issued money, or to bring about the broader revolution that its most ardent enthusiasts envision. But what if the underlying technology could be harnessed to transform traditional fiat currencies — for example, by making them much easier and cheaper for more people around the world to use?This goal might be attainable — with help from the governments that crypto was meant to sideline. Ordinary money leaves a lot to be desired. Most people keep it at large banks, which have sometimes used subterfuge and even outright fraud to tax their customers — and which have proven troublingly fragile in crises. Moving money can take days, particularly if it must wend its way through the antiquated and hackable network of correspondent banks that handles international transfers. For those who don’t have bank accounts — including millions of Americans, disproportionately Black and Latino — things are worse. Check cashers, ATMs, card issuers and money transmitters all charge burdensome fees.   Bitcoin, the original cryptocurrency, was designed to bypass all this. Anyone with an internet connection could set up a pseudonymous account, controlled with a private key. Users could send digital tokens anywhere, at any time, thanks to a voluntary network of computers that recorded transactions on a public ledger known as a blockchain. High-powered cryptography and decentralization protected against abuse and malfunction. The technology inspired hope not only for a more equitable sort of finance, but also for greater stability: The demise of one or more big global banks would do much less damage if payments could proceed without them. Bitcoin has spawned an entire movement, but it has so far failed as money. Pure cryptocurrencies are far too volatile to be useful except for speculation, illicit trade and the occasional financing of activists in oppressive regimes. The computing power required for the Bitcoin blockchain makes it slow and expensive for smaller transactions, not to mention environmentally damaging. People are afraid to lose the keys to their crypto (about a fifth of all Bitcoin is estimated to have been lost in this way), so they entrust them to wallet apps and other platforms that often get hacked. Most crypto “believers” engage through the same types of intermediaries — exchanges, PayPal, specialized ATMs, opaque trust companies — that the technology was intended to replace. Many of these businesses are less safe and more expensive than traditional banks. Their rapid growth threatens more financial instability. That said, all is not lost. Despite everything, crypto innovation may yet deliver a better payment system. Consider stablecoins. They deal with volatility by tying their value to fiat currencies — implicitly recognizing the biggest defect of pure cryptocurrencies. They can run on blockchains that work more efficiently than Bitcoin and have a smaller carbon footprint. At the moment, they’re mainly used by crypto speculators to park funds while deciding what to bet on next, or to earn interest in unregulated lending pools. But as a unique form of electronic cash, they have the potential to make transfers easy, instantaneous and cheap. The Facebook-initiated Diem Association, for example, wants to use them to enable payments on mobile apps such as Facebook Messenger and WhatsApp. Ultimately, the infrastructure they use could even provide the rails on which government-issued digital currencies could travel. Another initiative, known as Lightning, seeks to address Bitcoin’s throughput and energy issues by establishing side channels through which multiple payments can be made, with only the final balance recorded on the blockchain. The system has allowed one application, Strike, to use Bitcoin as a utility for remittances between the US and El Salvador. Users’ money can enter as dollars in one country and emerge as dollars in the other, spending practically no time in volatile crypto. Innovations like these have promise — but they also pose risks that regulators need to address. They could trigger runs. Stablecoins redeemable for fiat currencies at fixed rates, and fiat-currency balances in apps such as Strike, need to be securely backed. Often, they aren’t. A recent Bloomberg Businessweek exploration of Tether, the most popular stablecoin with about $70 billion outstanding, found a company “quilted out of red flags.” The lack of clarity — or a lack of funds — could one day spook holders, precipitating a crash as everyone rushes for the exits. Regulators should insist on backing in the form of high-quality assets, and ideally in fiat currency. In the US, this can be achieved by requiring payment apps and stablecoin issuers to invest only in bank deposits that are in turn held at the Federal Reserve, or by creating a narrowly defined banking license allowing them to open reserve accounts directly with the Fed. They could undermine traditional banks. If people could safely keep their money in stablecoins and payment apps, they might stop depositing it at banks, depriving the latter of the resources to make loans. The resulting credit contraction could tank the economy. A recent analysis by the Bank of England suggests that such concerns are overblown. People will likely be slow, its authors say, to adopt new forms of digital money, allowing time for the system to adapt. Still, regulators should err on the side of caution, by forbidding stablecoins and payment apps to pay interest, or by reducing the interest they receive on their deposits at the Fed. Such restrictions could be relaxed later, once officials can assess any threat to banking and credit. They could crash or get hacked. It’s one thing for Facebook’s apps to go dark for a day; it would be another if the company were running a global payment system. The newer protocols aren’t yet proven — as the recent outage of the Solana blockchain demonstrated. Lightning has known vulnerabilities. Regulators should require enough equity capital to absorb surprise losses and set standards for security and governance — for example, by testing resilience and identifying who’s in charge of handling emergencies. If a company can’t show it would act responsibly, it shouldn’t be allowed to run a payment system. Also, systems should be interoperable, so that a dollar in one can easily be converted into a dollar in another. They could abet crime. Crypto platforms usually identify users only with an alphanumeric address. This has made them useful for ransomware developers, tax cheats and other criminals — and raised concerns that they could undermine international sanctions and anti-money-laundering laws. Platforms and apps can and should demand identification where needed to enforce the law. If regulators required this — for example, when balances or transactions exceeded certain thresholds — crypto-enabled payment systems could remain broadly accessible and still be much more transparent than the current banking system. In most cases transactions are already visible on public ledgers, which has helped both law enforcement and the crypto community track down and recover ill-gotten gains. For many, the speculative frenzy surrounding cryptocurrencies won’t end well. Officials such as US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen are right to call for urgent measures to address the mounting risks. But they’re also right not to ban crypto altogether, as China has sought to do. Surging innovation is already driving competition, both private and public, to upgrade a financial system that can certainly stand some improvement. The result could benefit people everywhere — so long as regulators don’t fall any further behind in guarding against the dangers. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/crypto-is-failing-as-money-only-regulators-can-save-it-1043928.html
25-10-2021||Opinion||Is the world under-celebrating approval of malaria vaccine Mosquirix?||Some two decades after John Gallup and Jeffrey Sachs first estimated and documented the adverse severe deleterious effects of malaria for the economic development of nations, the world this last fortnight saw a malaria vaccine, Mosquirix, approved for the first time by the World Health Organization. Although an imperfect vaccine (other vaccines seem close competitors with better efficacy rates and close to approval), for the first time in humanity’s history, a disease that has afflicted humankind since the first millennium BC from Greece to China, and which the Italians named after bad air, seems to be heading towards eradication. The timing could not have been better. It comes when the rich and poor world at the World Trade Organization (WTO) continues to disagree on the Covid patent waiver, and the weaknesses of the much-vaunted Covax programme stands exposed. Meanwhile, technologically, vaccine innovation goes through momentous leaps in mRNA platforms, such that Covid-19 had not only a vaccine approved with an unprecedented timeline of about a year, but also follow-on vaccines saw entries from other competing technologies and firms all over the world. We are also now seeing discussions on mRNA versions of Covid-19 vaccines coming from the developing world apart from conversations on Moderna getting in to trials for an HIV vaccine using the mRNA technology or how mRNA could give a new lease of R&D life to cancer vaccines. Meanwhile, is the world under-celebrating the approval of Mosquirix? This should not be the case even if there is a policy paralyses with debates on a people’s vaccine for Covid-19 or booster doses or pediatric vaccines for the current pandemic. Not setting those important conversations aside, there are some key lessons for a new normal in the Anthropocene biopharmaceutical innovation from the Mosquirix approval. And primarily, it is this: perhaps it is finally time to ponder a social way in biopharmaceutical innovation. But what is exactly a social way in biopharmaceutical innovation? The answer comes from who was behind the discovery of malaria vaccines. It was PATH, located in Seattle, Washington, registered in the 1970s and is a not-for-profit firm. They worked with the not-for-profit initiatives of GlaxoSmithKline and with funding from philanthropic entities like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF). There are other vaccines and healthcare technologies PATH has been working on over the years, as their Wiki page reveals. But together in a social network with GSK and BMGF, they seem to have solved market failures around innovation in neglected diseases of the poorer world, like now, especially in malaria. Might other social solutions be forthcoming then if similar such partnerships are forged? The second lesson to learn is the time taken to get a malaria vaccine approved, which has not been a year as we saw in the Covid-19 vaccine. The Mosquirix vaccine itself was first created in 1987. While perhaps the underlying technology was complex, it is also undeniable that apart from a couple of exceptions, few rich world biopharmaceutical companies or, for that matter, wealthy philanthropists cared enough to fast track solutions for the poor world’s diseases. Perhaps a social way, well forged and funded with a systematic R&D mechanism, can accelerate the time taken to launch a new vaccine tomorrow then? The next lesson comes from the controversy around clinical trials around drugs and vaccines for neglected diseases. Even if you are not a fan of the Oscar-winning movie The Constant Gardener (strongly recommended, based on this trial location controversy issue), a cursory internet search will show that, for example, in malaria vaccines, most trial sites have been in Africa and South Asia, perhaps appropriately so given that these were the locations which bear the brunt most acutely from the disease. That said, there also have been controversies galore. PATH, for example, was in the docks in 2009-2010 for allegedly casually taking consent from thousands of trial participants for its HPV vaccine programme in Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat, two Indian states. But here, one also must appreciate that clinical trials by some estimates account for about a third of the total R&D expenditure in biopharmaceutical innovation, and potentially social models would need to be smart about costs while choosing trial locations. One of the bigger constraints in the malaria vaccine programme has been funding, and this might be a larger constraint more broadly in a social way for biopharmaceutical innovation, a fourth lesson from the Mosquirix approval. The BMGF has over the years given more than $250 million for malaria vaccines R&D, but that is less than one-fourth of what the R&D expenditure looks like for an average new biopharmaceutical product ($1bn-$2bn according to some recent estimates). It is worth pondering if the malaria vaccines could have been fast-tracked with higher R&D financing, just like one has seen with Operation Warp Speed in Covid-19 vaccine using matching R&D money from for-profit biopharmaceutical companies. Perhaps that would also have taken care of the vulnerable not being recruited for clinical trial locations.  Finally, a reflection on heterogeneous business models under the broader ambit of social paths to biopharmaceutical innovation may be merited. There are now advanced market commitments to induce technology races as we saw for Covid-19 vaccines, crowd-sourced funding models of biopharmaceutical innovation, ideas around health impact funds or even open-source drug discovery models championed from low-cost innovation locations like India. That said, none seem to have raised enough money or have shown enough scientific promise to surmount the technological complexity that the PATH-way has been showing. A close similar model is the Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative. In this world that we live in with the potential aggravation of more incidences of zoonotic diseases in the Anthropocene tomorrow, perhaps then the time for the social-way for biopharmaceutical innovation has finally arrived. Mosquirix is showing us a way for those willing to listen. (The writer is a Reader in Economics of Innovation at the University of Sussex, Visiting Fellow at Hoover Institution, Stanford University and Visiting Faculty in Economics at IIM Ahmedabad, India) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-the-world-under-celebrating-approval-of-malaria-vaccine-mosquirix-1043967.html
25-10-2021||Opinion||Why Opposition should grill BJP on cricket, Pakistan and China||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) demanded that India not play Pakistan in the T20 Cricket World cup. They pointed to the recent militant attacks in Kashmir, which have killed nine soldiers and 28 civilians, and which New Delhi has said are Pakistan sponsored. Meanwhile, the Congress is asking for accountability for the latest psyops the Chinese have unleashed - releasing a video showing injured, captured Indian soldiers from last year's Galwan incident, where India lost 20 soldiers. Why is the Opposition taking on the government on national security, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi are strongest in the public perception and the Opposition the weakest? Not holding governments accountable for national security can be disastrous. The Americans found this out when the Democrats, always afraid of being accused of being soft, left the holy cow of national security to the Bush Republicans leading to the disasters in Iraq and Afghanistan. However, this is not the main objective of the Indian Opposition parties, whose primary motive is electoral. Aiming for the next national Lok Sabha elections, the Opposition knows that should another security crisis occur before the 2024 elections, as happened in 2019, they will again lose this vote to Modi and the BJP, which owns these issues, unchallenged. In India, when the Congress and others have been in power in recent decades, the BJP has often accused them of being soft on Pakistan and China, as did Modi, especially in his public speeches after the 2006 Mumbai bombings and the 26/11 terror strikes in 2008. The Congress-led UPA then avoided going to war and focused on the country's economic growth so that India become more assertive in the long run. So some of what is happening is holding the BJP true to its words. The BJP now faces governance constraints, and it cannot live up to its bombastic rhetoric, especially against much stronger China. This is why Modi has publicly denied any intrusion by the Chinese and does not mention China by name in his speeches. By holding the BJP accountable for its previous insistence on suspending cricket ties with Pakistan, which is impossible in international tournaments unless one gives a walkover, the AIMIM and AAP's criticism shows that the BJP is no different from the Congress. It takes away the BJP's assiduously cultivated distinctiveness on issues of national security. They are also exposing Modi's earlier claims on Kashmir. The Centre had claimed that dismissing the state government and scrapping Article 370 would eradicate terrorism and bring the dawn of a Naya Kashmir.  The AIMIM, in particular, is making an interesting social-psychological push. By insisting that the Centre take a harder line on Pakistan, the AIMIM makes two key points: first, that Muslims are no less nationalistic than Hindus and second, that Indian Muslims should not be conflated with Pakistan, as the BJP often does. Not only is there no love lost, but Indian Muslims want a tougher line on Pakistan since its real or imagined activities harm them the most, via either Hindu backlash or guilt by assumed association. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi hinted at this when he said Muslims in the mainland would bear the repercussions of Kashmir attacks. The AAP is steadily making a play on the BJP's monopoly on issues of nationalism, and to a lesser extent, religion. This now extends from slogans and flags to Pakistan, Kashmir, China and cricket. Though governance remains its strength, AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal seems to have realised that one cannot compete at the national level without an ideology. By positioning itself as a hard nationalist alternative to the BJP, without the excesses of violent vigilantism and Hindutva, it hopes to wean away some of the BJP's support base or at least lessen that party's electoral uniqueness. Frustrated with the increasing erosion of its powers in Delhi, the AAP has tried to put the BJP-led Union government in a spot. Nationalism and national security are the few remaining issues on which the BJP remains strong in public perception. Thus, if done effectively, attacking the BJP on the national security nationalism turf can help the Opposition in the medium to long term. However, the Opposition needs to push on this consistently for this strategy to work. After all, it took the BJP-RSS half a century of vehement persistence to own these issues. The past few years have reminded us that championing these issues when in Opposition is easier than holding on to them in power. (The writer is Associate Professor, Jindal School of International Affairs, OP Jindal Global University) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-opposition-should-grill-bjp-on-cricket-pakistan-and-china-1043989.html
25-10-2021||Panorama||Physical courts: Delayed hearings?||The news is full of stories about the experiences of the Supreme Court on its first-day-first show after the Covid lockdown. Loud whispers were heard about how advocates first bumped into each other and then proceeded towards the court halls. The scenes sounded perfect for a romance movie. What succeeded was one of the loudest arguments and debates, in stark contrast with the scenes witnessed earlier. The debates were also filled with emotional outbursts about how they missed each other. At the moment, the Supreme Court of India will hold physical hearings on two days per week. This can be read as physically and emotionally present, as it seems now. However, for how long can this utopian courtroom continue without rhetorics, personal jibes and muting and unmuting of people, in reality?  The jurists who did not have to travel took time during the pandemic to educate the world. We can find an institution of videos on YouTube and other platforms where everyone who is apprehensive of going to court or who did not have the means to go, and most importantly, did not have a necessity to go — went to the court through the jurists who shared their knowledge. Now, things have changed. For the better? We do not have an answer yet. A court is not a place where one spends an abysmal amount of time. A civil litigant will await justice not because she does not have a case, but because her advocate asks the court for time and the court gives time or a host of reasons unknown to the litigant. The situation becomes grim for a criminal litigant who languishes in the jails because she is accused of a crime or is awaiting the punishment for the act committed. In either case, the delay is going to be a lot longer now. Why do I say this? Of the many reasons for the delay quoted by advocates or courts, the simplest and most easier is this: "I have to be in the Supreme Court today for a matter." It is a different question whether your advocate really has a case listed that day. The fees negotiation is now going to be an easier discussion because, the lawyer can say, “Wow, I have to approach the court in person for this and this requires my time, accommodation, dining, entertainment and the cost of loss of opportunity of being present somewhere else." Expensive, indeed! To what end is this helpful for the speedy justice system is to be evaluated. The boundaries which divide the court are the petitioner and the respondent. The boundaries were apparent in the video conferencing time when the illustrious backgrounds of the advocates were the talk of the bar. The case before the court was important as the advocate had to rush to the next video meeting or Zoom in some cases. Advocates tended to quickly summarise what they wanted to say, lest they miss the next hearing. The equation was simple: The more the appearances, the more the money. Now the reduction in appearances has to be compensated, and the way it would work out is a bit worrisome. By shedding the volume, the advocates have to increase the rack rates for appearances. Because, duh! "We need to be in court." The court proceedings which were erstwhile unknown to a common person have now been made more accessible. The Gujarat High Court is a stellar example. The Supreme Court of India intends to go the same way. We will see live proceedings someday soon, thanks to Justice D Y Chandrachud's initiatives. A common person can access at the district level court proceedings in an app! What a long way that we have come in just a short span of Chandrachud's spearheading of the project! Everyone was amazed, but now, I wonder if we will go ahead at the same pace because, let us face it, being somewhere physically consumes a lot of time including travel and other issues. Now we ask the question: Have we thrown a spanner in the works, with resuming of physical hearings? (The writer is a barrister and legal counsel)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/physical-courts-delayed-hearings-1044151.html
25-10-2021||Panorama||Ex-SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar suggests keeping SOP ready for demonetisation||Former State Bank of India chairman Rajnish Kumar, who has recently joined BharatPe as the chairman of its board, says legacy banks and new-age financial technology (fin-tech) companies could create a win-win situation by collaborating. Kumar, who recently wrote the book The Custodian of Trust, spoke to DH’s Annapurna Singh.   Your tenure as chairman of SBI coincided with a tumultuous time in the financial sector – from NPAs to bank and shadow banks’ failures all around you. What is the state of NPAs now? There is some setback on the non-performing loans front because of the pandemic. One key difference is that the impact is more on the unsecured retail and SME (loans) portfolio. The situation is therefore more manageable. The Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) of the Government of India and need-based forbearance by the Reserve Bank of India by permitting restructuring of the stressed accounts are also helping the banks manage the NPA situation. Corporate and agriculture loans have largely remained unimpacted. The NPA was at a very high level – about 25-30% of the corporate loan book at the time of the 2015 Asset Quality Review (AQR), which shook the banks. The balance sheets of the banks are in a much better shape to deal with the NPA situation arising out of Covid-19.  In your book The Custodian of Trust, you have written that dealing with Jet Airways was one of the biggest challenges you faced during your tenure. Somehow private airlines in India have generally not done well. Is there an inherent problem with the airline business as a whole?  Worldwide, the airlines business is considered to be a difficult business. No one knows this better than Richard Branson, the founder of Virgin Atlantic, who said, “the quickest way to become a millionaire in the airline business is to start off as a billionaire.” Over-capacity in relation to demand leads to under-recoveries and is one of the main reasons for the failure of airlines worldwide. Capacity addition continues to be pushed by aircraft manufacturers by providing cheaper and innovative financing solutions. High taxes on aviation turbine fuel in India add to the woes of airlines in India. Apart from financing costs, fuel is a major expense item for airlines.  When Yes Bank failed, you were chairman of SBI, which came forward to rescue the lender along with a few other private sector banks. Do you see Yes Bank stabilising anytime soon? Any institution having a situation like Yes Bank at the time when rescue efforts were put in would take about three years at the minimum. We are mid-way and my hope is that within 18 to 24 months, it will emerge as a fairly strong bank if there are no more external shocks like Covid-19. The rescue of Yes Bank in such a short time is unprecedented.  You have talked in your book about the core issue of poverty and how it is the biggest challenge for India. Do you have any solutions in mind at a time when Covid has pushed millions of Indians into poverty?  The fight against poverty gained momentum only after 1991 when economic reforms were initiated in the country. Stepping up the GDP growth rate to at least 8% is needed, which would be possible by increasing the rate of investment. The private sector in the country would need to play a bigger role as governments, both central and state, have stretched financial positions and have many other priorities. You have also talked about certain logistical challenges that the RBI and the banks faced during demonetisation. Looking back, do you think it could have been done in a better way?   In a decision like demonetisation, utmost secrecy is required and wider consultation is not possible and therefore chaos is bound to happen. One can suggest better ways only in the hindsight, which I have tried to document. Also, demonetisation is not done frequently so we need not worry too much at this stage, but it may not be a bad idea to keep a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in place for RBI and banks based on the learnings from the last exercise.  You have recently joined the board of fin-tech firm BharatPe as its chairman. Do you think the bank fin-tech partnerships can change the way lending is done in India?  Fin-techs are doing a lot of process innovation keeping customer convenience in mind. Starting from a clean slate is an advantage which fin-techs have, apart from agility. The legacy banks have the scale and the ability to mobilise funds from depositors. It can be a win-win situation for all stakeholders if both collaborate and play on respective advantages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/ex-sbi-chairman-rajnish-kumar-suggests-keeping-sop-ready-for-demonetisation-1044155.html
25-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Incurable habit||Eclipsed by the Internet, mobile games and new technologies, books have been elbowed out by alternative forms of entertainment that have captured the fancy of the young generation. I recollect those days when there would be a mini World War to read the children’s magazine to which we as children subscribed. The animals, adventures, detectives, ghosts and war stories would enthral us. My brother benefitted the most because what we sisters read at that age was being devoured by him though he was five years younger. I liked Archie, Richie Rich and Superwoman comics along with Nancy Drew, Famous Five, Famous Seven, Agatha Christie and so on. He read those and later developed taste for Tintin, Tarzan, Spiderman, Superman, Phantom and Commando series of comics along with Alfred Hitchcock, Arthur Conan Doyle and P G Wodehouse. Reading gave him wisdom beyond years. From the beginning, our parents encouraged reading. At nightfall, before going to bed, we kids would listen to Panchatantra stories narrated by our parents, with our mouths agape, involved in the ups and downs of the tale. We insisted upon listening to the Mahabharat and Ramayana umpteen times. As we grew older, we started reading Amar Chitra Katha and Jataka Tales, fables of our past. In the process, the values of Indian culture were ingrained in us. Slowly, we graduated to classics of English literature, to the works of Jane Austen, George Eliot, Emily Bronte, Charles Dickens, Thomas Hardy and ever so many. None can refute the benefits of reading. It lays a firm foundation for greater things. It aids the development of fluency of thoughts. Our vocabulary and expression acquire a new dimension. Speaking, reading, writing and listening skills get refined. Books increase our range of vision as they acquaint us with different cultures — their religions, traditions, customs and ethnicities. Incidentally, this stood my brother in good stead when he was posted from one country to another. Not to despair, those who cannot travel can also benefit. Such armchair travellers can learn about various cultures and countries through travelogues, from the comfort of their homes. The good part is that books can be read on the move or at leisure. When my brother travels on official duty, he catches up on his reading. I am the happy recipient of all the books that my brother and sister read when they are globe-trotting. Books engage everyone because, after all, all emotions are universal. A good book may seem to be a sheaf of papers but it is much, much more. It leaves us richer and wealthier. It drives away feelings of loneliness and isolation and, in the current turbulent times, it becomes our bosom friend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/incurable-habit-1044158.html
25-10-2021||Second Edit||A ban sensitive to children’s feelings||The Karnataka government’s decision to ban birthday celebrations of outsiders at Child Care Institutions (CCI) is welcome. It has become fashionable for politicians, celebrities and the public to host their birthdays or that of their wards at CCIs without any thought to the negative impact such elite celebrations can have on the inmates. The CCIs provide a roof to victims of sexual crimes and child abuse, rescued child labourers and beggars, children abandoned by their parents and orphans, among others.  While often parents celebrate their wards’ birthdays in CCIs to expose them to the travails of less fortunate children and inculcate the spirit of giving at an early age, this could psychologically impact the inmates as their own birthdays are not celebrated, with many of them not even knowing their birth dates. Thus, such celebrations can be an agonising experience for them. The Directorate of Child Protection, which has imposed the ban, has instead called for programmes that build confidence in children and help them integrate seamlessly into the mainstream as they grow up, instead of organising parties which could only depress them. The deprivation felt by the children can be easily imagined as, at times, three or four parties are held on a single day. The inmates tend to compare their own lives with that of more fortunate children, thus affecting their self-esteem and confidence levels, the circular adds. One of the objectives of the ban is to ensure that children do not feel they are in any way inferior to those growing up with their parents. Child rights activists have for long demanded such a ban, pointing out that inmates of CCIs cannot be paraded like animals in a zoo and forced to sing and dance for others’ birthdays in exchange for a piece of cake or sweets. The practice of doling out used clothes and toys has also attracted criticism. Often, photographs of these celebrations are uploaded on social media in violation of the Juvenile Justice Act, which prevents revealing the identity of such children. Not all CCIs have the wherewithal to provide a decent upbringing for their inmates. Private individuals, politicians and celebrities can always silently contribute in cash or kind without eroding the self-respect of the beneficiaries. While the ban is a step in the right direction, the government should also ensure strict compliance with the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which lays down that every child should grow up in an atmosphere of happiness, love and understanding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-ban-sensitive-to-children-s-feelings-1044160.html
25-10-2021||South||Locals blame illegal quarries for Kerala landslides||One of the most distressing visuals of this year’s calamity in Kerala was a house on the banks of Manimala river at Mundakayam in Kottayam district collapsing and being swept away in the strong water current within a few seconds. Right from the spot where once the house stood to the hills on the other side of the river, which is part of the Idukki district, live quarries can be seen. Root cause Even as experts attributed the floods and landslides to cloudbursts and uninterrupted rainfall in a short span, a large section of the locals pointed fingers at the massive quarrying activities in the locality as the root cause. Yendayar is about 10 kilometres from Koottickal in Kottayam that was ravaged by the flood and landslides. A series of landslides at the high-range areas led the Yendayar river to deviate from its original path and destroy houses. Locals allege a large number of rocks from the nearby region Valyenthi, which is known for quarries, accumulated at the Yendayar river and leading it to flow through human settlements.  The illegal quarrying activities are the reason for the landslides, Yendayar native Sinumon said. “Aiming at huge profits, the quarry operators use excessive explosives which are beyond permissible limits for blasting purposes. It is a basic logic that such acts would have its impact on the entire region as the rocks and soil would get displaced and become loose, and tend to fall when it rains,” he added. A series of landslides and landslips had occurred in the hilly areas of Idukki and Kottayam districts in the recent rains, but only a few incidents in which lives were lost got noticed. Locals also alleged the nexus between the politicians and quarrying lobbies. “On several occasions, I had seen a vehicle of a former legislator from the locality visiting the premises of a prominent quarry owner in the region during the odd hours,” a local trader said on the condition of anonymity. Legal hurdles feared over solatium There are concerns over getting due compensation after floods and landslides damaged many houses along the banks of the Manimala river at Koottickal in Kottayam district. Local sources said that many houses were situated in places where only the owners had possession rights. Since several constructions were reportedly done without following the norms, the government will have legal restrictions in giving compensations. During the 2018 Kerala floods, the authorities had come across a similar issue. However, relaxation and compensation were eventually given. However, the compensations were not in accordance with the actual loss suffered by the property owners. Sources said the Kerala government is likely to decide in favour of the affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/locals-blame-illegal-quarries-for-kerala-landslides-1043902.html
25-10-2021||South||SpiceJet flight lands at wrong end of runway at Belgaum airport||A SpiceJet Hyderabad-Belgaum flight landed at the wrong end of the runway at Karnataka's Belgaum airport on Sunday following which the pilots have been derostered, the airline said on Monday. The incident took place on Sunday and the aircraft landed safely. An airline spokesperson said in a statement that, "On October 24, SpiceJet DASH8 Q400 aircraft operated from Hyderabad to Belgaum. ATC had cleared the aircraft to land on RWY26 (runway 26) at Belgaum. The aircraft, however, landed on RWY08 (runway 8)". This means that the plane touched down at the other end of the runway (termed RWY08) at the Belgaum airport instead of the designated end (RWY26) of the same runway.  The SpiceJet spokesperson said the aircraft landed safely and the airline acted "immediately and proactively" on receiving the information and informed DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) and AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau) about it and immediately off rostered both pilots pending an investigation. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/spicejet-flight-lands-at-wrong-end-of-runway-at-belgaum-airport-1043985.html
25-10-2021||South||Kerala woman moves court over 'forced adoption', seeks to get her child back||A family court in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday stalled the adoption process of a one-year-old child in view of the claims made by a woman that it was her biological child and was surrendered by her parents. The court directed the police to submit its inquiry report on a sealed cover and suggested the need for a DNA test. The court will consider the case again on November 1. While 22-year old Anupama hailing from Thiruvananthapuram alleges that her parents handed over the child to the adoption agency by threatening her, her parents and some others involved were maintaining that she willingly agreed to surrender the child born out of a relationship with a married man. The child was surrendered at the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare three days after Anupama gave birth to it in October 2020 and the Child Welfare Committee declared the child legally free for adoption. Subsequently, the child was handed over to a couple who was on the seniority list of Central Adoption Resource Agency on pre-adoption foster care and the final adoption order was about to come. Hence the fresh claim of the biological mother for the child is posing legal and social issues. Meanwhile, the privacy of the adoptive parents is also at stake as a section of media even visited the family which is residing in another state. This had raised serious queries on how the whereabouts of the adoptive parents were leaked out. The family court stalled the procedures considering a petition filed by the state government and the Child Welfare Committee. Anupama alleged that her parents took away the child assuring her that they would return after her sister's marriage. But later her parents threatened her when she asked the child. She also alleged that his father, who is a local leader of ruling CPM in Kerala, used his political influence to suppress her complaints to the authorities for about six months and now it got highlighted following media reports. Anupama, who was also a left-front student activist, was in a relationship with another left front youth leader Ajith, who was already married. Anupama's family maintained that they opposed the relationship as Ajith was already married. Apart from Anupama's parents, Ajith's first wife Naziya also alleged that Anupama surrendered the child for adoption willingly. Naziya, who got separated from Ajith in January, also alleged that she had to face much harassment from Ajith as she questioned his relationship with Anupama. The police registered a case against Anupama's parents and some relatives and friends based on Anupama's complaint of kidnapping the child. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-woman-moves-court-over-forced-adoption-seeks-to-get-her-child-back-1044078.html
25-10-2021||South||72 Rohingyas identified in Bengaluru, but no plan to deport them, BJP govt tells SC||The BJP-led Karnataka government has told the Supreme Court there are 72 identified Rohingyas living in Bengaluru but there is no immediate plan to deport them. "The Bengaluru city police have not housed Rohingyas in any camp or detention centers within its jurisdiction. However, 72 Rohingyas identified in Bengaluru city are working in various fields and Bengaluru city police have not taken any coercive action against them as of now and there is no immediate plan of deporting them," it said. The government also furnished the names of Rohingya refugees who were staying in North East division of the city. All these Rohingyas, except those below 12 years of age, have been given individual numbers by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The written response of the state government was filed in a 2017 PIL filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay who sought the court's direction to deport illegal Rohingyas. The government - which filed a statement of the objection through advocate V N Raghupathy - asked the court to dismiss the petition for being devoid of merit and not maintainable in law and facts. In his plea, Upadhyay has asked the court to issue a direction to the central and state governments to identify, detain and deport all the illegal immigrants and infiltrators including Bangladeshis and Rohingyas within one year. He also sought direction to amend the respective laws to make illegal immigration and infiltration a cognisable, non-bailable and non-compoundable offence. The petitioner also said making of forged or fabricated PAN and Aadhaar cards, passport, ration and Voter ID cards and other docments as a non-bailable, non-compoundable and cognisable offence. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/72-rohingyas-identified-in-bengaluru-but-no-plan-to-deport-them-bjp-govt-tells-sc-1044081.html
25-10-2021||South||Sasikala to be re-inducted to AIADMK? Here's what Panneerselvam has to say||An all-out war broke in the AIADMK on Monday over party coordinator O Panneerselvam’s comments that a decision on reinducting ousted interim general secretary V K Sasikala into the party will be taken by the office-bearers.  In a brief interaction with the media in Madurai, Panneerselvam, flanked by former ministers belonging to the powerful Mukulathor community, also schooled his deputy Edappadi K Palaniswami on the need to maintain “dignity and discipline” disapproving the former chief minister’s “unparliamentary remarks” against Sasikala.   “AIADMK is a party that is based on cadre strength. Our late leader M G Ramachandran has nurtured the party in such away. The party is currently being run under the leadership of the coordinator and joint coordinator. Any decision on including her (Sasikala) in the party will be taken by the office-bearers of the headquarters,” Panneerselvam said. He was responding to a question on AIADMK’s stand vis-à-vis Sasikala’s political reassertion. “Those in the AIADMK, be it cadre or those in high positions, should remember ‘Duty, Dignity, Discipline’ mantra propagated by late C N Annadurai. We should always maintain dignity and political discipline,” Panneerselvam said on Palaniswami using “unparliamentary language” to refer to Sasikala last week. Hours after Panneerselvam’s statement, AIADMK leaders D Jayakumar and K P Munusamy reminded the party coordinator that it was he who led the rebellion against Sasikala in 2017. The party leaders also disapproved of OPS’ statement on the re-induction of Sasikala, maintaining that there was no room for any negotiation with the expelled leader.  Panneerselvam’s comments brought out in the open yet again the wide split within the AIADMK – the latest assertion by the former deputy chief minister gives credence to speculation that he will not be averse to doing business with Sasikala against whom he rebelled in 2017.  Palaniswami, who was handpicked by Sasikala as leader of the AIADMK Legislature Party before she proceeded to Bengaluru to surrender before authorities of Parappana Agrahara prison in 2017, is now dead against Sasikala’s re-entry into AIADMK. “This is the beginning of the split in the AIADMK. We need to see how deep the split will be. With Sasikala’s political reassertion not making much impact, we should wait and watch whether OPS will make himself much more relevant by joining hands with her,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. The latest comments by Panneerselvam are significant as he was flanked by senior leaders from the Mukulathor community when he addressed the media on Monday. Sasikala, who also belongs to the community, is expected to tour parts of southern Tamil Nadu, which is a stronghold of Mukulathors, later this week.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-to-be-re-inducted-to-aiadmk-heres-what-panneerselvam-has-to-say-1044084.html
25-10-2021||South||Vijayan warns against social media campaign over Mullaperiyar dam's safety||While a social media campaign for decommissioning the 125-year-old Mullaperiyar dam in Kerala gathered momentum with well-known celebrities joining it, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan warned of legal action against 'scaremongering'. Located in the Idukki district of Kerala, the dam managed by Tamil Nadu diverts the water to parts of Tamil Nadu. It has been a point of discussion for quite some time as Kerala wants to construct a new dam owing to safety concerns, while Tamil Nadu was opposing it. The row gained momentum with a recent report of the United Nations University - Institute for Water, Environment and Health not ruling out the chances for the dam breaking due to structural issues. The dam also reportedly developed some cracks following tremors. It was in this backdrop a campaign '#decommissionmullaperiyardam' got triggered on social media expressing concern that lakhs of people would be hit in case of any untoward incident as at least six districts in central Kerala, including Kochi, could be affected. Even Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin was being widely tagged in the campaign. Many known celebrities like actors Prithviraj Sukumaran and Unni Mukundan joined the campaign and it was going viral. He said in the post that regardless of what the facts and findings were or would be, there was no reason or excuse for the 125-year-old dam to exist as a functioning structure. However, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly on Monday that there was no fresh scare over the dam's safety and hence the present social media campaign could be considered only as scaremongering. Such attempts to create unrest through baseless social media campaigns would be strongly dealt with. The differences with Tamil Nadu over the need for a new dam need to be settled through deliberations and not through such campaigns, he said. Meanwhile, as the water level of the dam was increasing Vijayan urged Stalin to draw maximum water from the dam as the water level was expected to tough 142 feet. Kerala also approached the Supreme Court urging that the water level should be maintained below 139 feet. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vijayan-warns-against-social-media-campaign-over-mullaperiyar-dams-safety-1044091.html
25-10-2021||South||Impose President's rule in AP, save state from drug mafia: Chandrababu Naidu urges Kovind||TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to impose President's rule in Andhra Pradesh “to rescue its people from state-sponsored terrorism and unchecked drug mafia.” The former chief minister has met with President Kovind in New Delhi on Monday, along with his party MPs, other leaders, and submitted a memorandum on “the rising excesses of the Jaganmohan Reddy government and police in the past two and half years.” The TDP has been accusing YSRCP leaders and legislators of being involved in the ganja-drug trade and a disparaging remark made by TDP leader K Pattabhi Ram in this regard has led to the vandalism of TDP's central office in Mangalagiri last Tuesday. Naidu sat on a 36 hour fast last week in the damaged office condemning the attacks by YSRCP supporters. The issue has aggravated the political tension in the state, with the ruling party also staging counter protests. “Wherever ganja (cannabis) was seized in the country, its roots are traced to AP mafia. The police of Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra etc are all blaming AP gangs of smuggling drugs into their states. If Article 356 (President's rule) is not invoked now, the AP mafia would get emboldened and spread their activities to more states. That would pose a serious threat to national security and integration," Naidu later told reporters. Naidu has appealed to the Narendra Modi government for a thorough investigation “into AP links of the drug mafia in the country.” “While the 3,000 kg heroin seized at Mundra port was linked to a firm with Vijayawada address, in another case it was found that drugs were being exported from Andhra to Australia. They were seized in Bengaluru,” Naidu alleged. Naidu also sought a CBI inquiry into “the unprecedented attacks on the TDP main office in Mangalagiri, Visakhapatnam, Hindupur, Anantapur, Nellore, Srikalahasti and the residence of Pattabhi Ram.” Accusing the state DGP Gautam Sawang of “becoming part and parcel of the unbridled state-sponsored terrorism” Naidu demanded that the senior IPS officer should be recalled. “The vandal attacks on the TDP offices could be carried out only with active connivance of the state police. The DGP joined hands with the CM to make one-sided arrests and to create a fear psychosis among all sections of the society,” Naidu charged. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/impose-presidents-rule-in-ap-save-state-from-drug-mafia-chandrababu-naidu-urges-kovind-1044107.html
25-10-2021||South||Archaeological excavations in Tamil Nadu: Ancient DNA lab to function from year-end||With archaeological excavations in Tamil Nadu gaining further momentum with significant findings, the Ancient DNA Lab being set up at the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) will function in a “full-fledged” manner from December this year.  Though the process of setting up the lab is still on, students and faculty of the Department of Biological Science are already working on analysing the artefacts that were unearthed from excavation sites in Keeladi, Konthagai, and Sivagalai in Sivaganga and Thoothukudi district respectively.  The Ancient DNA Lab, which was announced in 2020 by the then AIADMK government, is being set up at a cost of Rs 3 crore to reduce dependence on foreign institutes to examine the artefacts and find their original age.  The Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA), which is holding excavations in over half a dozen sites in the state, has so far been sending artefacts to institutes like Deccan College, Pune, University of Pisa, Italy, and Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences, Lucknow for various analyses. Carbon dating of the artefacts is done by Beta Analytical Lab in Florida, US. “The real work has already begun. We are in the process of receiving equipment and setting them up on the premises. The work on the analysis of artefacts is being done with the resources that we have right now. We hope to function in a full-fledged manner by December,” Prof. G. Kumaresan, Department of Biological Sciences, MKU, told DH. The lab will analyse animal bones to find out their exact species, plants to get to their roots and fatty acids. “We have actually come a long way since the lab was announced. The basic results of some of the analyses have come but we need to conduct more studies and hold discussions with experts before coming public about anything,” Kumaresan added.  Six members, including two faculty, are part of the Ancient DNA Lab, which is a significant addition in Tamil Nadu’s quest for digging its past. The MKU is also signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the University of Copenhagen, Denmark to apply forensic anthropology and bio-anthropology on the human skeletal remains found from excavation sites. Bones, teeth, skull, petrous and other parts of a human skull, paddy husk found in burial urns and sediments of offering vessels found at burial sites will be subjected to various analyses and studies at the DNA lab.  “The DNA analysis will help us find the original age of materials found inside the burial urns. We have already sent soil found inside burial urns, and other materials to the DNA lab for analysis. The new lab will not just help us save time but also get results faster,” a senior official with TNSDA told DH. Archaeological findings in Keeladi and Sivagalai in the Thoothukudi district have created a buzz with researchers and archaeologists in Tamil Nadu calling them significant as they “narrow down” the gap between the Tamil urban settlements and the Indus Valley Civilisation (IVC). However, they say “more evidence” should be forthcoming. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/archaeological-excavations-in-tamil-nadu-ancient-dna-lab-to-function-from-year-end-1044116.html
25-10-2021||South||Blame game in Kerala Assembly over recent calamities||The Kerala Assembly on Monday witnessed a blame game over the recent calamities that have waylaid the state. While the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front accused the government of failure in disaster alert and management systems, the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front blamed it on lack of rough weather alerts from the Centre. The opposition also staged a walkout as permission for an adjournment motion notice was rejected. Revenue Minister K Rajan defended the accusations from the opposition, maintaining that there was not even an Orange alert in the calamity-hit Idukki and Kottayam regions till October 16 - the day the districts suffered heavy rains, landslides and landslips claiming around 20 lives. He also added that the casualties of the calamities could be minimised because the preparedness of the state disaster response systems. Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that Kerala that was so far considered as a safe zone was now being considered as a disaster-prone place. Hence the house shall discuss the issue for the larger interest of the state. He also said that the State Disaster Management Authority's meteorological wing need to be strengthened for better weather forecasts and alerts. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/blame-game-in-kerala-assembly-over-recent-calamities-1044130.html
25-10-2021||South||20 years of TRS: KCR's journey from 'lets shut shop' to 'receiving invites to form party in Andhra'||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was unanimously reelected as the Telangana Rashtra Samithi party president on Monday. KCR's election to the top post, for the 10th consecutive time with no contest, comes as no surprise in the party which was formed by him two decades back and continues to be steered now with a more steely grip. “TRS was formed in those days of mistrust in Telangana movement, with the initial objective of gaining people's confidence. As united Andhra leaders created hurdles, we soldiered on with same perseverance,” KCR said at the party's plenary, recalling the hot summer day in April 2001 when the “statehood agitation party” was unveiled in Hyderabad. Except the support of Telangana ideologues, KCR was almost alone politically at TRS's launch. His party formation was seen more as a disgruntled move after then chief minister Chandrababu Naidu denied him a cabinet berth. Interesting to note, several of KCR cabinet colleagues now, who occupied chairs alongside him on the plenary dais, are those who had ridiculed, opposed or at least disbelieved that Telangana statehood could be a reality. But the state did form in June 2014, after a protracted struggle and several ups and downs for KCR electorally. In the preceding 13 years, TRS fought several elections, sometime aligning with the Congress (2004) and onetime with the TDP (2009). He was part of the UPA-1 government at the centre and the TRS MLAs joined the Congress's in the state but exited in the middle, as there was no movement on the assurance to create Telangana. Its lowest point was in the 2009 AP assembly and Lok Sabha elections, when TRS was reduced to two Lok Sabha seats from five and 10 MLAs from 26. "Maybe we should shut shop now,” KCR remarked as the results were coming in. The party, which was staring at extinction, saw a revival after then chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy's untimely death in a chopper crash in September 2009. With the “principal opposing force to Telangana” gone, KCR renewed the statehood agitation with his fast unto death forcing the UPA-II government to announce steps towards Telangana formation in December 2009. Telangana became a reality five years later, with KCR leading the state as its chief minister. Since the state's creation, TRS evolved into what political pundits say is a pucca political party, encouraging defections of legislators from the Congress, TDP and consolidating its position in the assembly making the opposition virtually absent. The TRS which has retained power in 2018 with improved strength in the assembly is however facing the challenge of BJP's growing influence in the state. The saffron party, whose strength fell from five MLAs in 2014 to one in 2018, wrested Dubbaka from the TRS last year and is making the ruling party leaders sweat in the Huzurabad bye-polls scheduled on 30 October. KCR, however, looked unperturbed and used the plenary venue instead to take a swipe at “Andhra leaders.” "They said it will be anarchy if Telangana is created. But now we are leaping ahead on all developmental fronts like producing paddy in quantities even the FCI could not purchase. Such are our welfare schemes that I am receiving requests from Andhra people to form a party there,” KCR claimed as party cadres, leaders cheered on. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/20-years-of-trs-kcrs-journey-from-lets-shut-shop-to-receiving-invites-to-form-party-in-andhra-1044153.html
25-10-2021||South||Tamil Nadu police makes fresh arrests in Kodanad case||In the first arrests after the Kodanad Estate break-in-cum-murder case was reopened, the Tamil Nadu Police on Monday night picked up the brother and cousin of Kanagaraj, the late driver of late J Jayalalithaa and the alleged main accused in the case. Police arrested Dhanapal and Ramesh, brother, and cousin of Kanagaraj respectively, on Monday evening and produced them before a judicial magistrate. They were arrested on the charges of destruction of evidence. This is the first time that the Nilgiris District Police is recording arrests after it reopened the sensational case a few months ago. Kanagaraj, who was one of the personal drivers of late Jayalalithaa, died in an accident days after he along with an armed gang broke into the palatial bungalow of the former Chief Minister in Kodanad in the Nilgiris, resulting in the murder of a security guard. The case attained political spotlight after the then Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s name cropped up during investigation. Sources said Dhanapal and Ramesh were picked up by the Sholurmattam police which is investigating the case. Political parties like DMK have been alleging that investigations into the Kodanad case were not done properly under the then AIADMK regime. The Nilgiris police reopened the case after DMK came to power prompting Palaniswami to allege that the ruling party was trying to “frame me” in the case. Kodanad was the summer retreat of Jayalalithaa since she and her long-time aide V K Sasikala bought the sprawling bungalow in Kothagiri in early 1990s. The former chief minister would visit the bungalow often when her party, AIADMK, was occupying the Opposition benches in the Assembly. In April 2017, five months after Jayalalithaa’s death, the bungalow was in the news yet again. A group of men, allegedly led by Jayalalithaa’s driver Kanagaraj, entered the premises forcibly after killing a security guard and grievously injuring another to rob off “valuables.” The break-in sent shock waves across Tamil Nadu as Jayalalithaa’s favourite bungalow was attacked under AIADMK rule. The incidents that followed – death of Kanagaraj and wife and daughter of one of the prime accused Sayan in separate road accidents and suspected suicide of a staff of the estate – deepened the mystery. The name of the then Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami cropped up in the case. However, there was no concrete evidence to establish any link between Palaniswami and the case. AIADMK also faced criticism that the party did not try to bring out the truth behind the break-in at Kodanad despite being in power. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-police-makes-fresh-arrests-in-kodanad-case-1044167.html
25-10-2021||State||Karnataka reports 388 new Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Sunday reported 388 new Covid cases of which 194 (50%) were from Bengaluru and five deaths. The day also saw 586 discharges, leaving the active cases at 8,711. Only Bengaluru Urban reported three-digit cases. It was followed by Tumakuru (37), Dakshina Kannada (34), Hassan (25), Mysuru (23), Shivamogga (12) and Uttara Kannada (10).  Of the five deaths disclosed, four were from Bengaluru and one from Tumakuru. The case fatality rate was 1.28%||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-388-new-covid-19-cases-1043873.html
25-10-2021||State||4 die as rain batters north, south interior Karnataka||Three shepherds, including a father-son duo, were killed in a lightning strike as thunderstorms continued to batter many parts of north and south interior Karnataka. Mallesh Sonnad (33), his son Mylari Sonnad (10) and Hanumanthappa Uppar (38) were struck dead by lightning at a forest area near Varalahalli in Hagaribommanahalli taluk of Vijayanagar district. Budansab Agasimundin (65) was swept away in an overflowing stream at Hiremannapur of Kushtagi taluk in Koppal district on Saturday night. Haveri district, including the city, experienced heavy showers coupled with lightning, for well over one hour on Sunday night. The downpour choked the drains leaving many residential areas and Hangal and PB roads flooded. Traffic on old PB road was hit badly as stormwater drain overflowed. Hubballi-Dharwad, Gadag, Koppal, Raichur and parts of undivided Ballari also received intermittent rain on Sunday. Meanwhile, water bodies in the parched Chikkaballapur district, including the city, have come alive following heavy rain on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Incessant showers have also caused hardships to the residents of several areas, including the Divine City layout, with rainwater gushing into homes and flooding the roads. Rainwater flowed like a stream on the road between Divine City and Kanajenahalli, till Sunday evening, after Rangadhama lake breached. The government women’s college in Chikkaballapur was turned into an island. Kandavar, Ramappana Kere and Amani Bhairasagara lakes have breached. The Uttara Pinakini river in Gauribidanur taluk is in spate. Vast tracts of farmland in the district have been submerged. Ready-to-harvest ragi, jowar and groundnut crops have gone under water. In the last 24 hours (ending 8 am on Sunday), the district has received an average rainfall of 129 mm. Srinivasasagar has recorded 98.2 mm of rain while Chikkaballapur town has received 58 mm. The district has received the highest rainfall, for the month of October, in the last three decades. Crop loss on over 1,800 hectares have been reported in the last one week. Parts of Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Davangere and Hassan districts are also experiencing heavy showers since Saturday. Water level in the historic Dwarasamudra lake near Halebid has gone up by one foot. More than 25 houses have been damaged in the incessant rain in Arasikere taluk. Yellow alert in south districts There’s no respite from rain for the south Karnataka districts. The India Meteorological Department has forecast heavy showers in eight south Karnataka districts for next two days. The IMD has sounded a yellow alert for Tumakuru, Shivamogga, Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Chamarajanagar for October 25 and 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/4-die-as-rain-batters-north-south-interior-karnataka-1043875.html
25-10-2021||State||Congress allergic to Hindu rituals, says Pralhad Joshi||Union Minister of Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi, who also holds Parliamentary Affairs portfolio, took a swipe at the Congress saying that the grand old party is allergic to Hindu traditions and rituals. Speaking to reporters after campaigning for the BJP candidate from the bypoll-bound Hangal Assembly constituency, in Hangal, Joshi said, “Entire country responded to the clarion call given by PM Narendra Modi and took part in clapping, bell ringing and lighting diyas in show of solidarity in our fight against Covid during the hour of crisis, last year. But the Congress mocked. They are allergic to Hindu rituals.” Taking a dig at Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah, Joshi said, “India has administered 100 crore Covid vaccines. It is an achievement. But Siddaramaiah does not want to acknowledge it. In a bid to criticise PM Modi, he even attacks the country. Are you not proud of India’s achievement, Siddaramaiah?" he charged. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-allergic-to-hindu-rituals-says-pralhad-joshi-1043876.html
25-10-2021||State||India will stop importing thermal coal, says Pralhad Joshi||It is true that the country faced a shortage of thermal coal. But we have converted this challenge into an opportunity, Union Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Sunday. The minister added that the supplies had been increased to meet the demand using large reserves available in the country. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of Kittur Utsav, the minister said, “The country had faced a shortage of thermal coal for sometime due to incessant rain and high import costs. But we are managing to meet the demand for coal supplies with the reserves available in the country. We have decided to tap into vast reserves of coal in the country and stop importing from next fiscal,” Joshi said. “The Centre will declare Kittur Fort as a national monument. The Railway Ministry will start work for the proposed Dharwad-Belagavi via Kittur rail line if the state government provides at least 80% of the land required for the project,” the Union minister said. Similarly, there’s a demand for an international airport at Kittur. The Centre will take steps for the same if the state government provides the land, Joshi added. Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani assuring the necessary support from the state, said the proposed airport would come up at Kittur and will be named after Rani Chennamma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/india-will-stop-importing-thermal-coal-says-pralhad-joshi-1043877.html
25-10-2021||State||Karnataka notifies Act to protect illegal religious structures||The Karnataka government has notified the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Act, more than a month after it was passed by the legislature. The Act provides protection for religious structures constructed in public places, and was passed after the state government came under fire for demolition of a temple in Nanjangud of Mysuru district. According to the government, the notification was delayed as submission notice of the legislation was not signed by the Legislative Council chairman Basavaraj Horatti. The BJP government was forced to introduce the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, after a viral video of a temple demolished at Nanjangud caused a furore. The temple, was among the several religious structures demolished over the past few years, as part of a drive carried to vacate such structures from government lands. The drive was based on Supreme Court directions. Facing flak from the right-wing Hindu groups, the government passed the Bill in the monsoon session of state legislature. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had introduced the Bill with an objective to protect "religious constructions on a public place" before the commencement of the Act to "protect communal harmony and not hurt the religious sentiments." Temple, church, mosque, gurudwara, buddha vihar and other structures constructed without permission were granted cover from demolition under the law. However, such structures built post enactment of the law are not eligible for protection as per the Act. The law passed on September 21, was notified by the government on October 22. Law and Parliamentary Affairs minister J C Madhuswamy said that submission notice of the legislation was signed late by Horatti, following its passage in the Legislative Assembly and Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-notifies-act-to-protect-illegal-religious-structures-1043880.html
25-10-2021||State||Free legal aid availed in only 1 out of 100 cases: SC judge||Executive Chairman of the National Legal Services Authority and Supreme Court Judge Justice Uday U Lalit has said that out of every 100 criminal cases in the country legal aid is sought only in one case.  “The persons involved in the remaining 99 cases have no idea about the operation of a legal aid authority,” the judge lamented. He was delivering a keynote address at the inaugural function of legal services clinics and the campaign on “Actualisation of Rights and Entitlements in Achieving Sustainable Development Goals – 2020,” at PDA College of Engineering on Sunday. The judge said that awareness about the availability of free legal aid should be created among masses, more importantly, the poor. They should be told that availing of free legal service is a constitutional right. “What is worrying is that even those who know about this facility are not coming forward to make use of it,” he said adding that legal counsels should consider free legal aid as part of their profession. He said legal aid to the poor does not mean it is of poor level and it has to be of better quality and standard. “If more people are not coming forward to make use of this service, we should introspect about our services,” he said. Justice Lalit called upon senior advocates to render pro bono legal aid to the poor and marginalised sections to ensure that they get quality access to justice. “Merely training the panel lawyers will not be sufficient. The solution to the problem is that some of the senior advocates must take legal aid as a matter of choice and keep on appearing for matters pro bono so that the man who comes through the door of legal aid service clinic is assured that it is not going to be a matter which is botched up and a quality legal aid will be extended to him,” Justice Lalit said. He commended the efforts of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority with respect to the establishment of the off-campus legal services clinics and release of a graphic novel to spread legal literacy in the state. Karnataka High Court Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi said the concept of access to justice in India was much broader than confining it to providing lawyers for representing before the court. “It includes increasing legal awareness and also providing legal assistance to the poor and marginalised section of the society for actualisation of entitlements and their rights. Post-Covid-19, it has become a challenge to provide access to justice to all marginalised section of the society,” he said. Karnataka State Legal Services Authority Executive Chairman Justice B Veerappa and other judges were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/free-legal-aid-availed-in-only-1-out-of-100-cases-sc-judge-1043881.html
25-10-2021||State||Education Minister B C Nagesh greets students with roses||Students of government higher primary school at Malavagoppa in Shivamogga, who came to the school after a gap of nearly 18 months, on Monday, were surprised on the first day of their school as Primary & Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh himself welcomed the students by offering roses to them.  The minister distributed notebooks and chocolates to students of first standard to fifth standard who came to the school on the first day. He asked them how they felt coming to the school after a gap of many months. He also launched the reopening of classes from first to fifth standard by lighting a lamp in the class room. The minister visited the 2government primary school at Malavagoppa and interacted with students, parents and teachers.  Speaking on the occasion, he said students are happy to be back.  Mayor Sunita Annappa,  Leader of Ruling Party in City Corporation S N Channabasappa, Karnataka Arya-Vysya Communities Development Corporation Chairman D S Arun, teachers and members of school development and monitoring committee were present on the occasion.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/education-minister-b-c-nagesh-greets-students-with-roses-1044080.html
25-10-2021||State||Karnataka reports 290 new Covid cases, 10 deaths||Karnataka on Monday logged 290 new cases of Covid-19 and 10 deaths, taking the total number of infection cases to 29,86,276 and death toll to 38,017. The day also saw 408 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,39,647, leaving 8,583 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 137 new cases. The city also saw 206 discharges and six deaths. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.32% and the case fatality rate (CFR) was 3.4%. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Dharwad and Ramanagara recorded one death each. Dakshina Kannada district reported the highest of 30 fresh cases after Bengaluru followed by Tumakuru with 26, Hassan 20 and Mysuru 18 new cases. Cumulatively, a total of 5,02,38,852 samples have been tested, of which 89,964 were tested on Monday alone. As many as 2,68,311 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Monday taking the total vaccination doses to 6,36,28,512. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-290-new-covid-cases-10-deaths-1044148.html
25-10-2021||State||Karnataka HC notice to state on plea challenging survey of churches||The Karnataka High Court on Monday ordered notice to the state government in response to a PIL challenging the order on survey of the churches in the state. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, was hearing the petition filed by Peoples Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), Karnataka. The petition has challenged the communication issued by the state government seeking information relating to churches in the state. The petition claimed that the communication amounts to discrimination and persecution of the minority community. The letter dated July 7, and 9, 2021 intends to collect data related to the churches’ location, with name of the district, taluk, Vidhan Sabha constituency, name of the institute, address, khata number, survey number and also the name of the pastor/father. The petitioner said that the survey was intrusive and seriously interferes with the fundamental right to privacy of religious minorities in the state. Appearing for the petitioners, senior advocate Prof Ravivarma Kumar argued that the communication selectively targets Christian community and seeks to persecute them in the guise of the survey. He said that the letter does not explain the purpose of collecting information about churches, nor does it explain why such information relating to only churches is being collected. He said the state government does not have the authority to adopt a pick and choose method only to collect information about the churches. The petition said the genesis of the survey is a letter addressed by a local MLA from Hosadurga constituency. Prof Ravivarma Kumar said that a similar circular issued in 2008 was contested in the high court and the state government gave an undertaking and withdrew the communication. The petition has claimed that the communications are illegal, void, discriminatory in nature and violate the fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 of the constitution. The petition said that Karnataka Minorities Commission Act, 1994 does not empower the Commission to collect and maintain data of churches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-notice-to-state-on-plea-challenging-survey-of-churches-1044149.html
25-10-2021||State||Land encroachment: Eagleton moves Karnataka HC again over market value||The controversy surrounding Eagleton Golf Course and Resorts, over encroachment of government land in Bidadi on the outskirts of Bengaluru, has again reached the Karnataka High Court.  In August 2021, the High Court had upheld the decision of the state government to collect around Rs 982 crore from Chamundeswari Build Tech Pvt Ltd, promoter of the golf course and resort, as market value for 77.19 acres of encroached land. Now, the company has again approached the high court with a revision petition. In its petition, the company has sought for a revision of the market value of the encroached property, fixed by the government. It has requested that an amount of Rs 12.35 crore may be collected at the rate fixed in 2011. After the high court order in August 2021, the district administration had started building a compound wall to mark the boundary of the property. However, the district administration had to stop the construction of the compound wall since the high court passed an order for status quo, based on the revision petition filed by the company. “We have stopped the construction of the compound wall as per the direction of the high court. We have been informed that the next hearing on the matter has been posted to October 28. We will take further action as per the direction of the court,” said Vijay Kumar, tahsildar of Ramanagar, said. The company had built golf courses, resorts and villas in 1994, in the name of Eagleton Golf Course and Resorts. In 2008, the tahsildar of Ramanagar issued a notice to the company on various complaints that it had encroached upon government gomala land and land reserved for roads and other public utilities. The matter was contested in the court and it even reached the Supreme Court. The district administration finally carried out a survey and reported that around 106.12 acres of government land has been encroached upon by the company. In 2014, the Supreme Court passed an order that the land can be regularized provided the state government collects present market value. Out of the entire encroached land, the company surrendered only 28.33 acres, while retaining the remaining 77.19 acres. In 2015, the government fixed the market value at Rs 982 crore for the land measuring 77.19 acres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/land-encroachment-eagleton-moves-karnataka-hc-again-over-market-value-1044150.html
25-10-2021||State||Staff on contract basis for Karnataka sericulture dept||Sericulture Minister K C Narayana Gowda said staff would be appointed on a contract basis to overcome the shortage of personnel in the sericulture department. Speaking at a press conference at the DC's office in Bidar on Monday, the minister said there were a lot of vacancies in the department and more officials would be retiring in the next two years. "Hence, the department will recruit staff on a contract basis," he added.  Gowda said a proposal had been submitted to the finance department and the appointment process would start once the proposal is approved.  The minister said demonstration programmes on sericulture would be organised and the staff needed for this purpose would be appointed too. Gowda said state-level prizes would be given to sericulturists who have received better yield. They would be felicitated in the presence of the chief minister. The department has already sent letters to the district-level officials to send a list of the sericulturists eligible for the prizes, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/staff-on-contract-basis-for-karnataka-sericulture-dept-1044163.html
25-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Schools reopen for class 1 to 5 students in Karnataka, adhering to Covid guidelines||Schools in Karnataka re-opened for students of classes 1 to 5 from Monday, strictly adhering to Covid-19 related precautions and guidelines. However, several private schools in the city and in different places across the state, have decided to reopen schools for these students only after Deepavali, official sources said. Several schools had made special arrangements by decorating premises and classrooms to welcome students. "I'm happy to come back to school. I had missed meeting friends, as I could rarely come out of home and there was no school. All these days I used to see teachers teaching on mobile or laptop, now I can see directly," a student of class 4 said with joy. A teacher said the schools has made all the necessary arrangements by following the SOPs issued by the government, and felt happy welcoming children back. With Covid-19 cases declining, Karnataka government in consultation with Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on October 18 had decided to permit re-opening of schools for students of classes 1 to 5 from October 25, by strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and SOPs issued by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education. Parental consent letter for physical classes is mandatory. The government has laid down certain rules such as screening for Covid-19 symptoms on entry, 50 per cent of the capacity in a classroom, provision of hand sanitizers, physical distancing of a minimum of one meter as practically feasible, no crowding, particularly at school entry and exit, and disinfecting classrooms and restrooms daily using 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution. Only teachers and staff who have been vaccinated with two doses of Covid-19 vaccines would be allowed in classes 1 to 5, it had said, there shall be additional use of face shield by teachers who are over 50 years of age. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh recently said classes will be held for half a day during the first week and had asked parents to send children to school without any fear. The government had reopened schools for students of classes 6 to 8 from September 6 and for students of classes 9 to 12 from August 23.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/schools-reopen-for-class-1-to-5-students-in-karnataka-adhering-to-covid-guidelines-1043963.html
25-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bishop urges CM Bommai to drop anti-conversion bill||Metropolitan Archbishop of Bengaluru Peter Machado on Monday appealed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to drop the anti-conversion bill and said the community leaders will look into allegations of 36 instances of forced conversions. Addressing a press conference here, he cautioned the government against playing into the hands of small fundamentalist groups disturbing the harmony of the society. The archbishop said the Christian religious leaders were against forced or fraudulent conversion. "Such a law will not only affect the constitutionally guaranteed freedom but is also arbitrary as it targets the Christian community," he said, adding that Christianity doesn't accept any conversion that happens by force.  He said the present laws were equipped to deal with such allegations. "If there are forced conversions, let the police take action. About 12 years ago, we had attacks on churches and Bommai stood in our support as Janata Dal leader. Today, we request him to look into this issue," he said. To a question, he said there have been allegations that 36 instances of forced conversion have taken place. "Most of these incidents are baseless. Still, we will look into these matters and see if there is any truth in such allegations," he said.  He, however, refused to comment on the government's survey of churches citing that the matter was in the court.  Margaret Alva, secretary-general of Indian National Congress, said the population of the Christian community has come down and questioned the rationality of the fear of mass conversion. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bishop-urges-cm-bommai-to-drop-anti-conversion-bill-1043973.html
25-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Use of intelligence for Church survey illegal: George||Congress leader and former home minister K J George said on Monday that the use of the intelligence department for surveying the churches in Karnataka is illegal.  Addressing a press conference along with Archbishop of Bengaluru, George said the ground for such survey has to be some anti-social or anti-national activity. "The use of the intelligence department is illegal as no such ground has been established," he said.  To a question, he said the Congress party will discuss the issue within the party and oppose the bill in the house. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/use-of-intelligence-for-church-survey-illegal-george-1044001.html
25-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||7-year-old offers her savings to Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai to fix potholes: Report||Pothole menace in Karnataka has been a problem for several years now. Despite several reports of accidents and deaths caused by bad road conditions, the state government is still not able to cover up these death traps. Despite requests from several residents, citizen activists and opposition leaders, there has been little change in the road conditions in the state. Now, a 7-year-old is attempting to bring a change in the situation by sending a request to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Dhavani N, a class II student from Tiptur in Tumakuru has offered her entire savings to the CM of Karnataka to fix potholes in the state. The young girl made her request through a video, shot by her mother, which is now doing the rounds on social media. Addressing the CM as ‘thaata’ (Kannada for grandfather) in the videos, Dhavani N, daughter of construction labourers has offered to give the pocket money that she has saved up, for clearing the potholes. The report added that Dhavani sent the appeal after she heard about a recent accident in west Bengaluru in which a 65-year-old physically challenged man died after his customized three-wheeler overturned after running over a crater. Condoling with the families which have lost their members to accidents caused by potholes, she said in the video: “Grandpa, please tell us how will these families cope with their deaths?” According to the report, Dhavani suffers from regular dehydration and her father gives her Rs 1 every time she drinks a glass of water. “I’ve been drinking more than 10 glasses of water over four days and I’ve saved Rs 40. I will hand over this to the CM,” the report quoted Dhavani. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-year-old-offers-her-savings-to-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-to-fix-potholes-report-1044008.html
25-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Schooled well on Covid rules, kids brim with joy as schools reopen in Karnataka||Schools across Karnataka reopened for offline classes for grades 1 to 5 on Monday, after a gap of one year and eight months. There was a palpable sense of joy and excitement among the children.  The schools were decorated with balloons, flowers and ribbons and a festive atmosphere prevailed everywhere, much to the joy of the children and parents. Teachers and non-teaching staff at schools stood at the entrance and gave a warm welcome to the kids. Some schools gave sweets and pencils as a welcome gift to the students. Strict Covid guidelines were in place. Sources in the Education Department said government schools on day one reported an attendance of 90% and the figure was 75% in private schools affiliated to state boards. However, a majority of private schools affiliated with CBSE, ICSE have decided to reopen after the Deepavali holidays, bowing to parents’ requests. Out of the 62,032 schools providing primary education, only 24,761 schools have provided data of students’ attendance on day one. As per the data, 27.39% of grade 1 students, 24.69% of grade 2 and 23.58% of class 3 students, 24.13% of grade 4 and 23.95% of grade 5 students came to school on day one. Suguna N, headmistress of the government lower primary school in Pattanagere at RR Nagar in Bengaluru said, “We are very excited to see children back in school. Soon after the announcement by the government on the reopening of schools, we sent voice messages to parents conveying the same. The response is overwhelming.” “Parents and children made several phone calls since Sunday to confirm about the opening and also to know about safety protocols. We told parents that wearing masks is a must. We had also stocked up enough masks in the school,” said Suguna. The children stunned teachers with their knowledge of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Palak, a class 3 student of a government school in Bengaluru South, told DH, “I am happy to see my friends, but I will be careful not to touch any of them or share my belongings with them.” Amrutha, another class 3 child, said, “My parents used to go to work and I had to take care of my younger brother as the school was closed. Now, I am happy to be back in school and meet my friends and teachers,” she said. Tabassum from class 2 said, “I am not scared of corona. I will wear a mask, bring hot water from home, maintain distance from friends and wash my hands frequently.” Admission rush On day one, a majority of the government schools were crowded with parents and children seeking admissions to primary grades. Though the schools were doing admissions all these days, the rush was huge on Monday. Classes in shifts Following the increase in the number of students, some government schools have decided to conduct classes in shifts. “We need to manage with the available resources and infrastructure. The number of admissions is high this year and we are planning to conduct classes for younger children in the morning and for grades 6 and 7 in the afternoon,” said the headmaster of a government school in Bengaluru.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/schooled-well-on-covid-rules-kids-brim-with-joy-as-schools-reopen-in-karnataka-1044152.html
25-10-2021||West||Drugs on cruise case: NCB witness bribe allegations spark off political storm||Spelling embarrassment for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), an affidavit by one of its "independent witnesses" alleging threats and bribe ignited a political storm in Maharashtra on Sunday and raised questions on the agency's credibility. Shiv Sena MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut tweeted on Sunday that the claims by NCB witness, Prabhakar Sail, are "shocking". "It is shocking that the witness in the case was made to sign on blank papers by the NCB. Also, there are allegations of demands for huge money," he said. Raut urged Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and state Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil to direct the police to take suo-moto cognisance and initiate investigation in the matter. Hitting out the Centre for targeting the Maha Vikas Aghadi government through central probe agencies, NCP state President and Minister Jayant Patil said: "It is satisfying to note how the truth of the NCB case is now unfolding before the public.  NCP national spokesperson and Minister Nawab Malik called for a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the entire issue including the ship raid in which several youngsters like Aryan Khan were nabbed. Addressing the media, he said: "I have been saying from day one that the entire raids were a sham to malign the MVA government and demoralise Bollywood. I will personally meet the CM and the HM to demand a probe by an SIT into this matter."  Congress state President Nana Patole said that the new evidence like demands of Rs 25 crore bribe to release Aryan Khan, has raised "big questions on the role of NCB" and sought a high-level enquiry into the matter. State Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe termed Sail's revelations as "a very serious matter and a clear case of misuse of central agencies" to target the MVA government. "Sail's allegations have substantiated our party's stand that the Centre is abusing the central investigation agencies to target opposition-ruled states, particularly the Congress. I request the Supreme Court to take note of this," he said. Since the past few weeks, Malik has been conducting a series of exposes on the NCB and Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede and their alleged involvement of outsiders and BJP activists in the raid.  He accused Wankhede of going to Dubai, Maldives and extorting money and "terrorising" the Hindi film industry. Although Wankhede has denied the allegations including his sojourns abroad, the NCB issued a statement confirming he had gone to Maldives with his family after proper official clearances. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Kishore Tiwari had shot off a petition to Supreme Court Chief Justice N. V. Ramana last week, demanding a probe by a top court judge into the anti-drug agency's affairs and protect the fundamental rights of Aryan Khan. Similarly, former Attorney General of India Mukul Rohatgi had slammed the NCB, for making Aryan Khan "pay the price for being a star kid". Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-on-cruise-case-ncb-witness-bribe-allegations-spark-off-political-storm-1043922.html
25-10-2021||West||Sharad Pawar to head Mumbai Marathi Granth Sangrahalaya||NCP supremo Sharad Pawar was elected the President  of the Mumbai Marathi Granth Sangrahalaya (MMGS), one of the biggest libraries in the financial capital of India.  Founded in 1898, the 123-year-old library located in Naigaon off the Dadar area of Mumbai, has lakhs of books which include several rare ones.  In the elections held on Sunday, Pawar, the octogenarian-politician defeated Dhananjay Shinde, who is the Maharashtra general secretary of AAP. Of the 34 members eligible to vote, 31 turned up for voting. Pawar got 29 votes while Shinde could muster just two votes. The Pawar-panel swept the polls. Veteran RTI activist Anil Galgali, who is life member of the MMGS, expressed hope that the new office bearers would work responsibly and bring glory to the museum. Over the last few months, there has been a demand for allowing all 6,000-odd members to vote instead of just 34 eligible voters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-to-head-mumbai-marathi-granth-sangrahalaya-1043943.html
25-10-2021||West||Drugs-on-cruise case: Sameer Wankhede says he's 'ready for probe' into bribe allegations||Narcotics Control Bureau's Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede on Monday said that he was ready for a probe into allegations against him, adding that he and his family, including his sister and deceased mother were being targetted.  Wankhede on Sunday approached the Mumbai police commissioner seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue. In his single-page letter addressed to Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, Wankhede, who is at the centre of controversy surrounding the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in a drugs case, stated he came to know that some "precipitate" legal action for falsely implicating him is being planned by unknown persons in relation to the alleged vigilance related issue in NCB Cr. N. 94/2021. This comes after a witness in the cruise ship drugs case made grave allegations of bribery and wrongdoing against Sameer Wankhede, adding a new twist to the incident that has made national news following the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan. The claims made by the witness ignited a political storm in Maharashtra on Sunday and raised questions on the agency's credibility. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-on-cruise-case-sameer-wankhede-says-hes-ready-for-probe-into-bribe-allegations-1043971.html
25-10-2021||West||Cruise ship drugs case: NCB witness Sail reaches Mumbai top cop's office||Prabhakar Sail, the independent witness in the cruise drugs case, arrived at the Mumbai police commissioner's office on Monday to meet senior security officials, a day after he claimed that Rs 25 crore was demanded by an NCB official and other persons to let off Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in the case, an official said. Sail visited the police commissioner's office apparently in connection with his security concern, an official said. He reached the commissioner's office premises at around 11.20 am and will meet Joint Commissioner of Police (crime) Milind Bharambhe, the official said. He had said that he overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone, after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office following the October 3 raid, about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs 8 crore to Sameer Wankhede", the zonal director of NCB. He also claimed NCB officials had asked him to sign nine to ten blank papers. However, a senior NCB official had denied the allegations, terming them as "completely false and malicious". Wankhede on Sunday wrote to Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-ship-drugs-case-ncb-witness-sail-reaches-mumbai-top-cops-office-1043991.html
25-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs case: NCB, Sameer Wankhede move police, court||In the centre of a controversy around the Cordelia rave party bust-Aryan Khan case, NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede has approached the police and court seeking protection. Hours after he shot off a letter to Mumbai Police, he moved the Special NDPS Court. Parallelly, the NCB too filed an affidavit backing Wankhede and denying the allegations of Prabhakar Sail, the independent witness no. 1 in the case. In the affidavit, he said that there is a series of “personal vendetta/vengeance” targetted at him and his family members who are victims of derogatory attacks. “These are false, frivolous and vexatious allegations,” he said. Wankhede also pointed out that he is being threatened with arrest and dismissal from service. “I further submit and state that, I am under lurking threat if arrest as it does not suit some vested interests just for conducting an honest and impartial investigation,” he said, adding that he was ready to face all that is contemplated in law which he stated would univocally establish is innocence. Earlier, in a letter to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale alleging that he is being framed. “It has come to my notice that some precipitate legal action for framing me falsely is being planned by unknown persons in relation to alleged vigilance related issues related to the Aryan Khan case,” he said. “It is also brought to your notice that threat of jail and dismissal have been issued against the undersigned on public media by highly respectable public functionaries,” he said. The NCB’s Mumbai office has forwarded the complaint and related issues to director general SN Pradhan. “As some of the contents of the affidavit relate to vigilance matters, I am hereby forwarding the affidavit to DG, NCB and requesting him for further necessary action,” said Mumbai-based deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain, who heads the NCB's South West Region, in a statement. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-case-ncb-sameer-wankhede-move-police-court-1043993.html
25-10-2021||West||NCB orders vigilance inquiry into 'extortion' affidavit involving Sameer Wankhede||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has ordered a vigilance inquiry into the claims made by a witness in the cruise drugs case of an extortion bid of Rs 25 crore by some agency officials, including its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, and others for letting off accused Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan. The inquiry will be conducted by Gyaneshwar Singh, the NCB deputy director general (DDG) of northern region based at its headquarters here. Singh is also the chief vigilance officer (CVO) of the federal anti-narcotics agency. Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the cruise drugs case, had on Sunday claimed in an affidavit and in subsequent interactions with reporters in Mumbai that Rs 25 crore was demanded by an NCB official and other persons to let off Aryan Khan from this case. Sail said he was the bodyguard of another witness in this case, K P Gosavi, who is absconding after the NCB raids that were conducted on October 3 at the cruise terminal on Mumbai's coast leading to arrest of as many as 20 people, including Khan. Sail also claimed that he saw Gosavi meeting Shah Rukh Khan's manager and that he was asked to sign "9-10 blank pages" in the presence of Wankhede after the cruise raids. "We have received the affidavit and a report from our DDG (northwest) based in Mumbai and the NCB director general has taken cognisance of this report. He has marked it to the vigilance section for inquiry. "We are a professional organisation and we are open for inquiry against any allegation against our staffers. The inquiry will be transparent and fair," Gyaneshwar Singh told PTI. Asked if Wankhede will continue to probe the cruise case till this inquiry goes on, Singh said the question was "premature and we will take a call as the inquiry progresses and evidences are gathered." Officials said the NCB inquiry will look at all aspects of the claims made by Sail and will also record the version of Wankhede and other officers of the Mumbai zonal unit involved in this drugs bust case. The inquiry team may also question Sail, they said. Wankhede, an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) of 2008 batch Customs cadre, is expected to join the inquiry at the NCB headquarters here in the next few days. He has denied the charges made in the affidavit by Sail. The officer on Sunday also wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-orders-vigilance-inquiry-into-extortion-affidavit-involving-sameer-wankhede-1044017.html
25-10-2021||West||Cruise ship drugs case: Sanjay Raut claims deliberate attempts being made to malign Maharashtra||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday said deliberate attempts were being made to malign Maharashtra through the cruise drugs seizure case and claimed "some officials will get exposed". Speaking to reporters here, Raut also claimed that a person named Sam D'Souza, seen in some pictures related to the arrest of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in the cruise drugs case, was the "biggest money laundering player in Mumbai". He further claimed that D'Souza was well connected with politicians and bureaucrats. On Sunday, an 'independent witness', Prabhakar Sail, claimed that Rs 25 crore was demanded by an official of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi and D'Souza, to let off Aryan Khan in the cruise drugs seizure case. However, a senior NCB official later denied the allegations, terming them as "completely false and malicious". Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB on October 3 and is currently in judicial custody. The three ruling parties in Maharashtra — Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress — have questioned the NCB's action in the case. On Monday, Raut said, “A small video (which surfaced on social media) shows the presence of Sam D'Souza, who is the biggest player in money laundering in Mumbai. He is well connected with politicians, IAS officials and even customs and Income Tax officials. It is a big game and they have just started it.” “Maharashtra is deliberately being maligned through such case. I believe some officials will get exposed here,” the Rajya Sabha member claimed. On Sail's claim of Rs 25 crore demand to let off Aryan Khan, Raut said, “He (Sail) has done a great favour to the country by speaking out about the fraud. I appreciate his courage. He has exposed everyone in the NCB and officials involved in it.” Earlier, Raut in a tweet on Sunday said, "Witness in AryanKhan case made to sign on blank paper by NCB is shocking. Also, there are reports that there was a demand of huge money. CM UddhavThackeray said that these cases are made to defame Maharashtra. This seems to be coming true. Police should take suo moto cognizance." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-ship-drugs-case-sanjay-raut-claims-deliberate-attempts-being-made-to-malign-maharashtra-1044031.html
25-10-2021||West||Nawab Malik says Sameer Wankhede forged caste certificate, NCB official denies||NCP chief spokesperson and Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister Nawab Malik fired yet another salvo at NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede accusing him of forging caste certificate.  Wankhede, however, denied the charges saying that the minister is launching personal attacks on him and breaching his privacy.  Malik is a close aide of NCP founder-president Sharad Pawar and a senior minister in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government.  In a series of tweets on Monday, Malik targeted Wankhede, a 2008- batch Indian Revenue Service officer.  Malik tweeted a purported birth certificate and marriage photo of the embattled Wankhede with telling captions: ‘yahanse shuru hua farziwada’ (the fraud started here) and ‘pehchan kaun’ (guess who). The birth certificate shows the officer’s full name as ‘Sameer Dawood Wankhede’, and the picture is from his (Wankhede's) first wedding with one Dr. Shabana Qureshi, with whom he has two daughters.  It may be mentioned, he later married Marathi actress Kranti Redkar, who has also played a small role in Hindi film Gangajal.  According to Malik, as per the birth certificate, Wankhede is a born Muslim but he charged that he appeared for the UPSC exams through a reserved category and became an IRS officer. “He has forged the documents to get reservations in the (civil services) examinations and job…the fraud starts right there,” Malik told reporters in Aurangabad.  Wankhede, however, denied the charges.  “I belong to a composite, multi-religious and secular family in true Indian tradition and I am proud of my heritage,” he said in a press statement.  “In this context, I would like to express that my father Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede retired as Senior Police Inspector of the State Excise Department, Pune on 30 June, 2007. My father is a Hindu and my mother late Zaheeda was a Muslim,” he said. Wankhede went on to add: “I married Dr Shabhana Qureshi in 2006 in a civil marriage ceremony under the Special Marriage Act, 1954. Both of us are divorced mutually through Civil Court under the Special Marriage Act in 2016. Later in 2017, I married  Dinanath Redkar,” the statement reads “Publishing my personal documents on Twitter is defamatory and an invasion of my family privacy. Pained by slanderous attacks by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik,” he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nawab-malik-says-sameer-wankhede-forged-caste-certificate-ncb-official-denies-1044032.html
25-10-2021||West||Aryan case: Court denies relief to NCB's Wankhede||A Special NDPS Court on Monday denied relief to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede, who had sought protection from any action after an independent witness made allegations of pay-off in the cruise ship drugs case. The high-profile case involving Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan, and 19 other accused acquired a new twist after Prabhakar Sail in an affidavit claimed that bribes were paid for securing the release of Aryan and that he was made to sign on blank papers. Amid the sensational claims, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray met state’s home minister Dilip Walse-Patil after allies — NCP and Congress — sought a special investigation team probe into the entire affair that has become murky and politicised. With allegations swirling and Wankhede coming under a cloud, the NCB moved swiftly and ordered a vigilance probe into the allegations made by Sail. Mumbai-based NCB deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain said the affidavit of Sail and other details had been forwarded to the federal agency’s Director General SN Pradhan.  Wankhede has been summoned to New Delhi even as a three-member team is reaching Mumbai to look into the details.  “A report from DDG, South West Region, was received by our DG. He has marked an enquiry to the vigilance section. The chief vigilance officer will be dealing with the enquiry appropriately,” NCB deputy director general Gyaneshwar Singh said. Meanwhile, witness KP Gosavi, who employed Sail as his bodyguard, said he would surrender in Lucknow soon. “I will surrender soon,” he told TV channels, referring to a case registered in Maharashtra. “I feel threatened there,” he added. On allegations of pay-offs, he said it was absurd. After Sail’s allegations, Wankhede had shot off a letter to Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale and also moved the Special NDPS Court. The NCB, too, filed an affidavit backing Wankhede and denied the allegations. However, the Special NDPS Court rejected the twin pleas, noting that the matter is sub-judice before the Bombay High Court and that the NCB was free to move the appropriate forum for remedies. “Considering the relief claimed in the application, no such blanket orders can be passed. It is for the concerned court or authority to pass appropriate orders at the relevant stage. Moreover, matter is sub-judice before HC in bail applications in the same CR. Therefore no orders can be passed as prayed. Hence application is filed and disposed off, accordingly,” it noted.  In the affidavit, Wankhede said that there is a “personal vendetta/vengeance” targeting him and his family members who are victims of derogatory attacks. “These are false, frivolous and vexatious allegations,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aryan-case-court-denies-relief-to-ncbs-wankhede-1044071.html
25-10-2021||West||TMC releases 'charge sheet' detailing Goa's woes||The Trinamool Congress on Monday slammed the BJP-led coalition government in Goa, claiming that the coastal state, otherwise known for tourism, had transformed into the newest crime hotspot in the country. The party also released a 'people's charge sheet which criticised the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant-led administration for not being able to revive the mining sector in the state, while also claiming that the education and the health sectors had crumbled in Goa. "Crime in Goa sharply rose by 60 per cent (218 per lakh population) in the last 4 years alone. 5 women are raped in Goa every month, 3 of whom are minors. Goa’s rate of rape (7.8 per lakh population) has become double the national average," says the TMC's charge sheet, which was released in presence of TMC MP Mahua Moitra, national vice president Luizinho Faleiro and party leader Babul Supriyo. "Goa’s government failed to recover the illegal mining loot amounting to ₹35,000 crore as calculated by (Justice MB) Shah Commission report. Lack of government’s foresight has directly cost the livelihoods of nearly 2.5 lakh Goans dependent on mining," the charge sheet also said. The mining industry in Goa has virtually shut down since 2018, in wake of a Supreme Court order, which had exposed irregularities in the mining lease renewal process adopted by the state government. The charge sheet also took a swipe at the Covid management efforts of the state government. "Goa recorded the highest Covid-19 death rate and second highest infection rate in India. The government’s vested interest in oxygen procurement caused 75 deaths in just four days in GMC, during the second wave. 239 out of 1486 schools in Goa have only one teacher. 152 government primary schools have been closed in the last eight years," the charge sheet said. The charge sheet also said that the BJP-led coalition government was in the process of destroying the environment in the coastal state by pursuing controversial projects, which include road and rail expansion projects along the Goa-Karnataka border. "Despite public opposition, the government-backed the Vasco-Mollem double-tracking and Mopa Airport projects, destroying Goa’s environment and cultural heritage. Mormugao port expansion plan has put Goa’s biodiversity and the lives of its people at risk, just to favour a few corporate giants," the charge sheet also said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tmc-releases-charge-sheet-detailing-goas-woes-1044083.html
25-10-2021||West||Gujarat ATS arrests BSF jawan for spying in Kutch||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Tuesday arrested a Border Security Force (BSF) jawan from Gandhidham in Kutch district for allegedly spying for Pakistan in exchange for money. Police said that the suspected jawan sent confidential information to Pakistan through WhatsApp to a Pakistan-based person identified only as "uncle." The ATS officials arrested Mohammed Sajjad, a resident of Sarula village, Rajauri district in Jammu & Kashmir. He was posted at Gandhidham in Kutch, a border district. Officials said that the arrest was made following information from "reliable sources" that Sajjad was sending out "highly confidential and sensitive information to the neighbouring enemy country" and was indulged in "anti-national activities in exchange for money." The inquiry found that Sajjad had procured mobile phones and SIM cards from different documents. Police said that he also had a cell number in the name of a Tripura resident identified as Satyagopal Gosh. Sajjad was posted at Tripura in the BSF. ATS officials in a press note said that he had gone to Pakistan in 2011 by Samjhauta Express train, where he had stayed for 45 days. ATS officials suspect that it was during that journey when he came in touch with Pakistani spy agency officials. Sajjid joined BSF as a constable in 2012. "We have found that he was sending information related to BSF movements, vital check posts, strength, among other sensitive details. He used to send the information to Pakistan to a person identified as Chacha (uncle). We are questioning him for more details," Imtiaz Sheikh, Superintendent of Police, ATS, told DH. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ats-arrests-bsf-jawan-for-spying-in-kutch-1044132.html
25-10-2021||West||Aryan Khan case: NCB witness Gosavi likely to surrender in Lucknow||Lucknow witnessed high drama around midnight on Monday when Kiran Gosavi, the private detective from Mumbai who made headlines with his selfie with Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan after his arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), announced that he would surrender at Mandiaon police station 'any moment.' Kiran Gosavi, the Narcotics Control Bureau's 'independent witness' in the cruise ship drugs case, against whom a lookout notice was issued, said he wanted to surrender before the Uttar Pradesh police as he felt 'threatened' in Maharashtra. But the expected drama ended in anti-climax when Gosavi failed to turn up and Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said that Gosavi cannot surrender in Lucknow 'because the Lucknow police station does not have the jurisdiction to take any action against him'. An unverified audio clip circulated by sources close to Gosavi, indicated the policemen at a local station in Lucknow unceremoniously turned him down. The clip was of a phone call where a man, purportedly Gosavi, was heard asking if it was the Madiaon police chowki. After confirming, he ssif "I want to come there. I am Kiran Gosavi. I want to surrender here. "Why do you want to come here?" the policeman asked according to this unverified audio clip. "This is the nearest police station for me at the moment," Gosavi said. Once the policeman confirmed that Gosavi wanted to surrender, he reportedly said, "No, you can't surrender here. Try somewhere else." As the audio clip went viral, huge crowds, mainly media, started collecting at the Mandiaon police station and security was beefed up. A number of officers were seen waiting outside the building. Senior officials did not rule out the possibility of Gosavi deliberately talking about surrendering in Lucknow to deflect the focus of the police in Maharashtra. It was only around midnight that the crowds dispersed when the police confirmed that there would be no surrender. In a telephonic conversation with some news channels, earlier on Monday evening, Gosavi had said that he wished to surrender in Lucknow as he felt 'threatened' in Mumbai. A private investigator, Gosavi was present during the cruise ship raid and later at the NCB office with Aryan Khan. His selfie and videos with Aryan Khan at both places indicated that he had unlimited access to the son of Shah Rukh Khan. This fuelled questions from Maharashtra's ruling alliance about the anti-drugs agency's investigation. Several leaders questioned why an 'independent witness' of the agency should be present at the raid and its office and take selfies with the high-profile accused. A day ago, a man claiming to be Gosavi's personal bodyguard made allegations of bribery against him. Prabhakar Sail, another witness in the case, said he heard Gosavi having a telephonic conversation about pay-offs with one Sam D'Souza. Sail claimed he heard Gosavi say they should ask for a 'bomb of Rs 25 crore' and then settle at Rs 18 crore, of which Rs 8 crore is for the NCB's zonal officer in charge of the investigation, Sameer Wankhede. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aryan-khan-case-ncb-witness-gosavi-likely-to-surrender-in-lucknow-1044191.html
