26-10-2021||First Edit||Curbs on CBI's power to operate in states reasonable||The CBI’s complaint to the Supreme Court about the decision of some state governments to withdraw the general consent for a probe by the agency in their territory has brought the focus again on the states’ powers vis-a-vis the central agency. The CBI told the court that the withdrawal of general consent by some states was proving detrimental to the investigation and prosecution of cases. The Central government has supported the CBI’s position by telling the court that the states’ power to withdraw consent is not absolute. The matter came up before the court as part of a petition filed by the West Bengal government against the CBI. Presently eight states, including West Bengal, Maharashtra and Kerala, have withdrawn their general consent to the CBI under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act (DSPEA) which governs the agency. After a state withdraws its general consent, the CBI can investigate cases there only on its request in a specific case or on the orders of a court.  This is an important federal provision that protects the powers of the states and prevents the Centre from arbitrarily using its powers. Policing is a state subject and so the restrictions on the power of the CBI to operate in states are reasonable and in conformity with federal norms. The CBI is known to be a "caged parrot", as described by the Supreme Court, and is at the service of the Centre. There are umpteen cases of misuse of the CBI by the Centre. It is deployed to harass opposition politicians, to give trouble to the governments of opposition parties and to aid the ruling party at the Centre. Some recent cases are the arrest and harassment of former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram, the take-over of the Sushant Singh murder case, cases against some Trinamool Congress ministers and leaders in West Bengal and against NCP leaders in Maharashtra, and the booking of former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on cheating and corruption charges. There are many other raids and actions too.  The states which have withdrawn their general consent are all ruled by non-BJP parties and it is clear that they did this to shield themselves against misuse of the CBI by the Centre. It is a power bestowed on them by law, and the pervasive misuse of the CBI by the Centre has only strengthened the need for the provision. It is part of the checks and balances in the federal system of governance. The Central government and the CBI have only themselves to blame for the states’ lack of trust in them. States cannot be expected to forgo a legal and legitimate power they have, and cannot be blamed for exercising it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/curbs-on-cbis-power-to-operate-in-states-reasonable-1044486.html
26-10-2021||In Perspective||Is Modi’s khadi as inclusive as Gandhi’s?||On the eve of Gandhi Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi alluded to the “glory” of khadi in the 81st edition of Mann ki Baat. He urged citizens to adopt and promote khadi as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi who relentlessly promoted khadi as a symbol of an Atma Nirbhar Bharat. The Modi government has championed khadi by initiating several schemes to improve artisans’ welfare and add value to the khadi segment. But is all well in the khadi sector as indicated by the rise in sales? Not really. Khadi rose to popularity as the freedom fabric during India’s struggle for Independence. Gandhiji pegged the values of self-reliance and rural empowerment with this humble cloth. To uphold this legacy, the government institutionalised the khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) and charged it with the planning, promotion, organisation and implementation of programmes for the development of khadi and other village industries in the rural areas. Cut to 75 years after Independence, the khadi of today has deviated from both the philosophy and the fabric that Gandhi wove in his era. The KVIC has trademarked the word ‘khadi’. The proprietorship of ‘khadi’ has put KVIC in a disproportionately powerful position. Over the years, the body has served legal notices to more than 1,000 firms alleging them of producing and affixing the word “khadi” to their fabric. Khadi, by definition, is a handspun and handwoven cloth. The hand spinning and weaving, which is integral to the identity of khadi, is very limited in practice today. With the semi-mechanised Amber charkhas, New Model Charkhas (NMC) and solar charkhas that involve little to no human intervention, the hand rendered characteristic of khadi has eroded. The market is presently dominated by KVIC-certified Khadi Institutions(KIs)[3] that use mechanised charkhas in spinning khadi. This has come at the expense of khadi’s authenticity and uniqueness lent to it by the spinner’s skill. Consequently, the market is monopolised by this “fast” khadi as opposed to the traditional handspun khadi which requires intricate skilled work. This also acts as a deterrent for other firms to pursue traditional means of khadi production. This abstruse understanding of khadi based on laws and KVIC’s direction hamper consumer and seller aspirations. There is a need to categorise khadi based on the production technique involved to create more transparency for consumers. At the same time, it will encourage producers to manufacture traditional khadi and get the correct value for their products. Incentive mechanisms Government funds are directed to KIs for various schemes such as ‘interest subsidy eligibility certificate (ISEC)’, Modified Market Development Assistance (MMDA), Aam Admi Bima Yojana for Khadi artisans, publicity and marketing support etc. The combined effect of incentive mechanisms rendered to KIs distort the market and put other businesses at a disadvantage, effectively killing healthy competition. As such, private businesses do not have incentive to go through an intensive process to obtain the khadi mark label without which no textile can be sold or traded in the country. Despite the financial support to KIs, artisans’ interests are not safeguarded. In the current milieu, artisans earn paltry wages for their work. With an average daily wage between Rs 150 and 200, khadi spinners, who make up almost 80% of all khadi artisans, are severely underpaid. This is less than the minimum wages prescribed by the government for other jobs involving unskilled work. In many states, minimum wages for unskilled workers under the National Rural Guarantee Employment Scheme goes as high as Rs 300. Due to this, the youth are not zealous about learning the art of khadi spinning. The institutional set-up in the khadi sector is also rigid where the entire process from procurement, production, sales and distribution are dictated by KVIC. Today, an artisan producing a handspun and handwoven cloth may not be able to transact as he may not own the khadi mark label nor be able to navigate the cumbersome process. Such an artisan may not possess the financial means to secure the khadi mark in the first place. This framework that restricts the economic freedom of weavers/producers conflicts with the ethos of Gandhi. So the question stands, can one say khadi is for all in today’s India as was envisioned when KVIC was instituted? The time is ripe for the rise of khadi. The government’s call for an Atma Nirbhar Bharat is resonating with consumer sentiments, as more citizens seek indigenous products. There is tremendous scope of employment generation by initiating favourable policies that allow more participants in producing and selling khadi. To be true to the spirit of Gandhi’s movement, khadi needs to be revived as a symbol of India’s liberal values that empowers artisans, accommodates aspiring businesses, and encourages sustainable lifestyle on a wider scale. (Borawake is Associate and Solomon is Senior Associate, Research, Centre for Public Policy Research)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-modi-s-khadi-as-inclusive-as-gandhi-s-1044475.html
26-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hangal headed for a photo finish in high-stakes battle||The Hangal bypoll can go either way. “We can’t forget the work done by C M Udasi, but we also know that Srinivas Mane responded to people,” an elderly farmer at Araleshwar village said, summarizing why the Hangal bypoll may be a photo finish.  The October 30 bypoll was necessitated due to the death of Udasi, and the BJP has picked Shivaraj Sajjanar as its candidate. Mane is the Congress’ candidate, making it a high-voltage fight full of allegations and counters. Both parties are banking on their candidates’ goodwill.  For Prashant Muchandi, however, both candidates lack the vision for real development of Hangal. “They’re not talking about issues like road widening, saving public land, health and education. They’re speaking about public service only for elections.” Winning Hangal is a prestige issue, mainly for the BJP, whose chief minister Basavaraj Bommai hails from the Haveri district where this seat is located. Hangal, the western-most taluk of Haveri, neighbours Shiggaon, Bommai’s constituency. Congress leaders are also leaving no stone unturned to garner people’s support. It is for the first time in nearly four decades that the Hangal election does not have Udasi, a 6-time MLA, or Manohar Tahsildar (Congress), a 4-time MLA. And, neither Sajjanar nor Mane are Hangal natives. There was initial discontent among BJP workers on not fielding a member from the Udasi family, which seems to have died down. Udasi’s son and MP Shivakumar Udasi is actively campaigning along with Sajjanar.  It will help Sajjanar that he belongs to the dominant Lingayat community. But, he is an “outsider” and not a member of the Udasi household, which may damage the BJP’s prospects.  The JD(S) announced Niyaz Sheikh, a Muslim, as its candidate well in advance.  The Congress has its traditional votes and some sympathy for having narrowly lost the 2018 polls. But then, disagreement over the choice of Mane and him not being a native may play spoilsport.  The Lingayats, Muslims, SCs and Gangamatasthas are the dominant communities in Hangal, who are being wooed.   JD(S) fielding a Muslim has irked the Congress, Sheikh was earlier with the Congress. Mane said his first priority will be to implement government programmes. Sajjanar said he has goodwill and that his election will help the constituency, given that Bommai is Hangal’s “son-in-law”. For Sheikh, people want a change. “They’ve seen both BJP and Congress.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hangal-headed-for-a-photo-finish-in-high-stakes-battle-1044499.html
26-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Caste equations, ‘betrayal,’ price rise pep up Sindagi poll scene||Noises on caste equations have silenced talk on development ahead of the October 30 bypoll to the Sindagi assembly constituency where a fierce battle is underway between the BJP and the Congress, with the prospect of the JD(S) playing spoilsport. The bypoll was necessitated following the death of JD(S) MLA and former minister M C Managuli. While the ruling BJP has fielded Ramesh Bhusanur, a former two-time legislator, the Congress picked Ashok Managuli, son of the late JD(S) MLA. The JD(S) has fielded Najiya Angadi, a political novice, apparently to woo minority community votes.   The BJP is dependent on the works being done by its governments at the Centre and in the state and the credentials of Bhusanur, a Ganiga Lingayat. The saffron party is making all-out efforts to prevent the split in the Lingayat votes, its traditional support base.  The Congress is wooing voters on the plank of price rise and is trying to consolidate the Ahinda (minorities, backward classes and Dalits) votes. Congress leaders are also attacking the RSS, the BJP’s ideological parent, ostensibly to attract minorities. There is no palpable wave of sympathy for Ashok, who is looking to take his father’s mantle.    The JD(S) is leaving no stone unturned to retain the seat, which is not a stronghold for it. The late Manguli won twice on the basis of his personal charisma.  The regional party is trying hard to influence the electorate by raking up ‘breach of trust’ by the Manguli family, despite sanctioning Rs 1,200 crore to the constituency during the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government. JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, who have taken the bypoll seriously, are camping here and are visiting villages, seeking votes. The Ganiga and Panchamasali Lingayats, Kurubas and Muslims constitute a major chunk of the population in the segment.  The BJP and Congress have set their eyes on these votes. Both parties are conducting community-wise meetings, with the BJP deputing ministers to drum up support.  BJP’s poll managers say that former chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s campaign for two days in some locations of the constituency may help swing the byelection in its favour.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, KPCC president D K Shivakumar and other Congress leaders have campaigned extensively to wrest the constituency, where its candidate got pushed to the third spot in the previous elections.  For average voters, like Mohammed Rafeeq, a fruit-vendor at Gabasavalagi, the bypoll does not mean much. “Our life has become miserable due to frequent rise in prices of essential commodities. I don’t think the politicians will do good for us. Our duty is to cast a vote. We will do it,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/caste-equations-betrayal-price-rise-pep-up-sindagi-poll-scene-1044518.html
26-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress MLA attacks Kumaraswamy, says he uses Muslim candidates as 'sacrificial lambs'||Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan charged that former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy was not campaigning in Hangal as much as he did in Sindagi because he has not received enough ‘suitcases’ from BJP or the candidate. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, he said that Kumaraswamy has made several Muslim and Vokkaliga candidates sacrificial goats for his personal monetary gains. “Suitcase charges are not mine; it is as per Kumaraswamy’s nephew and Hassan MP Prajwal, who had said at a public meeting that in JD(S) there is a suitcase culture and only those weak candidates who hold ‘bucket’ to top leaders get a ticket,” said Zameer. “Kumaraswamy had assured of campaigning in favour of two Muslim candidates in Hangal and Sindagi. However, as Kumaraswamy did not receive a big suitcase the former chief minister campaigned only for one day in Hangal,” he said. 2 birds in one shot The Congress leaders also charged that Kumaraswamy is targeting RSS because the RSS leaders have asked him to do so. “By targeting RSS, Kumaraswamy is trying to hit two birds with one stone: accusing RSS will garner him Muslim votes and that will help BJP win the elections,” he said. Zameer said that the JD(S) leader fields Muslim candidates only when he wants a ‘sacrificial lamb’. Listing out at least 10 names of Muslim candidates who were politically destroyed by Kumaraswamy, he said that the former chief minister, denied B S Yediyurappa a chance to become a chief minister because he (Kumaraswamy) did not want his brother H D Revanna to become deputy chief minister. “A man, who could not tolerate his brother’s growth will he allow minorities and members of other communities to grow?” he said. Zameer claimed that JD(S) H D Deve Gowda was not inclined towards giving a ticket to Kumaraswamy to contest the 2004 assembly polls. “It was only after senior JD(S) leaders intervention and demand that Deve Gowda relented. Else, Kumaraswamy would have continued to sweep in BBMP offices,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-mla-attacks-kumaraswamy-says-he-uses-muslim-candidates-as-sacrificial-lambs-1044521.html
26-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Deliberations on attack on Hindus at RSS National Executive meet||Violent attacks upon the Hindu minority in Bangladesh, holding meaningful patriotic programmes as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, promoting Swadeshi and programmes to be organised to mark the 100th year of RSS to be held in 2025 are among the issues that will be discussed at the three-day Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s ‘Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal Baithak (ABKM) to be held from October 28 (Thursday) at Rashtrotthana Vidya Kendra located at Garag in Dharwad taluk. Giving details of the three-day executive meeting on Tuesday, RSS national Prachar Pramukh (publicity in-charge) Sunil Ambekar said that the national executive of the Sangha to be chaired by Sarsanghachalak (chief) Mohan Bhagwat will review the action plan prepared by the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS) this year. As many as 350 delegates including sarakaryavah (general secretary) Dattatreya Hosabale and Akhil Bharatiya, Kshetra and Prant Adhikari will be present at the meeting. Ambekar said that Seva Bharati, an organ of Sangh Parivar had taken up relief work during the Covid-19 and as many as 10 lakh Swayamsevaks had taken part in the relief camps at 1.5 lakh places in the country. Training will be imparted to swayamsevaks about handling the Covid-19 situation to enable them to work effectively in the event of another wave. Programmes will be chalked out to train the swayamsevaks in promoting swadeshi concept in the country and instilling love and affinity towards the native language, culture and heritage. Hindus who are minorities in Bangladesh are being persecuted in that country and the RSS national executive will discuss the issue and formulate a policy to protect the interests of the Hindus. RSS which was founded in 1925 will complete 100 years in 2025 and special programmes will be chalked out for four years ahead (2021-24) of the centenary celebrations, he said. Reacting to reports in a section of the media that Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP National president J P Nadda and other BJP leaders will be present at the meeting Ambekar said that no BJP minister for Union or State will participate in the meeting as the ABPS will be attended by only RSS functionaries to discuss organisational issues like expansion and training of swayamsevaks. Security beefed up Security has been beefed up at the Rastrotthana Vidyakendra premises on Garag road in view of the presence of senior RSS functionaries who are under security cover. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat has been provided 'Z' category security. Dharwad Superintendent of Police P Krishnakant who visited the RVK campus on Tuesday afternoon inspected the security arrangements. He said security arrangements have been made as per the protocol. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/deliberations-on-attack-on-hindus-at-rss-national-executive-meet-1044523.html
26-10-2021||Main Article||Poorer states, the most hit||Every year, October 17 is commemorated as International Day for the Eradication of Poverty since 1992 by the United Nations. The theme of this year was “Building Forward Together: Ending Persistent Poverty, Respecting all People and our Planet”. Not only the theme but this year assumes significance in the wake of Covid-19-induced crisis as it has direct implications on poverty. The income inequalities, incidence of poverty and unemployment rate are the three core components of the inclusive economic growth. All three features are intrinsic and are deepened by the Covid-19 pandemic. In this backdrop, it is essential to explore the nature of poverty and its changing dynamics. The World Bank’s report Poverty and Shared Prosperity 2020: Reversals of Fortune has projected that, in 2020, between 88 million and 115 million people could fall back into extreme poverty as a result of the pandemic, with an additional increase of between 23 million and 35 million in 2021, potentially bringing the total number of new people living in extreme poverty to between 110 million and 150 million. It also observed that the South Asia region will be the hardest hit, with 49 million (almost 57 million under the downside scenario) additional people pushed into extreme poverty. As per the Tendulkar Committee estimations, India’s 21.92% of the population were living below poverty line in 2011-12. However, as per the National Family Health Survey NFHS-4 (2015-16), the multi-dimensional poverty rate was 27.9%. The poverty rate which was 45% in 1994 declined especially during 2004-2011 where India implemented substantive anti-poverty measures and rights-based initiatives to uplift the poor people from the clutches of poverty. One of the factors for the reduction in poverty rate during 2004-2012 was due to the employment shift from farm to non-farm especially in the services sector. Just before the onset of Covid-19, the Global Multi-dimensional Poverty Index (MPI) 2018 report stated that “India has made momentous progress in reducing multidimensional poverty. The incidence of multidimensional poverty was almost halved between 2005/06 and 2015/16, climbing down to 27.5%. The global MPI was cut by half due to faster progress among the poorest. Thus, within 10 years, the number of poor people in India fell by more than 271 million – a truly massive gain”. This has been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic due to loss of work and earnings, and the people, especially informal and daily wage labourers, are pushed into the vicious cycle of poverty. A study conducted by the Azim Premji University (2021) finds that the pandemic resulted in “230 million additional individuals slipped below the poverty line defined by the national floor minimum wage” and taken away the anti-poverty efforts that was in place for the last two decades. All the above estimations are projections based on the high frequency telephonic interviews and are mostly covered the impact of Covid-19 first wave on the people’s lives. The projections do not cover the devastating effect of Covid-19 during the second wave in 2021. The revised estimates of the World Bank team suggest that the pandemic has pushed 97 million people into the poverty in 2020 alone. In 2021, this number may decrease by 21 million indicating the reduction in the severity of poverty. However, this means reduction in the number of people living below the international line of poverty $1.90 (in purchasing power parity [PPP] terms) a day. Complex problem On the other side, the UNDP and Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (2021) on MPI has observed that the pandemic has deepened the multiple deprivations making it a much more complex problem to deal with by the governments. Hence, it is insufficient to roll out only income-related policies such as cash transfers, food supplies; what is imperative is the strengthening of social security measures with assured income and health facilities’ to prevent the people falling from relative to absolute/chronic poverty. The World Bank has expressed methodological concerns over the estimations of India because the number of people being pushed into poverty due to the pandemic was projected on the basis of 2011 figures of poverty. It ascertained that these estimations are subjected to the changes occurred between 2011-2021 including the effect of governmental policy measures in containing the pandemic and other poverty alleviation measures. Krishna Ram and Shivani Yadav by using Periodic Labour Force Survey (2018-19) data have estimated that the number of rural poor may go up to 381-418 million (post pandemic) from 265 million (pre pandemic) along with the rise of 36-46 million in urban poor with the total headcount ratio reaching 50.9-55.87% and 39.08-42.4% for rural and urban areas, respectively. The SC and ST were hard hit by the pandemic-induced poverty followed by the minorities and Other Backward Classes as it completely disrupted the livelihood of informal workers. The pandemic-induced poverty has serious implications at global and national levels especially in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals of 1 (No Poverty) and 2 (Zero Hunger). India improved its scoring from 50 (2019) to 60 (2020) in SDG-1 as per the SDG Index of 2020-21. The goal of reducing the number of poor people to half by 2030 now seems to be unrealistic as the Covid-19 in 2020 and 2021 has took away the two decadal efforts and achievements in uplifting the poor people from the clutches of both relative and absolute poverty. The devastating impact of Covid-19 is evident in the states of Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh – the states which constitute major chunk of total poor people in the country. India must conduct official estimations of poverty in the ongoing census to formulate appropriate policy interventions to eradicate poverty. In the meantime, the state governments can make use of Socio Economic and Caste Census-2011 data for revisiting the poverty alleviation programmes to capture the impact of Covid-19. (The writer is PhD Fellow, Centre for Political Institutions, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/poorer-states-the-most-hit-1044466.html
26-10-2021||National||Ex-Guv Malik's allegation against BJP boosts TMC in Goa||The Trinamool Congress demanded the resignation of the Chief Minister of Goa, Pramod Sawant, after the state’s former Governor, Satyapal Malik, accused the BJP-led government of corruption. The TMC charged that Pramod Sawant should resign as the Chief Minister of Goa within 72 hours and a retired Supreme Court judge should be appointed to conduct a judicial enquiry into the allegation of corruption against the BJP-led government in the coastal state. Malik was the governor of Goa from November 2019 to August 2018 before being shifted to Meghalaya. He alleged during a TV interview that he had brought to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi the findings of his own probe into the allegation about corruption by the BJP-led government in Goa in arranging home delivery of food during the lockdown imposed in the state to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister had, in turn, asked the same people, who had been involved in the corruption and who obviously had denied the allegation, said Malik, adding that he had been transferred from Panaji to Shillong because he had been speaking out against corruption by the State Government of Goa. With West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee visiting Panaji on Thursday to launch the party’s campaign for the 2022 assembly elections in Goa, the TMC cashed in on the allegation by the state’s former governor against the BJP government. “On behalf all Goans, we demand High-level Judicial Enquiry by a retired SC Judge to look into the alleged corruption (and) Resignation of the CM (Pramod Sawant) to facilitate a free and fair investigation,” the TMC posted on Twitter. Malik had also recently claimed that he had been told during his stint as the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir from August 2018 to October 2019 that he would get Rs 300 crore as bribe if he cleared two files belonging to “Ambani” and an “RSS-affiliated man”. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-guv-maliks-allegation-against-bjp-boosts-tmc-in-goa-1044202.html
26-10-2021||National||100 crore Covid vaccinations: EDMC House passes resolution thanking PM Modi, doctors||The BJP-led EDMC House on Monday passed a resolution thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, doctors and scientists for helping India achieve the milestone of administering over 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in the country's fight against the pandemic. The House termed the milestone an "unforgettable achievement" and said that "history has been scripted". India achieved a major landmark in its vaccination programme against Covid-19 on October 21 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark. "Today, through this House, we express our gratitude to Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi for this unforgettable achievement and we extend our thanks to all scientists, researchers, doctors, paramedical staff, malaria staff, teachers and everyone else who has contributed to this great 'yagya' by facing several challenges," the EDMC House said in its resolution. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 and it was gradually opened to all above the age of 18 from May 1. The EDMC House also passed a resolution that proposed to set up free creche facilities at schools and community halls of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation for children of working women from lower and lower-middle class families. The House also resolved to restore on humanitarian grounds the jobs of 25 contractual sanitation workers who were earlier removed allegedly for being inducted wrongly. It was also decided that the municipal commissioner will formulate a policy for the payment of arrears to pensioners and money due to dependents of deceased employees. The House also resolved that no challans will be issued to any resident of east Delhi for not segregating dry and wet waste until the EDMC comes up with a full system to collect and dispose of such waste and every citizen is made aware of it.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-crore-covid-vaccinations-edmc-house-passes-resolution-thanking-pm-modi-doctors-1044217.html
26-10-2021||National||Punjab govt to move SC against extension of BSF jurisdiction||The Punjab government will approach the Supreme Court against the recent move by the Union government to increase the jurisdiction limit of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab and elsewhere.  The BSF secures the 545-km Punjab border with Pakistan. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday said while the government will move the Apex court, it will also call a special session of the Punjab Assembly to pass a resolution against the amended Act that gives the BSF enhanced territorial jurisdiction in Punjab. The CM termed it an assault on the federal structure of the nation. The amended BSF Act will authorise the border force to execute arrest, seizures and search within an enhanced 50 km area from the border. Earlier the limit stretched up to 15 km from the international border in Punjab. Punjab border is notorious for narcotics smuggling and of late, drones from Pakistan are being blatantly used to drop weapons and drugs on the Indian side of the border.   The CM announced this at an all-party meeting convened to discuss this recent amendment by the Centre. While almost all political outfits in Punjab have condemned the move, Capt Amarinder Singh has supported the Centre on this decision. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) in Punjab boycotted today’s meeting maintaining that there was no conflict on the issue. Channi said, “Political parties will hold agitations against the extension of BSF jurisdiction in Punjab. We will also approach the Supreme Court seeking justice in this matter.” The Assembly session is likely to be convened in a fortnight. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-govt-to-move-sc-against-extension-of-bsf-jurisdiction-1044232.html
26-10-2021||National||DH Toon | When will India take knee against casteism?||The Virat Kohli-led Indian team on Sunday extended their support to the 'Black Lives Matter' movement by taking the knee before their T20 World Cup match against arch-rivals Pakistan. Before the opening duo of Rohit Sharma and KL Rahul walked out to bat, the Indian players were seen taking the knee outside the team dugout.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-when-will-india-take-knee-against-casteism-1044235.html
26-10-2021||National||Climate migration predicted to rise in India as extreme weather worsens||A rise in extreme weather events in India -- from droughts and floods to heatwaves and hailstorms -- is fuelling climate migration as the nation's poorest are forced to abandon their homes, land and livelihoods, researchers said on Tuesday. In a survey of more than 1,000 households across three Indian states, nearly 70% of respondents said they migrated immediately after such weather disasters occur, found the International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED). Seasonal migration was high among people affected by droughts and floods that damaged crops, or by cyclones that hampered fishing, according to the study, one of the first to quantify the impacts of climate change on migration in India. Many of India's poorest people - such as small farmers - are finding it harder to cope with the damage caused by severe weather as the country braces for rising sea levels, more heatwaves and fiercer cyclones, researchers said. "The scale of climate migration is startling," said Ritu Bharadwaj, a senior researcher at IIED and co-author of the report. "We cannot afford to pretend this isn't happening." "Droughts, rising sea levels and flooding are heaping extra pressure onto people who are already struggling to get by, forcing them from their homes in order to survive." The Global Climate Risk Index 2021, an annual ranking from research group Germanwatch, puts India among the top 10 countries most affected by climate change. In 2020 alone, India suffered its worst locust attack in decades, three cyclones, a nationwide heatwave and flooding that killed hundreds of people and forced thousands more to migrate. "The limits to people's resilience have been breached by more frequent and intense weather," Bharadwaj told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "Communities are not able to cope and recover easily. The loss and damage they suffer is very high and they migrate because they have reached the stage of hopelessness." 'Need to plan' India's first climate change assessment report, published in 2020, projected that temperatures would rise 4.4 degrees Celsius by the end of the century in a "business as usual" scenario. The frequency of heatwaves will be up to four times higher, cyclone intensity will increase and sea level will rise by 30 cm (12 inches) if action is not taken, the report said. Researchers at the IIED interviewed people from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan states, where seasonal migration is prevalent. Many leave home when there is little work in farming or fishing to find jobs on construction sites or in cotton fields in Maharashtra, Gujarat and New Delhi. More than 70% of households in the study said droughts were happening significantly more often in the last 5 to 10 years, leading to an increase in so-called distress migration when people feel they have no other option to survive. "We need to plan for the hundreds of millions of people who it is predicted will have to migrate in the coming decades due to climate change," Bharadwaj said. India's social protection programmes do not consider extreme weather and were not designed to build climate resilience, the IIED said. The national rural employment guarantee scheme - which promises 100 days of work per year to every household - does not act as "a viable safety net" due to delays in wage payments and a lack of transparency, the report said. Besides revamping existing mechanisms, Bharadwaj said there was a need for pre-emptive action before a disaster strikes. Making migration safe for people forced to move by climate pressures should involve "anticipatory wage employment" and portability of social protection entitlements, the IIED said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/climate-migration-predicted-to-rise-in-india-as-extreme-weather-worsens-1044242.html
26-10-2021||National||Amarinder Singh, eyeing his own party, to hold briefing on October 27||Former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh will hold a briefing in Chandigarh on Wednesday (October 27) at 11 am, his media advisor said. Speculations are that he will share details on his new political outfit. Singh had met BJP top brass in Delhi and held meetings with Amit Shah soon after quitting Congress, sparking talks of an alliance.      The Congress had, a few months ago, appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress chief despite strong opposition from then CM Singh. Amarinder Singh resigned as the Punjab chief minister last month amid a bitter power tussle with Sidhu, a political drama that led to a lot of back-and-forth volleys between the party and Captain. Charanjit Singh Channi replaced Amarinder Singh as chief minister. (With agency inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-singh-eyeing-his-own-party-to-hold-briefing-on-october-27-1044259.html
26-10-2021||National||India reports 12,428 new Covid-19 cases, 356 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 12,428 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 238 days, while the active cases declined to 1,63,816, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Of these, Kerala accounted for 6,664 cases and 53 deaths.  With the fresh cases, the total tally climbed to 3,42,02,202, while the death toll climbed to 4,55,068 with 356 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has reconciled 228 fatalities from the previous period, officials said, adding that 53 deaths have been reported from the state in the last 24 hours. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 31 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 120 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.49 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.18 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,879 cases has been recorded in the total active number of Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 11,31,826 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 60,19,01,543. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.24 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,83,318, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 102.94 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 356 new fatalities include 281 from Kerala, 14 from Tamil Nadu, 12 from Maharashtra and 11 from West Bengal. A total of 4,55,068 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,028 from Maharashtra, 38,017 from Karnataka, 36,033 from Tamil Nadu, 28,873 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,066 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-12428-new-covid-19-cases-356-deaths-1044264.html
26-10-2021||National||Disha Ravi case at standstill, Delhi Police may file closure report soon: Report||The probe into the case against Bengaluru-based environmentalist Disha Ravi for a toolkit about the farmers' protest has come to a standstill, with Zoom and Google not replying to queries sent by the Delhi Police. Even in the case of Nikhila Jacob and Shantanu — believed to be authors and editors of the toolkit — who are associated with UK-based advocacy group Extinction Rebellion, investigators failed to get any response. Cops had alleged in February that the toolkit's content showed that the Republic Day violence was a pre-planned conspiracy aimed at attacking India's sovereignty and security. They even leaked certain chats from her phone to the media. When granting bail, a Delhi court said that the creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous 'toolkit' is not an offence. Further, since the link with the said toolkit or PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat "to destroy the evidence" also becomes meaningless. The court said mere engagement with persons of dubious credentials is not indictable, rather it is the purpose of engagement that is relevant for deciding culpability. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disha-ravi-case-at-standstill-delhi-police-may-file-closure-report-soon-report-1044305.html
26-10-2021||National||Discipline, unity must override personal ambition: Sonia Gandhi tells Congress leaders||Days after asserting that she is a "full-time and hands-on" president, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday once again asked party workers to remain disciplined and united overriding their "personal ambitions" while emphasising that the party needs to be more representative of farmers, farm labourers, youth, small and medium business people and the under-privileged. She also said there is "lack of clarity and cohesion even amongst our state-level leaders" on the stand taken by the party on policy issues despite the AICC releasing statements on a daily basis. She said that the party needs to be focussed on the need for a relentless fight against the BJP-RSS and the Narendra Modi government that "erode" the institutions to "evade" accountability, "undermine the core values" of the Constitution "so it can hold itself to a lower standard" and question the "very fundamentals" of Indian democracy. Sonia wanted the party to "redouble" the fight for those who are the victims of this government's "worst excesses: our farmers and farm labourers, our youth fighting for jobs and opportunities, small and medium scale businesses, our brothers, our sisters with particular focus on the deprived". "To make this promise truly meaningful, we must also make our organisation more representative of this cross-section of society," she said. Her remarks came at a meeting of Congress General Secretaries, state in-charges and state presidents in Delhi, ten days after a meeting of the Congress Working Committee where she bluntly told the rebelling leaders that she remains in the saddle and no need to talk to her through the media. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who told the CWC meeting that he would consider taking over as president, was also present at the deliberations. In her speech, Sonia listed out the decisions of the CWC held on October 16 and urged them to take steps to make the membership drive, organisation elections, training programme and the Jan Jagran Abhiyan protest against price rise a success. Amid infighting in several states, Sonia told the meeting, "finally, I would like to re-emphasise the paramount need for discipline and unity. What should matter to each and every one of us is the strengthening of the organisation. This must override personal ambitions. In this lies both collective and individual success." She emphasised the need for fighting  the "diabolical campaign of BJP/RSS ideologically" and the party should "do so with conviction and expose their lies before the people if we are to win this battle". "The AICC releases important and detailed statements almost every day on issues facing the nation. But it is my experience that they do not percolate down to our grass root cadres at the block and district level. There are policy issues on which I find a lack of clarity and cohesion even amongst our state-level leaders," she said. Underlining the need for training the party workers to take on the "unceasing onslaught of malicious disinformation campaigns at the behest of the BJP/RSS", she said  the leaders must train them to fight the BJP-RSS while "upholding and projecting the core Congress ideology". "Our own history bears witness to the fact that if an organisation is to succeed against injustice and inequality, if it is to effectively champion the rights of the marginalised, it must become a widespread agitation down to the grassroots. The Modi Government has sought to erode our institutions so it may evade accountability. It has sought to undermine the core values of our Constitution so it can hold itself to a lower standard. It has questioned the very fundamentals of our democracy," she said. Touching upon the upcoming Assembly elections, she said the Congress workers in these states are gearing up to take on these battles and the campaign must be founded upon concrete policies and programmes emanating from widespread discussions with all sections of society. On the membership drive starting November 1, she said new members are the lifeblood of any political movement. "Young men and women across the nation seek a movement to give voice to their aspirations. It is our duty to provide them with a platform, as we have done for generations past," she said. She asked the leaders to ensure the proper printing and distribution of forms for every ward and village. They will have to identify and assign Congress leaders and office bearers, the task of going house to house, to enrol members in a transparent fashion. "You must ensure the clear delineation of the responsibilities of these individuals at the state, district, block, ward and village level. This is a vital responsibility that you are entrusted with," she said. "Training programmes for our workers are therefore an absolute necessity. You have received a circular from the AICC with regard to the organisation of such programmes at every level. I want to emphasise that you should take it on priority. The fight to defend our democracy, our Constitution and the Congress Party’s ideology begins with being fully prepared to identify and counter false propaganda," she said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discipline-unity-must-override-personal-ambition-sonia-gandhi-tells-congress-leaders-1044306.html
26-10-2021||National||WHO decision on EUL for Covaxin expected soon||A World Health Organization technical advisory group was reviewing data on India's Covaxin shot against Covid-19 on Tuesday with a decision on its emergency use listing likely soon, a spokesperson said. "If all is in place and all goes well and if the committee is satisfied, we would expect a recommendation within the next 24 hours or so," Margaret Harris told journalists at a UN press briefing. Millions of Indians have taken the shot produced by Bharat Biotech but many have been unable to travel pending the WHO approval. Earlier this month, the WHO said that Bharat Biotech “has been submitting data to WHO on a rolling basis and submitted additional information at the WHO's request on September 27. Bharat Biotech had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) on April 19 for its vaccine. The WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. According to the WHO, submissions for pre-qualification or listing under the emergency use procedure are confidential. If a product submitted for assessment is found to meet the criteria for listing, the WHO will publish the results widely. Duration of the emergency use listing process depends on the quality of the data submitted by the vaccine manufacturer and on the data meeting the WHO's criteria, according to the agency. If Covaxin is granted EUL by WHO, it will enable millions of individuals across the world to travel to countries without any restrictions. The US for example, allows individuals who have been vaccinated with WHO-approved shots to enter the nation without any curbs. (With inputs from Reuters) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-decision-on-eul-for-covaxin-expected-soon-1044309.html
26-10-2021||National||Vaccinated but stuck: Indians await WHO nod for Covaxin to travel abroad||Stuck in a village in southern India for nine months and unable to return to his job in Saudi Arabia, Sugathan P R is hoping the World Health Organization will approve the Indian Covid-19 shot Covaxin, paving the way for his trip back. Like Sugathan, millions of Indians have taken Covaxin and many have complained of travel struggles as the vaccine has not been recognised for international travel by several countries. "I cannot continue to remain idle here any further," said 57-year-old Sugathan, who returned to Pandalam village in Kerala in January to be with his family after missing his father's funeral last year when the pandemic disrupted flights. "I had the option of going to Saudi and taking (additional doses of) Covishield after a four-day institutional quarantine, but I was not sure of its implications on my health," said Sugathan, referring to AstraZeneca's vaccine. "If the Covaxin approval does not come, I will take the risk of going and taking a Saudi-approved vaccine," he added, sitting in his spacious two-storey house fronted by paddy fields. The WHO is expected to take a final call on an emergency-use listing for Covaxin on Tuesday. It has deliberated on data supplied by manufacturer Bharat Biotech since early July but has said it could not "cut corners" in making a decision. Without a WHO nod, the two-dose Covaxin is unlikely to be accepted as a valid vaccine globally and would complicate travel plans for Indians who have taken it. Rajan Pallivadakethil Unnunni, 59, who worked in Kuwait as a welder for two decades before flying to India late last year, has been unable to go back as Kuwait does not recognise Covaxin. He is now struggling to repay his $20,000 (Rs 15 lakh) bank loan selling chicken at a small stall in Kerala and making $4 (Rs 300) a day. "If I cannot go back to Kuwait, I will not be able to repay the loan and complete the education of my children," said Rajan, seated on a plastic stool in front of his shop. "I can buy a ticket to Kuwait only if the Kuwait government app shows a green signal."  ($1=Rs 75.05) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccinated-but-stuck-indians-await-who-nod-for-covaxin-to-travel-abroad-1044314.html
26-10-2021||National||Indian, Royal navies participate in Konkan Shakti exercise||Fighter jets zoomed past, warships undertook multiple operations and troops carried out designated tasks as the armed forces of India and the United Kingdom carry out Konkan Shakti, the bi-lateral tri-service exercise somewhere in the Arabian Sea.  On completion of an exhaustive harbour planning phase, the sea phase of the maiden bilateral tri-service exercise commenced off the Konkan coast on Sunday. All participating units were split into two opposing forces with the aim of achieving 'sea control' to land Army ground-troops at a pre-designated site.  One force was led by the Flag Officer Commanding Western Fleet and comprised the flagship INS Chennai, other warships of the Indian Navy and HMS Richmond, the Royal Navy’s Type 23 frigate.  The other force operated under the UK Carrier Strike Group comprising aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, Indian warships, and other UK and Netherland naval ships.    The two forces integrated within their groups with exercises including replenishment at sea approaches, air direction and strike operations by fighter aircraft (MiG 29Ks and F35Bs), cross control of helicopters  - Sea King, Chetak and Wildcat - transiting through war-at-sea scenarios, and gun shoots on expendable air targets.   The simulated induction of Army troops was also undertaken and was followed by the setting up of a joint command operations centre. The two forces thereafter affected a rendezvous at sea with advanced air and sub-surface exercises. The air operations included strikes on the combined formation by Indian maritime patrol aircraft (MPA) Dornier, fighters of the Indian Navy (MiG 29Ks), Royal Navy (F35Bs) and Indian Air Force (SU-30 and Jaguars), as well as a composite flypast over the formation.  Sub-surface exercises with an Indian Scorpene class submarine and underwater remote-controlled vehicle EMATT, operated by the Royal Navy, were undertaken through the night. Indian MPA, P8I, also participated in the exercise. “The high level of interoperability displayed on the first day of the exercise reflects the high standards of professionalism and preparedness of both navies. It is also reflective of a high level of mutual trust and understanding that has been built over a period of many years,” an official of Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command said. It may be recalled, last week, Admiral Sir Tony Radakin, First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval Staff, Royal Navy met Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of the Naval Staff, Indian Navy.  Amongst other naval bilateral cooperation issues, the Chiefs emphasised collaborative mechanisms towards ensuring peace and security in the region.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-royal-navies-participate-in-konkan-shakti-exercise-1044326.html
26-10-2021||National||2 containers to be set up under PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission: Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said two containers with all healthcare facilities will be established under the PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission which could be rushed to any place in case of an emergency. He said these containers with a capacity of about 200 beds each will be placed in Delhi and Chennai, adding that they can be airlifted or taken by trains to the place of emergency. "The central government has taken a 'total' not 'token' approach in healthcare," Mandaviya said and noted that COVID-19 pandemic gave an opportunity to improve the health infrastructure and for that PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission has been launched with an investment of Rs 64,000 crore. On giving WHO's emergency use listing (EUL) to Covaxin, the minister said the world health body has a system in which there is a technical committee which has approved Covaxin, and now it has moved to another committee for evaluation. "The other committee is meeting on Tuesday. The approval for Covaxin will be given on the basis of this meeting," he stated. Addressing a press conference, Mandaviya also said that about 79,415 health and wellness centres have been operationalised in the country out of the planned 1.5 lakh such centres. He said there should be good laboratories at all levels-- be it district or national level. The health minister added that the PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission is such an "important scheme that the average expenditure of Rs 90 to Rs 100 crore in a district will be spent on health infrastructure due to which we will be able to fight any disaster in the coming time". "Under this scheme, 134 types of tests will be done free of cost at the district level which is a big step," he said. The Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission is one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure across the country. It is in addition to the National Health Mission. Its objective is to fill gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. It will provide support for 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high focus states. Further, 11,024 urban health and wellness centres will be established in all the states. Through this, critical care services will be available in all the districts of the country with more than five lakh population through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-containers-to-be-set-up-under-pm-ayushman-bharat-health-infrastructure-mission-mandaviya-1044334.html
26-10-2021||National||India's infant mortality rate improves, growth slowing down: Report||India’s infant mortality rate has seen a sharp decline in the last few years. It has declined from 50 to 30 between 2009 and 2019, according to data released by the sample registration system (SRS). However, the data showed that the gains made in the last five years have slowed down drastically. We still are worse than Bangladesh’s and Nepal’s mortality rate which is at 26, but better than Pakistan’s at 56. There have been great improvements in all the states between 2009 to 2014 where the IMR went down to 11 points from 50 to 39. However, it slowed down in the past five years. The states which have shown remarkable development are Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and West Bengal with Kerala having the least IMR. Similarly, the states that have slowed down are Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh. IMR is looked at as an indicator of the overall health scenario of the country. It is defined as the number of babies less than a year old who die for every thousand births. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-infant-mortality-rate-improves-growth-slowing-down-report-1044347.html
26-10-2021||National||Aryan Khan drugs case: NCB admits Gosavi met Shah Rukh Khan's manager||NCB has admitted that there was a meeting between K P Gosavi, the private investigator whose selfie with Aryan Khan had gone viral, and Pooja Dadlani, who is the manager of Shah Rukh Khan. Earlier, Mumbai resident Prabhakar Sail, who is a witness in the case, had alleged that he “overheard” Gosavi and a man named Sam D’Souza discuss a deal of Rs 24 crore and settling for Rs 18 crore, of which Rs 8 crore would go to NCB top cop Sameer Wankhede. More to follow... Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aryan-khan-drugs-case-ncb-admits-gosavi-met-shah-rukh-khans-manager-1044365.html
26-10-2021||National||Centre planning semiconductor design-linked incentive policy||The government is planning to come up with a semiconductor design-linked incentive policy to promote domestic manufacturing as well as attract global electronic chip companies to the country, according to an official source. Global majors such as Qualcomm, Intel, Mediatek, Infineon, and Texas Instruments have their research and development in India which contribute in the development of their chipsets. "The government is deliberating on a new semiconductor design-linked incentive scheme which envisages financial and infrastructure support for Indian MSMEs and startups right through the ideate stage to production stage. As and when these startups start producing and selling chips in the market, they shall also avail additional incentives under the scheme on their net sales turnover," an official source told PTI. Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar last week had said that the government would host a conference of semiconductor companies in November to discuss India's policy roadmap in the segment. "It is a great initiative which will leverage India's strength to make an impact in the field of design of semiconductors. We can target to have 25 plus fabless companies in the next few years which will make a substantial impact in the global semiconductor market," industry body IESA chairman Rajeev Khushu said. The semiconductor design is the main driver of revenues that electronic chip companies earn from sale of their high end components.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-planning-semiconductor-design-linked-incentive-policy-1044366.html
26-10-2021||National||New session for freshers in engineering colleges, technical institutions from Nov 30||The academic session for freshers in engineering colleges and other technical institutions across the country will begin from November 30, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has announced. Classes for existing students of technical colleges began on October 1. According to the revised academic calendar, the induction programme for first-year students will begin from November 15, while the classes will commence from November 30. "This, the schedule is not applicable for the institutions who have already completed the admission process and started the classes as per the earlier schedule. However, if such institutes admit new students against vacancies, then the new schedule of cancellation and fee refund shall be applicable," AICTE Member Secretary Rajive Kumar said. The last date for cancellation of seats for technical courses with the full refund has been extended up to November 25. New students can take lateral entry admission to second-year courses till October 30, as per the calendar.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-session-for-freshers-in-engineering-colleges-technical-institutions-from-nov-30-1044378.html
26-10-2021||National||AAP takes Hindutva plunge, promises free Ram Temple visit to Delhites||Striving hard to make its presence felt in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, where elections are due in five months, the Aam Admi Party (AAP) has also turned to soft Hindutva to counter the BJP in the state with the announcement that it would provide 'free' Ram Temple visit for Delhi residents.  He said that the Delhi government has facilitated free pilgrimage to the people of the state, which included visits to Vaishno Devi, Shirdi, Haridwar, Rishikesh and other important religious places in the country. ''The Delhi government bears all expenses and the pilgrims do not have to pay anything,'' he added. "Ram Temple will also be added to the list of the pilgrimage,"  the AAP leader said. Kejriwal evaded a reply on being termed an ''accidental Hindu'' in some quarters and merely said that it did not matter to him. ''Religious places are open to all...anyone can go there,'' he added. He also did not reply when asked about his party's face in the UP assembly polls. The AAP leader earlier visited the famous Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya and paid obeisance there. He performed a 'puja' there and was blessed by the priests of the temple. Kejriwal had arrived here on Monday and had appeared in a district court in Sultanpur in connection with a case registered against him in 2014 pertaining to the violation of the model code of conduct. He was granted bail by the court but his application seeking quashing of the charges was rejected by the court. AAP has decided to contest all the 403 assembly seats in the state and has already launched its election campaign. The party was also holding parleys with smaller, caste based outfits to arrive at some kind of electoral understanding. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-takes-hindutva-plunge-promises-free-ram-temple-visit-to-delhites-1044384.html
26-10-2021||National||Centre invites applications for chief economic adviser post||The government has invited applications for the post of chief economic adviser (CEA) to replace K V Subramanian, who will complete his three-year tenure next month. Subramanian was appointed as CEA on December 7, 2018, while he assumed charge on December 24 in the same year. As per the public notice dated October 24, 2021 issued by Department of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, officer of central, state governments, RBI and public sector banks holding analogous post on regular basis in parent cadres or department are eligible to apply for the post. Candidates from recognised universities or recognised research institutions or central regulatory bodies and registered private institutions or financial institutions are eligible, it said. With regard to educational qualification, it said, a candidate should possess Master's degree in Economics or Finance from a recognised university or institution. For this contractual appointment, the candidate should have six years' experience in economic research or providing economic advice or evaluation of economic reforms including administrative experience of one year in the central government or state government, it said. "The selection committee reserves the right to invite and shortlist suitable individuals from outside the list of applicants for the posts," it added. The last date for submission of applications is 20 days from the date of publication of advertisement. The maximum age ceiling for applicants is 56 years. However, the advertisement has not given the exact tenure for the appointment. The vacancy comes at a crucial time when the economy is coming out of the pandemic-induced decline. The most important task before the new CEA, if appointed next month, would be to prepare the Economic Survey to be tabled in Parliament on the last working day of January.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-invites-applications-for-chief-economic-adviser-post-1044385.html
26-10-2021||National||Scindia flags off IndiGo's Shillong-Dibrugarh flight under UDAN scheme||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday virtually flagged off IndiGo's direct flight on Shillong-Dibrugarh route under regional connectivity scheme UDAN, an official statement said. The return flight, which will operate three times a week, will have a duration of 75 minutes, it said. "Due to the non-availability of any direct mode of transportation (till now), people were compelled to cover a long 12-hour journey by road and train to travel between Shillong and Dibrugarh," it mentioned. Under the UDAN scheme, financial incentives from the Centre, state governments, and airport operators are extended to selected airlines to encourage operations from unserved and underserved airports and keep airfares affordable. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scindia-flags-off-indigos-shillong-dibrugarh-flight-under-udan-scheme-1044390.html
26-10-2021||National||WHO seeks 'additional clarifications' from Bharat Biotech for Covaxin to conduct final 'risk-benefit assessment'||The World Health Organisation’s technical advisory group on Tuesday sought "additional clarifications" from Bharat Biotech for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to conduct a final “risk-benefit assessment” for Emergency Use Listing of the vaccine. The technical advisory group will now meet on November 3 for a final assessment. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) to the WHO on April 19 for the vaccine's Emergency Use Listing (EUL). The technical advisory group met on Tuesday to review data on Covaxin for the emergency use listing of India’s indigenously-made vaccine. "The TAG met today (26 October 2021) and decided that additional clarifications from the manufacturer are needed to conduct a final EUL risk-benefit assessment for global use of the vaccine,” the WHO said in an email response to a question by PTI on the decision regarding the Emergency Use Listing of Covaxin. "The TAG expects to receive these clarifications from the manufacturer by the end of this week, and aims to reconvene for the final risk-benefit assessment on Wednesday, 3 November,” it added. The Technical Advisory Group for Emergency Use Listing (TAG-EUL) is an independent advisory group that provides recommendations to WHO on whether a Covid 19 vaccine can be listed for emergency use under the EUL procedure. Earlier Tuesday, WHO spokesperson Dr Margaret Harris had said that on Covaxin, the technical advisory group that reviews all the data for a potential emergency use listing was reviewing that data. "Now if all is in place, and all goes well, and if the committee is satisfied, we would expect a recommendation within the next 24 hours or so,” she had said during a press briefing. The Covaxin has demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic Covid-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the new Delta variant. In June, the company said it concluded the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase 3 trials. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. The WHO has so far approved Covid-19 vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca-SK Bio/Serum Institute of India, Johnson & Johnson-Janssen, Moderna, and Sinopharm for emergency use. Last week, the WHO had said it is expecting one additional piece of information from Bharat Biotech regarding Covaxin and emphasised that it has to thoroughly evaluate to ensure vaccines are safe and “cannot cut corners” before recommending a vaccine for emergency use. WHO has said the timeframe for its Emergency Use Listing procedure is dependent on how quickly a company producing the vaccine is able to provide the data required for WHO to evaluate the vaccine’s quality, safety, efficacy and its suitability for low- and middle-income countries. "When the information provided addresses all questions raised, WHO and the Technical Advisory Group will complete the assessment and come to a final recommendation whether to grant Emergency Use Listing to the vaccine,” it has said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-seeks-additional-clarifications-from-bharat-biotech-for-covaxin-to-conduct-final-risk-benefit-assessment-1044391.html
26-10-2021||National||Govt forcibly retires five CBI officers, senior advocate||The government has compulsorily retired five CBI officers and a senior public prosecutor, sources said on Tuesday. The five CBI officers include an assistant superintendent of police and four deputy superintendents of police. The officers and a senior public prosecutor were compulsorily retired by the president with immediate effect in the public interest under clause 56(j) of the Fundamental Rules, the sources said. The officers will be paid three months of salaries and allowances. Commenting on the development, a senior official said that this is part of the zero-tolerance policy in the CBI for ensuring integrity and performance of duty. Clause 56(j) of the Fundamental Rules gives an absolute right to the government to retire any Government servant, fulfilling the criteria of age and service, in the public interest by giving notice of not less than three months in writing or three months' pay and allowances in lieu of such notice. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-forcibly-retires-five-cbi-officers-senior-advocate-1044399.html
26-10-2021||National||India among world's top 10 for climate tech investment: Report||India ranks ninth in the list of top 10 countries for climate technology investment over the past five years and Indian climate tech firms received $1 billion in venture capital (VC) funding from 2016 to 2021, according to a new report released in London on Tuesday. Five Years On: Global climate tech investment trends since the Paris Agreement, by London & Partners and Dealroom.Co, analysed the trends in the sector since the last United Nations Conference of Parties (COP) in Paris and ahead of the COP26 summit in Glasgow next week. It found that venture capital investment into climate tech companies globally has skyrocketed since the Paris Agreement, with the US and China leading the global top 10 with $48 billion and $18.6 billion investment between 2016 and 2021 respectively. The UK comes in at No. 4 with $4.3 billion after Sweden at $5.8 billion. “Countries around the world need to work together so that we can collectively change business practices and commit to net zero emissions,” said Hemin Bharucha, Country Director India, London & Partners – London’s business growth agency. “The global tech industry plays a pivotal role in accelerating this global transformation and this is demonstrated in the rapid growth of VC investment into global climate tech companies. It is fantastic to see the UK and India among the top 10 countries for climate tech investment globally, with London leading the way in Europe for the number of climate tech companies and dedicated VC funds,” he said. The global top 10 is completed by France at No. 5 ($3.7bn), Germany at No. 6 ($2.7bn), Canada at No. 7 ($1.4bn), the Netherlands at No. 8 ($1.3bn) and Singapore tenth ($700m), after India. Overall, global climate tech VC investment soared from $6.6 billion in 2016 to $32.3 billion in 2021, an increase in funding by almost five times. According to the report, which analyses technology companies working to reduce Greenhouse Gas emissions or addressing the impacts of climate change, 2021 investment levels have already exceeded the whole of 2020 for global climate tech investment, demonstrating the importance of the global tech industry in the fight against climate change. Europe is found to be the fastest-growing region globally for climate tech, with European VC investment into climate tech firms seven times higher this year than in 2016 (up from $1.1 bn to $8bn). In Europe, London is described as one of the world’s most advanced ecosystems for climate tech, with its start-ups raising $3.3 billion since 2016, accounting for 16 per cent of Europe’s total. London is also home to 416 climate tech companies, the biggest cluster in Europe. “The UK is well on its way to becoming a climate tech powerhouse thanks to its combination of world-leading research, thriving ecosystem and creative entrepreneurs that are using technology to solve the most pressing issue in our lifetime,” said Remus Brett, Partner at VC firm LocalGlobe. “It’s no wonder then that investors across Europe and the world are taking note of the startups and scaleups being created in London and the rest of the country. With sustained investment and the right support, these companies will have the tools they need to successfully reduce greenhouse gas emissions and fight the climate crisis,” he said. Growth in climate tech is being driven by significant investment into transportation and energy solutions, accounting for a combined total of 78 per cent of global climate tech investment in 2021. A similar trend is reflected in London, with 60 per cent of VC investment into climate tech going into energy companies, while enterprise software, circular economy and food start-ups are also attracting an increasing share of investment. London ranks second globally behind the San Francisco Bay Area for number of funding rounds raised by climate tech start-ups, demonstrating an active early-stage ecosystem in London, according to London & Partners. The city’s promotional agency added that climate tech start-ups in London also have access to deep pools of dedicated climate tech capital, with the city home to 18 dedicated climate tech VC firms, more than anywhere else in Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-among-worlds-top-10-for-climate-tech-investment-report-1044444.html
26-10-2021||National||Why no action against Goa CM when Governor gave info: Congress to PM||Congress on Tuesday demanded the sacking of Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant following corruption allegations raised by former Governor Satyapal Malik, who also claimed that he had informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the incident. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala and party Goa in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao also said the government should constitute a time-bound investigation under the supervision of a sitting Judge of Supreme Court to find out the "corrupt practices" of the Goa government under the BJP. Malik, presently Meghalaya Governor, has claimed that he was shunted out as Goa Governor after he informed the Prime Minister about alleged corruption in the state government allowing only one company to sell essential items door-to-door during the Covid-19 lockdown while barring others. He also claimed that mining trucks were allowed during the lockdown and it became a "super spreader" in the state. At a press conference, Surjewala said corruption was writ large and the action of the BJP leaders led to burying of the concept of accountability to people several hundred feet below. He said the Prime Minister was aware of the charges but chose to "shoot the messenger" instead of taking action against corruption. Rao said, "if the Prime Minister is not taking action, the 'chowkidar' is a 'chor' (the security is thief). That is the inference. Why did he not take action? The Prime Minister is protecting the corrupt. Sawant has no moral right to continue," he said. The foundation of the BJP-led government in Goa is bribery and corruption and it was formed through backdoors in 2017 after the party failed to get a majority, he said. "The Governor has access to information and he looked into it and found out that our complaint has merit. After ascertaining the facts, he informed the Prime Minister. The Governor had done his job," he said, adding Modi should sack Sawant and order an investigation. Surjewala said the ED, CBI and other agencies should be directed to file a case against Sawant and all others involved in corruption. "The Prime Minister should come out and answer why no action was initiated against Sawant when the Governor had informed him about the rampant corruption by the Goa Government?" he said. "When Malik-ji had informed the Prime Minister about the corruption in Jammu and Kashmir, he was transferred to Goa. When he informed about the corruption in Goa, he was transferred to Meghalaya. Is the proper and correct meaning of double engine government is double engine of corruption?" Surjewala said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-no-action-against-goa-cm-when-governor-gave-info-congress-to-pm-1044448.html
26-10-2021||National||SC directs witness protection, expediting forensic examinations in Lakhimpur Kheri case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to provide protection to all witnesses and expedite forensic examinations of evidences in the case of October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence relating to killings of eight people, including four farmers. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana passed a written order, while going through a status report filed by the state government in sealed cover, in compliance of the top court's order of October 20. "We are as of now concerned with two issues. One is about the delay in getting all the reports by the state government from the forensic laboratories. In this regard, we direct the state government to make a request to the concerned forensic laboratories to provide all the reports to it as early as possible," the bench directed. "The second issue is that of protection of witnesses. Even though we have orally directed to provide protection to all the witnesses and the state has also taken some steps to do the needful yet to get out of the procedural formalities, we direct the state government to provide protection to all the witnesses as per the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018," the bench added. In its order, the bench also said if the state government feels any difficulty due to non-availability of judicial officers for recording of statement of witnesses under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code, we direct the concerned District Judge to entrust this task of recording of statements of these witnesses to any nearest magistrate.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-witness-protection-expediting-forensic-examinations-in-lakhimpur-kheri-case-1044451.html
26-10-2021||National||Navy officer among 5 arrested by CBI for leaking confidential info about submarine project||The CBI has arrested five persons including a commander-rank Navy officer for allegedly leaking confidential information related to an ongoing submarines project in return for illegal gratification, officials said Tuesday.  The agency has initiated action in a secret operation last month in which two retired Navy personnel and as many private persons in addition to the Navy officer were taken into custody, they said.  So far, the agency has conducted searches at 19 locations in Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad among others from where important documents and digital evidence have been seized and are being examined, they said.  It is alleged that the commander had discussed crucial details about the ongoing modernisation project of Kilo class submarines with the two retired officers for alleged illegal gratification, they said.  The Anti Corruption Unit of the agency, which handles sensitive and high profile corruption cases, was tasked to unearth the leakage of information following which the operation was started, they said.  The unit has questioned several other officers and ex-servicemen who were in regular touch with the arrested officer and retired personnel, they said.  The CBI is conducting a forensic analysis of digital products used by the officer to understand if the information had fallen into the hands of people with vested interests, they said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-officer-among-5-arrested-by-cbi-for-leaking-confidential-info-about-submarine-project-1044452.html
26-10-2021||National||Railways to operate 110 special trains to clear festival rush||To clear the extra rush of passengers during this festive season, Indian Railways will be running 668 trips of 110 special trains from Durga Puja till Chhatha Puja this year. "Special Trains have been planned to connect major destinations across the country on railway sectors," a statement from the railways said. "Crowd controlling measures by forming a queue at the terminus stations with the supervision of Railway Protection Force (RPF) staff for orderly entry of passengers in unreserved coaches is being ensured. "Additional RPF personnel have been deployed in major stations to ensure the security of passengers. Officers are deployed on Emergency Duty at major stations to ensure the smooth running of trains. Staff are deployed in various sections to attend any disruption of train service on priority," said the statement. Measures have been taken for the frequent and timely announcement of arrival/departure of trains with platform numbers. “May I Help You” booths are kept operational at important stations where RPF Personnel and TTEs are deputed for proper assistance and guidance of the passengers. Medical Teams are available at major stations on call. Ambulance with the paramedical team is also available," said the statement. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-operate-110-special-trains-to-clear-festival-rush-1044456.html
26-10-2021||National||Electoral bonds worth Rs 614.33 crore redeemed by political parties in October: RTI||Electoral bonds worth Rs 614.33 crore were sold and the whole redeemed by political parties during the latest round of bond sale in early October, according to an RTI response. In the previous phase in July, bonds worth Rs 150.51 crore were sold and the whole redeemed. In April, bonds worth Rs 695.34 crore were sold and only two bonds worth Rs 1,000 each were not redeemed. According to the RTI response provided by the SBI to transparency Commodore Lokesh Batra (retired) on Tuesday, the highest sale was in the Kolkata branch of the SBI where bonds worth Rs 200.67 crore were sold between October 1 and 10. Chennai branch came second with Rs 195 crore sale followed by Hyderabad where the bond sale was Rs 140 crore. There were sales of bonds in Bhubhaneswar, Mumbai, and Delhi branches also. When it comes to redeeming the bonds, the Hyderabad branch topped the list with Rs 153 crore while the KoLkata branch had bonds worth Rs 140.94 crore crore redeemed. Since 2018 when the electoral bond came into being, there were 18 phases of sales during which bonds worth Rs 7,994.96 crore have been sold while Rs 7,974.68 crore crore were encashed. The bonds which were not encashed amounting to around Rs 20.28 crore were transferred to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund. In 2019-20, the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) reported, four national parties -- BJP, Congress, Trinamool Congress and NCP -- and 14 regional parties together garnered Rs 3,441.31 crore through electoral bonds. According to ADR, 62.92% (Rs 2993.82 crore) of the total income of the four national parties came from donations through electoral bonds. Ruling BJP's income rose by 50.34% to Rs 3,623.28 crore in 2019-20 with the bulk coming from redemption of electoral bonds while three other national parties CPI(M), CPI and BSP did not receive any donation through electoral bonds.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/electoral-bonds-worth-rs-61433-crore-redeemed-by-political-parties-in-october-rti-1044460.html
26-10-2021||National||Vicarious liability can't be applied to contempt case: SC||Civil contempt means willful disobedience of a decision of the court and merely because a subordinate official acted in disregard of an order passed by the Court, liability cannot be fastened on a higher official, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. A bench of Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh said vicarious liability as a principle cannot be applied to a case of contempt. The apex court said Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 explains civil contempt to mean willful disobedience of a decision of the Court, and therefore, what is relevant is the “willful” disobedience.  "We are dealing with civil contempt. The Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 explains civil contempt to mean a willful disobedience of a decision of the Court. Therefore, what is relevant is the 'willful' disobedience. Knowledge acquires substantial importance qua a contempt order. "Merely because a subordinate official acted in disregard of an order passed by the Court, liability cannot be fastened on a higher official in the absence of knowledge. When two views are possible, the element of willfulness vanishes as it involves a mental element. It is a deliberate, conscious, and intentional act. What is required is proof beyond reasonable doubt since the proceedings are quasi-criminal in nature," the bench said. In law, vicarious liability is the responsibility assigned to an employer resulting from the actions of an employee. The apex court's judgment came on an appeal filed against the order of the Gauhati High Court finding the appellants guilty of willful disobedience of the order in respect to the levy made while upholding Section 21 of the Assam Agricultural Produce Market Act, 1972. The apex court, while setting aside the order of the high court, said it is the specific case of the appellants that they did not violate the directives of the court. "There is no material to either establish their knowledge on the action of their subordinates or that they acted in collusion with each other," the bench said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vicarious-liability-cant-be-applied-to-contempt-case-sc-1044462.html
26-10-2021||National||Govt panel investigating new Delta sub-variant: Mandaviya||A government panel of experts has been looking into a Delta coronavirus subvariant, AY.4.2, that has been detected in Britain, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday. “A team is investigating the new Covid-19 variant AY.4.2 … ICMR and NCDC teams will study and analyse the different variants,” the Minister said. Last week, Britain's Health Security Agency said that it was investigating AY.4.2 as it was possibly more transmissible than Delta, though there was no evidence that it caused more severe disease or rendered vaccines ineffective. It said that the AY.4.2 variant had accounted for 6% of all genetic sequences of SARS-CoV2 in the week beginning September 27. On Monday, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot asked the central government to prepare and issue standard operating procedures (SOPs) to check the spread of AY.4.2. INSACOG, a consortium of labs that are engaged in sequencing coronavirus variants, have said that there is no spike in Covid-19 cases due to the AY.4.2 subvariant. Mandaviya also mentioned that ongoing discussions on the pricing of children's vaccine ZyCoV-D were in their last stage, and it will be rolled out soon. The RNA-based vaccine, meant for the age group of 12 to 18 besides adults, got the Emergency Use Authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20. Asked about DCGI's approval of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine for kids, Mandaviya said he would wait for experts to give their advice. “We are exercising strict caution when it comes to getting children vaccinated and we would proceed only based on recommendations we get from experts,” he said. “The government does not want to act hastily in rolling out vaccines for children. It is expected that healthy children could get vaccinated from next year onwards. At the same time, comorbid children could be vaccinated earlier,” Mandaviya said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-panel-investigating-new-delta-sub-variant-mandaviya-1044464.html
26-10-2021||National||Larger conspiracy, bureaucratic inaction behind 2002 Gujarat riots, slain MP's wife tells SC||Zakia Jafri, widow of Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, on Tuesday told the Supreme Court there was a larger conspiracy at play, besides bureaucratic inaction, police complicity, hate speech to unleash violence during the 2002 Gujarat riots.  Senior advocate Kapil Sibal contended before a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar that his client was not concerned about high dignitaries and there was no politics, rather the issue was about law and order, and the right of the individuals. He was arguing on Zakia's plea challenging the SIT report, which gave a clean chit to the then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi and other high functionaries in the 2002 Gujarat riots.  The bench said it would like to see the closure report which was accepted by the magistrate in the case. Sibal said that the petitioner filed a complaint to DGP Gujarat categorically alleging there was a widespread conspiracy, which led to the crumbling of the law-and-order situation in the state after the Godhra carnage.  He alleged that the SIT has not produced relevant material before the court.  “I don’t want anyone to be named, anyone to be indicted but it is the law and order issue. This should not happen again. I only want investigation I do not want any convictions at this stage,” Sibal said. This was not a political issue, it was not an individual, rather an administrative failure of the state, he added. He said there are 23,000 pages worth of material, which were not confined to Gulbarga society case alone. “We only want this court to look at these pages. That is all we want. If the court limits it to Gulbarga, what happens to rule of law,” he asked. The court, which started hearing the arguments in 2018 petition, would again take up the matter on Wednesday. 81-year-old Zakia filed the petition against the Gujarat High Court's order of October 5, 2017, that upheld clean chit given to Modi and others by the Supreme Court-appointed Special Investigation Team.  The petitioner, whose husband Congress MP Ehsan Jafri was burnt to death in their house Gulbarga society, contended Modi, and 59 others, including bureaucrats and police officers, should be made accused for being a part of criminal conspiracy for the 2002 riots. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/larger-conspiracy-bureaucratic-inaction-behind-2002-gujarat-riots-slain-mps-wife-tells-sc-1044490.html
26-10-2021||National||Proceedings under SC/ST Act can't be quashed for taking of cognisance by magistrate: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that criminal proceedings initiated under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act cannot be quashed merely because cognisance has been taken by a judicial magistrate instead of a special judge designated under the law. "Merely on the ground that cognisance of the offences under the Atrocities Act is not taken directly by the Special Court constituted under Section 14, the entire criminal proceedings cannot be said to have been vitiated and cannot be quashed and set aside," a bench of Justices M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose said. Going through the legal provision, the bench said Section 14 is required to be considered minutely. The words used are “court so established or specified shall have power to directly take cognizance of the offences”. The word “only” is conspicuously missing here, the bench pointed out. The top court set aside the Gujarat High Court's judgement of May 9, 2019 which quashed the criminal proceedings against a group of police officers for abusing a woman of SC/ST community and causing her injuries.  It said the view taken by the High Court that the Magistrate has taken cognisance for the offences under the Atrocities Act and then committed the case to the Special Court and therefore, entire criminal proceedings were vitiated, cannot be accepted and is unsustainable.  "If the entire criminal proceedings are quashed on this ground, it will be given a premium to an accused who is alleged to have committed the offence under the Atrocities Act. Assuming for the sake of argument that the procedure adopted is irregular, in that case, why should victim who belonged to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes community be made to suffer," the bench said, ordering initiation of proceedings against the accused police officers. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proceedings-under-sc/st-act-cant-be-quashed-for-taking-of-cognisance-by-magistrate-sc-1044503.html
26-10-2021||National||Cruise drug bust: Maharashtra CM to write to PM Modi||In a political twist, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on how the NCB’s Mumbai unit was being run and Bollywood was being targeted. Thackeray met state Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil, and having discussed the issue, explored the possibilities of setting up an SIT. NCP chief spokesperson and state’s minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said that Thackeray would be writing to Modi. “The chief minister expressed his concerns at how Hindi film industry’s image is being maligned globally. After Hollywood, it’s the most important film industry, employs millions of people and contributes around 3-4% to the national GDP,” Malik said. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cruise-drug-bust-maharashtra-cm-to-write-to-pm-modi-1044513.html
26-10-2021||National||Harish Rawat promises to dissolve Devasthanam Board if elected to power||Former chief minister Harish Rawat Tuesday offered prayers at Kedarnath and promised the teerth-purohits at the Himalayan temple he will dissolve the Chardham Devasthanam Board if elected to power. His forehead smeared with sandalwood paste and a trident in hand, Rawat also danced next to an ascetic with long tresses to the chants of 'Shiv tandav stotram' outside the temple. The Congress leader later posted several videos of his visit to Kedarnath on his Facebook page. Talking to reporters in Kedarnath, Rawat said that most of the reconstruction works done in Kedarpuri had been initiated during his tenure as the chief minister. "However, the present government has made superficial changes in the works to put its own stamp on them and pass them off as its own," he said. When asked about his priorities if elected to power again, Rawat said he would first take up his unfinished work and ensure that the traditional rights of hak-hakookdharis and priests remain intact. To a question on whether he would dissolve the Devasthanam Board, he said, "From our side, it stands dissolved". The teerth-purohits standing next to Rawat greeted his announcement with loud cheers shouting slogans like "Harish Rawat tum sangharsh karo hum tumhare saath hain," (Harish Rawat you lead the fight we are with you). Teerth-purohits have been agitating against the board ever since it came into existence during Trivendra Singh Rawat's tenure. They feel it was an encroachment upon their traditional rights over the temple. Prompted by their prolonged agitation against the board, Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had to set up a committee headed by Manohar Kant Dhyani to look into the issue and submit a report. The panel spoke to all stakeholders and submitted its report to the state government on Monday. However, the recommendations of the committee have not been made public.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harish-rawat-promises-to-dissolve-devasthanam-board-if-elected-to-power-1044515.html
26-10-2021||National||Rashtrapati Bhavan opens its door for credential ceremonies of foreign envoys for first time after Covid-19||The new ambassadors of Israel, Egypt, Luxembourg and Slovenia to India presented credentials to President Ram Nath Kovind at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Tuesday. This is the first time the Rashtrapati Bhavan opened its door for the foreign envoys to present credentials to the President after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. The President has been accepting credentials from the newly appointed foreign envoys in virtual ceremonies since March 2020. Naor Gilon, Israel’s new ambassador to India, is among the new foreign envoys, who presented the credentials to the President of India on Tuesday. India-Israel friendship is based on shared values as prominent ancient civilizations in the past and leading democracies in the present, Gilon said on Tuesday. “Next year in January, we will mark 30 years of Diplomatic Relations between our countries (Israel and India). I am sure that our close existing cooperation in different fields will only continue to grow and flourish in the coming years,” he said. Peggy Frantzen, Wael Mohamed Awad Hamed and Mateja Vodeb Ghosh Ambassador, the new envoys of Luxembourg, Egypt and Slovenia to India, also presented their credentials to the President on Tuesday. Kovind interacted with the four newly appointed foreign envoys separately and highlighted the close bonds that India shared with the countries and the multifaceted relationship that India enjoyed with them, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rashtrapati-bhavan-opens-its-door-for-credential-ceremonies-of-foreign-envoys-for-first-time-after-covid-19-1044522.html
26-10-2021||National||Film industry should be 'drug-free' but drug addicts must not be put in jail: Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Tuesday stressed that there is a need to make the film industry "drug-free" but said drug addicts must not be put in jail and there must be a change in this law. Possession of drugs is a criminal offence in India and Section 27 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act prescribes imprisonment of up to a year or a fine of up to Rs 20,000, or both, for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance. Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was recently arrested under this section. Speaking to reporters, the Union minister of state for social justice said there is a provision to put drug addicts behind bars but not alcoholics. "Our ministry says that we should try to make a drug addict drug mukt. That is why we have come out with a circular that people should not take drugs but if one does take drugs then putting them in jail is not right and there must be a change in this law," he said. Currently, the law says that there must be a compulsory jail term for these people whatever quantity it is in. "So action is taken against both the drug addict and drug smuggler. The NCB has taken action against many since actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. There is a need to change the atmosphere of the film industry and there is a need to make drug mukt film industry and most drugs are sold in film industry and artists get addicted so there is a need for action against them too," he said. The social justice and empowerment ministry had recently suggested decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs for personal consumption in its recommendations submitted to the Revenue Department over review of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The ministry suggested that the compulsory treatment in government centres must be given to those caught with small quantities for personal consumption instead of a jail term, an official said. Aryan Khan was arrested in a case of alleged seizure of narcotic drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/film-industry-should-be-drug-free-but-drug-addicts-must-not-be-put-in-jail-athawale-1044529.html
26-10-2021||National||Assam, Andhra, Bihar, Karnataka, Maharashtra most vulnerable to adverse climate events, says study||Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka and Maharashtra are most vulnerable to adverse climate events such as floods, droughts and cyclones in India, according to a report by a Delhi-based think tank. The Climate Vulnerability Index released by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) shows that over 80 per cent of Indians live in districts vulnerable to climate risks. At the upcoming climate conference COP-26, to be held in Glasgow from October 31 to November 12, developing countries like India are expected to demand that developed nations ramp up and deliver climate finance timely. "This will help developing countries to strengthen adaptation mechanisms against such extreme climate events and also accelerate the low-carbon transition. The existing commitments made by developed countries are insufficient and yet to be met," CEEW said in a statement. The study highlighted that 463 districts in India are vulnerable to extreme floods, droughts and cyclones. "More than 45 per cent of these districts have undergone unsustainable landscape and infrastructure changes. Further, 183 hotspot districts are highly vulnerable to more than one extreme climate event," it stated. Climate Vulnerability Index also revealed that more than 60 per cent of Indian districts have medium to low adaptive capacity. Dhemaji and Nagaon in Assam, Khammam in Telangana, Gajapati in Odisha, Vizianagaram in Andhra Pradesh, Sangli in Maharashtra, and Chennai in Tamil Nadu are among the most climate-vulnerable districts, it said. Arunabha Ghosh, the CEO of CEEW, said that combatting the rising frequency and scale of extreme climate events is fiscally draining for developing countries such as India. "At COP-26, developed countries must regain trust by delivering the USD 100 billion promised in 2009 and commit to stepping up climate finance over the coming decade," he said. India must collaborate with other countries to create a Global Resilience Reserve Fund, which could act as insurance against climate shocks. This would ease the fiscal pressure on the most climate-vulnerable countries, especially from the global south, Ghosh said. "Finally, developing a Climate Risk Atlas for India would help policymakers to better identify and assess risks arising from extreme climate events," he added. Abinash Mohanty, the programme lead at CEEW and lead author of the study, said the frequency and intensity of extreme climate events in India have increased by almost 200 per cent since 2005. "Our policymakers, industry leaders and citizens must use the district-level analysis to make effective risk-informed decisions. Climate-proofing of physical and ecosystem infrastructures should also now become a national imperative. "India must create a new Climate Risk Commission to coordinate the environmental de-risking mission," he said. With loss and damage rising exponentially due to the climate crisis, India must demand climate finance for adaptation-based climate actions at COP-26. Enhanced climate finance can also support India-led global agencies like the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure to further mainstream climate actions, Mohanty added. The CEEW study also highlighted that the states in India's northeast are more vulnerable to floods, while the ones in the south and central are most vulnerable to extreme droughts. "Further, 59 and 41 per cent of the total districts in the eastern and western states, respectively, are highly vulnerable to extreme cyclones,” it said. The CEEW study also indicated that only 63 per cent of Indian districts have a District Disaster Management Plan. While these plans need to be updated every year, only 32 per cent of them had updated plans until 2019, it said. "Highly vulnerable states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Karnataka and Gujarat have improved their respective DDMPs and climate-proofed critical infrastructures in recent years," the study noted. It recommended that restoration of climate-sensitive landscapes will act as natural shock absorbers against extreme climate events.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-andhra-bihar-karnataka-maharashtra-most-vulnerable-to-adverse-climate-events-says-study-1044534.html
26-10-2021||National||Centre proposes new rules to make helmets mandatory for child pillion riders||To ensure safety of children, the Union Ministry of Road Transport has proposed new rules which will make mandatory for child pillion passengers aged between nine months and four years to wear helmets and safety harnesses. The ministry issued the draft notification to amend the central motor vehicle rules to comply with the latest change in the Central Motor Vehicle Act. The Ministry also proposed that the speed of a motorcycle with a child upto age four years being carried as a pillion, should not be more than 40 kmph. Violation of these rules will attract a fine of Rs 1,000 and suspension of driving licence for three months, said the draft notification. The draft rules says, the driver of a two wheeler in which there is a pillion rider below four years, safety harness has to be used for attaching the child to the driver. Safety harness is an adjustable vest to be worn by the child with a pair of straps attached to the vest and forming shoulder loops to be worn by the driver. “This way, the upper torso of the child is securely attached to the driver. A feature by which this is achieved is by attaching the straps to the back of the vest and crossing the straps over the vest so that two large crossing-over loops are formed that pass between the legs of the passenger,” the draft notification said. The protective gear including safety harness has to be lightweight, adjustable and shall be designed to hold weight upto 30 kg. After detail consultation with stake holders over draft notifications, the Ministry will issue a final notification. Welcoming the proposal, K K Kapila, president Emeritus, International Road (IRF) said, "An amendment to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1989, making it mandatory for children above 4 years to wear helmets has been pending in the Parliament for a long time." "The road ministry's proposal that the driver of a two-wheeler should ensure that child pillion below four years should be attached to him/her with the help of a safety harness was much needed in the country for long,"he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-proposes-new-rules-to-make-helmets-mandatory-for-child-pillion-riders-1044537.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||TMC counters PM Modi's 'double engine govt' pitch in Goa||To counter Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent call for the continuation of the “Double Engine Government” in Goa, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) coined “Double Engine Disaster” as the tagline of its campaign against the ruling BJP in the coastal state. The TMC on Monday published a “charge-sheet” against the BJP governments in Goa and the Centre, alleging that both were disastrous for the people of the coastal state. The party published the “charge-sheet” ahead of its supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit to Panaji on Thursday. The party alleged on Twitter that although the local authorities had a few days back given it the go-ahead to release the “charge-sheet” at Azad Maidan in Panaji, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant’s government in Goa on Monday had withdrawn the permission citing concerns over law and order situation in the State. “This is unacceptable and blatant misuse of power,” the party stated, adding that the BJP government in Goa had already been rattled by the love that the people of the state had for the TMC and its supremo Mamata Banerjee. The TMC leaders, however, held a low-key event to release the “charge-sheet”, setting the tone of its campaign for the assembly elections to oust the BJP government in the State, where the assembly elections would be held in February-March next year. Banerjee, herself, will formally launch her party’s campaign in Goa during a visit to the coastal state next Thursday. Modi recently called upon the Goans to ensure the continuation of “double engine” government in the coastal state for sustained development. He was obviously referring to the BJP governments both in Goa and in the Centre. He indicated that if the same party remained in power in Goa and in the Centre, Sawant Government’s programmes like “Swayampurna Goa” would continue to generate jobs and self-employment opportunities for the people of the state. Luizinho Faleiro, a former Chief Minister of Goa, and TMC MPs - Saugata Ray and Mahua Moitra - released the charge sheet against the BJP Government in Goa. “(The) ‘People’s Chargesheet’ spells out all the sufferings that people of Goa have been put through – from economic distress, infrastructural mismanagement, environmental destruction, out-of-control law and order to worsening healthcare and education and social injustice,” tweeted Faleiro, who quit the Congress and joined the TMC a few weeks back and was appointed as one of its national vice-presidents recently. The charge sheet held the BJP governments both in the State and the Centre for growing unemployment in Goa. It alleged that the Goans could no longer afford to own a home in Goa. It also accused the state and the union governments of betraying the fishermen and the farmers. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-counters-pm-modis-double-engine-govt-pitch-in-goa-1044193.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||Pragya Thakur warns filmmakers against hurting Hindu sentiments||Accusing filmmakers of hurting sentiments of the Sanatan Dharma in the name of entertainment, Bhopal BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur on Monday said the Bharat Bhakti Akhada headed by her will create a separate department to vet scripts, contents of movies and web series, and if needed will not allow the making of controversial films. She also threatened to stop the shooting of the third season of the web series "Ashram", a day after suspected Bajrang Dal activists vandalised the set of 'Ashram' in Bhopal and threw ink on director Prakash Jha. The activists had accused Jha of portraying Hindus in a bad light. Police arrested four people for the ruckus. Thakur said that various forms of entertainment should give the right direction to society and not hurt the sentiments. “They (filmmakers) are forcing us to watch movies and take action against them. We will not tolerate anybody maligning the Sanatan Dharma,” Thakur told a news channel in reply to a question about linking Sunday's incident with the upcoming elections. Thakur said seers don't watch movies but the Bharat Bhakti Akhada (formed by her in February 2019) will set up a separate department to vet script (of controversial movies) and movies before their release or "we will not allow the making of such films". "I will take action against such persons (those making movies on these subjects) in the Censor Board,” she said. The BJP leader further said she will write a letter to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in this regard and take legal action. Earlier in the day, a group of seers submitted a memorandum to Thakur demanding the release of the men arrested for ransacking the set of 'Ashram-3' at the Old Jail in Bhopal's Arera Hills. Talking to reporters on the occasion, Thakur threatened to stop the shooting of the web series. "An 'ashram' is an arrangement of sadhus under the Sanatan Dharma. It is not a subject that anybody can portray in a bad light. An ashram is not a subject on which anybody can raise a finger. A person can be wrong and action can be taken against such people under the existing system. But it will not be tolerable if anyone defames this (Ashram) arrangement of the Sanatan Dharma or Hindus and religious leaders,” she said. Thakur alleged that the image of the Sanatan Dharma was being maligned in the name of entertainment. “Being a sanyasi, I can feel the pain of sadhus. Our mind gets pleased and starts emanating good feelings when we hear the word 'Ashram' but this is being presented in a distorted form,” she added. Thakur alleged the sentiments (of Hindus) were being hurt through various entertainment mediums since Independence in the absence of leadership in the country. “The movies have become a medium to hurt the sentiments of Hindus...This should stop now, not only in MP but in the entire country,” she said. She dared filmmakers to make films on subjects like church, madrasa (Muslim seminary), the Bible and the Quran. Thakur said directors and producers of communist ideology are continuously targeting Hindus, their history and idols since Independence. "Nobody makes movies on the subject like 'Love Jihad' and there is also a Jameen (land) jihad going on under which the land is being grabbed on a large scale not only in Bhopal but also at other places," she alleged. After the Sunday incident, Madhya Pradesh Home minister Narottam Mishra Monday said producers and directors will have to inform authorities about objectionable content or scenes in their stories before seeking permission for shooting in the state. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pragya-thakur-warns-filmmakers-against-hurting-hindu-sentiments-1044240.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||Consensus emerges in CPI(M) over cooperating with Congress to fight BJP||A general consensus appeared to have emerged in the CPI(M) over continuing its cooperation with the Congress on tackling the "increasing danger" of the BJP, with its central committee clearing an outline of the political resolution for its triennial conference. The party's Polit Bureau will now prepare a text on the basis of the outline in a meeting next month to be presented in the Central Committee in January for clearance of the draft political resolution, which will get its final nod in the Party Congress in Kannur next April. The three-day Central Committee meeting, which ended on Sunday, cleared the outline without any deviation from the line presented by the Polit Bureau though some leaders expressed their reservation over continuing understanding with the Congress. The issue of relationship with the Congress had been a thorny issue for the CPI(M) and it had reached a crescendo at the 2018 conference where present General Secretary Sitaram Yechury managed to push the political line of entering into understanding with all secular parties, including Congress, to fight the BJP while making it clear that there should not be any political alliance with the Congress. There was speculation that the Central Committee meeting would be stormy, especially after Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote in Malayalam party weekly 'Chinta' about the Congress losing its pole position in several states and that the Sonia Gandhi-led party should not be the core of the Opposition efforts against the BJP. However, sources said, even the Kerala unit was a "mixed bag", as some of them, including leaders from the minority communities, argued in favour of Yechury's line that the situation has worsened after the BJP's victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and keeping the Congress away was not a prudent line. Some Kerala leaders argued that the CPI(M)'s "courageous" position of working with Congress has earned benefits in the state with minority community voters expressing their confidence in the party in the last Assembly elections. They argued that these voters found CPI(M) was "sincere" in its fight against the BJP while the minority communities did vote for Congress in other states. The latest round of the Central Committee meeting is in contrast to the deliberations prior to the 2018 conference when a group led by former General Secretary Prakash Karat, which included the state units of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana among others, were against cooperating with the Congress. The run-up to the triennial conference witnessed stormy scenes with Yechury not being able to push his line as the Central Committee dominated by the Karat faction managed to clear their draft resolution. Several meetings to thrash a compromise met in failure and when the draft was presented before the Party Congress, Yechury had the last laugh. With a majority of the delegates from across the country in support, Yechury managed to amend the resolution after the Karat faction threw in the towel. A meeting of the Central Committee during the Party Congress decided to bring an amendment to the draft it prepared earlier and the impasse was passed. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/consensus-emerges-in-cpim-over-cooperating-with-congress-to-fight-bjp-1044253.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||BJP acts like it owns central probe agencies: Shiv Sena amid political row over NCB's cruise drugs case||Amid a political slugfest over the cruise drugs seizure case of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the Shiv Sena on Tuesday said the BJP acts like it owns central investigation agencies, but it should not forget that in a democracy owners do change. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana said the allegations of Rs 25 crore demand in the drugs case, in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is an accused, are just the tip of the iceberg. "The owners and their employees should be beware of the consequences,” it said. The question is not about actor Shah Rukh Khan or his son, but it is about the character and honesty of the central investigation agencies. Who is going to find out where Kiran Gosavi, one of the (NCB's) witness in the case, is hiding? it said. Gosavi, who is facing cheating allegations in Pune, was untraceable after his photos and videos with Aryan Khan went viral on social media following the NCB's raid on the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month. On Monday, Gosavi refuted the extortion claims made by his aide and another witness in the case, Prabhakar Sail, and said he will surrender shortly before the Lucknow police. The NCB has ordered a vigilance inquiry into the claims made by Sail about of an extortion bid of Rs 25 crore by some agency officials, including its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, and others for letting off Aryan Khan. The three ruling parties in Maharashtra - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress- have repeatedly claimed that central agencies were being used to target the opposition parties. The editorial in 'Saamana' said, "The BJP acts like it owns the central investigation agencies. It should not forget that in a democracy owners do change. There are proofs for it in history. The party (BJP) should not forget that it is like any other political party. It should also remember that political power comes and goes." "The BJP was once a party of some principles, sacrifice and nationalism, but we cannot expect the same thing from it in its current form. Even the veterans in the BJP are uncomfortable,” the Sena claimed. It said people have been wondering about the claim of Rs 25 crore demand made in the Aryan Khan case for a few grams of drugs. "How much bribe amount was sought to settle the case of 3,500 kg heroin found at the Adani group-controlled Mundra port in Gujarat? Nobody knew when that case was closed, but the Aryan Khan case is still going on,” the Marathi daily said. It said the law related to drugs use says consumers of such substances should be rehabilitated. They should be punished for their acts, but ensure they do not fall into the same trap again and again. But, in reality, it is not happening, the Sena said. The present NCB officials were also involved in probing a drugs case related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput case where a transaction of Rs 4,000 was made from a bank account of actor Rhea Chakraborty, it said. It is not the duty of the NCB to probe a case of Rs 4,000, the editorial said. There is a similar department of the Maharashtra police which deals with drugs cases, but never goes for publicity, it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-acts-like-it-owns-central-probe-agencies-shiv-sena-amid-political-row-over-ncbs-cruise-drugs-case-1044283.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||DNA of those who burst crackers in India after Pakistan's win in T20 WC is not Indian: Anil Vij||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said the DNA of those who burst firecrackers in the country if Pakistan wins a cricket match against India cannot be Indian. He also said that one needs to be careful of “traitors” hiding in one’s own country. “The DNA of those who burst firecrackers in India on Pakistan winning a cricket match cannot be Indian. Be careful of the traitors hiding in our own house,” Vij tweeted in Hindi. The senior BJP leader’s comments come amid media reports of some Kashmiri students allegedly cheering for Pakistan and raising objectionable slogans. He appeared to be responding to a tweet by PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, who questioned the anger directed towards Kashmiris for celebrating Pakistan's win. "Why such anger against Kashmiris for celebrating Pak’s win? Some are even chanting murderous slogans- desh ke gadaaron ko goli maaro/calling to shoot traitors. One hasnt forgotten how many celebrated by distributing sweets when J&K was dismembered & stripped of special status," she had tweeted. Lets agree to disagree & take it in the right spirit like Virat Kohli who was the first to congratulate the Pakistani cricket team. Pakistan had registered a 10-wicket victory over India in the ICC T20 World Cup tie in Dubai on Sunday. Meanwhile, the Jammu and Kashmir Police registered two cases against medical students in Srinagar under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for celebrating Pakistan's victory over India in the T20 international cricket match, officials said on Tuesday. Six people were also detained in Sambha district after a video purportedly showing objectionable slogans being raised by a group of persons following the match went viral on social media, police said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dna-of-those-who-burst-crackers-in-india-after-pakistans-win-in-t20-wc-is-not-indian-anil-vij-1044294.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||Speculation over Amarinder's next move, may launch party on October 27||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh may launch his new political party here on Wednesday, according to speculation triggered by the announcement of a press conference. Singh had last week said he would soon launch his own party, and that he was hopeful of a seat arrangement with the BJP provided the ongoing farmers' stir against farm laws was resolved in their interest. The development comes just months ahead of the Punjab assembly elections. Singh, who faced an unceremonious exit from the state government last month, had also said that he was looking at alliances with like-minded parties such as breakaway Akali groups. The two-time chief minister had added that he would not rest till he secures the future of “my people and my state”. Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Tuesday, however, said if Amarinder Singh floated a new political outfit, he would be making a “big mistake”. Singh's face in Punjab will be “scarred”, Randhawa said and added that the Congress gave respect to Amarinder Singh and he enjoyed several posts in the party. Randhawa has been attacking Amarinder Singh over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam. He even went to the extent of saying that a probe would be carried out to ascertain if Alam has links with Pakistan's spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu's wife, Navjot Kaur Sidhu, too attacked Amarinder Singh over the issue of his new political party. Amarinder Singh never came out of his farmhouse in the last four and a half years, and now, he suddenly talks about floating a party, she alleged. Navjot Kaur Sidhu further said Amarinder Sigh already had a party and he could have done some work in the last over four years. Singh had resigned as the Punjab chief minister last month amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Sidhu. After resigning, he had said that he felt “humiliated”. Congress replaced Singh with Charanjit Singh Channi. Singh had also dubbed Sidhu "anti-national" and "dangerous", saying he would pit a strong candidate against the state party chief in the upcoming assembly polls. Singh had last month met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi and had discussed the prolonged farmers' stir with him while urging him to resolve the crisis urgently with the repeal of the three farm laws. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speculation-over-amarinders-next-move-may-launch-party-on-october-27-1044368.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||Are you fighting the BJP or providing cover fire: Congress to TMC||The Congress on Tuesday targeted the Trinamool Congress for its foray into Goa, saying elections should not become "tourism" and parties need to introspect whether they are strengthening the BJP or providing it "cover fire" in the fight against the "corrupt" government in the state. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Congress is determined to fight for a "transparent" government in the state, which he said is besieged by corruption, while demanding the immediate sacking of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant who is facing fresh allegations from former Goa Governor Satyapal Malik. Following its victory in West Bengal, Trinamool Congress is attempting to expand its national imprint and has set its eye on Goa hoping to win it or at least become the biggest Opposition party. It has even poached one of the senior leaders Luizhino Faleiro, a former Chief Minister. Surjewala was asked how the Congress is going to deal with Opposition parties entering the Goa electoral scene that could have an impact on its prospects as well as on Opposition unity. Trinamool has charged the Congress that it has not done anything after a meeting called by Sonia Gandhi on August 20 and so it took an initiative on its own. He said every party has the right to fight elections but sought to corner the Trinamool saying it fought the 2017 Goa Assembly elections but left the state after it failed to win any seat. "Elections are not tourism. Fight one election and leave. Then reappear after five years (when the polls are near). While I respect, I recognise the right to fight the election independently, for that is the beauty of the democratic polity, they need to understand what they are fighting," he said. "Parties also need to introspect and I am saying this with great respect to their rights to democratically fight elections. Are they strengthening the fight against the BJP or are they providing cover fire for the BJP?" Surjewala told a press conference. He said he would leave that question to them to decide. But, he said, the Congress will "determinedly, unitedly and decisively" fight against the "corrupt architecture created by the BJP" in Goa. Surjewala said Congress, its president Sonia Gandhi and former chief Rahul Gandhi have fought the BJP and the Narendra Modi government single-handedly, "without bowing down, without getting cowed down, without even retracting a step, at the cost of many personal sacrifices, despite being persecuted by the ruling dispensation. When other Opposition parties were targeted by the Modi government, he said the Congress has always supported them irrespective of whether they were on opposite sides. "Opposition parties whenever they get ED notices, whenever their leaders are summoned to the ED offices or CBI offices unjustifiably, I agree, that is also part of a persecution plan. Many times they retract and many times blatantly or patently some of them have compromised. I don't blame them. Everybody necessarily may not have the courage to stand for truth, come what may. We empathise with those smaller parties. We will support those smaller parties even when they oppose us. Because it is our duty to stand with everybody who is being wrongly persecuted," he said.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/are-you-fighting-the-bjp-or-providing-cover-fire-congress-to-tmc-1044382.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||Congress to undertake massive membership drive from November 1: Randeep Surjewala||The Congress membership drive starting from November 1 will have a special emphasis on first-time voters and women besides using it as a platform to campaign against the Narendra Modi government's anti-people policies. The decision was taken at a meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and attended by party General Secretaries, in-charges and state presidents here on Tuesday. In the meeting, Sonia told the leaders that they will have to ensure proper printing and distribution of forms in every ward and village across the country.  She said that the state leadership should identify and assign Congress leaders and office bearers the task of going house-to-house and enrol members in a transparent fashion. "You must ensure the clear delineation of the responsibilities of these individuals at the state, district, block, ward and village level. This is a vital responsibility that you are entrusted with," she said. Briefing about the decisions of the meeting, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that the party is making arrangements for applying for membership physically as well as through digital means.   The meeting decided that the party would reach out to "every nook and corner, every ward and village across the country and offer Indians in the remotest parts, a platform for their aspirations" and there would be special emphasis on enrolling first-time voters as party members, he said. Congress leaders and workers will especially visit the localities and homes of people belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes, hold interactions with them by laying special focus on the steps initiated by the Party for their welfare and inclusion. "It was also resolved to take on the enrolment of women in mission mode from all sections of society. The core idea is not just a nationwide outreach to specific sections of youth, women and the marginalised but also to bring out the fact that the Congress is the only vehicle to fight the designed attack on the lives and livelihoods of these sections by the policies of the Modi government," he said. The meeting was also briefed about the training programme approved by the Congress Working Committee earlier this month with Sonia herself telling the meeting that the fight to defend Indian democracy, Constitution and the Congress' ideology begins with being fully prepared to identify and counter false propaganda. Recognising the "diabolical and systematic" attack unleashed by the BJP-RSS not only on the Congress ideology but on the core fundamentals of justice, equality and affirmative action enshrined in the Constitution, Surjewala said the meeting expressed concern over the "systematic subjugation of democracy by unconstitutional means and virtually holding every institution captive to the whims and caprices of the ruling elite". "The meeting noted that every party functionary-from ordinary congress workers to the senior-most Congress leader- would need to take on this fight based on the core of the Congress ideology and the founding principles of India. To do this meaningfully, it was resolved to initiate a comprehensive training programme at all levels of the party," he said, adding the meeting also discussed the contours of the agitation programme against price rise next month. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-undertake-massive-membership-drive-from-november-1-randeep-surjewala-1044387.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||Opposition kept faith imprisoned, vied with each other to hold Iftar: Adityanath||Accusing Delhi CM of remembering Lord Ram before elections, UP CM Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday charged various opposition parties’ government of keeping “the faith imprisoned” while vying with each other to hold Iftar parties. While making the allegations shortly after Kejriwal visited various temples in Ayodhya, Adityanath, referring to the mass exodus of migrant workers of UP and Bihar during Covid lockdown, asked how “Dilliwale” will manage to give freebies to people whom he drove out of the national Capital earlier. “They need to be told that they could not handle a small state like Delhi but at the time of assembly elections they are eyeing UP,” the CM said while addressing a rally of the Lodh community to which late UP CM and Rajasthan Governor Kalyan Singh belonged. Without taking names, Adityanath said the people who used to “abuse” Lord Ram earlier are visiting Ayodhya to pay obeisance to Him after realising that he will not be able to sail through in the upcoming elections. “This is good. At least they have accepted the existence and importance of Ram,” he said. Training his guns especially at the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party, he said, Adityanath said, “The governments’ thinking happened to be centred only around a family or a pedigree earlier. But the work today is done today considering that the entire state is a family,” the chief minister said. “This is the difference between the earlier and today’s governments and this needs to be conveyed to everyone,” he said. “There used to be a competition earlier. Competition for what? The competition that who will hold how many Iftar parties? And it was done on government’s expenses,” said Adityanath, adding, “But this does not happen today. If we have a secular state, it has to be equal for all.” “Earlier before festivals like Holi, Diwali and Dusshera, curfew used to be imposed. They won’t allow the celebration of these festivals. Curfew on one side and the lathi of administration on the other,” lamented the chief minister. “They used to keep the faith imprisoned, but it is not so today,” he said. Recalling the demolition of the disputed structure of the Lord Ram Janmabhoomi temple-Babri Masjid, he said, "There was no opposition leader who did not put the then Chief Minister Kalyan Singh in the dock on December 6, 1992.” “Kalyan Singh, on the other hand, had stood solidly (behind the movement) and took responsibility for it,” said Adityanath. Attacking the Samajwadi Party, the chief minister referred to an SP poll advertisement with the tagline, “Main aa raha hoon (I’m coming) and said around the same time the ad proclaimed their arrival, an SP office-bearer in Auraiya kidnapped eight people and started extortion. This led the people to ask if the “aa raha hoon” meant the arrival of the old days of “kidnapping, goondagardi, loot, anarchy and lawlessness”, Adityanath said, adding, “This will not happen at all as the state has changed." Training his guns at the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party, he said, “The first thing we did after coming to power was waiving farmers' loan.” “But what did they do on forming their government in 2012? The first thing they did was the withdrawal of the cases of the terror attack on the Ram Janmabhoomi and the second was the dropping of the Kosi Kalan riot cases,” the UP CM said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-kept-faith-imprisoned-vied-with-each-other-to-hold-iftar-adityanath-1044455.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||Kejriwal trying to 'wash away his sins' by offering prayers at Ram Janmabhoomi site, says Gambhir||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir on Tuesday targeted Arvind Kejriwal over his Ayodhya visit, alleging the Delhi chief minister was practising "double standards" in politics and trying to "wash away his sins" by offering prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi site. No immediate reaction was available from the ruling Aam Aadmi Party over Gambhir's remark. Delhi CM Kejriwal offered prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi site in Ayodhya on Tuesday and said his government will include the temple town of Ayodhya in the Delhi government's free pilgrimage scheme. "All of us are aware of what (Arvind) Kejriwal and his associates have stated regarding the Ram temple issue on several occasions. Now he is trying to wash away his sins by going to Ayodhya," Gambhir, the BJP MP of East Delhi said in a statement. "Arvind Kejriwal is another name for hypocrisy and double standards in politics.  In some ways, parties like the AIMIM are better than Kejriwal because they are clear with their communal agenda and work accordingly," the cricketer-turned-politician charged. Led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), a Telangana-based party, is looking to expand its base in other states and has decided to contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Kejriwal said a special cabinet meeting is scheduled in Delhi on Wednesday in which Ayodhya will be included in the list of the free pilgrimage tour programme. Now the people of Delhi will be able to visit Ram Janmabhoomi as well, he added. Under the 'Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana' for senior citizens, the Delhi government bears the expenses of about 77,000 pilgrims every year. Delhi residents above the age of 60 are covered under this scheme. Kejriwal who is also the national convener of the AAP said that if his party forms government in Uttar Pradesh, the residents of the state will also get free pilgrimage to Ayodhya. The AAP has decided to contest next year's UP Assembly elections. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kejriwal-trying-to-wash-away-his-sins-by-offering-prayers-at-ram-janmabhoomi-site-says-gambhir-1044473.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||Congress's 'no alcohol' norm divides party||To allow party members to drink or not have divided the Congress, it seems. The stipulation in the membership form that the individuals seeking to join the party will have to declare that they "abstain from alcohol" came up for discussion at a meeting of Congress leaders here on Tuesday. Congress' membership is starting on November 1 and a section of leaders at a meeting chaired by party president Sonia Gandhi argued that this stipulation should be omitted from the form. However, sources said, another section felt that it would have a negative impact on Congress' image. The meeting, sources said, formed a panel to further deliberate on the issue. While there was division on the issue of consuming liquor, there was unanimity on the issue of barring its members from consuming drugs. The new members will also have to give an undertaking that they would not criticise the party in public. The new members will also have to give a declaration that they will not own any property in excess of ceiling laws and will undertake tasks, including "manual labour" prescribed by the party. "This is an old form and is part of our party constitution. And we expect all Congress members, including new ones, to follow these norms," Madhusudan Mistry, the Chairman of the Central Election Authority of the Congress, was quoted by PTI earlier.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congresss-no-alcohol-norm-divides-party-1044484.html
26-10-2021||National Politics||BJP's Mohit Bharatiya files defamation complaint against minister Nawab Malik||Mohit Bharatiya, a former president of the BJYM Mumbai, on Tuesday, filed a criminal complaint against Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik in a court for allegedly defaming him by making "baseless allegations" in connection with the cruise ship drug haul case. The complaint was filed in the court of Metropolitan Magistrate, Mazgaon, for offences under Indian Penal Code sections 499 (defamation) and 500 (punishment for defamation). Bhartiya stated that Malik had defamed him and his family by making baseless allegations against them. According to the complaint, filed through advocate Ramiz Shaikh, Malik had addressed a press conference on October 9, "the narrative of which was to condemn the said raid by the NCB (Narcotics Control Bureau) at the Cordelia Cruise ship". The NCB had arrested Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and others after raiding the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2. The agency had claimed that it recovered drugs. The accused (Malik) was sore with the Narcotics Control Bureau as they had arrested his son-in-law in connection with another narcotics case in January 2021, it said. During the said press conference, Malik purposefully and intentionally defamed the complainant and his brother-in-law Rishabh Sachdev to further the agenda that the NCB was acting under the influence of the Bharatiya Janata Party, as per the complaint. The narrative of the press conference since the beginning was to draw a corollary between the BJP and the NCB and in that said attempt, the accused made serious associations and connections of the complainant to the infamous raid. The complaint stated that Malik has misused his dominant position of being in power as a cabinet minister of the ruling party of the state government to target the NCB who were audacious enough to prosecute his son-in-law. Bharatiya also claimed that the defamatory utterances by Malik have lowered and tarnished his image in the eyes of the general public and the reasonably-minded persons. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-mohit-bharatiya-files-defamation-complaint-against-minister-nawab-malik-1044514.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah spends night at CRPF camp in Pulwama; says will see a peaceful J&K 'in our lifetime'||The Modi government has a zero-tolerance policy towards terror, and while the situation has improved a lot in Jammu and Kashmir, "we should not be satisfied till total peace is achieved", Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Monday. Shah, who extended his three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, stayed for the night at the CRPF Campus in Lethpora in Pulwama where a suicide car bomb attack by Pakistan-sponsored terrorists in February 2019 had left 40 paramilitary personnel dead. "I want to spend one night with you people and understand your problems," Shah said addressing the security personnel at the CRPF campus, adding it was his "most important" engagement during his visit to the Union territory. Shah said that the law and order situation has improved a lot in Jammu and Kashmir, adding that he was hopeful "we will be able to realise a peaceful Jammu and Kashmir as envisaged by Prime Minister Modi during our lifetime". “Stone-pelting incidents are only seen when we try to look for them. There was a time when stone pelting was common in Kashmir. Such incidents have decreased to a huge extent. But, I want to say that there is no need to be satisfied,” Shah said. “Narendra Modi government has a zero-tolerance policy towards terrorism. We cannot bear it. It is against humanity. It should be our priority to save the people of Kashmir from the persons who are linked to this heinous crime against humanity,” he said. The Home Minister expressed his gratitude to the CRPF and other security forces for ensuring that there was no bloodshed after Article 370 was revoked in August 2019. "There are many changes that are happening on the development front, in infrastructure, industrial and education sectors because the Army and CRPF are ensuring that all sinister designs are defeated," Shah said. He said when Articles 370 and 35A were revoked, there were many apprehensions that "there would be a huge reaction". "It was possible as well, that perhaps there could have been bloodshed, but today I have come here to tell you and tell you freely that because of your alertness not a single shot was fired. It is a huge thing for us. “The alertness with which 28,000 jawans and also J-K policemen worked after a major decision was taken in national and J-K's interest, no blood was shed and a new era of development was started in Kashmir,"' he said. Its effect is visible in the fact that the Pulwama which was known across the country and the world over for the terror attack on CRPF will now have a medical college to be built at the cost of Rs 2000 crore, he said. Shah said during 2004-14, an average of 208 civilians and 105 security personnel were killed every year, but in the 2014-21 period, it has come down to 60 personnel and 30 civilians per year. However, he asked why should even 30 civilians lose their lives to terror incidents. Shah said the people of J-K have accepted the decision of the revocation of Article 370. "All the forces here have taken care of the law and order situation in a right manner. So, as the country's Home Minister, I thank you for the good work,” he said. Shah said when Modi's vision of development in J-K is completed successfully, there will be peace. “And I believe that we will be able to see it in our lifetime only," he said. "Jammu and Kashmir stands as an example of the fact if we are able to provide a secure environment and grassroots level democracy, anything can be achieved," the minister said, adding development in J-K is moving ahead at a double speed. Shah said India, which was at the 11th position in 2014, will be a major economic power soon. "Today we are at sixth position and I am sure that by 2024 we will reach the third position," he said. The union minister said it was an honour for him to spend a night with the CRPF jawans at the campus in Pulwama. “It is a very important programme for me to be with the forces whether the Army, BSF, CRPF or SSB who are protecting every last inch of the border. This is the last programme of my J-K visit and I can say this without any doubt that it is the most important programme,” he said. A suicide bomber of the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror group had attacked a CRPF convoy in Pulwama district on February 14, 2019, leaving 40 personnel dead. India then launched a counter-terror airstrike against a JeM training camp in Balakot on February 26. The next day, Pakistan Air Force had retaliated and downed a MiG-21 in an aerial combat and captured its pilot Wing Commander Abhinanadan Varthaman, who was later released. The IAF had said that during the aerial engagement on February 27, one of its MiG-21 Bison shot down a Pakistani F-16 fighter jet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-spends-night-at-crpf-camp-in-pulwama-says-will-see-a-peaceful-jk-in-our-lifetime-1044233.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri: SC asks UP govt to file separate report on probe in second FIR||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a separate report on investigation in the second FIR in October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which four persons, including a journalist, were killed, immediately after mowing down of four farmers, protesting against the agri reforms laws. Taking up a PIL, a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana also ordered protection of witnesses in the first FIR and expeditious recording of their statements. Senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj, representing Ruby Devi, widow of Shyam Sundar, submitted before the bench that her husband's killers were roaming free and no action had been taken against them. There are three accused who are allegedly responsible for her husband's death and the police have not taken any action against them, he said "The killers are roaming free and threatening us," he said. Senior advocate, Harshvir Pratap Sharma, appearing for the family of the journalist Raman Kashyap also asked the court to direct the police to apprehend the accused involved. The bench asked senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government to file separate replies. Salve, for his part, said Shyam Sundar was an accused and got killed in the incident that following the first offence relating to mowing down of farmers. He said the police were investigating the second case in which the journalist was also killed. The court fixed the matter for further hearing on November 8. During the hearing, the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, expressed surprise that out of a gathering of 4,000-5,000 people, only 23 people are eyewitnesses to the incident. Reading out a fresh status report, Salve said that out of 68, thirty witnesses have recorded their statements under Section 164 Criminal Procedure Code. Of these, 23 are eyewitnesses.  The bench wondered how in a case where there were hundreds of farmers in a rally, only 23 people were there as eyewitnesses. Salve said digital evidence was being examined in the matter. It was on the basis of eyewitnesses' statements that 16 accused have been identified, he said.  As many as eight people, including four farmers, were killed on October 3, when a car allegedly ferrying the Union Minister Ajay Mishra's son ran over a group of protesters, gathered to oppose a programme attended by Uttar Pradesh's deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in Lakhimpur Kheri. The minister's son, Ashish Mishra was subsequently arrested in the case after the top court took up the letter petition filed by advocate Shiv Kumar Tripathi and another person and pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government over the delay. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-sc-asks-up-govt-to-file-separate-report-on-probe-in-second-fir-1044290.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah pays tribute to CRPF jawans killed in 2019 Pulwama attack||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday paid homage to 40 CRPF jawans who were killed in the deadly Pulwama terror attack in February 2019 in Jammu and Kashmir. Shah, who was on a four-day visit to the Union territory, laid a floral wreath at the memorial constructed last year for the victims of the attack carried out by Jaish-e-Mohammad. The home minister later took to Twitter to pay tributes to the martyrs. "At Pulwama martyrs memorial, paid tributes to the brave CRPF jawans who were martyred in the cowardly attack. The supreme sacrifice you made for the security of the nation makes our resolve stronger for uprooting the menace of terrorism. My revered tributes to the brave martyrs," he tweeted in Hindi. Shah also planted a sapling in the memory of the martyrs. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-pays-tribute-to-crpf-jawans-killed-in-2019-pulwama-attack-1044293.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Four of family die in house fire in Delhi||Four members of a family died on Tuesday after a fire broke out on the third floor of a building in East Delhi's Old Seemapuri area, officials said. The incident took place when the victims were asleep, they said. The deceased have been identified as Horilal (59), his wife Reena (55), their son Ashu (24) and daughter Rohini (18). The family members were sleeping on the third floor of the house, while their 22-year-old son Akshay had a narrow escape as he was sleeping on the second floor, they said. A call about the fire was received at around 4 am and four fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services. Domestic articles in a room on the third floor of the house caught fire, resulting in the death of four people. The victims were found dead on the spot. The building comprised ground plus three floors and situated in an area of about 25 square yards, he said, adding that it was a minor fire. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahadra) R Sathiyasundaram said, "Our police team and Delhi Fire Services staff reached the spot immediately and the fire was brought under control. The crime team, officials from Forensic Science Laboratory and other senior officials also visited the scene of incidence." Police said the fire might have broke out and spread across the third floor of the building. The victims might have died due to inhaling smoke, but only the post-mortem report will be able to ascertain the exact cause of death. Akshay, the only surviving member of the family, works as a labourer in Safiabad. He had come home at around 2 am after work. He went to the third floor to get food and later slept on the second floor. He survived since the fire did not spread from the third floor of the building, police said. Horilal was working as a peon in Shastri Bhawan, Delhi and was due to retire in March 2022. His wife worked as a sweeper in MCD. His daughter was a class 12 student at a government school while his son was unemployed, they said. All the bodies have been shifted to Guru Teg Bahadur hospital mortuary for post-mortem, they said. A case has been registered under IPC section 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house) and 304A (causing death by negligence), the DCP said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-of-family-die-in-house-fire-in-delhi-1044302.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||CJI Ramana-led bench to deliver verdict on use of Pegasus spyware on October 27||The Supreme Court will pass orders on Wednesday on a plea to probe the allegations of snooping on citizens, particularly Opposition leaders, journalists, activists through Isreal's Pegasus spyware. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana will pronounce the judgement on October 27, according to the cause list available on the Supreme Court's website. The court had on September 13 reserved its order on interim directions to be issued on a batch of petitions for an independent probe into the use of the spyware. It had indicated to form a technical experts committee to examine the matter. The Centre, for its part, had also proposed to constitute an expert panel, comprising of independent members, to examine the allegations. It also assured to disclose details before the experts' panel. However, the government had declined to file a detailed affidavit, saying the use or non-use of a particular software can't be debated in such a manner since it involved questions of national security and might alert potential terrorist or terror organisations to develop counter-measures. The court, for its part, said it did not want any details which compromised with the national security but wanted to know if any inquiry had been ordered by the government. On July 18, an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers that were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software.  A batch of petitions including those by advocate M L Sharma, CPI(M) MP John Brittas, N Ram, former IIM professor Jagdeep Chokkar, Narendra Mishra, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, S N M Abdi and Editors Guild of India were filed for an independent probe into the matter. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cji-ramana-led-bench-to-deliver-verdict-on-use-of-pegasus-spyware-on-october-27-1044311.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Give compensation to farmers for damaged crops due to unseasonal rains: Kejriwal to Channi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urged his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday to immediately provide an appropriate compensation to farmers of the border state for crops damaged due to unseasonal rains. The Delhi government had last week announced that it would pay Rs 50,000 per hectare as compensation to farmers in the capital who suffered crop losses due to inclement weather. "Crops in many areas of Punjab have been completely damaged due to unseasonal rains. In Delhi, we have announced Rs 50,000 per hectare as compensation to farmers who have suffered losses. I appeal to Punjab CM Channi to provide an appropriate and immediate compensation to farmers in his state,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. पंजाब के कई इलाकों में बेमौसम बरसात से किसानों की पकी तैयार फसल खराब हो गई है. दिल्ली के किसानों को हम ₹50,000 प्रति हेक्टेयर के हिसाब से मुआवजा दे रहे हैं. मैं पंजाब के सीएम चन्नी जी से अपील करता हूं कि पंजाब के किसानों को भी उचित मुआवजा जल्द से जल्द दें. Last week, he had said that all SDMs and DMs in Delhi were surveying the sites where the crop was ruined. "I hope that the survey will be completed within the next two weeks so that we can dispense the compensation within one and a half months after that," the Delhi chief minister had said. Unseasonal heavy rains and hailstorms damaged major crops such as paddy, sugarcane, potato and peas in many parts of northwest India last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/give-compensation-to-farmers-for-damaged-crops-due-to-unseasonal-rains-kejriwal-to-channi-1044323.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal offers prayers at Ram Janambhoomi site in Ayodhya||AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday offered prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi site here, and said his government will include the temple town of Ayodhya in the Delhi government's free pilgrimage scheme. The Delhi chief minister also visited the Hanumangarhi temple here on the second day of his Ayodhya visit. "I was fortunate that I got the chance to bow before Ram Lalla and I wish everyone must get this chance. Whatever capability I have, I will use that to make more and more people have 'darshan' here,” Kejriwal said after visiting the temples. "I prayed to Lord Rama that all my countrymen live happily, the pandemic of corona should end and our country must witness the best developments in the coming days,” he said. Elaborating on the plan to help people visit the temples here, Kejriwal said, “In Delhi we are running the 'Chief Minister's Tirth Yatra Yojana' under which free pilgrimage is provided to the people of Delhi to all the pilgrim places including Vaishno Devi, Rameshwaram, Dwarka Puri, Haridwar, Rishikesh, Mathura and Vrindavan.” Kejriwal said a special cabinet meeting is scheduled in Delhi on Wednesday in which Ayodhya will be included in the list of the free pilgrimage tour programme. Now the people of Delhi will be able to visit Ram Janmabhoomi as well, he added. Under this scheme, Delhiites are provided travel by AC trains and stay in AC hotels and all the expenses are borne by the government of Delhi. This service is free of charge, he said. Under the 'Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana' for senior citizens, the Delhi government bears the expenses of about 77,000 pilgrims every year. Delhi residents above the age of 60 are covered under this scheme.  On being asked whether he has made any donation for construction of the Ram temple, Kejriwal said, "I have also donated for Ram Mandir but donations must always be kept a secret". The Delhi CM said on Twitter that he took the blessings of Shri Ram Lalla and also had 'darshan' of Bajrang Bali and prayed for the healthy life, happiness and prosperity of all countrymen. Kejriwal, whose party has decided to take a plunge in the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, had offered 'aarti' on the banks of the Saryu river on Monday and said it was an honour to visit the birthplace of Lord Ram. The party formally kicked off its poll campaign in September this year with its senior leaders Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh offering prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi and Hanumangarhi shrine in the temple town. The party had also taken out a 'Tiranga Yatra' in Ayodhya from the 18th-century mausoleum of Nawab Shujaudaulah to the Gandhi Park. The AAP has promised that it will provide 300 units of electricity free of cost to all domestic consumers, waive outstanding bills of 38 lakh families and ensure 24x7 power supply in Uttar Pradesh if it is voted to power in the assembly elections. The AAP will contest all 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-offers-prayers-at-ram-janambhoomi-site-in-ayodhya-1044324.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah visits J&K: 5 key messages to Kashmiris||Amit Shah went on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, his first after the government abrogated Article 370 on August 5, 2019, and revoked the erstwhile state's special status and bifurcated it into union territories. Here are 5 key takeaways from the Union Home Minister's visit: 1. Emphasis on development: Speaking on further development in the region, he said that an investment of Rs 12,000 crore had been received and by 2022, an investment of around Rs 51,000 crore was expected before 2022. He also said that the metro is to start in Jammu and Srinagar along with an airport. In order to make connectivity in districts easier, a helicopter policy was developed in which wall districts of J&K are to get helipads 2. Connecting with locals: The minister also visited Dal Lake and witnessed a laser. show. Tweeting about the experience, he called it a "mesmerising experience." It was a mesmerising experience to watch the musical fountain and laser show at Srinagar’s iconic Dal Lake. 3. Review of security policy: Amit Shah held a top-level security meeting with all forces and agencies at the Raj Bhawan. He said that terrorism, stone pelting has reduced after the abrogation of Article 370. He also visited Border Out Post in Maqwal, and met and spent time with BSF Jawans.  4. Homage to martyrs: During his visit, he also met families of security forces and terror activities and paid homage to martyrs. As soon as he landed he met the wife of an inspector who had been killed by terrorists in June this year after he was returning from praying at the mosque. He offered the inspector's wife a job. He also met families of other martyrs and civilians who were killed by terrorists in the Valley. 5. United India: Shah visited the Gurudwara Digiana Ashram in Jammu with Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and also the Kheer Bhawani Durga temple in Ganderbal. He also met Sufi saints and held discussions. He heralded Sufi culture as a focal point of India's rich heritage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-visits-jk-5-key-messages-to-kashmiris-1044325.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Cases registered against medical students in J&K for celebrating Pakistan's victory over India||Students and staff of two medical colleges in Srinagar have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for allegedly raising anti-India slogans and celebrating Pakistan's victory in the India-Pakistan T20 World Cup match. Reports said that the FIRs were filed on the basis of videos being circulated on social media, but no student has been named in the FIRs. Sources said that the police are in the process of identifying the accused and verifying the authenticity of the videos. The two cases have been registered in Karan Nagar and Soura police stations in Srinagar. The accused have been booked under Sections 105 (A) and 505 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 13 of the UAPA. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh confirmed that the cases have been registered. “Several videos of celebrations have been doing the rounds since the Indo-Pak match. But most are old as of 2017. But a new video of a government medical college has also emerged. We have registered an FIR and action will be taken,” he said. Nasir Khuehami, the national spokesperson of the Jammu and Kashmir Students’ Association, said the police action against the students is “too harsh and can ruin their careers and further alienate them.” People in several parts of Srinagar and other parts of the valley burst firecrackers on Sunday night and videos showed people dancing and cheering Pakistan’s victory.  Videos from GMC Srinagar showed purported female students celebrating Pakistan’s win and chanting the slogan “Islam zindabad”. This came at a time when Union Home Minister Amit Shah was on a three-day visit to J&K, his first since the revocation of Article 370 and the bifurcation of the erstwhile state in August 2019. Meanwhile, separatist-turned-mainstream politician and People's Conference chief, Sajad Gani Lone on Tuesday flayed a police FIR against MBBS students for allegedly celebrating Pakistan's win, saying in Kashmir "we have to live with those who are ideologically opposed to us.” "I strongly disagree. If you think that they r not patriotic enough because they cheered for another team- u should have the courage and the belief to wean them back if u think they have gone patriotically astray. Punitive actions won’t help. Have not helped in the past either, " Sajad wrote on Twitter while reacting to a woman suggesting that the students be suspended by the medical colleges. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cases-registered-against-medical-students-in-jk-for-celebrating-pakistans-victory-over-india-1044330.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede visits Delhi headquarters||Sameer Wankhede, the Narcotics Control Bureau's Mumbai zonal director who is leading the probe in the cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is arrested, visited the agency's headquarters here on Tuesday. The officer entered the NCB headquarters here in R K Puram area through a back entry gate and is expected to meet senior officers. He had landed at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport on Monday night. Some people holding banners and certain posters declaring their support for Wankhede were seen outside the NCB headquarters. His visit to Delhi comes in the backdrop of the NCB ordering a vigilance inquiry into the allegations made by a witness in the cruise drugs case of an extortion bid of Rs 25 crore by some agency officials, including  Wankhede, and others for letting off Aryan Khan. The officer told media persons outside the IGI Airport that he has not been summoned by the agency but has some work here as he said he did a fair job in the drugs-on-cruise case. Wankhede on Sunday had written to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance-related issue. On Monday, he failed to get any relief related to an affidavit on the sensational extortion claims made by the independent witness, Prabhakar Sail, with a special court saying it cannot pass a blanket order barring courts from taking cognisance of the document. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncb-mumbai-zonal-director-sameer-wankhede-visits-delhi-headquarters-1044338.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Former Uttar Pradesh minister Yashwant Singh acquitted in model code violation case||A special court here acquitted former Uttar Pradesh minister Yashwant Singh in connection with violation of model code of conduct during 2017 assembly polls. Special judge Gopal Upadhayay on Monday acquitted the former minister for lack of evidence. According to the prosecution, police had registered a case against Singh for allegedly pasting election posters on the walls of government buildings in violation of rules. Defense counsel Hafiz Ameer Ahmad said the prosecution failed to prove that the posters were pasted by his client. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-uttar-pradesh-minister-yashwant-singh-acquitted-in-model-code-violation-case-1044345.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||6 civilians injured in grenade attack in J&K's Bandipora||Six civilians, including a woman, were injured in a grenade attack by terrorists in Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, police said.  "At about 10:20 am, terrorists hurled a grenade upon the Army convoy near bus stand Sumbal which missed the target and exploded on road side," a police official said. The explosion caused injuries to six civilians, the official said. The injured were taken to SMHS hospital where their condition is stated to be stable, he added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-civilians-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-jks-bandipora-1044346.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||India-Pakistan match: 6 detained in J&K after video showing raising of pro-Pakistan slogans goes viral||Six people have been detained by Jammu and Kashmir police after a video purportedly showing objectionable slogans being raised by a group of persons in Samba district, following a T20 World Cup match between India and Pakistan, went viral on social media, officials said on Tuesday. The video triggered widespread protests by various social organisation in Samba district. The video shows over two dozen people belonging to a particular community celebrating the victory of Pakistan cricket team against India, and raising objectionable slogans on Sunday night. "Six people have been detained in this regard and investigation is going on,” Deputy Commissioner, Samba, Anuradha Gupta said. A police officer said an FIR has been registered. SSP Samba Rajesh Sharma said the detained people are being questioned regarding the incident. More people may be called for questioning, he said. Videos of medical students raising pro-Pakistan slogans at their hostels had also gone viral on social media recently. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-pakistan-match-6-detained-in-jk-after-video-showing-raising-of-pro-pakistan-slogans-goes-viral-1044360.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Volcano building up in J&K, celebrations over Pakistan win meant to provoke BJP: Abdullah||A volcano has been building up in Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah said on Tuesday and expressed fears over what shape it would take when it erupted. Celebrations in the Valley over Pakistan’s win against India in the T-20 cricket world cup while Home Minister Amit Shah was visiting were meant to provoke the BJP, which had taken away Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, the erstwhile state’s former chief minister added. “They (those who celebrated the win) don’t have anything to do with them (Pakistanis)… It was done to provoke the BJP. They were children and young boys and this should serve as an eye-opener for the BJP,” Abdullah said at a public meeting in Surankote in Poonch district.         The BJP claims a new phase has started and militancy has finished but the situation is otherwise, Abdullah said. He said Shah was the one who announced the state’s special status under Article 370 being revoked and also witnessed the celebrations after the Pakistan’s cricket win on Sunday. “They (the BJP) took away Article 370 and Article 35A from us and claim not a single bullet was fired. How could bullets have been fired when you have put a soldier outside the door of every household? A volcano is building up even as they think they have silenced (the people)... “This volcano will erupt one day and god knows what will be its shape and size. They have to return Article 370 to the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. In August 2019, the government revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 and bifurcated the state into the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Addressing the rally, Abdullah also defended his advocacy for a dialogue between India and Pakistan and asked people to pray to the almighty for good sense to prevail in both the countries and for a way out in the larger interest of peace and development in the subcontinent. Taking a dig at the BJP-led government, he said its policies triggered farmer unrest in the country even as it was asked to send the three farm bills to the select committee in parliament. Both India and Pakistan, the former chief minister said, spend a major chunk of their revenues in preparing for war, impacting their poor.         “The people of Jammu and Kashmir are sandwiched between the animosities of the two countries. The hostility is also the main reason to spread hatred and divide people on the name of Hindus and Muslims,” he said. In his view, political parties in both countries are winning elections in the name of Kashmir.                 “They (Pakistan) say Kashmir is our jugular vein and we have been suffering for 75 years. This side says this is our land and we will take back the land which is under the illegal occupation of Pakistan. Nobody has asked the people of Jammu and Kashmir where we stand,” he said.         Abdullah asked the people to be united and frustrate the designs of those bent on dividing them on communal lines. Mahatma Gandhi, he said, had seen a ray of hope in Kashmir. “We will become the beacon of that light once again and spread across the country by upholding unity and brotherhood.”         Any government which oppresses its people and fails to mitigate their sufferings is bound to vanish. He also drew examples from the Ramayana and the Quran to make his point. "I don’t know whether I will live till that day but I am sure the time will come when the government indulging in atrocities will witness divine intervention," Abdullah said. “The people want it to happen immediately but god has his own plans and so we have to keep patience."          He hit out at the Congress for their “studied silence” on the issue of the abrogation of Article 370. The Jammu and Kashmir Police has registered two cases against medical students under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for celebrating Pakistan's victory over India in Sunday’s match. The cases have been registered against students in hostels at Srinagar’s Government Medical College in Karan Nagar and SKIMS Soura, officials said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/volcano-building-up-in-jk-celebrations-over-pakistan-win-meant-to-provoke-bjp-abdullah-1044403.html
26-10-2021||North and Central||Decision on reopening of DU campus after Diwali: VC||Amid growing demand for reopening of the campus, Delhi University Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Singh on Tuesday said a decision in this regard will be taken after Diwali as there is a fear of recurrence of Covid-19 cases. Singh also said that in a recent meeting of teachers and principals, he had suggested increasing the timing of colleges by a couple of hours to accommodate the extra number of students admitted and to avoid overcrowding. Members of the Left-affiliated All India Students' Association (AISA) and other student bodies are on a hunger strike to press for their demand of reopening the campus for students. The Delhi University had resumed laboratory classes for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students from September 16 but the attendance has been thin. "We will decide after Diwali. There is a fear that Covid might recur. If the situation remains fine, we will think," Singh told PTI. The vice-chancellor also shared that there are plans to increase college timings by a couple of hours. He had made the suggestion at a recent meeting of principals and teachers. The Delhi University already has some evening colleges. "We can increase the timing of the existing colleges by a couple of hours, which could lead to the addition of more sections. This can help in adjusting the extra seats created and the EWS seats. This will be better than opening new colleges. "In Delhi Technological University (where Singh was the VC earlier), we had kept the timings from 8 am to 6 pm, which was helpful. In case it is done, the staff will come in a staggered manner and the teachers who have classes in the latter half of the day can come late. This was a suggestion in case colleges want to do it," he added. Singh the move will lead to flexibility, and avoid overcrowding during the time of a pandemic while the timings of administrative staff will be from 9 am to 5 pm. In a related development, members of the AISA and other student outfits continued with their hunger strike for the second consecutive day to demand the reopening of the campus. On the second day of the strike, students raised slogans against the pro-corporate methods of the education establishment, according to a statement said. "An all out attack on corporatisation must take place and the students, farmer and workers will continue to lead the way," said Jasbir Natt, leader of the farmer movement at Tikri Border addressing the students. Professor Nandita Narain, former DU Teachers' Association president, spoke about the pitfalls of online education. "Our students, the thinking minds of our country, are being converted into cheap labour for corporates. This plot of the government must be resisted," she said. The students have decided to continue the hunger strike and shall assemble at the Arts Faculty. Earlier, they had decided to hold a 48-hour hunger strike but on Tuesday decided to continue it till they get an assurance from the administration on reopening of the campus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/decision-on-reopening-of-du-campus-after-diwali-vc-1044533.html
26-10-2021||Oasis||Big picture from evergreen epics||Hindu mythology is full of symbolism. A person who is introduced to the subject for the first time will be fascinated by the stories within the stories. The debutante will be foxed by the farfetched imagery and the lack of apparent logic in its vast content. Some rational minds also put them down as poppycock nonsense. Yet, a true admirer of these tales will go back to them from time to time and explore their infinite immensity. Every time one is exposed to the already well-known tales, a new meaning emerges. What is more fascinating is the fact that it always, invariably caters to the mental and spiritual necessities of all age groups at all times. Just about every subject explored by mankind has been touched upon by these wonderful classics. The concepts of the sciences, technology, medicine, psychology, astronomy, astrology, occult, arts, architecture, trade and commerce, management principles, marketing mantras, soft skills et al have been interwoven ever so beautifully in these tales. A study of religion, philosophy and psychology tells us that angels and demons reside in the human psyche. When we lead a life of intrinsic goodness, the latent godly qualities in us are awakened. When we resort to deception, jealousy or violence, the devil in us will perk up. So, if we are under the impression that the Asuras or demons are evil entities, who are always prowling around to attack good people, we must stand corrected. The epics Ramayana and Mahabharata hold flashcards of lofty characters with impeccable values, incorrigible black sheep and those with characters of all shades in between. They mutely allow us to choose our role models. There is a couplet that says that sage Vyasa communicated only one message through his eighteen Puranas and his epic the Mahabharata: The best way is to gain Punya is to help others as much as possible. On the other hand, if one wants to accumulate sins, it can happen when you trouble others. All one has to do is just sit back and ruminate on the message of the stories. Parallels and similarities are bound to descend on us sooner or later. New solutions to old problems and old solutions to new can help us clean up the big picture of our lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/big-picture-from-evergreen-epics-1044470.html
26-10-2021||Opinion||Bangladesh economy spurts ahead even as risks gather||Fifty years ago, when Pakistan's pillaging, rape and loot killed an estimated five million people and Bangladesh came into being following the 1971 war with India, it was impossible even to imagine the economic miracle now undernway in that country. A sharp economic recovery from Covid indicates that for Dhaka, the good times may have just begun. Standard Chartered, a global bank, said in its latest report that the country would grow at over seven per cent in fiscal 2022. More importantly, this rate is likely to be sustained, making it a $500-billion economy by the fiscal year 2026. It is significant to comprehend that the Bangladesh economic miracle is not at some future date. It's already happened. Its per capita gross domestic product (GDP) in 2020 was $2,227, while India clocked $1,947 and Pakistan only $1,543.  Three key factors have propped this miraculous growth. First, Bangladesh has taken a robust approach on its comparative strengths, mainly in apparel and basic pharmacy products and fisheries, to build a global scale. The apparel industry has been now nurtured in Bangladesh for about thirty years. This has seen state-backed subsidies for power looms and a coordinated effort leveraging lower wage and power costs as China has shifted to value-added items in the apparel chain. Today Bangladesh is the world's second-largest apparel exporter after China, with exports of about $50 billion in 2019. The ability to attract industries such as apparel and basic pharmacy has also seen a broader social goal of job creation, and thus, the economic growth has seen a deeper uplift of the poor, a far broader return on investment for every dollar. Second, Bangladesh has leveraged a small base advantage in labour costs. While the monthly labour cost for apparel in China is an estimated $600 (Rs 45,023 approximately), in Bangladesh, it is around $190 (Rs 14,257 approximately). Bangladesh has relatively high female participation in the labour force. A gender gap report by the World Economic Forum in 2021 said that female labour force participation was around 34 per cent, which is far higher than India, where it is estimated to be only 22 per cent. This positions Bangladesh as a country that can transform economic growth to social equality faster than many developing countries.  The Bangladesh government has assiduously cultivated global textile quota privileges that give it export preferences given its low-income status. Bangladesh has also kept pace with trends in both manufacturing equipment and technical skills of the workforce. Apart from being an emerging global leader in apparel, Bangladesh is also leveraging its young overseas workforce to its advantage. With yearly remittances of $20 billion (Rs 1.5 lakh crore) funnelling back home, small businesses and tertiary industries such as aquaculture and transport have consistently seen double-digit growth for over a decade now. Finally, Bangladesh has seen promising returns in microfinance, leading to a small business revolution and a boost to equitable growth. However, even with the staggering growth, risks are on the horizon. The biggest risk for Bangladesh is political, and the rise of Islamic fundamentalism threatens the basis of its equitable development. If not dealt with an iron hand, it could scare away female labour force participation and foreign investment. The second risk for the Bangladesh economy is its over-reliance on just one industry – apparel - for over 85 per cent of its exports. While efforts are being made to change this, the pace of capital expenditure in footwear and pharmacy, two promising sectors, is inadequate. Bangladesh is becoming complacent in its growth, and that could be a risk.  The third risk comes from India. The Narendra Modi government has been incentivising apparel exports for the last three years, and it is showing results on the ground. This year India's apparel exports rose 22 per cent compared to Bangladesh at 18 per cent. If cotton and yarn prices continue their upward trend and Indian industry incentives add up to a pushback, in that case, the sheer size of Indian production capability could undercut Bangladesh exports over the next five years. This is especially true because as Bangladesh moves out of the least developed countries, it will lose some crucial quota benefits in trade.  In sum, Bangladesh's economy has been miraculous in its growth – Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and her team need more tricks up their sleeve to add magic to the miracle. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bangladesh-economy-spurts-ahead-even-as-risks-gather-1044288.html
26-10-2021||Opinion||The reach of bleach: Fem bleach ad failed in its gay rights message||Advertisements that contain a progressive social message are often slammed for precisely that reason — the message is abhorrent to those who are on the side of the bigots. Whether it was the ad for jewellery brand Tanishq last year that showed a Muslim family celebrating their Hindu daughter-in-law's baby shower or ethnic attire brand Fabindia's recent ad that gave an Urdu name to its Diwali collection, they attempt to portray India's multiculturalism and hence, infuriate illiberal yahoos who detest the idea of inter-faith harmony. The Dabur Fem bleach ad film, released last week, aspires to this liberal, socially conscious genre of communication since it shows a lesbian ‘married’ couple participate in Karwa Chauth, a north Indian cultural rite meant for heterosexual married couples. Expectedly, it has evoked a sharp reaction, and following Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra’s threat of legal action for showing “objectionable content”, Dabur India has apologised and withdrawn the advertisement.  The thing is, the right-wing rage against the ad completely misses the point. The outcry against it should have come for a host of other reasons.  The video shows two young women getting ready to celebrate their first Karwa Chauth festival. As part of the process of glamming up for the occasion, one of them applies the bleach to the other's face. We are told that they are observing the day-long fast for their respective partner's happiness and long life. Then, when night falls, we find the girls, resplendent in their silks and jewels, looking at each other through their sieves and breaking their fast, while an older woman watches them with a beatific smile.  The big reveal is, of course, that the girls are a same-sex couple. And as you take that in, a voiceover gushes: "Jab aisa ho nikhaar aapka, toh duniya ki soch kaise na badley? (When you glow like this, how can the world not change its mindset?)  Really? You need to be fair and glowy for the world to accept you as a lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, trans-sexual, queer (LGBTQ) person? The makers of this video must have felt that the ad ticked an impressive woke box, that it was mainstreaming LGBTQ people by showing a lesbian couple observe Kadwa Chauth. However, while one appreciates its attempt to bring the issue of gay rights into the public space, the ad is so muddled in its approach, so ill-thought through and wrong-headed in its storytelling, that it ends up entirely queering (no pun intended) that pitch.  Most women-centric ads tend to display sneaky sexism, suggesting as they do that women must change themselves (get glowing skin, cascading hair, perfumed body, become multi-tasking superwomen, and so on) to achieve success in work and life. In the Fem ad, though, the sexism is not sneaky — it is splashed all over.  First, its so-called progressive story is nailed to an utterly regressive cultural rite like Karwa Chauth, where a wife goes without food and water all day because this is supposed to endow her husband with a long life. What's even more outrageous is that it makes the social acceptance of gay people and their right to marry contingent upon their having fair and blooming skin.   This is as ludicrous as it is counter-productive. You cannot hope to advance the cause of LGBTQ people by yoking it to manifestations of the same obscurantism and cultural orthodoxy that heaps opprobrium upon them. The Indian obsession with skin colour — the belief that you're a loser if you're dark and that to be fair-skinned is to command love, attention and opportunities — is part of the cultural prejudices that run deep in our society. Suggesting that fairness gives gay people (especially female gay people) the passport to acceptance and tolerance is a monstrous affirmation of those prejudices and hence completely overturns the ad's pretensions of social consciousness. In 2018 the Supreme Court read down Section 377 (of the Indian Penal Code), a colonial-era law, thereby legalising gay sex between consenting adults. Despite that, the human rights of LGBTQ people are a long way from being fully realised. Same-sex couples in India cannot marry, cannot adopt children, and, in the absence of a comprehensive anti-discrimination law, they continue to face harassment and discrimination in many spheres of ordinary life.  On Monday, the Centre told the Delhi High Court, which was hearing a number of petitions seeking recognition of same-sex marriage, that marriage under Indian law had to be "between a biological man and a biological woman." Evidently, as far as the government is concerned, decriminalising gay sex does not translate into giving LGBTQ people the same social and legal rights enjoyed by their fellow citizens.  Mass media, including advertising campaigns, can certainly play a role in normalising the social acceptance of LGBTQ people and creating awareness about their rights. But half-baked communication that situates gay rights in the toxic mix of sexism, racism and retrograde cultural practices merely push the LGBTQ movement a few steps backwards. The Fem ad does exactly that.  (Shuma Raha is a journalist and author) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-reach-of-bleach-fem-bleach-ad-failed-in-its-gay-rights-message-1044344.html
26-10-2021||Opinion||Vaccination for all: Bringing offline and online together||On October 18, India managed to achieve 100 crore of vaccination doses in its fight against coronavirus within just nine months from the launch of the vaccine. This victory was partly enabled by the use of Co-WIN, which is a digital technology platform to facilitate the vaccination drive. Digital technology has enhanced the delivery process by enabling planning, distribution, and monitoring. The technology also has been helpful for the citizens in having vaccination records accessible everywhere in a digital format. At this moment, alongside acknowledging the significant gain against the unpredictable virus, it is crucial to examine questions of vaccine equity and future systems and processes that ensure Indians are protected from the virus, and the gains of technology are reaped by all. Evidence of gaps Recent research has shown several challenges to vaccine access among vulnerable populations. Research by Aapti Institute highlighted gaps related to the vaccine distribution process - including policy shifts (particularly early on), lack of nearby and accessible vaccine infrastructure and technical glitches in the Co-WIN platform itself. Structural realities like gender and caste compound questions of access. When overlaid with digitally mediated access through Co-WIN, several sections of the vulnerable get further left behind. I was not even aware of the existence of the Co-WIN app. My employer helped me in getting a vaccine. - Interviewee respondent from Bangalore This has significant consequences for women and the economically weak sections of society who had lower vaccination rates. Communities with lower levels of access to medical infrastructure and lower access to the hard infrastructure of technology in terms of physical devices and lower levels of digital literacy also experience similar struggles. Given that vaccines required payments at that time, the poor may not have wished to expend their resources on them. Despite rising vaccination rates, the unvaccinated have been experiencing discrimination. For instance, they cannot get back to their jobs or travel to their places of work due to their unvaccinated status. This is compounded by challenges such as a lack of trust in digital artefacts such as the vaccination certificate. Enhancing vaccination rates and trust The research highlights two key pathways to ensure wider access and deeper trust. Working with both these pathways is important to ensure wider access to vaccination and the true success of the digital certification. First, offline architectures - the human frontiers around technology - can be a critical enabler in enhancing vaccine equity and enabling the impact of technical systems. Previous research has shown that local community organisations, neighbourhood organisations, RWAs, and formal and informal political leaders play an important role in bringing the state closer to the marginal sections of society. Indeed, they help the state, and the citizens see each other. Instances of this were also seen when RWAs mobilised vaccination campaigns in their localities. In the case of technology, these intermediaries can enable access and negotiation with technology and the systems that underlie it. Working closely with these entities, while paying attention to some of the limitations in their approaches might be a critical pathway to mediate challenges around digital access. Second, examining the role of new digital intermediaries can be critical. The use of Co-WIN for booking slots and managing certification saw the rise of a new category of intermediaries - such as chatbots, slot notification, and apps for finding vaccine slots and managing bookings. The digital nature of these intermediaries meant that they excluded those without digital access, and thereby mirroring the existing digital divide. An unintended (and perhaps unforeseen) consequence was that these intermediaries ended up redistributing slots to favour those with access - depriving those in local communities of it. Nonetheless, despite these challenges, digital intermediaries can play a role in enhancing efficiencies for those with pre-existing levels of digital access and become managers for those who wish to rely on such systems. With them becoming prominent (for example, Healthifyme acquired Under45.in, Bangalore vaccine update, etc.), it is critical to think about regulatory mechanisms, accountability and governance processes, and crucially, financing. It also becomes essential to see if they can help build goodwill and trust in the vaccination processes by partnering with civil society organisations, community organisations, thus bridging the gap between online and offline. Co-WIN is useless for semi-rural areas. There was a vaccine shortage, and my son was continuously searching for slots to book for me - Interviewee respondent from Kozhikode As we go forward to ensure that vaccination for all is a reality, it is essential to think of a harmonious balance between civil society and the government in leveraging digital technologies for vaccination. There is a need to innovate and incubate frameworks to embed phydigital systems for state operations to ensure no one is left behind. With the need for booster shots, new strains of the coronavirus and the threat of more pandemics in the future, it becomes essential to build these institutions in place which caters for all and enables the gains of technology to be reaped by all. (The writers are with Aapti Institute) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/vaccination-for-all-bringing-offline-and-online-together-1044353.html
26-10-2021||Panorama||Have plan in place, oil to hit $100 per barrel||As US benchmark oil crossed $80 per barrel on October 8, a level last reached in November of 2014 and is likely to climb to $100/b, the Union government has to develop both short and medium-term plans to face the potential energy crisis. Already, the world - including the energy affluent US - is dealing with a global energy crisis. Intensity depends on countries and regions. But in India, if the government shows any urgency, public is not aware of it. One day we read that we have more than adequate quantity of coal to meet any likely power demand. Then we read the next day how coal inventories are much below the minimum level in many power plants. While this is one facet of the energy crisis, the other facet is the unexpected huge price rise of imported LNG and crude oil prices. Managing this huge import bill as we recover from the pandemic will not be easy. There is no simple explanation for the factors behind the world energy crisis. Unlike the earlier crisis, there is no geopolitical event this time. There was considerable uncertainty about how pandemic will affect the overall energy demand. While some were preparing for the economy to revive and thus increase in energy demand, most were expecting the third or fourth wave and oil demand to be lower. In the event, optimists seem to have been right so far. Some blame it on less than predicted power supply from renewables like wind and solar. Though International Energy Agency strongly refutes the argument that it was the energy transition to be blamed, the facts argue against such a thesis. Developed countries rightfully showed urgency to bring about the energy transition. This was also helped by the dramatic fall in solar energy prices in recent years. However, as we can see now, every country seems to have failed to do much needed prior planning to manage with known-unknowns of variable power supply to the grid. For example, in the UK, a closed-down coal power plant was started to supplement the power. In some countries because of the shortage of coal and higher natural gas prices, oil power plants have been started. In February this year, a monthly poll of 50 experts by Reuters predicted Brent price to average $54.47/b in 2021. In all likelihood, it may turn out to be around $75/b. Currently, Goldman Sachs is predicting oil prices to reach $90/b before year-end. It is useful to take a look at why oil pundits missed with a huge margin. Most of us had assumed that as oil prices go above $50/b, US shale producers will have the economic incentive to increase production. However, it did not materialise. This is because of several factors as we know now. Having lost money, banks were not willing to lend money to shale producers. Second, not knowing how long higher prices will last oil producers and investors were also not keen on investing. Finally, those mega oil companies with deep pockets were interested to increase free cash flow to reward their shareholders by increasing dividends. Spare capacity The even bigger unknown factor was the real ‘spare capacity' of the OPEC-plus. Based on IEA’s assumption spare capacity of 9 million barrels per day (mmbd) at the beginning of 2021, some have estimated to be just 6 mmbd. In the event, it appears to be even less. OPEC+ is not known for maintaining quota discipline. Despite demand exceeding supply and excess oil inventory declining, OPEC was not in a hurry to open the tap. They stuck to their original decision to increase production. Not only did most members maintain quota discipline, some could not even meet their allowable limit. Despite the pressure/request by the US president to OPEC and especially to Saudi Arabia to increase supply, oil futures which always overreact to such political pressure, prices have been increasing. This is also another indicator that there are supply constraints. It is a well-known fact that oil production in old wells declines every year by 3-5% and much more for shale oil. IEA has been warning of this natural phenomenon as an investment in oil and gas has been declining in recent years and especially since the pandemic. This might be another factor for production capacity decline both in OPEC+ and also in other countries since investment in the oil industry has declined substantially during the last six years. It was IEA that had urged the oil industry not to invest any more in new oil and gas exploration just a few months back. Now IEA is suggesting that OPEC+ needs to produce more. Such mixed signals create even more uncertainty and problems as energy transition gets momentum. Currently, we are just in the beginning stage of the energy transition with renewables meeting a small percentage of the power requirement. As renewables start dominating as is predicted in the latest IEA world energy report, the problem will get even worse unless we prepare better to balance the electrical grid. For India, where energy transition is only in its infancy, there is even greater urgency to have the best experts to prepare to manage future energy crises. In fact, in the current situation of a considerably smaller role for solar and wind (less than 4%), India should not have faced an energy crisis of low coal stock. The current crisis is the result of mismanagement by the government at the Centre and states. To avoid a more complex future energy crisis, the government should seriously consider merging all energy-related ministries like petroleum, coal, renewables, and power to have just one energy ministry. (The writer is a former governing council member of Manipal Institute of Technology, and an international oil expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/have-plan-in-place-oil-to-hit-100-per-barrel-1044468.html
26-10-2021||Panorama||The 4 stages of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease||Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), initially known as the smoker’s disease, has been witnessing a steep rise in the number of occurrences in India. Nowadays, people who aren’t active smokers are also falling prey to COPD. As a matter of fact, this disease is the third most leading cause of fatalities worldwide, with 3.23 million deaths alone in 2019. It is more prevalent in areas with severe air pollution and low air quality index. According to the Global Burden of Disease Study, women are more likely to be affected by air pollutants, whereas smoking and various occupational hazards directly impact men more.   What is COPD? COPD is a relatively common, long-term and treatable condition that makes it difficult for a person to breathe. The term is also used synonymously for Emphysema and Chronic Bronchitis.   Emphysema occurs from prolonged lung tissue damage and destruction of the alveoli (tiny air sac). This obstructs and reduces the absorption of oxygen, leading to shortness of breath. The lungs also stretch out and lose their springiness from this condition. Leading risk factors include exposure to air pollution, smoking tobacco and marijuana frequently, etc.  Chronic Bronchitis, simply put, is the severe long-term inflammation of the bronchi. The person is at risk of lung infections and damage. Common symptoms include excessive cough, chest discomfort, mucus from coughing (expectoration) etc.  COPD has various stages based on its severity. The classification or grading system used by medical professionals is known as the GOLD staging. The determining parameters of the same are:  Exhibitory symptoms  Seriousness of COPD  Hospitalisation from COPD  Spirometry test results (checks the amount of air and the pace at which one can exhale). There are two measurements for this Forced vital capacity (FVC)- the maximum amount of air one can breathe out after deep inhaling. Forced expiratory volume (FEV-1)- the amount of air one can exhale in 1 second.  This helps healthcare practitioners to provide better treatment and care to the patient.   GOLD Stage 1: Early  Here, a person might not even be aware of their COPD condition. The FEV-1 may range between 80-100 per cent. Typical signs are cough, mucus production, which one may easily confuse for common flu. Treatment options generally include bronchodilator medicines. These need to be inhaled using a nebuliser to open up the lung airway.  GOLD Stage 2: Mild  FEV-1 level drops to 50-79 %. Along with severe cough, increased mucus production, there is shortness of breath when doing high-intensity workouts or walking. If the condition is acute, the doctor may recommend steroids or oxygen intake.   GOLD Stage 3: Severe  In this case, FEV-1 is dangerously somewhere between 30-50%. There may be frequent cold, sickness, tightening of chest, swollen ankles, wheezing in addition to the previous symptoms.   GOLD Stage 4: Very severe During this stage, one runs the risk of developing heart or lung failure. Oxygen levels are low, and FEV-1 is below 30 per cent. The frequent flare-ups, breath shortness, can be fatal. In all probability, the patient will require surgery, lung transplant, lung volume reduction, bullectomy, etc.  Having severe COPD lowers the quality of life and reduces expectancy. There is no absolute cure to this, but one can make lifestyle changes to prevent the same.  Stop smoking at all cost  Take necessary precautions for occupational hazards  Wear masks to avoid dust particles and fumes  Do breathing exercises to improve lung functionality  Exercise   Get frequent health check-ups   Have a healthy diet and drink plenty of fluids  Keep your surroundings clean   (The writer is a pulmonologist and sleep medicine expert.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-4-stages-of-chronic-obstructive-pulmonary-disease-1044487.html
26-10-2021||Right in the Middle||The umbrella story||Now, with the onset of rains, the one thing in my mind is having an umbrella ready for use whenever I venture outdoors. The umbrella used to be an inseparable appendage for me not too long ago. Day and night, fair or foul the weather, the primly folded umbrella would be there in my hands, whenever I sallied forth outdoors. It’s not so with me these days, however. The prospect of holding a brolly in my hands outdoors now gives me a scare and shivers! As a matter of fact, my own indiscretion is to be blamed. One day, at the end of the club anniversary, I rushed out to fetch my portable umbrella from among the many, arranged on the stands. Grabbing a portable Bumbershoot — I learnt about its name while I was living in Dallas, Texas in the USA — I stepped out, sprinting forward hurriedly. But I was soon pulled back by someone hollering angrily at me. I turned back in wonderment to see what was the commotion about. There was a hefty, bald guy sporting a fierce moustache, gesticulating wildly at me, pointing to the umbrella in my hand. It took a few seconds for me, the dunderhead that I am, to realise that I had helped myself to a brand-new umbrella instead of my own not-so-brand-new.  Haste makes for waste. It's an old adage. I handed over the unintended loot, apologising profusely. But the corpulent guy wasn't impressed about my honesty of purpose, I could see. What with the way he regarded me, sizing me up and down suspiciously. And this wasn’t destined to be the end of the matter. More was there in store for me to come during the following days. Later, with the outbreak of rains, it was time all the gamps at home were repaired and got ready for use in times of need. I retrieved eight or ten of them, lying in the attic, and gave them to the tinkersmith for fixing them up. And even as I was carrying back home all those umbrellas later, there he was, of all in the world, the very same corpulent guy with his fierce moustache, glaring at me all the more fiercely. What a predicament this, for one to be regarded as a habitual pilferer of umbrellas! I needed quite a few days to live down the ignominy of all this. What a fix!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-umbrella-story-1044467.html
26-10-2021||Second Edit||Covid on wane but complacency dangerous||Experts now believe that an outbreak of the Covid-19 third wave is unlikely, but that should be no reason for the government or the public to let their guard down and throw caution to the wind as any complacency at this crucial stage would only turn the clock back nullifying the gains made so far. While the government did take necessary precautions to prevent large congregations during major festivals like Eid-ul-Fitr and Gauri Ganesha, over 10,000 people had gathered in and around Mysuru palace to watch the Dasara festivities ignoring all Covid protocols. The two Assembly byelections in the North Karnataka region this month may also hold forth a threat, given the disdain for following precautions. Experts feel another resurgence of the virus is remote due to a high seroprevalence rate and increase in vaccination coverage. Active cases in the state which had breached the six-lakh mark in mid-May, are now at the lowest in seven months at around 1,000. The test positivity rate in the state is less than 0.5% while it is below 1% in all districts — in about six districts it is either zero or near zero. However, Covid Technical Advisory Committee Chairman M K Sudarshan cautions that the virus appears to be in circulation mainly due to the failure to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and warns against negligence. Though statistics may appear comforting, the government should continue to be in a constant state of preparedness, lest the virus may decide to defy all predictions. As of now, there is no evidence that the government is geared up for any eventuality, and it would be unfortunate if it is caught napping as it was when the second wave hit the state. The government’s public announcements are confined to periodic revision of Covid guidelines without giving any indication of the steps taken to build capacity considering the scramble for beds and deaths related to oxygen shortage just a few months ago. There is also no information on the status of triage centres that were opened in all Assembly constituencies of Bengaluru which had helped streamline the system to a large extent. With experts opining that the pandemic is now heading towards the endemic stage, the government should step up surveillance in vulnerable areas to identify any infection well on time and prevent the spread of the virus to new regions. While the forecast by doctors and experts is reassuring, both the government and the public should be prepared for the worst, even while hoping for the best.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/covid-on-wane-but-complacency-dangerous-1044465.html
26-10-2021||South||Something new needs to be done: Kerala Governor on Mullaperiyar dam issue||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Tuesday said "something new needs to be done" in Mullaperiyar as the existing dam there is very old and people are working to reach an amicable settlement on the matter. "I think already everybody knows that the dam is very old. So something new needs to be done. But how to reach an amicable settlement, that is something on which people are working on the matter. Whenever there is any water dispute, then the judiciary is also involved", Governor told reporters here as the water-level in the over-a-century-old dam continued to rise reaching upto 137.60 ft at 9 am today. The Governor's statement came a day after the Supreme Court directed the supervisory committee to take a "firm decision" on the maximum water level to be maintained in Mullaperiyar dam. The apex court has directed all the authorities concerned to interact immediately on an urgent basis on the issue saying it has something to do with lives. The court told Kerala's counsel that their officers should responsibly interact with the concerned officers of Tamil Nadu and the committee on the issue. Responding to queries in the Assembly on Monday, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had slammed social media scare mongers claiming 'danger' to Mullaperiyar dam and warned of legal action against such elements. The CM has also told the state Assembly that the government is committed to its demand for a new dam at Mullaperiyar despite opposition, including from the Centre. Mullaperiyar dam, built in 1895 on Periyar river in Idukki district of Kerala, is operated by the Tamil Nadu government for its irrigation and power generation needs. Kerala is insisting on building a new dam, citing safety concerns, but Tamil Nadu is against it, saying the present structure was strong.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/something-new-needs-to-be-done-kerala-governor-on-mullaperiyar-dam-issue-1044300.html
26-10-2021||South||Kerala government's priority is to set up special courts to try crimes against women: CM Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said his government's priority is to open special courts to try cases related to crimes against women and children and has no plan as of now to set up any other new court in the state. He was replying to a submission in the state Assembly raised by legislator Xavier Chittilappilly on the setting up of new courts in the southern state. The Wadakkanchery sub-court has been included as third in the priority list for setting up new courts, he added. "The government has taken no decision at present on the setting up of new courts. Considering the present circumstances, priority is given to start special courts to try cases related to crimes against women and children," Vijayan said. Once they are ready, the government would look into the setting up of other news courts, the Chief Minister added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-governments-priority-is-to-set-up-special-courts-to-try-crimes-against-women-cm-vijayan-1044357.html
26-10-2021||South||Congress MP Muraleedharan booked for derogatory remarks against 22-year-old woman mayor||A police case was registered against Congress MP from Kerala K Muraleedharan on the basis of Thiruvananthapuram city mayor Arya Rajendran's petition accusing the MP of making insulting remark. Rajendran, who was in the limelight last year for being the youngest woman mayor in the country, lodged the petition against Muraleedharan at Museum police station in the city. The Congress MP said at a protest meeting in front of the city corporation office on Monday that even as the mayor was "looking beautiful, what comes out of her mouth was more terrible than the 'Kodungallur Bharani songs'". The Kodungallur Bharani songs are folk songs mixed with abusive words sung at the famous Devi temple in Kodungallur in Thrissur district during the famous Meena Bharani festival there. Such songs are sung by thousands of oracles assemble at the temple as part of a ritual on the occasion. Based on the mayor's petition, the Museum police registered a case under IPC sections 354A (Sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment) and 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman). Muraleedharan later stated that he was tendering an apology if his remarks had hurt the mayor personally. "I regret if my remarks have caused mental distress to anyone personally. I do not hesitate to say it. I do not want any of my statements to hurt anyone personally", the Vatakara MP said in a Facebook post. Both the CPI(M) and its youth outfit DYFI have flayed Muraleedharan for his remarks against Rajendran. She became the Mayor of Thiruvananthapuram at the age of 21 after the CPI(M)-led LDF swept the local body polls held last year.  (With inputs from PTI) Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-mp-muraleedharan-booked-for-derogatory-remarks-against-22-year-old-woman-mayor-1044406.html
26-10-2021||South||TN Governor asks for details on welfare schemes; DMK in a spot||Tamil Nadu Governor R N Ravi has asked for details about the functioning of certain departments and welfare schemes being implemented by them from the state government, triggering a political controversy and putting the ruling DMK in a spot.  Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu has written to secretaries of a few departments asking them to prepare “powerpoint presentations” to be presented before the Governor. The move by Ravi, who was transferred to Tamil Nadu from Nagaland in September, comes a month after he was sworn in as the Governor.  The Chief Secretary wrote the letter to department secretaries on October 18, days after Chief Minister M K Stalin met Ravi on the issue of seeking exemption from NEET for students from the state.  “I am to request you to be prepared to appraise the Hon’ble Governor about your department’s ongoing welfare schemes of both state and the Union Government. A powerpoint presentation may also be prepared for the above-said purpose,” Irai Anbu wrote to the secretaries.  The Governor’s request and the government responding in the positive has put the ruling DMK in an embarrassing situation due to its long-stated position on “interference by Governor” in the functioning of an elected government. In 2017, when the then Governor Banwarilal Purohit held review meetings with officials during his visit to districts, the DMK had termed it as “clear interference” in the functioning of the government and protested the move.   While the DMK saw nothing wrong in the Governor’s directive, its ally, Congress, came out against his calling for a presentation on the functioning of certain departments and termed it as a “clear overreach” of the powers of the Governor. DMK spokesperson T K S Elangovan said the Governor’s move cannot be termed as “overreach” and refused to view the development through the prism of politics. As his letter led to a political uproar, Irai Anbu released a statement on Tuesday downplaying the Governor asking for details. “Since the new Governor has taken charge, I sent a letter to secretaries asking them to keep ready details about welfare programmes. This is a routine development and politicizing this is not right. Those who understand the functioning of the government know this is normal,” he said.  Congress was also the first party to take objection to Ravi’s appointment as Tamil Nadu Governor citing his “track record” of his tenure in Nagaland.  “The news that the Governor has asked for details of welfare schemes is shocking. The Governor has no rights under the Constitution to monitor the functioning of the state government or its departments. A Governor is appointed by the President of India and not elected by the people,” TNCC chief K S Alagiri said in a strongly-worded statement.  Alagiri reminded the governor that the responsibility and duty of implementing schemes rest with the Chief Minister who has been elected by the people through MLAs.  “Under the circumstances, the Governor’s move is unconstitutional and has ulterior motives…The governor should extend his cooperation to Chief Minister M K Stalin who is delivering governance in the past six months instead of interfering in administration,” Alagiri said and wondered whether the Governor was trying to help BJP grow in Tamil Nadu.   Senior Congress leader and Tamil Nadu Minorities’ Commission Chairman S Peter Alphonse also took strong exception to Governor Ravi’s directive.  “The Governor should function within the powers accorded to him under the Constitution. Chief Minister M K Stalin had earlier opposed review meetings by the then Governor Purohit. He will certainly resist the pressure,” Alphonse said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-in-a-spot-as-tn-governor-asks-about-welfare-schemes-1044420.html
26-10-2021||South||Kerala panchayat offers incentives for planting trees to become carbon neutral||A panchayat at Wayanad district in Kerala is offering incentives to people for planting trees and initiating activities like promoting solar power, decentralised waste management and waste recycling with the aim of making the panchayat carbon neutral. Already over two lakh trees have been planted as part of the tree banking project at Meenangadi panchayat and an incentive of Rs 50 per tree is being given annually to landowners for each tree for a period of ten years. The target is to plant 5.5 lakh trees across the panchayat. The carbon-neutral project of Meenangadi was initiated in 2017 as a pilot project with the larger aim of making the entire high-range district of Wayanad carbon neutral. Though the aim was to declare the panchayat carbon neutral by 2020, it got delayed owing to the Covid pandemic as well as the local body elections in the state. Now the project is targeted to be completed by next year. Thanal, an NGO working in the field of environment protection, is implementing the project with the Kerala government's support. Meenangadi, which is situated around 15 kilometres from Kalpetta town of Wayanad, was estimated to have total carbon emission of 33,375 tonnes CO2 Eq in 2016-17, while the carbon sequestration was 21,962.53 CO2 Eq. The excess emission was found to be 11,412.57 tonnes of CO2 eq. Based on this, projects for bringing down carbon emission and enhancing sequestration were initiated, Thanal's programme officer Ajith Tomy told DH. Tree banking is one of the most effective initiatives being carried out. Various varieties of trees, especially fruit-bearing ones like jackfruit and mango, are being planted on private premises and the landowners are offered Rs 50 per year for each tree as an incentive for ten years. They need to return the money without interest only if the trees are cut. A geotagging of the trees were also being done. Tomy said that many farmers were having a large extent of land where 100 to 200 saplings could be planted. Hence the farmers would be receiving a reasonable amount as an incentive under the tree banking project. Promoting the use of solar lamps, decentralised waste management, reuse of plastic waste for road construction purposes are other major projects aimed at reducing carbon emission. The carbon emission assessment had found that the transport sector was contributing 45 per cent of the emission. Hence various projects like promoting electric vehicles and use of public transport systems were also mooted as part of the project, he said. Meenangadi panchayat president K E Vinayan said that even as the panchayat governing body had changed, the new governing body was also giving priority to the project. Schemes to reduce carbon emission in more sectors were being planned, he said. Tommy said that as per the present plans fresh assessment of the carbon emission and sequestration would be conducted in 2022, based on which the panchayat could be declared. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-panchayat-offers-incentives-for-planting-trees-to-become-carbon-neutral-1044421.html
26-10-2021||South||Stalin reviews monsoon preparedness with District Collectors||With the Northeast monsoon setting in, the Tamil Nadu government on asked District Collectors to constantly monitor water bodies that have reached their capacity and ensure adequate release of water from dams to prevent any breach. In a meeting with District Collectors to review monsoon preparedness, Chief Minister M K Stalin told them to be prepared to face any eventuality during the Northeast monsoon which has set in on Monday. He also asked collectors to ensure that they have adequate stock of provisions and other essential items to be distributed among the needy people in case of any eventuality.  The Chief Minister, in his speech, noted that the monsoon has already resulted in heavy rains in many districts in the state. “The district administration should ensure that faulty electric poles are replaced immediately and that crops are not affected due to waterlogging,” Stalin said.  He also instructed officials to keep medicines in stock, while asking the administration to be prepared. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-reviews-monsoon-preparedness-with-district-collectors-1044436.html
26-10-2021||South||Kerala Opposition party demands judicial probe into 'honour crime'||The opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala has demanded a judicial probe into the alleged irregularities in making a child free for adoption, even as state woman and child development minister Veena George maintained that there were no irregularities in the procedures. The state Assembly witnessed noisy scenes over the issue on Tuesday and opposition leader V D Satheesan even accused that the ruling left-front was party to an 'honour crime'. The opposition staged a walkout after Speaker M B Rajesh denied permission to an adjournment motion on the matter. The issue pertained to the allegation of 22-year-old Anupama Chandran of Thiruvananthapuram that her newborn was forcefully taken away by her father, who is a CPM local leader, mother and some relatives, and abandoned at the (KSCCW) in 2020 October. The child was born out of an unwedded relationship with a married man and hence the family allegedly abandoned the child.  Replying to the adjournment motion notice given by UDF MLA K K Rema, minister George said that the adoption procedures so far were followed as per norms only and if the biological mother was willing to take care of the child the government would support it. The opposition alleged that the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (KSCCW) and the police were part of a heinous crime of separating a newborn from its mother. A family court in Kerala on Monday stalled the adoption procedures and sought a police inquiry report and also suggested a DNA test. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opposition-party-demands-judicial-probe-into-honour-crime-1044447.html
26-10-2021||South||TN’s EAC suggests ways to ensure better deliver of schemes||The high-powered Economic Advisory Council (EAC) to Chief Minister M K Stalin had its second meeting on Monday during which experts suggested measures to ensure better delivery of social welfare schemes, and ways to enhance the quality of higher education in Tamil Nadu.  The virtual meeting was attended by all five members – Nobel laureate Esther Duflo, former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, former CEA Arvind Subramanian, economist Jean Dreze, and former Union finance secretary S Narayan – of the committee constituted in June to advise Stalin on economy and social issues.  In his speech, Stalin spoke about the “successful” containment efforts of his government vis-à-vis Covid-19, the rapid increase on the vaccination front, and other social welfare measures taken by his administration. The Chief Minister also spoke about the need to reduce debt and accelerate growth in the state.  Government officials said Rajan stressed the need to further make things easy for people who invest in Tamil Nadu. “Rajan also suggested that the state needs to enhance the quality of higher education. He also stressed that the government should also be careful about debts,” a press release from the government said.  Jean Dreze said the government should come out with a Social Protection Scheme by integrating nine major social schemes. Subramanian, according to the government release, stressed the need to implement Quasi Universal Basic Income. Narayan, in his speech, also spoke about the reforms needed in Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB).  The committee will provide general guidance on economic and social policy, social justice and human development-related issues, in particular matters related to ensuring equal opportunities for women and the well-being of underprivileged groups. The council has been tasked to analyse and provide advice on any issue of economic and social policy referred by the Chief Minister or Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-s-eac-suggests-ways-to-ensure-better-deliver-of-schemes-1044449.html
26-10-2021||South||'Let us study in peace': School children, parents protest against Andhra Pradesh government||After court cases, the Jaganmohan Reddy government is now facing public protests opposing the takeover of government-aided private schools in Andhra Pradesh. In one such incident in Visakhapatnam on Monday, students and parents of Sacred Hearts girls high school blocked an arterial road in the city for hours demanding the YSRCP government “to let them study in peace.” “We do not want Amma-vodi, free uniforms-shoes etc. We just want our school. Please let us get education the proper way,” students requested the officials. The infuriated parents also questioned a local MLA who tried to pacify them while supporting the CM's decision. Amma-vodi is the cash incentive scheme Jagan had introduced for poor parents sending their wards to schools. The state is also providing free school kits consisting of uniforms, shoes, books etc to kids. Some of these protest videos with “CM Down Down” slogans were shared by the opposition TDP and Janasena on social media platforms. “These children are asking if you would close their schools. What answer would you give them, Shakuni mama,” questioned TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh on Twitter, taking a swipe at Jagan who refers to himself as mama (maternal uncle) of students? In its orders in August, the education department said it would take over the management and assets of the willing private aided schools. The government’s argument was that education in state-run schools has improved lately with Jagan “focusing on upgrading the school infrastructure.” Officials have been claiming that the change has resulted in the decline of enrollments in private and aided schools, which were anyway struggling to survive after the Covid-19 pandemic. While several private aided schools are said to have opted for the scheme already, some managements have approached the Andhra Pradesh high court complaining of “strong-arm tactics” by the government to make them surrender. The petitioners argued that the government's move was also violative of the Right to Education Act. Earlier this month, the court has reportedly directed the government not to coerce the unwilling managements to sign the merger offer and to continue their grants till further orders. Following the protests, CM Reddy clarified that “there is no compulsion in handing over the aided educational institutions to the government.” “Run without proper infrastructure or staff, the condition of most of these institutions was deteriorating. An opportunity was provided for such schools to hand over so that the government could run them," Reddy said in a review on education on Monday, according to the CMO sources. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/let-us-study-in-peace-school-children-parents-protest-against-andhra-pradesh-government-1044472.html
26-10-2021||South||15-year-old boy held for rape attempt in Kerala||A 15-year-old boy was arrested on Tuesday in connection with a brutal attempt to rape a 21-year-old woman at Kondotty in North Kerala district of Malappuram. A Kondotty police official said the accused, a class 10 student, had caught her on Monday afternoon when she was on her way to college at Kottookara. He dragged her to a nearby vacant plot in an attempt to rape the woman. He hit her with a stone and tied her arms when she tried to break free from his clutches, but she still managed to escape to the safety of a nearby house, the survivor told the police. The woman, in whose house the victim took refuge, told reporters that the girl’s hands were tied and she had injuries on her face. The survivor was rushed to the Kozhikode Medical College, the woman said. She was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. Police said that an FIR has been lodged against the accused for attempted murder and rape. Police narrowed in on the suspect based on the CCTV visuals. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/15-year-old-boy-held-for-rape-attempt-in-kerala-1044516.html
26-10-2021||South||Sheep dead with Anthrax symptoms in Warangal||Four sheep and a goat have died with symptoms of Anthrax in Warangal district of Telangana, prompting officials to carry out measures to prevent the infection spread among the livestock. Anthrax infection is caused by spore-forming bacteria called Bacillus anthracis which typically affects ruminants such as cows, sheep, and goats. The animal deaths took place in Chapalabanda village of Duggondi mandal over the past few days. Dr M BalaKrishna, district veterinary and animal husbandry officer, said that the deaths are caused by Anthrax are yet to be confirmed. “Tests at our Animal Diseases Diagnostics Lab in Warangal showed symptoms of Anthrax. We have sent the samples to Hyderabad labs for verification,” Dr Balakrishna told DH. The department has anyway initiated vaccination for the livestock in the surrounding areas as a precaution. Officials said there is no cause of worry for humans. According to the WHO, Anthrax usually does not typically spread from animal to animal or human to human. “The disease is present in most parts of the world, but the frequency of outbreaks varies. Anthrax spores may remain dormant in the soil for long periods and resurface when the soil is disturbed, such as by flooding, torrential rains or landslides. The disease reappears when the spores are then ingested by grazing ruminants.” Anthrax in humans is of three forms. Cutaneous, or skin, anthrax is the most common form contracted when a person with cuts or abrasion comes into direct contact with anthrax spores. Gastrointestinal anthrax is caught from eating meat of an infected animal. The most severe, and rarest, form of human anthrax is called inhalation or pulmonary anthrax. “This form of disease is caused when a person is directly exposed to a large number of anthrax spores suspended in the air, and breathes them in,” WHO says. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sheep-dead-with-anthrax-symptoms-in-warangal-1044520.html
26-10-2021||South||Five killed in fire at firecracker shop in Kallakurichi||At least five persons were killed when a fire ripped through a firecracker shop in Sankarapuram town in Kallakurichi district on Tuesday evening, police said. Police said five persons who were inside the shop selling firecrackers for Deepavali were charred to death in the incident. Videos shot at the spot doing the rounds on social media showed a thick smoke billowed out of the shop. Kallakurichi district collector P N Sridhar said efforts to put out the fire was on. In Chennai, Chief Minister M K Stalin condoled the death of the five persons in the fire accident. He also announced a solatium of Rs five lakh each to the kin of the victims. Firecracker shops have mushroomed across the state as Deepavali approaches. However, a majority of these shops do not follow the rules laid out by the government for selling crackers. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-killed-in-fire-at-firecracker-shop-in-kallakurichi-1044536.html
26-10-2021||State||KRS dam inching towards maximum level||With the flow into the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam increasing every day, the water level of the dam as of October 26 (Tuesday) has touched 123.66 feet. The maximum level is 124.80 feet. The inflow to the dam on Tuesday was 16,998 cusec. It was 17,627 cusec on Monday. If the inflow continues in the same manner, the dam will reach its maximum capacity of 124.8 ftee in  a couple of days. Water being released to the canals hvave been stopped and 3,400 cusec is being let into the river. According to a press release from the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam, as there was a possibility for the dam to reach the maximum level in a couple of days, the outflow will be increased to 10,000 to 20,000 cusec. The people residing in the low-lying villages downstream have been requested to move to safer places, according to Executive Engineer Ramamurthy. As there were indications of releasing water from KRS dam, boating has been suspended at Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary, in Srirangapatna taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/krs-dam-inching-towards-maximum-level-1044401.html
26-10-2021||State||Two suspected cases of AY.4.2 variant of Covid sent for genome sequencing: Sudhakar||Two suspected cases of AY.4.2 variant of the novel coronavirus have been identified and the samples have been sent to a laboratory for genome sequencing, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday. "There are two suspected cases of AY.4.2 variant of viruses and I have instructed my department to send the samples for genomic sequencing for confirmation," Sudhakar told reporters here. Health department officials said that the samples have been sent to the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) in Bengaluru for testing. They also said both the affected persons are from Bengaluru and are asymptomatic. They added that the AY.4.2 is said to be a Delta variant of the novel coronavirus, which is spreading rapidly in the United Kingdom. Speaking about Karnataka's preparedness, Sudhakar mentioned that the state has started genome sequencing and have set up six-seven (genome) labs in the state. The minister said that whenever a new variant emerges the state can immediately get the advice of the experts and discuss it with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). Regarding the new variant creating fresh trouble in the UK, he said he will speak to the chairperson of the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19 on it. He also said that studies are underway to find out what variant it is. Sudhakar claimed those who have received two doses of the Covid vaccine need not be afraid of the virus as it will have little effect on them. The minister said there was no need to panic as the state government has taken enough steps to check the spread of the disease. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-suspected-cases-of-ay42-variant-of-covid-sent-for-genome-sequencing-sudhakar-1044415.html
26-10-2021||State||Chief Secretary administers pledge against corruption||Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar on Tuesday administered a pledge against corruption to all secretariat officials on the occasion of the Vigilance Awareness Week. According to a release, the theme of the week-long observation is 'Independent India @ 75: Self-reliance with Integrity'. Kumar directed officials to ensure effective observation of the week-long campaign. "I will not take or give a bribe," is one of the pledges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chief-secretary-administers-pledge-against-corruption-1044488.html
26-10-2021||State||Gau puja in all Karnataka temples on November 5||All state-run temples and religious institutions under the Muzrai department have been directed to conduct a ‘gau puja’ on the occasion of Deepavali/Bali Padyami on November 5.  In a circular, the department has asked temples to worship the cow in a traditional manner during the godhuli lagna between 5.30 pm and 6.30 pm on the day. The circular was issued following directions from Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle. “Of late, people in towns and cities have forgotten gau puja. It is only appropriate to identify at least one day in a year where the cow is worshipped in line with the Sanatana Hindu Dharma’s view of the cow as gaumata and to introduce the concept of gau puja to future generations,” the circular stated. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gau-puja-in-all-karnataka-temples-on-november-5-1044489.html
26-10-2021||State||Bishop urges Karnataka govt to drop church survey||Bishop P K Samuel, head of Karnataka Central Diocese (KCD) of the Church of South India, on Tuesday said the government's survey of Christian missionaries was a pointless exercise that will promote bigotry. Bishop Samuel said millions of people from all faiths, irrespective of caste or creed, have benefited for decades from the activities of the KCD churches, 30 educational and health institutions spread across Karnataka. "The KCD express her strong dissent against the survey...(which) threatens the very fabric of Vasudaiva Kutumbakam'," he said in a press release. He appealed to the state government to call off the survey and protect the constitutional rights of the minorities. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bishop-urges-karnataka-govt-to-drop-church-survey-1044491.html
26-10-2021||State||Last date for school admissions extended in Karnataka||The department of public instructions in Karnataka has extended the last date to admit students for the 2021-22 academic year till November 31. As per the earlier schedule announced by the department, the last date to enrol students was October 30. Considering the delay in the commencement of physical classes and demand for admissions, the department has extended the last date. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/last-date-for-school-admissions-extended-in-karnataka-1044494.html
26-10-2021||State||HC extends interim order on airing documentary 'Wild Karnataka'||The High Court has extended the interim order restraining the broadcast of the documentary film ‘Wild Karnataka’ or ‘India’s Wild Karnataka’ till the next date of hearing. The interim order was passed in July 2021 on the PIL filed by Ravindra Redkar and R K Ullas Kumar. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum posted the matter for preliminary hearing on November 17. The petition claimed that the film is being used for commercial purposes across the globe by entering into agreement with third parties. The petitioners alleged that the Karnataka forest department which was the authority under the Wildlife Protection Act did not even invite competitive bidding under Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act. The petitioners said certain clauses in the MoU were tailor-made to benefit private respondents. “The public exchequer has been cheated and deprived of crores of rupees worth of revenue and furthermore, The Tiger Foundations/PADFs have been deprived of donations which would have legitimately served the cause of conservation, especially in the current pandemic when the need to protect our natural resources and maintain clean and healthy environment is highlighted,” the petition said. During the previous hearing, the advocate for the respondents submitted before the court that on account of the interim order, the respondents are not able to telecast the film on various platforms and also not able to recover the costs. He said five respondents (firms by name Mudskipper and Wild Karnataka and three individuals) will maintain a separate account in respect of the proceeds received by them while telecasting/webcasting the film. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-extends-interim-order-on-airing-documentary-wild-karnataka-1044495.html
26-10-2021||State||Varavara Rao moves HC against NBW in 2005 Naxal attack case||Telugu poet Pendyala Varavara Rao has approached the Karnataka High Court seeking quashing of the non-bailable warrant (NBW) issued by a trial court at Madhugiri in Tumakuru district. He is one of the accused in the Venkatammanahalli Naxal attack case. The petition is likely to come up for hearing in a couple of days, after undergoing the scrutiny process. The non-bailable warrant was issued by the 4th Additional District and Sessions Court at Madhugiri on October 21, in view of non-appearance. The trial court has directed that Varavara Rao be produced before the court by October 28. In his petition, Rao has claimed that he was granted bail in the case on November 28, 2019. He stated that the application seeking for recalling of the body warrant was rejected by the trial court and a non-bailable warrant was issued on October 21, 2021. The petition further stated that he was granted conditional bail in the Bhima Koregaon case by the Bombay high court on medical grounds for a period of a month. The condition was that he shall not leave the jurisdiction of NIA court at Mumbai. He stated that non-appearance before the trial court at Madhugiri on October 21 was bona fide, unintentional and beyond his control. He has requested the high court to permit him to enter his appearance through Video Conferencing before the trial court at Madhugiri, he claimed.  The case is related to the attack on policemen in 2005. On the night of February 10, 2005, Naxals gunned down seven Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) constables and a civilian at Venkatammanahalli school in Pavagada taluk of Tumakuru district. The attack was seen as revenge for the police encounter of Naxal leader Saket Rajan, who was gunned down at Menasinahadya in Chikkamagaluru district on February 5, 2005.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/varavara-rao-moves-hc-against-nbw-in-2005-naxal-attack-case-1044496.html
26-10-2021||State||Parliamentary panel to visit Bengaluru on October 28||The Joint Parliamentary Committee, deliberating on the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill, is slated to visit Bengaluru, specifically the Unique Identification Authority of India’s (UIDAI) office in Bengaluru on October 28.   According to sources, the JPC is expected to review UIDAI’s security and privacy practices.  The JPC is headed by Lok Sabha member and former Union minister P P Chaudhary. The 30-member committee also has Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya.  Sources, familiar with the JPC’s Bengaluru visit, said the UIDAI might be asked questions on its authentication modes, especially the one involving facial recognition.  In August 2018, the UIDAI stated in a circular that it would roll out face authentication in a phased manner owing to the “non-readiness” of some device providers. Also, the UIDAI had stated that face authentication will be introduced as “secondary authentication factor to reduce the rate of authentication failures, especially for senior citizens” and that “face authentication will be used only in conjunction with another authentication factor such as finger/iris/OTP.” According to the sources, facial recognition apparently uses an algorithm to measure the “liveness” of the face of a user, and if liveness is confirmed, the photo is sent to the UIDAI backend for authentication. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/parliamentary-panel-to-visit-bengaluru-on-october-28-1044497.html
26-10-2021||State||Hasanamba temple open for devotees this year||With the covid cases on the decline, the Hassan district administration has decided to allow devotees into the temple during the Hasanamba festival to be held from October 28 to November 6. It may be mentioned that it had restricted entry into the temple during the jatra mahotsava this year, like previous year. However, with several organisations urging to relax the restrictions, the district administration relented and Minister K Gopalaiah announced this after a meeting, on Tuesday. The Minister said the devotees will be allowed to visit the temple that opens once a year. However, it is mandatory for the devotees to carry the photo copies of the vaccination certificates or Aadhaar cards. The temple will open at 12 noon on October 28 and close on November 6. Devotees will be allowed from October 29 to November 5 from 6 am to 1 pm and 3 pm to 8 pm. Special entrance tickets are priced at Rs 1,000 and Rs 300 per person. Five persons will be allowed for invitees and passes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hasanamba-temple-open-for-devotees-this-year-1044525.html
26-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to reimpose Covid-19 curbs? Sudhakar to meet TAC on October 26||Karnataka is mulling issuing fresh Covid-19 guidelines after the detection of AY.4.2 variants in Karnataka. State Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Sudhakar K will meet the Technical Advisory Committee on Tuesday (October 26) and consult CM Bommai on the same. Karnataka on Tuesday added 277 fresh cases and seven fatalities, taking the caseload and death toll to 29,86,553 and 38,024, the health department said. The day also saw 343 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,39,990, leaving 8,510 active cases, a department bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 169 cases and three deaths. Other districts too reported fresh cases, including 23 in Dakshina Kannada, 19 in Mysuru and 18 in Hassan. While 13 districts reported zero infections, 13 districts had cases in single digits.  (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-reimpose-covid-19-curbs-sudhakar-to-meet-tac-on-october-26-1044281.html
26-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to launch multi-platform system to redress public grievances soon||This Kannada Rajyotsava, the Basavaraj Bommai administration will formally launch a multi-platform public grievance redressal system, which the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition had announced three years ago.  The integrated public grievance redressal system (IPGRS), known as Janaspandana, promises to be a one-stop-shop for citizens to raise complaints on any government scheme or service.  It comes with 1902 as the helpline - the number was allotted to Karnataka by the Communications ministry in April this year - for citizens to flag their issues. Also, it will be available on the web and an Android app. Essentially, Janaspandana subsumes numerous helplines and web portals set up by different departments to hear public grievances.  Modelled after the Centralized Public Grievance Redress & Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) run by the Centre providing 24/7 online support for citizens, Karnataka’s IPGRS will cater to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s plan to make his government more accessible and efficient in the run-up to the 2023 Assembly polls.   e-Governance officials have spent the last couple of months understanding how the system responds to grievances raised by citizens during the IPGRS dry run. “We have learnt and improved the system. We’re confident now to take this to the public,” Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla said.  During its pilot phase, Janaspandana IPGRS received 1,583 grievances and many pertained to the Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department. The Janaspandana app has a rating of 3.3 out of five on the Google Play store.  “Right now, we’re getting 200-300 calls daily,” Chawla said and added that this would go up to 3,000-4,000 after the formal launch. “We hadn’t informed citizens about this.” Janaspandana will cover 600 schemes and services provided by the government. Each grievance raised by a citizen is mapped to a specific Last Mile Functionary (LMF) of the respective department for that particular scheme or service. Also, three levels of officers will examine the grievance and resolve it within a timeframe.  “Once the grievance is redressed, an ‘Action Taken Report’ gets generated and it is made available to citizens in the portal and also feedback of the citizens is captured. If the citizens’ feedback is ‘not satisfactory’, the system automatically escalates the grievance to a higher officer for review,” the Janaspandana website - ipgrs.karnataka.gov.in - explains.  The IPGRS was announced in the July 2018 budget presented by the then chief minister HD Kumaraswamy.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-launch-multi-platform-system-to-redress-public-grievances-soon-1044284.html
26-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah asks Karnataka CM to worry about 'suffering of farmers', not elections||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday took the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government to task on the “shortage of fertilisers” and the resultant “suffering” of farmers.  “Farmers are in desperate need of fertilisers to meet the demand of retreating monsoon & irrigated crops. CM should worry about this & not elections,” Siddaramaiah said in a series of tweets.  The Congress leader also said that Agriculture Minister BC Patil was missing in action. “Search should be undertaken to find the absconding Agri minister BC Patil & put him to work.” Bommai and Patil, who hail from Haveri, have been engaged in hectic campaigning for the October 30 bypoll to the Hangal assembly constituency that is located in that district.  “Increase in price of raw materials & customs duty is said to be the reason for the shortage of fertilisers,” Siddaramaiah said. “BJP did nothing even though they were aware of the situation. Unfortunately, it is the farmers who are suffering,” he said.  According to Siddaramaiah, the stocks of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) and muriate of potash (MOP) fertilisers are down by 10 percentage points, from 75% to 65%. “Even the available stock is being sold in the black market,” he charged. “The BJP government has forgotten the plight of farmers by staying busy in the by-elections.” Siddaramaiah also targeted former chief minister BS Yediyurappa by recalling the death of farmers during his first stint (2008-11). “Farmers are clueless due to shortage of fertilizers in the state. Two innocent farmers were killed in a golibar (shooting) for demanding fertilisers during Yediyurappa’s first term as CM. The current response of the government looks like even Bommai has a similar motive,” he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-asks-karnataka-cm-to-worry-about-suffering-of-farmers-not-elections-1044355.html
26-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Taralabalu seer backs one-nation-one-election idea||Backing one nation-one-election idea, Sirigere-based Sri Taralabalu Brihanmutt Pontiff Shivakumara Shivacharya claimed that it would not disrupt implementation of development projects in the country.  Speaking to media persons after inspecting 56 lakes filling project at Chatnahalli village in Jagalur tauk, the seer said untimely elections are posing a 'threat' to the execution of development projects. The elections to gram panchayats, taluk panchayats, zill panchayats, assembly and lok sabha constituencies are held in the country on a regular basis. The enforcement of poll code conduct during the elections are hindering the development works. Many works come to a standstill during the elections period. Many times, this has led to difference of opinions between people and elected representatives. So, all levels of elections must be conducted simultaneously in the country, he added. Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/taralabalu-seer-backs-one-nation-one-election-idea-1044393.html
26-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC grants time to govt to reconsider Kannada Learning Act||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday granted time to the state government to reconsider the Kannada Language Learning Act. A division bench orally observed that whether classical or functional, students coming from outside Karnataka cannot be compelled to learn the Kannada language. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, was hearing a PIL filed by Samskrita Bharati (Karnataka) Trust, Bengaluru and three other institutions associated with the promotion of the Sanskrit language. The petitioners have questioned the validity of government orders dated August 7 and September 15, 2021. The petition has sought a declaration to the effect that National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 does not impose any restriction upon the student to choose any particular language as part of the curricula for higher education. “With the understanding that the government will reconsider the issue we adjourn the matter,” the bench orally said and posted the matter for further hearing to November 10. The bench orally said how the state government can compel a student coming from outside to learn Kannada. It also said that the government has to reconsider the issue. Earlier, Advocate General (AG) Prabhuling K Navdagi said that people have to learn Kannada for employment purposes and they need not learn Kannada in a classical sense. On further query, the AG said he would get more instructions on the matter. Appearing on behalf of the petitioners, senior advocate S S Naganand said that the academic year has already commenced and students will have to make a choice. According to the petitioners, the orders issued by the government making learning Kannada as mandatory for all undergraduate degree courses will affect an estimated 1,32,300 students and 4,000 teachers. The petitioners have claimed that there are teachers teaching Sanskrit (600 teachers), Hindi (3,000 teachers), Urdu (300 teachers) and other languages (100 teachers) in the state.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-grants-time-to-govt-to-reconsider-kannada-learning-act-1044492.html
26-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KEA's counselling delay worries aspirants of seats in pvt varsities||Students waiting to get admissions for undergraduate professional courses at private universities through the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) have a tough time ahead as a majority of these universities have already commenced the classes. There are over 20 private universities in the state and a majority of them offer technical/engineering courses. Earlier, all these institutions used to come under KCET. Matters like seat sharing and academic schedule were according to the consensual agreement between the Higher Education Department and the Karnataka Unaided Private Engineering Colleges Association (KUPECA). After getting private university status, these universities share 40% of the seats with the government and fill them through KCET. But due to the delay in the seat allotment process by the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) this year, most of the private universities have commenced classes for first year students. This will be a problem for candidates who are waiting to get seats at private universities through KEA. "By the time we complete our admissions through KEA, the private universities would be a month ahead when it comes to academics," said a seat aspirant. "Authorities at the higher education department should consider such issues and start the process or else direct the private universities not to commence classes till KEA completes its admission process," said another seat aspirant. Some of the top ranked holders in KCET said though they have secured best ranks and are sure of getting seats at top colleges, it will be mid-November by the time they enter the college after finishing all formalities. "Some of my friends have joined private universities by writing the entrance test conducted by the respective universities and they have already started going to college," said a student who secured a KCET rank within 500. Some of the private universities started classes in the first week of October itself, and they have even announced the same on their websites. A few of the private universities even share seats with the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMEDK). Prof M R Doreswamy, Chancellor of PES University and former advisor to the government on education, said the regular classes will begin on November 3. "The seats under our entrance test and management quota are filled. Only admissions through KCET are awaited. We have started the classes, but for the first few weeks, we will conduct induction programme. However, regular classes will begin on November 3. For those who secure seats under KCET, we will conduct special classes and equalise by the first semester examinations. The inordinate delay by KEA has forced us to commence classes." Seat sharing: Pvt engg colleges' share with govt: 45% Pvt varsities' share with govt: 40% Pvt colleges' share with COMEDK: 30%  Seats in pvt colleges for NRIs: 15%; others: 10%||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/keas-counselling-delay-worries-aspirants-of-seats-in-pvt-varsities-1044500.html
26-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||There is a tsunami in favour of BJP in Karnataka: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said there is a tsunami in favour of the BJP which will have its effect on the party's performance in the Hanagal Assembly bypoll on October 30. "There is a tsunami in favour of the BJP in the state and it will have an effect on Hanagal. There is massive support to the BJP in every village of Hanagal," the Chief Minister said addressing the members of Bhajandri community in Hanagal town. The Congress has bitten the dust across the state and if they are sent home packing from Hanagal, then they will remain home forever, Bommai said. Appealing to the people not to support 'liars', the Chief Minister said, the BJP government is committed to protecting every community. He charged that the Congress had till now treated people as a vote-bank and forgot them after coming to power but now no one can cheat people because people are awakened. "The Congress is under depression. Their leaders talk whatever comes to their mind. They are misleading people," Bommai charged. Bommai alleged that the demand for equality which is heard quite often only because the Congress had not worked in that direction. Hanagal and Sindagi Assembly constituencies in North Karnataka will go for poll on October 30. The two seats fell vacant after the death of the sitting MLAs. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/there-is-a-tsunami-in-favour-of-bjp-in-karnataka-cm-bommai-1044531.html
26-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to set up fair price shops for every 100 ration cardholders||If all goes as per the Karnataka government's plan, people living in remote areas in Karnataka will no longer have to travel long distances to buy ration or depend on third parties to deliver it to them. For, the state government has set a target of December 2021 to set up fair price shops in all remote areas that lacked access to ration shops.  According to a recent government order, the government has made it mandatory to establish fair price shops in all thandas (hamlets) gollarahattis and SC, ST colonies. Speaking to DH, Additional Chief Secretary B H Anil Kumar, who headed the Food & Civil Supplies Department when the order was issued, said the government's decision came in the wake of several complaints about inaccessibility to ration in these settlements. "As a result, it was decided to set up ration shops even where there are only 100 ration cardholders," he said. With the new ration shops, people living in these settlements will neither have to travel nor have to depend on mobile ration shops, waiting for supplies to be delivered to them. The shops will be manned by locals themselves.  The decision came out of a recent meeting of the state-level review committee on Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, headed by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.  This decision could make life easier for thousands of ration cardholders across the state. At present, the government sanctions fair price shops only for a minimum of 350-400 ration card holders and hence those in distant colonies have to travel to nearby villages to procure supplies. "While earlier there were mobile ration shops, even that has been dropped as biometrics was made mandatory for availing ration," said former minister N Mahesh, the Kollegal MLA who was part of the review committee. Moreover, many people will have to let go of a day's labour to go fetch ration as they have to ensure their presence when the shops are open, he added.  According to government data, there are a total of 3,395 thandas across the state. Both Food and Civil Supplies and Social Welfare Department officials said no consolidated data was available on the number of SC, ST colonies at present. However, the Food and Civil Supplies department is in the process of identifying all such colonies that have been deprived of access to ration shops.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-set-up-fair-price-shops-for-every-100-ration-cardholders-1044532.html
26-10-2021||West||NCB orders vigilance inquiry into cruise drugs 'extortion' affidavit involving Sameer Wankhede||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has ordered a vigilance inquiry into the claims made by a witness in the cruise drugs case of an extortion bid of Rs 25 crore by some agency officials, including its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, and others for letting off accused Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan. The vigilance inquiry will be conducted by Gyaneshwar Singh, the NCB deputy director general (DDG) of northern region based at its headquarters here. Singh is also the chief vigilance officer (CVO) of the federal anti-narcotics agency. Wankhede landed in the national capital late on Monday night. He told reporters outside the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport that he has come to Delhi for "some work" and has "not been summoned". Dismissing all allegations against him as "baseless", he said he conducted a fair probe in the cruise drugs case and that he stands by it 100 per cent. Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the cruise drugs case, had on Sunday claimed in an affidavit and in subsequent interactions with reporters in Mumbai that Rs 25 crore was demanded by an NCB official and some other people linked to the case to let off Aryan from this investigation. Sail said he was the bodyguard of another witness in this case, K P Gosavi, who is absconding after the NCB raids, which were conducted on October 3 at the cruise terminal on Mumbai's coast leading to the arrest of as many as 20 people, including Aryan. Sail also claimed that he saw Gosavi meeting Shah Rukh's manager and that he was asked to sign "9-10 blank pages" in the presence of Wankhede after the cruise raids. "We have received the affidavit and a report from our DDG (south-west region) based in Mumbai and the NCB director general has taken cognisance of this report. He has marked it to the vigilance section for inquiry. "We are a professional organisation and we are open for inquiry against any allegation against our staffers. The inquiry will be transparent and fair," Gyaneshwar Singh told PTI. Asked if Wankhede will continue to probe the cruise case till this inquiry goes on, Singh said the question was "premature and we will take a call as the inquiry progresses and evidences are gathered". Officials said the NCB inquiry will look at all aspects of the claims made by Sail and will also record the version of Wankhede, an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer of 2008 batch Customs cadre, and other officers of the Mumbai zonal unit involved in this drugs bust case. The inquiry team may also question Sail, they said. A three-member team led by Singh may travel to Mumbai for "recording the evidence and taking submissions" in this case. The report of the inquiry will be submitted to the NCB DG and based on the findings, he may take the next course of action. Wankhede has constantly denied the allegations being made against him in this case. After landing at the IGI airport here, Wankhede told media persons, "I am ready to face any inquiry... all allegations (against me) are baseless." He said he is "absolutely" sure that he conducted a fair probe in the cruise drugs case and that he stands by it 100 per cent. The officer on Sunday also wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance-related issue.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-orders-vigilance-inquiry-into-cruise-drugs-extortion-affidavit-involving-sameer-wankhede-1044254.html
26-10-2021||West||Bombay HC's verdict on Aryan Khan bail on Tuesday||The Bombay High Court is slated to deliver an order on Aryan Khan's bail plea in the cruise ship drugs case on Tuesday. Aryan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on October 3 after a dramatic cruise raid wherein at least eight people were detained and drugs seized. An NDPS court had rejected Aryan's bail plea twice, on October 14 and October 21. Special Judge VV Patil accepted the NCB’s contention that Aryan Khan was a regular consumer of drugs, dealing in narcotics and the case having international links as evident from his WhatsApp chats. In its October 20 order, the court said: “As argued by learned Additional Solicitor General, from WhatsApp chats of applicant no. 1 (Aryan Khan) it is reflected that he was indulging in illicit drug activities. Respondent (NCB) contended that since all the accused, including accused no. 1 are influential persons they are likely to tamper with evidence of prosecution if released on bail. Respondent claimed that accused no. 1 is in touch with foreign national and other drug dealers who appear to be part of an international drug network and investigations in this regard are going on and the respondent is tracing out the criminal antecedents of said persons.” Judge Patil also noted that if any of the accused is released on bail, it would tamper the entire investigation. “During interrogation applicant/accused no. 1 is the only person who could disclose the details of the said persons which are in the exclusive knowledge of accused no. 1,” the order said. After this, Aryan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde moved the Bombay High Court, challenging Judge Patil's verdict, for an urgent hearing. In his plea to the court, Aryan has said the NCB was "misinterpreting" his WhatsApp chats to implicate him in the case of seizure of banned drugs aboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hcs-verdict-on-aryan-khan-bail-on-tuesday-1044263.html
26-10-2021||West||Former AG Mukul Rohatgi to appear for Aryan Khan in Bombay HC||In a significant development, former Attorney General of India (AGI) Mukul Rohatgi is expected to appear for Aryan Khan's bail plea, scheduled to come up before the Bombay High Court, here on Tuesday. Rohatgi -- who recently slammed the Narcotics Control Bureau by terming it as "an Ostrich with head buried in the sand", will join Khan's existing battery of lawyers in the HC during the day. Khan and 7 others were detained on October 2 after the NCB raided a rave party aboard a cruise ship, and the following day arrested, with another 12 subsequent arrests made in the sensational case. The HC will hear the bail pleas of Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, all of whom have so far spent 25 nights away from home.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-ag-mukul-rohatgi-to-appear-for-aryan-khan-in-bombay-hc-1044275.html
26-10-2021||West||Nawab Malik shares letter alleging fraud within NCB in fresh salvo against Sameer Wankhede||Mounting pressure on the Centre and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik on Tuesday made public an explosive anonymous letter addressed to him which claims that a large number of people are being framed by the federal anti-drugs agency. "The letter sent to me by an unnamed NCB official claims that a number of people have been framed in false cases. The punchnamas were drafted at the NCB office. We demand an investigation into this," said Malik, displaying the letter which has been purportedly written by a NCB official. In the letter, the official, who has been working for the last two years in the Mumbai office, has described zonal director Sameer Wankhede as an “attention seeker”.  Demanding a probe, Malik has forwarded the letter to NCB director-general SN Pradhan and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.  The development comes a day after Malik claimed that  Wankhede is a Muslim by birth, however, he has forged documents to show himself as a Scheduled Caste, take benefit of reservation and enter the Indian Revenue Service in 2008.  Wankhede also faces allegations of corruption and bribery vis-a-vis the Cordelia cruise ship rave party bust case.  The NCB headquarters have already initiated a probe and he has been summoned to New Delhi even as a three-member team is probing the issue in Mumbai.  "I am fighting against a person who has extorted money from people…  my estimate is over Rs 1,000 crore. The NCB has already started a probe and they must look into the points raised in the 4-page letter, which I have received” Malik said. Speaking about the letter, Malik, however, made it clear that he was not against the government agency.  "My war is not against the NCB. I am fighting injustice. I am only exposing one official who got the job by fraud.  Wankhede used a fake birth certificate to get the NCB job,” he said.  Malik, a close aide of NCP founder-president Sharad Pawar, also accused him of illegally tapping phones of people in Mumbai and Thane.  “Wankhede sought the CDR (call detail record) of my daughter Nilofer. However, Mumbai Police refused to provide them. I have information that Sameer Wankhede, through two private individuals, is intercepting calls. My phones were also tapped. Wankhede is tapping the phones of top personalities, including Bollywood celebrities,” said Malik, whose son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by NCB in an earlier case and is currently on bail.  Meanwhile, when asked about the letter, NCB’s deputy director-general Mutha Ashok Jain, who heads the South West Region of the agency, said: "I have seen the letter. We will take necessary action.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nawab-malik-shares-letter-alleging-fraud-within-ncb-in-fresh-salvo-against-sameer-wankhede-1044277.html
26-10-2021||West||Drugs on cruise case: Nawab Malik claims Sameer Wankhede illegally tapping phones||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday accused NCB official Sameer Wankhede of illegal phone tapping and announced that he will hand over a letter on the official’s ‘misdeeds’ to the agency head. “Sameer Wankhede through two persons in Mumbai and Thane is illegally intercepting the mobile phones of some people,” said Malik, who has been targeting Wankhede after his son-in-law’s arrest. Malik also claimed that Wankhede had sought the call detail record (CDR) of his family member from the police. Wankhede in his affidavit submitted to a Mumbai court on Monday claimed he was under a "lurking threat of arrest as it does not suit some vested interests for conducting an honest and impartial investigation". The official had also claimed that he was being personally targeted by a well-known political figure (Malik), and the only reason he can fathom is that the NCB had arrested "this person's son-in-law Sameer Khan". Malik said he is forwarding a letter written by ‘someone in NCB about the various illegal activities of Wankhede’ to the agency’s DG S N Pradhan. The NCP minister said the NCB should investigate the 26 allegations in the letter claiming an ‘extortion racket’ being run within the anti-drugs agency. “As a responsible citizen I will be forwarding this letter to DG Narcotics requesting him to include this letter in the investigation being conducted on Sameer Wankhede,” the minister tweeted.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-on-cruise-case-nawab-malik-claims-sameer-wankhede-illegally-tapping-phones-1044296.html
26-10-2021||West||Nawab Malik vs Sameer Wankhede: Allegations mount in a charged drugs case||NCP chief spokesperson and Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister Nawab Malik has been targetting Sameer Wankhede ever since the NCB’s Mumbai Zonal Director came to the limelight for arresting Shah Rukh Khan's son in the cruise ship drugs case. Malik has so far made various allegations against Wankhede, as well as the anti-drugs agency, claiming an "extortion racket with the NCB" and "malafide intentions" behind cases filed against high-profile persons. 'Illegal phone tapping' Malik also claimed that Wankhede had sought the call detail record (CDR) of his family member from the police. 'Forged caste certificate' Malik has also accused Wankhede of forging his caste certificate. According to Malik, as per the birth certificate, Wankhede is a born Muslim but he charged that he appeared for the UPSC exams through a reserved category and became an IRS officer. Malik tweeted a purported birth certificate and marriage photo of the embattled Wankhede with telling captions: ‘yahanse shuru hua farziwada’ (the fraud started here) and ‘pehchan kaun’ (guess who). Wankhede, however, denied the charges saying that the minister is launching personal attacks on him and breaching his privacy.  'Extortion racket within NCB' In the letter, the unnamed officer, who claimed that he has been working in the Mumbai NCB bureau for the past two years, alleged that Rakesh Asthana directed Sameer Wankhede and K P S Malhotra to register fake cases against Bollywood stars and extract money from them. The officer alleged that Wankhede and Malhotra filed 'fake cases' against Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Rakul Preet Singh, Sara Ali Khan, Bharti Singh and others extracted crores of rupees via their lawyer. Maldives trip 'Malafide intentions' The minister had also alleged that the NCB's raid on the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2 was “fake”, and no narcotic drugs were found during it.  Speaking in support of his son-in-law Sameer Khan, Malik had earlier referred to the bail order issued by an NDPS court and said that there was "no prima facie evidence of a drug syndicate". It is surprising that an agency like the NCB cannot differentiate between drugs which falls under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and tobacco-related items, the NCP leader said. NCB-BJP 'collusion' Malik has alleged a collusion between the NCB and the BJP leaders in the drugs-on-cruise case in which Aryan Khan has been identified as the accused number 1. The minister had claimed that NCB had initially detained 11 persons from a Goa-bound cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, but let off three of them, including the brother-in-law of BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya, a couple of hours later. Apart from the recent drugs bust onboard a cruise liner off the Mumbai coast, Wankhede last year investigated a drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and several other matters related to narcotics involving high-profile people. Amid mounting allegations, the NCB has ordered a vigilance inquiry into the claims made by a witness in the cruise drugs case of an extortion bid of Rs 25 crore by some agency officials, including its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, and others for letting off accused Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan. Wankhede has constantly denied all the allegations being made against him in this case. The officer on Sunday also wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance-related issue.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nawab-malik-vs-sameer-wankhede-allegations-mount-in-a-charged-drugs-case-1044316.html
26-10-2021||West||Aryan Khan not just drug consumer but also involved in trafficking, tampering witnesses: NCB to HC||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday opposed the bail plea filed by actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, who was arrested earlier this month in the cruise drugs seizure case, alleging the 23-year-old was not just a consumer of drugs but also involved in illicit drug trafficking. The agency also claimed that Aryan Khan and a woman named Pooja Dadlani, Shah Rukh Khan's manager, were tampering with the evidence and witnesses in the case in an attempt to derail the investigation. On the other side, Aryan Khan's advocates submitted to the HC an additional note, stating that he has nothing to do with the allegations and counter-allegations that are being circulated between the NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede and certain political personalities. The NCB on Tuesday filed its affidavit in response to the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan in the HC. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre is likely to take the plea for hearing later in the day. The anti-drugs agency in its affidavit said that attempts are being made to tamper with the ongoing investigation with a malafide intention to derail the probe into the case. "This is evident from the contents of a purported affidavit of one Prabhakar Sail," the agency said, referring to the allegations of extortion attempt made by Sail, an independent witness in the case. The affidavit also referred to Pooja Dadlani and said "this lady appears to have influenced panch witnesses when the investigation is ongoing". The NCB said that the bail plea was "misconceived and ill-conceived". It said that the probe into the case so far has revealed Aryan Khan's role in illicit procurement, transportation and consumption of drugs. The agency said prima facie investigation has revealed that Aryan Khan used to procure drugs from his friend Arbaaz Merchant, also an accused in the case. "The applicant (Aryan Khan) was in touch with some persons abroad who appear to be part of an international drug network for illicit procurement of drugs," it said. The affidavit further said that even though there has been no recovery from Aryan Khan, he has "participated in the conspiracy". "Prima facie investigation has revealed that this application is not just a mere consumer of drugs as sought to be made out by him," it said. The applicant has not made out any case for enlargement of bail, prima facie and/or otherwise, the NCB said. "The role of this applicant (Aryan Khan) in the commission of grave and serious offences under the NDPS Act including illicit drug trafficking is apparent considering the nexus and connection of this applicant with the other accused in the case," the affidavit said.   It added that there has been the recovery of an intermediate quantity of drugs from the other accused in the case and hence, the case of Aryan Khan cannot be looked at in isolation. "The ingredients of conspiracy are clear and evident," the affidavit said, adding that in such cases the quantum of recovery of drugs from an individual accused becomes inconsequential. The NCB also said it is still probing the case and a charge sheet needs to be filed. It said the agency requires sufficient time to properly investigate the international linkages so as to approach the foreign agency concerned through proper channel, which would entail some more time. Meanwhile, Aryan Khan's advocates submitted to the HC an additional note stating that he has nothing to do with the allegations and counter-allegations that are being circulated between the NCB's zonal director Wankhede and certain political personalities. "The applicant (Aryan Khan) does not make any allegations against any individual in the prosecution department," the note said. It further said Aryan Khan has no connection with Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the case, who has made allegations of an extortion attempt against Wankhede and others. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aryan-khan-not-just-drug-consumer-but-also-involved-in-trafficking-tampering-witnesses-ncb-to-hc-1044318.html
26-10-2021||West||'Kitchen politics': Sameer Wankhede's family lashes out at Nawab Malik, threatens legal action||Sameer Wankhede’s wife and sister, on Tuesday, hit out at “vested interest groups” for engaging in “low-level kitchen politics” and targeting the high-profile NCB officer.  Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar, a Marathi actress and sister Yasmeen Wankhede, a lawyer and social worker, dismissed the series of allegations made by Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik.  The two ladies of the family spoke out hours after Wankhede’s father Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede threatened Malik with legal action.  The Wankhede family has maintained that the officer is a Hindu and has not forged caste certificates.  Wankhede’s mother Zaheeda, however, was a Muslim.  “It is sad…what is happening is something at a low-level…it is kitchen politics,” said Kranti, who has also played a role in Prakash Jha’s Gangajal.  “The only and the biggest problem is that Sameer Wankhede is an honest officer and not a liar,” she said. “Yes…it is kitchen-level politics and they are not achieving anything,” said Yasmeen. "We are getting threat calls. We are right, the truth will come out. We believe in justice, we believe in the Constitution,” added Yasmeen.  “They are attacking and defaming the women of the family now…such is their level,” both of them said during their hurriedly convened media interaction on Tuesday.  Kranti said that her family is being threatened, trolled and targeted. “We are at the receiving end,” she said, adding that “vested interest groups” want Wankhede out of the post he is holding now.  The media appearance comes hours after Kranti tweeted: “When you swim against the tide, it may drown you, but if the Almighty is with you, no tide in this world is big enough to drown you. Because only HE knows the truth….Satyameva Jayate.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kitchen-politics-sameer-wankhedes-family-lashes-out-at-nawab-malik-threatens-legal-action-1044322.html
26-10-2021||West||Rahul Gandhi to visit Goa on October 30||Ahead of the Goa Assembly elections due early next year, senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will arrive in the coastal state for a day-long visit on October 30, state party chief Girish Chodankar said on Tuesday. During the visit, Gandhi would address a convention of Congress workers at SPM Stadium in Bambolim near here and also participate in various other party-level events scheduled that day, Chodankar told PTI. According to a senior party functionary, Gandhi will arrive at 11 am October 30 following which he will travel to the International Centre at Dona Paula where he would hold a meeting with party officials. Gandhi's visit assumes significance as the Congress is gearing up for the state Assembly polls next year. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House, restricting the main opponent BJP to 13. But, the saffron party moved to ally with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of Manohar Parrikar, now deceased. The Congress had accused the BJP of "stealing" the mandate, a charge the saffron party rejected. Over the years, the Congress's strength in the state Assembly dwindled to four after many of its MLAs switched sides and joined the ruling BJP. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-goa-on-october-30-1044343.html
26-10-2021||West||Young leopard rescued from open well in Pune district||In a gruelling four-hour-long operation, Wildlife SOS and the Maharashtra Forest Department rescued a young female leopard that had fallen into a 50-feet-deep open well in Otur village located in Pune district's Junnar division. After a medical examination found the leopard to be fit, it was released back into the wild. Open wells across Maharashtra continue to act as death traps for wild animals, particularly leopards. For the third time this month, weeks after a leopard was rescued from a well in Narayanwadi and only days after a leopard was rescued from Belsari village, another leopard struggled for its life in a 50-feet-deep well in Otur village. To safely rescue the leopard, personnel from the Otur Range Forest Division called a Wildlife SOS team operating out of the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Center for reinforcement. A four-member rescue team from the NGO led by veterinary officer Dr Nikhil Bangar promptly arrived at the location with all the necessary equipment in hand. The leopard was perched on a narrow cavity inside the well, and was seemingly petrified of the commotion caused by the large crowd that had gathered at the site. After implementing crowd control measures, the rescuers carefully lowered a trap cage into the well to safely extricate the leopard. The leopard was taken into a nearby forest nursery where it was examined for any injuries. Dr Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, said: “The leopard was a female, approximately 5 months old. The rescue operation was extremely risky and it took almost four hours. Kartick Satyanarayan, CEO & Co-founder Wildlife SOS said: “Once an animal falls into these wells they can suffer an inhuman fate, dying from starvation, drowning or injuries. We can no longer ignore the danger that open wells pose to wildlife, specifically leopards that are a species protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972.” Caidhev Madhukar Kakde, Range Forest Officer, said: “The farmer who spotted the leopard contacted us out of concern for the animal and we immediately contacted Wildlife SOS for reinforcement. Otur village is a leopard prone area that has a few open wells.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/young-leopard-rescued-from-open-well-in-pune-district-1044356.html
26-10-2021||West||Afghan national remanded in NIA custody for 3 days in Mundra Port drug haul case||A special court here has remanded an Afghan national in the NIA's custody for three days in connection with a case pertaining to the seizure of 2,988 kg of drugs at the Mundra Port in Gujarat last month. Mohammed Khan, an accused in the Rs 21,000-crore heroin seizure case, was on Monday sent in the NIA's custody by special judge Shubhada Baxi, after he was brought here from Patiala on a transit warrant. The special NIA court granted three-day remand of Khan to the National Investigation Agency, as against four days sought by it. Earlier, on October 18, the court had sent three accused in the case to the NIA's custody for 10 days. The three accused included M Sudhakaran and Durga Vaishali, who allegedly ran the Vijayawada-registered M/s Aashi Trading Company which had imported a consignment of 'talc stones', and Rajkumar P. "Khan's name was revealed during the investigation into the case, and a lookout notice was issued against him. He was detained by authorities at the Delhi airport while he was trying to escape from the country, and was handed over to the NIA and taken to Patiala," said Amit Nair, the special public prosecutor for the NIA. The case relates to the seizure of heroin, disguised as a consignment of semi-processed talc stones originating from Afghanistan, which had arrived at the Mundra Port from Bandar Abbas Port in Iran. The case was initially investigated by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs later transferred the investigation into the case to the NIA. The accused have also been booked under provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), and the NIA is conducting a probe to unearth a larger conspiracy behind the seizure. On September 13, the DRI detained two containers that had arrived at the Mundra Port from Kandahar in Afghanistan via Bandar Abbas Port of Iran. The declaration accompanying the containers claimed they contained "semi-processed talc stones". On September 17 and 19, the DRI established that the two containers, in fact, contained heroin which was concealed in "the lower layers" of "jumbo bags" topped with talc stones. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/afghan-national-remanded-in-nia-custody-for-3-days-in-mundra-port-drug-haul-case-1044364.html
26-10-2021||West||NIA opposes Sachin Vaze's house arrest plea in HC, says he may abscond if let out of prison||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has opposed dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze's plea seeking temporary transfer from the Taloja prison to house arrest in the Bombay High Court saying Vaze, being a "highly influential person," may abscond and "tamper with prosecution witnesses", if let out of the prison. In an affidavit filed before the high court on Tuesday, the NIA said Vaze was accused of "serious offences", including being part of the conspiracy to kill businessman Mansukh Hiran and planting an explosives-laden vehicle near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in south Mumbai. "If any House Arrest (custody) is granted to the petitioner accused, there is every likelihood that said petitioner accused will abscond from the jurisdiction of this Hon',ble court and will tamper with the prosecution witnesses including the protected witnesses who allegedly were his associates," the affidavit reads. "And it is not difficult for the petitioner accused to figure out who they are, even though the fact is that their identity and addresses are protected since the petitioner accused is a highly influential person in the area of Mumbai," it reads. The affidavit was submitted in response to a plea filed by Vaze earlier this month seeking that he be shifted from judicial custody to house arrest for his post-operative care following bypass surgery. Vaze had requested the court that he be permitted to remain under house arrest till he recovered fully. The NIA however, said in the affidavit that Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai had required facilities for Vaze's post-operative care and that if required, he could be taken to the state-run JJ Hospital in Mumbai. Vaze had sought parity with Elgar Parishad accused Varavara Rao, who had been granted interim medical bail in February this year owing to his advanced age and worsening health. The NIA said in its affidavit that Vaze's case was different from that of Rao and while the latter had been granted medical bail, Vaze was asking for continuing judicial custody in the form of house arrest. A bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and SV Kotwal on Tuesday directed Vaze's counsel, advocate Raunak Naik, to place on record Vaze's post-surgery medical papers. The high court also directed the state prison authorities to submit Vaze's latest medical reports. It will hear the plea further next month.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-opposes-sachin-vazes-house-arrest-plea-in-hc-says-he-may-abscond-if-let-out-of-prison-1044400.html
26-10-2021||West||'No possession of drugs, why is he in jail': Arguments made for Aryan Khan's bail||Seeking to puncture the Narcotics Control Bureau’s cruise drug case, Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan’s defence team contended that he was neither part of any conspiracy nor any contraband was found on him.  The arguments were led by senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, a former Attorney General of India, before Justice Nitin Sambre of the Bombay High Court.  "There is no consumption, no possession... Why has this boy been sent to 20 days in jail?” Rohatgi asked the Judge in the jam-packed courtroom.  Denying the allegations of “conscious possession” because of charges of recovery of 6 gms of contraband from Arbaaz, Rohatgi said, "What somebody else had in their shoe is not my concern… possession of somebody else cannot be my possession unless there is control and knowledge." The NCB, however, has opposed the bail application.  According to Rohatgi, there is no medical examination and there is no record to prove that Aryan consumed drugs on that day. The court has adjourned the hearing of bail pleas of Aryan, social media influencer Arbaaz Merchant and model-designer Munmum Damecha till Wednesday.  The star-son was arrested on October 3 and after initial NCB custody, he is now lodged in the Arthur Road Jail, an undertrial prison in Mumbai.  Aryan’s battery of lawyers besides Rohatgi included senior counsel Amit Desai and senior lawyer Satish Maneshinde.  The NCB was represented by Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh and Special Public Prosecutor Adwait Sethna.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-possession-of-drugs-why-is-he-in-jail-arguments-made-for-aryan-khans-bail-1044407.html
26-10-2021||West||HC says Elgar Parishad accused Varavara Rao needn't surrender till November 18||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said poet Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case who is on interim bail, need not surrender before the Taloja prison authorities until November 18 and adjourned the hearing on a plea filed by him to next month. Rao, 82, had been granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds by the HC on February 22 this year. He was scheduled to surrender and return to judicial custody on September 5. However, Rao filed an application last month through his lawyer R Sathyanarayanan and senior counsel Anand Grover, seeking extension of the bail period. He also sought HC permission to stay in his hometown of Hyderabad while out on bail. However, the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the probe agency in the case, opposed Rao's plea for extension of medical bail and shifting to Hyderabad, saying the octogenarian poet-activist's medical reports do not indicate that he suffers from any serious ailment. In its affidavit filed before the HC last month, the NIA had said that the medical reports filed by Rao did not disclose any major ailment, which necessitated him to take treatment at Hyderabad, neither did it form a ground for further extension of bail. On Tuesday, a bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and SV Kotwal adjourned the hearing on Rao's plea due to paucity of time. The bench also asked Rao to file a separate plea seeking permission to shift to his hometown while out on medical bail. As part of the stringent conditions imposed on his interim bail by the HC, Rao has been staying with his wife in a rented accommodation in Mumbai. At the time that he was granted bail, Rao had been undergoing treatment for multiple ailments at the private Nanavati Hospital in the metropolis, where he had been admitted by the Maharashtra prison authorities following the HC's intervention. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the 'Elgar Parishad' conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case, in which more than a dozen activists and academicians have been named accused, was later transferred to the NIA. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-says-elgar-parishad-accused-varavara-rao-neednt-surrender-till-november-18-1044416.html
26-10-2021||West||No bail for Aryan Khan yet as Bombay HC to continue hearing on October 27||The Bombay High Court will continue on Wednesday hearing on a bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, arrested in a case of alleged seizure of narcotic drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month. Justice N W Sambre on Tuesday commenced hearing on the bail application. Aryan Khan's lawyers Mukul Rohatgi and Satish Maneshinde argued that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has no evidence against the 23-year-old, and he was wrongly arrested and has been kept in jail for over 20 days. "There is no evidence of consumption, no recovery of drugs and absolutely no evidence to show his participation in this so-called conspiracy and abetment as alleged by the NCB," senior advocate Rohatgi said. Rohatgi completed his arguments after which the court said it would continue the hearing on the bail pleas of co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha on Wednesday. The court will on Wednesday also hear the arguments of Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB. Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3. A special NDPS Act court has rejected his bail plea.  Check out the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-bail-for-aryan-khan-yet-as-bombay-hc-to-continue-hearing-on-october-27-1044427.html
26-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs case: Court grants bail to two of accused||Two of the 20 accused in the Cordelia drugs-on-cruise case - in which Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is an accused - have been granted bail by a special court in Mumbai on Tuesday. A special court, that presides over cases under NDPS Act, granted bail to Manish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu, both arrested in connection with the raid on the cruise ship off the Mumbai harbour earlier this month.   Rajgaria was accused of possessing 2.4 grams of ganja or marijuana, and Sahu was accused of accepting that he consumed contraband twice on the ship.  Sahu’s advocate Sana Raees Khan said that the NCB didn't even conduct a blood test to determine if he consumed the drug. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-case-court-grants-bail-to-two-of-accused-1044454.html
