27-10-2021||First Edit||Pegasus judgement to be landmark decision||The Supreme Court’s much-awaited judgement in the Pegasus case is an important landmark in the history of the fight for the fundamental rights of citizens and institutional protection for them. It is especially important because these rights are being challenged in the country in various ways and Pegasus symbolised one of the most serious of such challenges. Revelations in the international media had pointed to extensive surveillance and hacking of citizens’ phones for the past many years with the help of a software from an Israeli company. The Supreme Court’s decision to set up a committee under a former judge of the court, Justice R V Raveendran, to investigate the charges of illegal surveillance and hacking, under its own supervision, is welcome because it will hopefully bring out the truth and fix responsibility for the wrong decisions and actions that may have taken place.   The committee will have a number of experts to assist it in its investigation. An important feature of the court’s decision is that it has rejected the government’s offer to set up a committee to probe the matter. This would not have helped because it is the government which is under the shadow of suspicion, and an exercise done under its auspices would not have been credible at all. The fact that the court recognised this is itself important. With its decision, the court has asserted and reaffirmed its position as the trustworthy sentinel of the fundamental rights of citizens. It has clearly said this in many words. The statements that “every invasion of privacy must pass the test of reasonableness and constitutional necessity’’ and that “such invasion can't be allowed without statutory backing" are very reassuring. It has sent out the message that it will not compromise on its duty to protect the citizens’ rights even as “it is conscious of not entering the political thicket.’’  The court’s strong criticism of the government in the case is very significant. The very fact that it quoted from George Orwell’s fictional account of totalitarianism, 1984, has set the theme of that criticism. The government has been evasive and was unwilling to provide the information that the court wanted, and tried to hide behind the excuse of national security. The court has done well to reject this, and this should be relevant in other cases also where the government has tried to curb the rights of citizens. It has identified eight issues to be “enquired, investigated and determined’’. The committee will also make recommendations for enactment of legal measures and other steps for better protection of rights. Hopefully, the government will extend full co-operation to the committee and its findings will be available earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pegasus-judgement-to-be-landmark-decision-1044826.html
27-10-2021||In Perspective||Monetising data: For whose good?||Last week, the Government of Karnataka (GoK) notified its Open Data Policy (ODP) to open up government-held personal and non-personal datasets for “innovation, co-creation and research”. The government’s logic fits very much into the current global norm. Open data thinking is based on the rationale of value-creation through public datasets in a wider context in which data is seen as a strategic asset. The GoK policy toes this line, with provisions on “reasonable” user fees, citizen privacy safeguards and public security. The data monetisation model classifies all personal and non-personal data through an inter-departmental decision-making process into three categories: ‘shareable’, ‘sensitive’ and ‘restricted’ data. It is only shareable data that can be monetised, and even here, any personal data that is included must be anonymised. Only body-corporates with a registered office in India can buy access rights to these datasets. Further, they can use those datasets only for the original purpose approved and cannot transfer them to third parties. A closer examination opens up a Pandora’s box of concerns for public interest and citizen rights. Firstly, contrary to what the architects of the policy imagine, anonymisation is no panacea to addressing all risks to privacy. With the Personal Data Protection Bill still languishing in Parliament, the lack of a legally-determined threshold for anonymisation, and the absence of a Data Protection Authority present grave risks to citizen privacy. It is not unlikely that easily reversible pseudonymisation (a simple switching of names in the original data set with an alias or pseudonym) may be passed off as adequate anonymisation by private sector entities, as in the case of the infamous (and now suspended) health data deal between Palantir and the UK’s National Health Service. This also means that any willful or inadvertent re-identification of individuals in data processing cannot be dealt with through legally enforceable penalties. Secondly, Karnataka’s ODP suffers from the worst of new public management thinking, focused exclusively on revenue-maximisation. Public (interest) innovation in data is not served by a simplistic, pay-to-use yardstick – even with the best privacy and security safeguards. Let us take the case of public transportation data of Bengaluru city that both Uber and a local drivers’ cooperative want to access or have use for. The latter may be unable to pay the user fee set by the government. On the other hand, Uber, with its treasure trove of data about the city’s spatiality and citizens’ movement, will be best positioned to harvest this public dataset for deepening and sharpening its already astute machine learning models. Without a vision of public data as a vital public policy instrument that can incentivise innovation by smaller players, there is a real risk that open public data will end up servicing a few dominant players of the platform economy who have already locked up the social commons of data. The State is not the ‘owner’, but a trustee of the public datasets that it holds. It has a fiduciary duty to leverage the public data commons for socio-economic equity. The EU’s proposed Data Governance Act clearly highlights that though public sector bodies should be able to charge fees for the re-use of data, it is equally important to make the data available at lower or no cost for certain categories of re-use, such as non-commercial re-use, or re-use by small and medium-sized enterprises. Along the same vein, the EU Open Data Directive 2019 has emphasised that high-value datasets essential for public interest innovation should be made widely accessible. In a developing country context, the public interest and civic innovation aspects of open data must be taken one step further. Going back to our example, it is vital that any open data policy not only privileges accessibility for the local drivers’ cooperative, but also works to ensure that public data re-use by platform behemoths like Uber does not undermine fair competition. The entire bouquet of data governance policies must be geared towards socio-economic equity. For instance, the value of public datasets can be enriched through rules for compulsory licensing of AI models built on public data – especially by big companies. The economic resource regime for the data commons thus needs fresh thinking about both publicly and privately held data. India’s MeitY-constituted expert committee on non-personal data also takes the view that government agencies are only custodians of the aggregate data that is owned by the community that generated it. It is this trusteeship approach that could have taken Karnataka’s ODP closer to its purported objective of democratising data for public good. Much preparation is needed for various departments to grasp the governance imperatives for citizen-centred data innovation. The GoK will be well advised to go back to the drawing board and rethink how its ODP can bring sustainable benefits to the local economy and society. (The writers are with IT for Change, an NGO that works on digital technologies and social justice)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/monetising-data-for-whose-good-1044830.html
27-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere police seize Rs 2.68 crore in cheating case||In the largest cash seizure in the recent times in the district, Davangere police have confiscated cash of Rs 2.68 crore from six persons in connection with cheating case. Speaking to media persons here on Wednesday, Superintendent of Police C B Rishyanth said that an agent named Shivalingaiah, (38) from Gadigudal of Harapanahalli taluk, Vijayanagar district, Chetan (24) a worker in the agent's shop in Davangere taluk, Maheshwaraiah (35), Shivakumar (59) from Davangere, and Vagish (49) and Chandru (40) from Harihar taluk are the accused in the case and they are relatives. A complaint was registered at RMC yard police station in March this year and all the six are out on bail. "We would file a charge sheet against them in the court appealing to the judge to handover them to police for interrogation," Rishyanth said. They were accused of cheating 125 people including farmers and merchants by not giving money to them after purchase of maize. Furnishing details about the case, farmers had lodged a complaint at RMC yard police station alleging that KC traders and GMC groups did not give money to them after purchasing maize from them. Shivalingaiah, proprietor of KC Traders, used to give money to them in 20 days after purchase. When interrogated, Shivalingaiah revealed that his relatives including Shivakumar, employee of Canara bank, used money belonging to farmers and merchants for their personal expenses. Rishyanth said when probe was intensified, the team discovered that the six persons were also accused of creating fake bank accounts to get money from insurance companies. They used to take all details of people who were on deathbed in hospitals and documents including Aadhar card to open accounts in Canara bank to claim insurance benefits. Many account holders told police that they were not aware of money credited to their bank account from insurance companies and withdrawn by the accused. Vidyanagar and Extension police registered cases against them in this regard. He said during the interrogation, they admitted that they cheated farmers and merchants. The probe team led by Dy SP B S Basavaraj recovered cash of Rs 1,51,86,470 belonging to farmers and Rs 1,17,05,000 belonging to merchants from the accused in Gadigudal of Harapanahalli taluk in Vijayanagar district. On auto digital meter, he said all autorickshaw drivers must get digital fare meters installed in their vehicles by October 31. If not,they may have to pay fine and vehicles without permits would be seized without fail, he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-police-seize-rs-268-crore-in-cheating-case-1044647.html
27-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man held on charge of sexual assault in Mangaluru||The police arrested a youth on charges of sexually assaulting a woman and threatening her. The suspect was identified as Munna alias Ibrahim, a resident of Kinnigoli, said DCP (law and order) Hariram Shankar. The victim in her complaint to Surathkal police had alleged that she had met the suspect while buying a mobile phone and a SIM from a mobile showroom. He had allegedly collected her phone number and later contacted her over phone, said the police. He had hid his identity and allegedly promised to marry her. In August 2021, Munna allegedly sexually assaulted the woman in a lodging and later had issued threats, added the police. Based on the complaint, Surathkal police had registered a case under various sections of IPC and had arrested Munna. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-held-on-charge-of-sexual-assault-in-mangaluru-1044649.html
27-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Relatives of patients at Mangaluru hospital allege negligence||Relatives of a patient from Karkala staged a protest at District Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru on Tuesday alleging carelessness on part of doctors and staff, adding that negligence also led to the death of another patient from Kasargod on Monday. Susheela, 55, a patient from Kasaragod, was brought to the hospital with breathing difficulties and later died, which her husband Krishna alleged, was due to a delay in her admission. Meanwhile, Karkala's Ramesh Kumar was brought to the hospital with a head injury and allegedly wasn't given treatment on time. In both cases, the hospital responded only after the intervention of  MLA D Vedavyas Kamath, relatives alleged. On Tuesday, the MLA visited the hospital and sought information from patients’ relatives, doctors and staff. He later told reporters that an inquiry will be conducted on the allegations. “I have sought a report from the hospital authorities and the issue will also be discussed with deputy commissioner Dr Rajendra K V." Hospital medical superintendent Dr Sadashiva Shanbagh denied the allegations. “There was no negligence on the part of the hospital in both the case. Ramesh is being given all treatment. Doctors have attended him on time. Susheela, had arrived at a time when three more patients were waiting in the casualty. Inspite of it, she was admitted immediately and was provided with  ventilator without much delay.” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/relatives-of-patients-at-mangaluru-hospital-allege-negligence-1044673.html
27-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangalore University planning to introduce open book exam: VC||Mangalore University Vice Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya said that the university is planning to introduce an open book examination system in a few Under Graduate programmes from the academic year 2022-23. Speaking during the academic council meeting, the VC said that Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) will introduce an open book exam system in a selected stream from the current academic year. On the model of VTU, the Mangalore University will also plan for the same from 2022-23. The open book exam will require lot of planning to frame the questions for the students. Under the system teachers must devise questions that require students to answer in more analytical and critical ways thus encouraging thinking skills in students as compared to traditional exams, he said. Entrepreneurship development cell The VC said that Mangalore University will set up an Entrepreneurship development cell, to create awareness on entrepreneurship among the student community. The training and placement cell at the university will be strengthened for the same. Already, the university has the University Employment Information and Guidance Bureau. The Entrepreneurship development cell will help in the development of entrepreneurship skills among the students. An eco-system for creating awareness on entrepreneurship will be created through the cell. Further, the Cell will also offer certificate or diploma courses in entrepreneurship, the VC explained. Integrated law programme The Mangalore University has proposed to start a five-year integrated law course at its PG centre in Chikka Aluvara in Kodagu district. The Bar Council has given in-principle approval for the same. The syllabus and regulation for the course is getting ready and is likely to be completed by January, informed Vice Chancellor. The Academic Council of the university approved regulation governing certificate programme in general law and post graduate diploma programmes in human rights law. The syndicate meeting of the university had decided to start diploma and certificate programmes in law. Accordingly, an expert committee was constituted which prepared syllabus and regulation for the programmes, said the VC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangalore-university-planning-to-introduce-open-book-exam-vc-1044716.html
27-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ministers came with cash bags for bypolls: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Wednesday charged that Ministers from the Karnataka government 'came with bags of cash' for the Hangal and Sindagi bye-elections as it "failed to bring development". "BJP deputed 10 to 12 ministers each for bye-elections in Hangal and Sindagi, and they came with bags full of cash. As BJP government failed to bring any development, BJP was left with no other option but to think that they would get votes only by distributing money," Siddaramaiah alleged. BJP leaders have nothing to say about development as the government has failed in all sectors. Therefore, they are trying to get votes by giving money. Complaint in this regard would also lodged with the election commission, he told media persons here on Wednesday. "BJP government failed to manage Covid-19 situation, and to implement development works. PWD roads in North Karnataka region were developed during Congress region. Let them show any new road developed under this government. They just chant 'development mantra', but did nothing. Is the price rise itself development?," he asked. "Chief Minister Bommai told lies about development, and I challenged him to come for debate before the people themselves. If he has worked well, why he should be afraid to come for an open debate? Let the people know who is correct. Bommai brought the order of sanctioning 4,000 houses just for the bypolls in Hangal," Siddaramaih said. "Congress is for all people and all religions. Anna Bhagya and other schemes introduced when I was the chief minister did not help only Muslims, but all communities. Why free rice is not given in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and other States where the BJP is in power?," he questioned. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ministers-came-with-cash-bags-for-bypolls-siddaramaiah-1044773.html
27-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||31 students test positive for Covid-19 in Kodagu||A total of 31 students of Navodaya Vidyalaya in Galibeedu have tested positive for Covid-19. All the students have been admitted to the district Covid hospital for treatment. After the schools reopened, a few students developed cough and fever. As a result, all 270 students were tested for Covid-19. After the students were tested positive, the school has been sealed. The remaining students and staff were also tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/31-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kodagu-1044775.html
27-10-2021||Karnataka Districts||India needs a leader of Indira Gandhi's calibre: Jeffrey Archer||Author and former politician Jeffrey Archer said Indians are the most entrepreneurial race on earth, in a mocking tone. He was interacting with entrepreneur and author Aroon Raman, virtually from London, in the session ‘Not a Page More, Not a Page Less’, as part of the fifth edition of the Mysuru Literature Festival (MLF), on Wednesday. “Many friends from India inform me that my stories have been made into Bollywood films, with different names. I like Bollywood movies and they are made very professionally. But, on the flip side, they are very unprofessional in plagiarism or piracy. However, I cannot do much about it,” Archer said. He said, “Immediately after the release of my book in London, a person just lands in London, picks up a copy and leaves for India. Within a couple of days, counterfeit copies of the book are sold by the streets of the cities in India. But there is not much that I can do. People enjoy reading books.” Archer spoke about his admiration for eminent writer late R K Narayan.  “I am a storyteller, who has grown into a better craftsman over the years. But Narayan was both a storyteller and a writer. Narayan’s book Malgudi Days is one of the best books of all times,” he said. Elaborating the work on his books, he said 180 days of a year are dedicated to writing and only the 13th or 14th draft of a book goes to the editor or publisher. “Rather than the plot, the characters motivate me and form the plot. I am a keen observer and have met many interesting people with interesting stories. I was also fortunate to have worked with the likes of The Queen and the late prime minister Margaret Thatcher,” he said. Commenting on politics, his first profession, he said, “Politics has reduced to criticising each other. There is a lot of unpleasant stuff on social media. It is awful. I want them to say what they will do for the people and society.” “While the whole world needs better leaders, nations, like India, need a leader of the calibre of the late prime minister Indira Gandhi. Able and young people shy away from politics. We need to somehow get the best of the youth in public life,” he remarked.  Scion of the erstwhile Mysore royal family Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, chairperson of Mysuru Literary Forum and Charitable Trust Shubha Sanjay Urs and Aryaman M Urs of the technical team joined the session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/india-needs-a-leader-of-indira-gandhis-calibre-jeffrey-archer-1044839.html
27-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka politicians may be involved in drugs, Bitcoin scam: Siddaramaiah||Adding fuel to speculation that some “influential” politicians from Karnataka could be involved in a drugs and cryptocurrency scam, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday went public with his concerns on this issue. "There is information about the involvement of influential politicians of Karnataka in the drugs & Bitcoin scam. It is concerning that the investigating officers are trying to close the case to help those politicians..." he said in a tweet. "The BJP government should not use their power to divert the investigation and they must ensure that the guilty are punished," he added. Siddaramaiah's tweets come even as speculation is rife with various theories, one of which is that two politicians from the state are involved in the drugs and Bitcoin scam. Earlier this year, CCB sleuths had seized Bitcoins worth Rs 9 crore from a Bengaluru-based hacker, Srikrishna alias Sriki. He was also accused of breaking into government portals and of sourcing drugs through the dark net, while paying for it through cryptocurrency. It is believed that some "high-profile" leaders and their kin were involved. In the wake of these speculations, Bengaluru-based Citizen Rights Foundation has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding an investigation. Foundation chairperson KA Paul, in his letter, said he researched and found three FIRs pending against Srikrishna. "Due to the intervention of people in power, he went scot-free. In the interest of the country, I sincerely feel a proper investigation is must (sic)," he stated. Meanwhile, another letter addressed to Modi written by a pro-Hindutva activist Girish Bharadwaj drew a lot of attention. In his October 19 letter, Bharadwaj calls for a ban on cryptocurrency, pointing to China, Indonesia and Turkey having declared it as illegal. He stated that cryptocurrencies are used by money launderers, cybercriminals and terror financiers as they offer anonymity and non-traceability, while quoting the examples of a few terror outfits such as the banned Bangladeshi group Ansar Al Islam, which has allegedly used cyptocurrency to route money to "terror groups". While his letter received much attention, Bharadwaj clarified to DH that his letter was generic in nature. "I wrote it from a nationalist perspective. My letter was apolitical and had got nothing to do with any case in Karnataka," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-politicians-may-be-involved-in-drugs-bitcoin-scam-siddaramaiah-1044786.html
27-10-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP to host OBC convention on November 21: Eshwarappa||A state-level convention of BJP leaders from OBC communities will be held in Bengaluru on November 21, Karnataka Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said Wednesday. The move is seen as the party's attempts to consolidate support from the communities ahead of the upcoming zilla panchayat and Assembly elections. Speaking at a party leaders' meeting organised by the BJP OBC Morcha that Eshwarappa heads, he said that minorities, Dalits and OBC communities had previously backed the Congress. "However, the party was only interested in caste and community politics. Now, more than 70% of voters from Dalit and backward classes prefer BJP. Even nationalist Muslims are with the BJP," he said. The BJP has been trying to make inroads into the Ahinda (minorities, backward classes and Dalits), the bulwark of Congress leader Siddaramaiah's poll plank. Eshwarappa, who belongs to the backward Kuruba community like Siddaramaiah, said that people are voting for the BJP because "we are believers and they are confident that we can protect the country and religion." Eshwarappa said that he never used to participate in caste conventions in the past as he was a Hindutva ideologue. "However, due to caste organisations, the Hindu community is gaining strength. Moreover, strengthening small caste groups is also our responsibility," he said. On the OBC convention that will be held next month, Eshwarappa said that backward classes leaders from all constituencies will take part. Former MLAs, MLCs and ministers will participate, he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-to-host-obc-convention-on-november-21-eshwarappa-1044836.html
27-10-2021||Main Article||Remember the Bombay Plan?||Air India’s privatisation is underway, albeit belatedly. Amidst conversations on the subject, many have blamed State control of the economy, which began under Jawaharlal Nehru, for the airline’s later failures. This is dangerous since it reflects a limited understanding of the country’s political economy at the time. It is worth noting that at the time of independence, India’s economic and political situation demanded the State’s involvement in the economy. The Bombay Plan, a memorandum written by eight of India’s leading businessmen in 1944, was a virtual plea for a State-led mixed economy. There was support across the political and business worlds for a Socialist economy. Calling the nationalisation of Air India detrimental to the Indian economy disregards the condition India was in at the time: a poor and highly unequal country desperately in need of resources and economic growth. Global economics debates at the time were in favour of State intervention across the world -- from the New Deal in the US to the emergence of the British Welfare State and the dominance of Keynesian economics to overcome economic slumps. In 1944, towards the end of WWII, on the heels of the Bengal Famine, the Quit India movement, and the inevitability of independence, JRD Tata and seven other leading industrialists and executives of the era – G D Birla, Purshottamdas Thakurdas, Ardeshir Shroff, Kasturbhai Lalbhai, Ardeshir Dalal, John Matthai, Lala Shri Ram came together to write a manifesto for the Indian economy post-independence. It was dubbed The Bombay Plan, or more formally A Plan of Economic Development for India. Its authors helped set up the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), supported the Congress during the freedom struggle, and even sat on the Viceroy’s executive council during WWII. The Bombay Plan was a two-part statement written by Indian businessmen and academics as they navigated the struggles and constraints imposed on them by the British Raj during WWII, and a way for them to indicate to future governments how they envisioned India’s political economy after independence. The plan aimed to triple India’s GDP in 15 years, and significantly increase India’s per-capita income to improve overall living standards. It planned to achieve these aims through three ‘leaps’, each spread out over five years, analogous to the five-year plans developed by the Nehru government after independence, which prioritised agriculture, industrialisation and then a transition to a services economy. In essence, India’s businessmen were in favour of a State-dominated economy, in line with previous actions. For example, they had sat on the Congress’ National Planning Committee in 1937 to help plan resources across the provinces under Congress rule. Some of the writers sat on committees created by the British Raj to share their views on the economy. For example, Ardeshir Shroff told the British Raj government’s Reconstruction Committee that: “The business community was convinced it would be necessary for the Government to exercise far reaching control in all fields of business activity, and that business would cooperate in the interests of economic development.”  This stance was adopted for multiple reasons. One was to secure business interests by showing solidarity with the government, but also to engage in policymaking to support modern India. It was also a statement showing that the business sector was unable to be the sole provider of jobs in the economy or shore up development and growth. The planners argued for a ‘mixed-economy’ model, where the government would take control of ‘basic industries’, and the private sector would take charge of ‘consumer industries’. Basic industries, transportation, including by air, rail and shipping, chemicals, power generation, and engineering were considered integral. Moreover, they argued that nationalisation of basic industries could reduce income inequalities, “Control by the State, accompanied in appropriate cases by State ownership or management of public utilities, basic industries, etc., will also tend to diminish inequalities of income (The Bombay Plan, Section 8).” This shows that there were two factors that shaped the businessmen’s logic: nation building and the protection of business interests in ‘consumer industries,’ such as textiles, glass, cotton, tobacco and paper -- sectors where they had business interests. They further argued that the government had to prioritise its basic industries over consumer industries, which would anyway be small given India’s poverty, in order to support other businesses. The planners conclude this section by saying, “for the success of our economic plan that the basic industries, on which ultimately the whole economic development of the country depends, should be developed as rapidly as possible,” emphasising that the government needed to take a leading role in the economy to ensure their provision. This reflects the relevance of the State in managing crucial sectors of the Indian economy such as airlines and railways. If anything, The Bombay Plan was a signal from the business community that instead of debating whether India should have a planned economy or not, the focus should be on determining the extent to which the State should be involved in the economy, a tussle that the Planning Commission faced after its creation. The Plan’s influence on Indian economic planning is clearly seen in the First and Second Five-Year Plans, which also prioritised agricultural development and industrial growth, respectively. It also paved the way for India to adopt a ‘third way’ in structuring its political economy by providing an opportunity for the country to combine aspects of Western capitalism, Soviet planning, and Western Socialism, allowing India to chart its own independent course.  Given the complexities facing the global economy with WWII and the centralisation and mobilisation of resources, the plan offered a remedy that would balance the aims of business and government. The Bombay Plan was a moment for India’s businesses to partake in nation-building and it endorsed aspects of the Congress’ and Nehru’s vision of modern India, while also tempering more extreme tendencies of the Left to protect their interests and receive government support in the name of self-sufficiency and independence from foreign influence.  Air India’s decline did not begin at or because of nationalisation — Nehru requested JRD to remain its chairman and he remained so until 1977 and Air India remained one of the prestigious airlines in the world in this period, until  he was unceremoniously removed by the Janata Party government — but because of poor management following JRD’s ouster. Blaming Nehruvian Socialism for Air India’s ills without acknowledging the political and economic contexts of post-independence India reflects an incomplete understanding of India’s formative years after independence. (The writer is a student at Stanford University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/remember-the-bombay-plan-1044827.html
27-10-2021||National||Rich focus on wealth post-Covid: Report||Covid-19 has prompted the affluent in India to take a hard look at their health as well as wealth, according to the Wealth Expectancy Report 2021 by Standard Chartered. Four in 10 Indians (42 per cent) have decided “to improve their health” followed by 39 per cent setting a goal to be financially prepared for major life changes such as having a child or moving abroad and 37 per cent aiming to set aside more money for their children’s future. The report also found that 97 per cent affluent people in India had taken at least one action to improve their wealth in the last 18 months. But the pandemic has also caused nearly half of affluent consumers in India to lose confidence in their financial management, making them increasingly averse to risk, found the report, which included nearly 16,000 people across 12 markets including Hong Kong, China, Singapore and the UK. The top four actions taken by affluent people in all countries except the UK were: tracking their investments more actively, increasing the proportion of money already invested, researching new financial products and setting new targets for performance of any investment. Nearly two-fifths of them increased the proportion of their money already invested, while the UK had the lowest number of affluent consumers setting new life goals. In India, nearly half of the affluent (48 per cent) said they felt less confident in their finances after the pandemic. In terms of planning for retirement, despite over half of consumers expecting to retire before 65, a third have not started savingyet. The data showed a third (33 per cent) do not currently save/invest for retirement, yet investment income for 43 per cent and cash savings for 39 per cent are the most common expected sources of income for retirement. Despite this, slightly more than half (54 per cent) plan to retire before the age of 65, with one-fifth (20 per cent) of those who have set new goals in the last 18 months saying they plan earlyretirement. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rich-focus-on-wealth-post-covid-report-1044552.html
27-10-2021||National||He can get me shot, says Nitish Kumar in response to Lalu's 'visarjan' remark||After RJD president Lalu Prasad commented that he will ensure 'visarjan' (immersion) of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar in the October 30 by-elections, the JD(U) leader retorted that the former can get him shot but cannot do anything else. The war of words between the two leaders started a couple of days after Prasad reached Patna after a gap of three years and said he will campaign for the by-polls to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seats. "I will ensure the 'visarjan' of Nitish Kumar and the NDA in the state," Prasad said about the chief minister, his arch-rival whose JD(U) seeks to retain the two seats. The RJD boss is scheduled to campaign for RJD candidates in the constituencies on Wednesday. Asked to comment on Prasad's remark, Kumar said, "If he wants, he can get me shot. He cannot do anything else... People have not forgotten the jungle raj in the state during his tenure. Let him say whatever he is saying. The NDA is winning both the seats." The RJD which has the largest number of MLAs in the 243-strong assembly has been claiming that it will wrest the two seats from the ruling NDA and trigger a “khela” (upheaval) in the state's politics. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/he-can-get-me-shot-says-nitish-kumar-in-response-to-lalus-visarjan-remark-1044559.html
27-10-2021||National||Harak Singh Rawat fuels speculation about returning to Congress||Uttarakhand Forest Minister Harak Singh Rawat on Tuesday further fuelled speculation about his return to the Congress, saying what will happen in future cannot be guaranteed. Rawat on Tuesday met state BJP president Madan Kaushik on his invitation amid speculation about his possible return to the Congress. Rawat’s meeting with Kaushik lasted for around two hours. Asked about his meeting with Kaushik, Rawat said he (Kaushik) knows that if Harak Singh Rawat has to go, he will inform him of his decision instead of holding any discussions. On being asked why did he never refute the speculation over his impending exit from the BJP, Rawat said when there is no guarantee of life, how can he guarantee something like that. Tossing a counter-question to the media persons, he asked can anyone of them guarantee that they will continue to work at the same place. He said he had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president J P Nadda, the party in charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Gautam and Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami but fails to understand where did the speculation about his return to the Congress begin. "As of now, there is no such possibility. We are all working to ensure the BJP's return to power (after next assembly polls)," he said. Speculation about Harak Singh Rawat's return to the Congress began doing the rounds after former minister Yashpal Arya returned to the party along with his MLA son Sanjeev Arya. Harak Singh Rawat was among nine Congress MLAs who had rebelled against Harish Rawat in 2016 and joined the BJP.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harak-singh-rawat-fuels-speculation-about-returning-to-congress-1044563.html
27-10-2021||National||India sees 13,451 daily Covid-19 cases, 585 fatalities||India logged 13,451 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,42,15,653, while the active cases declined to 1,62,661, the lowest in 242 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,55,653 with 585 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 33 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 122 consecutive days. The active cases comprise 0.48 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.19 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,155 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.03 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 23 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.22 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 33 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35, 97,339, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 103.53 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 585 new fatalities include 482 from Kerala and 32 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,55,653 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,060 from Maharashtra, 38,024 from Karnataka, 36,048 from Tamil Nadu, 29,355 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,081 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-13451-daily-covid-19-cases-585-fatalities-1044600.html
27-10-2021||National||Indian military cannot operate effectively without Russian supplied equipment: CRS report||There has been a considerable drop in India's dependence on arms and equipment from Russia but the Indian military cannot operate effectively without Russian-supplied equipment and will continue to rely on its weapons systems in the near and middle terms, a Congressional Research Service (CRS) report has said. The report comes ahead of a crucial decision that the Biden administration has to take on India buying military arms from Russia, whether it plans to impose sanctions against the country under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). "Many analysts in India and beyond conclude that the Indian military cannot operate effectively without Russian-supplied equipment and will continue to rely on Russian weapons systems in the near and middle terms," the independent CRS said in a report 'Russian Arms Sales and Defense Industry'. "As put by one senior American observer, New Delhi's continuing purchases 'remain one of the few levers of influence that India still possesses vis-à vis Moscow'. In this sense, much of Moscow's influence in India comes through its willingness to provide weapons systems and technologies that no other country will export to India. Russia also continues to offer advanced weapons platforms at relatively attractive rates," the CRS said. The CRS prepares periodic reports on various issues using independent subject experts. Its reports are not official reports of the Congress and are prepared to help lawmakers take informed decisions. A graph showed that since 2015, under the Modi government, there has been a consistent drop in import of equipment from Russia. Noting that India's plan to purchase Russian-made S-400 air defense systems, in progress since 2016, could trigger US sanctions under Section 231 of CAATSA, the CRS said Indian planners appear to have concluded that alternatives to the S-400 offered by Washington — the Patriot and THAAD systems — lack the purported range and versatility of the Russian equipment. "Despite a trend away from Russian arms imports, India in late 2019 submitted $800 million toward the full $5.4 billion contract for S-400 systems (it also entered a new $3.1 billion contract for indigenous production of 464 Russian-designed T-90S tanks)," it said. The CRS said recent press reports indicate that New Delhi is going "full steam ahead" with the induction of S-400 and added that the first deliveries are set for autumn 2021, to be completed by early 2023. It said that in August 2021, Russian officials stated that S-400 deliveries would begin by the end of 2021. The CRS report said that since 2010, Russia has been the source of nearly two-thirds (62 per cent) of all Indian arms imports and India has been the largest Russian arms importer, accounting for nearly one-third (32 per cent) of all Russian arms exports, according to SIPRI. Between 2016 and 2020, India accounted for nearly one-quarter (23 per cent) of Russia's total arms exports and Russia accounted for roughly half (49 per cent) of Indian imports, it said. The CRS report said that according to The Military Balance 2021, India's present military arsenal is heavily stocked with Russian-made or Russian-designed equipment. The Indian Army's main battle tank force is composed predominantly of Russian T-72M1 (66 per cent) and T-90S (30 per cent), it said. The CRS said the Indian Navy's sole operational aircraft carrier is a refurbished Soviet-era ship, and its entire complement of fighter and ground attack aircraft are Russian-made or produced in India on license. The Navy's fighter fleet comprises 43 MiG-29K/KUBs, it said. "Four of the Navy's 10 guided-missile destroyers are Russian Kashin class, and six of its 17 frigates are Russian Talwar class. The Navy's sole nuclear-powered submarine is on lease from Russia, and eight of the service's 14 other submarines are Russian-origin Kilo class," it said. "Finally, the Indian Air Force's 667-plane FGA fleet is 71 per cent Russian-origin (39 per cent Su-30s, 22 per cent MiG-21s, nine per cent MiG-29s). All six of the service's air tankers are Russian-made Il-78s," CRS report said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-military-cannot-operate-effectively-without-russian-supplied-equipment-crs-report-1044601.html
27-10-2021||National||Selling counterfeit helmets, cylinders, cookers to land you in trouble: See details||The Centre on Tuesday announced launch of a nation-wide campaign to prevent sale of spurious and counterfeit goods that violate Quality Control Orders as its violation is a cognisable offence under relevant sections of the BIS Act. Selling of such sub-standard helmets, pressure cookers, and cooking gas cylinders can be dangerous, hazardous and risk causing harm to consumers. Hence, the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) under the Department of Consumer Affairs, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution announced that violation of compulsory standards has been categorized as a cognisable offence u/s 29 (4) of the BIS Act. Under Section 2(47) of the Act, unfair trade practice includes promoting the sale, use or supply of any goods which adopts any unfair method or unfair or deceptive practice by falsely representing that the goods are of a particular standard, quality, quantity, grade, composition, style, or model. Taking suo moto cognizance of unfair trade practice involving sale of such goods to the consumers, the CCPA decided to initiate a country-wide campaign to prevent sale of such spurious and counterfeit goods. It has written to the Director General, BIS, to take up this issue on priority and notify all regional branches to conduct market surveillance and take immediate action. "We have written to Chief Secretaries of all states & UTs to undertake enforcement drive, in co-ordination with District Collectors and Commissioners of Police to prevent sale and manufacture of goods violating compulsory standards," Secretary, Consumer Affairs, Leena Nandan told a media conference. District Collectors in all states and UTs have been directed u/s 16 of CP Act to investigate unfair trade practices of selling such goods to consumers and submit an action taken report to the CCPA within three months, she said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/selling-counterfeit-helmets-cylinders-cookers-to-land-you-in-trouble-see-details-1044603.html
27-10-2021||National||NIA raids Jamaat activists' residences in Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday conducted multiple raids across Kashmir in connection with a funding case registered against the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI). Reports said the premier probe agency sleuths accompanied by police and CRPF personnel, raided houses of senior members of the banned organisation in Ganderbal, Budgam, Bandipora and Shopian districts. Sources said the raids were conducted in connection with a terror funding case registered against the banned JeI. Similar raids were carried out by the probe agency in August on the houses and offices of prominent JeI leaders. While the NIA didn’t issue any statement till this report was filed, sources said the raids were carried out to check the resurgence of the activities of the banned organization. “Some JeI members were routing money via Dubai and Turkey for funding terror activities in J&K with the help of Pakistan's spy agency ISI. The money was being routed in the name of charity, health and education,” they claimed. In 2019, the Centre had banned the JeI for five years after the Pulwama terror attack, in which 40 paramilitary CRPF personnel were killed and which brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. A senior police officer said that right from 1990 the JeI functioned as a socio-political wing of Hizbul Mujahideen militant outfit. “Its (JeI) cadres function as over ground workers of the Hizbul in providing infrastructure/logistic support and organizing protective shells in which militants operate,” he said. The officer added that the JeI has substantial penetration even in the UT’s lower and middle-level civil administration, civil secretariat, colleges and universities, legal fraternity, powerful financial institutions, political groups, and the police department. “To break this nexus, the Center has taken various steps and the latest NIA crackdown is one step in that direction,” he claimed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-raids-jamaat-activists-residences-in-kashmir-1044608.html
27-10-2021||National||I was trolled...: Amit Shah stresses government's responsibility to educate citizens||Union Home Minister and Minister of Cooperation Amit Shah on Wednesday said that "no nation can develop with an army of illiterates" and it is the government's responsibility to educate them.  "Somebody who doesn't know his Constitutional rights can't contribute to the nation, as much as it can be done...," he said.  He added that he was trolled earlier for the above remark but he would stick to his comment.  While addressing the inaugural session of National Conference on Delivering Democracy: Reviewing two decades of PM Narenda Modi as Head of Government, Shah highlighted his acheivements ever since he joined politics.  "When Modi Ji became the CM of Gujarat, the state had 67 per cent enrolment and 37 per cent dropout. He started a 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' programme to promote gender ratio and education. This eventually saw 100 per cent enrolment and also took steps to ensure dropout ratio reduced to almost zero," he said. Shah dubbed the BJP's decision to make Narendra Modi the CM of Gujarat "rare" because he (Modi) had no real experience of running administrations in 2001.  "After the 1960s and by 2014 people doubted if multi-party democratic system can be successful... People wondered if the system failed as it didn't yield fruitful results. With great patience, they took a decision and gave power to PM Modi with absolute majority," Shah said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-was-trolled-amit-shah-stresses-governments-responsibility-to-educate-citizens-1044635.html
27-10-2021||National||Congress welcomes SC order on Pegasus snooping row||The Congress on Wednesday welcomed the Supreme Court order of setting up an expert committee on the Pegasus spyware issue, and said it has negated alleged attempts of the government to evade and divert attention in the name of national security.  "Pseudo-Nationalism is the last refuge of cowardly fascists everywhere," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Twitter. Pseudo-Nationalism is the last refuge of cowardly fascists everywhere. Satyamev Jayate! "Welcome SC order setting up Special Committee to examine misuse of spyware Pegasus despite Modi Government's embarrassing attempts to evade, avoid and divert attention in the name of National Security. Satyamev Jayate," he said. The Supreme Court has appointed a three-member panel of experts to probe into the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of some persons, saying every citizen needs protection against violation of privacy. The court was hearing pleas seeking an independent probe into reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Pegasus. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-welcomes-sc-order-on-pegasus-snooping-row-1044636.html
27-10-2021||National||'Jumla' version of Covid-19 vaccine story will not save lives: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said actual vaccinations and not the "jumla (rhetoric) version" of the Covid-19 vaccine story would save lives and pointed out to the large number of people who are yet to be vaccinated in the country. He shared an article by Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a newspaper which lauded Indian scientists and researchers on achieving the 100-core vaccination milestone but pointed out to the large number of people and children who are yet to be inoculated against Covid-19. "Jumla-version of the vaccine story won't save lives. Actual vaccination will," he said on Twitter using the hashtag "#DutyToVaccinate". The Congress also shared on Twitter Sonia Gandhi's article and quoted her, "The PM likes to emphasise that vaccines are free, while conveniently forgetting that they have always been free. It is the BJP government that moved away from India's universal free vaccination policy." Sharing the article on Twitter, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "The floundering economy can be turned around if we can drive away the dark clouds of Covid-19. That requires us to ramp up the pace of the rollout of vaccines to all, completely free, including to our children." "The floundering economy can be turned around if we can drive away the dark clouds of COVID19. That requires us to ramp up the pace of the rollout of vaccines to all, completely free, including to our children." Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also quoted the Congress president and said, "Not hollow announcements but genuine execution is the key to not only health of our citizens but wealth of our Nation". "Vaccine for all..including our children.. usher in the festive season…with genuine optimism," he also said quoting Sonia Gandhi and shared her article on Twitter. “Not hollow announcements but genuine execution is the key to not only health of our citizens but wealth of our Nation” “Vaccine for all..including our children.. usher in the festive season…with genuine optimism” In the article "The vaccination milestone and a distant goal", Sonia Gandhi pointed out that the Government ought to realise that vaccinating all Indians as quickly as possible is linked to their health and progress. "Our frontline health-care workers deserve our fulsome congratulations for crossing the milestone of 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. They, along with our scientists, researchers, medical professionals, and vaccine manufacturers, have heroically overcome multiple obstacles in the quest to protect our citizens from Covid-19. Thanks to their efforts, our vaccination drive has picked up pace after the initial months of delay, indecision, and confusion," Gandhi has said in her article. She also said that this milestone also marks the triumph of science and of India's research and manufacturing infrastructure built and nurtured over decades. The Congress president has also pointed out that the promise of all eligible Indians being doubly vaccinated by the end of 2021 is unlikely to be accomplished. "The hollow announcement has not been accompanied by either appropriate planning or execution. Experts assert that we will miss this target by at least five to six months," she said. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jumla-version-of-covid-19-vaccine-story-will-not-save-lives-rahul-gandhi-1044638.html
27-10-2021||National||India second most affected nation due to global warming in 2020: WMO||India lost around $87 billion in 2020 due to natural calamities, such as cyclones, floods and droughts, according to a report by World Meteorological Organization (WMO) released on Tuesday. The report further added that while China was the most affected nation from the effects of global warming, it was India in the second position. The report said that the East and South Asian summer monsoon were unusually active. Regular cyclones, floods and landslides, have led to the loss of lives and caused widespread displacement across nations. Cyclone Amphan, which severely hit the Sundarbans, the world’s largest mangrove forest straddling India and Bangladesh, in May 2020, displaced 2.4 million and 2.5 million people, respectively. The Indian Ocean is also warming up rapidly, along with the Pacific and the Arctic, with record surface temperatures. Sea surface temperatures around Asia were increasing three times faster than the global average, particularly in the Arabian sea. Warmer sea surfaces increase the probability of severe storms affecting the surrounding areas. Progress on food security and nutrition has also been slowing globally, the WMO report stated. In 2020, 48.8 million people in South-East Asia, 305.7 million in South Asia and 42.3 million in West Asia were undernourished. “The true impacts of covid-19 on food security and nutrition are yet to be established," the WMO mentioned. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-second-most-affected-nation-due-to-global-warming-in-2020-wmo-1044645.html
27-10-2021||National||Kerala makes registration must for adventure tourism activities||Kerala government has made registration mandatory for service providers in the Adventure Tourism sector for conducting a wide range of land, water and air-related activities to ensure their quality and safety. The procedures and protocols of Adventure Tourism Safety and Security Regulations for getting registration for operators were drawn up by Kerala Adventure Tourism Promotion Society (KATPS), which functions under the Department of Tourism. KAPTS had set up an experts’ committee to prepare safety parameters for the Adventure Tourism sector, an official statement said here. The panel, led by former KATPS Chief Executive Officer, the late Manesh Bhaskar, had prepared a consolidated ‘Adventure Tourism Safety and Security Regulations’ by taking into account the currently popular 31 adventure tourism activities in the state. Tourism Director V R Krishna Teja said Kerala considered adventure tourism as a highly promising segment, especially in the post-pandemic surge. "By introducing the registration system, foolproof safety and standard will be achieved in the sector, which will help Kerala attract more tourists to this sector with utmost confidence," he said. Registration will be provided solely based on the criteria stipulated by the regulations. The tourism director will accord the registration, valid for two years, after inspection of the facilities and operational features of the service providers by a team of Tourism officials and experts. K ovalam-based Bond Water Sports Pvt. Ltd. has become the first adventure tourism activity provider in the state to obtain the registration under the new system for its activities such as scuba diving, kayaking and parasailing, it said. The regulations will be updated in accordance with the new adventure activities that crop up in the sector in future. The captivating landscape of Kerala, dotted with hilltops, forests, and crisscrossed by rivers and backwaters and also a 580 km-long coastline make the state the most suited place for adventure tourism. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-makes-registration-must-for-adventure-tourism-activities-1044652.html
27-10-2021||National||Mandaviya urges pharma industry to make India a manufacturing hub||Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday urged the pharma industry to make India a manufacturing base as the country is a safe destination for investments. Addressing the Investor Summit on 'Opportunities & Partnerships in Pharma & Medical Devices', the minister spoke about the government's pro-industry reforms and efforts to make India the best investment destination in the world. "I would like to tell investors what PM Modi has already said. Please come and manufacture in India, set up industry here. The country provides a safe investment environment as you would find in your own countries," Mandaviya said in an online event. He noted that the government has been taking constant steps to enhance investments in the country and the global pharma industry should take benefit from it. There were no biases against people coming to invest from outside and everyone was treated equally, Mandaviya said, outlining the reasons for growth of the industry in the country. He said that the government is looking to make the country a pharma hub and noted that the government is in the process of setting up three bulk drug parks in the country. Around Rs 30,000 crore has been lined up as part of the two Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes in the pharma sector, Mandaviya said. Mandaviya noted that the pharma sector was like a religion in the country and therefore it was the leading supplier of generic medicines in the world. "We see to it that the world gets affordable medicines," he stated. The minister further said that the domestic pharma industry has witnessed growth in Covid times and it has been due to the pro-industry policies formed by the government. The Investor Summit was organised by the Department of Pharmaceuticals in partnership with Invest India. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-urges-pharma-industry-to-make-india-a-manufacturing-hub-1044664.html
27-10-2021||National||Airtel CEO warns users about cyber fraud cases becoming 'alarmingly frequent'||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel's CEO has warned customers about rising cases of cyber frauds, citing a recent instance of a fraudster who posed as company executive and under the guise of updating KYC form, tricked a user into revealing bank details to transfer large amount from the bank account. In an email outreach to subscribers, Gopal Vittal, CEO of Airtel urged users to be vigilant against such cases of cyber fraud that are becoming "alarmingly frequent". Vittal spoke of a recent case where a cyber fraudster posing as company executive called up an Airtel customer on the pretext of updating his Know Your Customer (KYC) form, tricked him into revealing his bank details and transferred a large sum of money from his bank account. "Unfortunately, such instances of cyber fraud are now becoming alarmingly frequent. So, I urge you to be vigilant," Vittal said. Common instances of fraud include fake UPI handles and websites and fake OTPs, he informed. "There are several fake UPI apps and ecommerce websites which appear authentic in design through the usage of NPCI, BHIM words and logos. If you download one of these, you will be asked to enter all your bank details as well as your MPIN thereby granting the fraudster in question complete access to your bank details," Vittal wrote. Elaborating on the modus operandi for fake OTPs, he explained that a fraudster calls the customer claiming to be from a bank/financial institution and asks for account details or an OTP to unblock/renew the existing bank account. The details are then used to withdraw money from the customer's bank account. Vittal also listed out precautions to safeguard against these frauds, advising customers not to share any financial or personal information like your customer ID, MPIN, OTP over the phone, SMS or email. Safety measures detailed out also asked users not to follow instructions in any SMS sent from an untrusted source; deleting such SMSes instantly; not opening suspicious websites and apps nor fall prey to unbelievable offers or prices on such sites. Do not share your personal and financial information with unknown apps claiming to be UPI apps, Vittal said, also urging users not to provide any confidential information via email or click on any suspicious link, even if the request seems to be from authorities like the Income Tax Department, Visa or MasterCard, and others. "Do not open unexpected email attachments or instant message download links. Additionally, installing antivirus software will help. It scans every file you download and protects you from malicious files," he informed customers. Vittal also suggested using `Airtel Safe Pay' describing it as a "very sound way" to avoid fraud. Airtel Safe Pay is the safest method of paying online in the country, and provides an additional layer of security for every transaction, he said. "In other words, before you actually make a payment, our network intelligence throws up a message asking you to confirm the transaction. And the money only leaves your account once we have received your approval, thereby ensuring you are not vulnerable to fraudsters," he wrote. To be on Airtel Safe Pay, users need to open an Airtel Payments bank account. "These are uncertain times and cybercrime is on the rise. So, I urge you therefore to pay heed and proceed with care," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airtel-ceo-warns-users-about-cyber-fraud-cases-becoming-alarmingly-frequent-1044679.html
27-10-2021||National||Centre asks media organisations to display logo of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'||The Centre on Wednesday directed the print, electronic and digital media to display the logo of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' as part of the campaign to commemorate the completion of 75 years of India's independence. "Private media has consistently taken the lead in celebrating India's patriotic spirit and national achievements. It is advised to use the logo during the period of celebrations so that citizens are made aware of India's rich history and commitment to a bright future," Union Information and Broadcasting Ministry said. It asked the print, electronic and digital media along with private TV channels to show the logo. “As you would be aware, country-wide celebrations are being undertaken under the 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' campaign to commemorate the completion of 75 years of India's Independence. "The campaign celebrates the glorious history of our freedom struggle and journey of socio-cultural, political and economic progress over the last 75 years,” it said. The 'Amrit Mahotsav' commenced on March 12 this year and will end on August 15, 2023. It said various activities and events are being undertaken by the Central/State/Union Territory government, civil society and other organisations under the five pillars -- the Freedom Struggle, Ideas@75, Achievements@75, Actions@75, and Resolve@75. “In view of this, media platforms may consider displaying the official 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' logo during news programmes, reports, bulletins, especially while reporting on matters relating to 75 years of India's independence so that viewers may be informed about the campaign and they take forward the spirit of 'Jan Bhagidari' (public participation) envisaged under the Mahotsav," the ministry said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-media-organisations-to-display-logo-of-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-1044681.html
27-10-2021||National||DGCA to conduct on-demand license exams for pilots, aircraft engineers||Aviation regulator DGCA will conduct on-demand online exams to grant licenses to pilots and aircraft maintenance engineers from the next month onwards, the regulator said in a statement on Wednesday. The Online On-Demand Exam (OLODE) will be in addition to the existing regular online exams that are taken four times a year by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). "The first session of the monthly OLODE is initially planned at Delhi which will be extended to the metro cities subsequently," the DGCA said in the statement. During the first OLODE session, 720 seats for aircraft maintenance engineers and 1200 seats for pilots were being made available to the candidates on first-come-first-serve basis, it said. The candidates while applying for the OLODE could select date and time among the available slots of the examinations days to appear as per his or her choice, it said. The DGCA expressed hope that the introduction of OLODE will increase the frequency of the required licensing examinations and will provide more opportunities to the aspiring candidates. "This will also facilitate those candidates who were affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic during the last 2 years. "Further, this OLODE is a step forward towards the government's commitment to promote the growth of FTOs (Flying Training Organisations) in the country and ease of doing business," the regulator added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-to-conduct-on-demand-license-exams-for-pilots-aircraft-engineers-1044686.html
27-10-2021||National||I-T Department enables tax audit utility form for FY20, FY21||The income tax Department has enabled the tax audit utility form on its portal for financial year 2019-20 and 2020-21. Under the I-T Act, taxpayers are required to get their accounts audited if the sales, turnover or gross receipts of business exceed Rs 10 crore, while in case of professionals, the limit was over Rs 50 lakh in 2020-21 (AY 2021-22). The last date for filing the tax audit report for the 2020-21 fiscal is January 15, 2022. For fiscal 2019-20 i.e. AY 2020-21, limit was Rs 5 crore for businesses and Rs 50 lakh for professionals and due date for original tax audit report was January 15, 2021. However, companies can still file the revised tax audit report for that year to rectify errors. Nangia & Co LLP Director, Audit & Assurance, Shalu Kedia said the corporate assessees did not want to wait until due date which is falling in January for tax audit filing for AY 2021-22 can now proceed with their tax audit filings followed by corporate tax returns for Assessment Year (AY) 2021-22 (pertaining to fiscal 2020-21). "Many of the corporate assessees were also waiting for the utility to go live as they had to revise their tax audit reports for AY 2020-21 (FY 2019-20) to rectify errors in original tax audits reports and file a suitable response against demands arising on account of mismatches in tax audit reports and tax returns for AY 2020-21," Kedia said. AMRG & Associates Director – Direct & International Tax Om Rajpurohit said after prolonged postponement, the CBDT has finally enabled the Tax Audit utility on October 26. "However, this delay has resulted in an unnecessary interest burden for the taxpayers who usually finalize their tax due and file their tax return on time once the tax audit report is filed. Though, for such a class of taxpayers who are yet to start their ITR filing process owing to extended due dates, this is a welcome step," Rajpurohit added. AKM Global, Director-Tax and Regulatory, Sandeep Sehgal said "since the due date for filing of tax audit stands extended to January 15, 2022, this will allow sufficient time to auditors and taxpayers to ensure orderly filing, and also identify and report any glitches encountered during the process." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-department-enables-tax-audit-utility-form-for-fy20-fy21-1044689.html
27-10-2021||National||India will have whole of Kashmir someday: Western Air Command chief on Budgam landing anniversary||A top Air Force officer on Wednesday said there was no plan "at the moment" to capture Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), but expressed the hope that someday India will have the "whole of Kashmir". Speaking to reporters at an event here to mark the 75th anniversary of the Indian troops' Budgam landing, Air Officer Commanding in Chief (AOC-in-C) of Western Air Command, Air Marshal Amit Dev, also said the people in PoK are not being treated very fairly by the Pakistanis. “...All the activities which were carried out by the Indian Air Force and the Army (on October 27, 1947) resulted in ensuring the freedom of this part of Kashmir. I am sure that someday, the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir will also join this part of Kashmir and we will have the whole of Kashmir in years to come,” he said. However, when asked if the force has any plans to capture the PoK, Air Marshal Dev said there was no plan at the moment. “(The whole of) Kashmir is one, a nation is one. People on both sides have common attachments. Today or tomorrow, history is witness, that nations come together. We do not have a plan at the moment, but, God willing, it will always be there because people in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir are not being treated very fairly by the Pakistanis,” he said. Indian troops had landed in Kashmir on October 27, 1947, a day after the then Maharaja Hari Singh signed the instrument of accession with India following the Pakistani tribal raids. The AOC-in-C of the Western Air Command said the IAF faces many challenges, but the basic one is of technology. “The rate of change of technology is so fast in the world today that we have to keep pace with that. If any nation which is to grow economically has to have a strong military, we must fulfil our obligation to the nation in the years to come...and we are always ready for the challenge,” he said. The IAF has become a very capable force and in the years to come, "'we will continue to serve the nation with honour"' he added. Asked about the drone attacks, Air Marshal Dev said they can inflict minimal damage only. “We had equipment against it (drone attacks) ready, and it was deployed here as well. We are now increasing the deployment by further procurement. Drone challenge is a small challenge and we will be able to deal with that challenge as and when it comes,” he said. He said celebrating the 75 years of Budgam landing was a historic occasion. “After the instrument of accession was signed, we moved in our troops quickly and Srinagar airfield was saved and thereafter we launched further offensive and pushed the Pakistani military, which came as Kabalis (tribals), further back. "I am sure if the UN had not intervened, perhaps, the entire Kashmir would have been ours,” he said. He said the IAF and the Army carried many other small missions including the operations in Poonch after an airstrip was laid there in a short span of seven days, attacks at Srinagar airfield, in Skardu on ammunition dump, and in Leh. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-have-whole-of-kashmir-someday-western-air-command-chief-on-budgam-landing-anniversary-1044697.html
27-10-2021||National||LPG price may be hiked next week; petrol, diesel rates up again||Cooking gas LPG prices may be hiked next week after under-recovery on the fuel widened to over Rs 100 per cylinder, sources said insisting that the rate hike, including the quantum of increase, is dependent on government permission. If allowed, this will be the fifth increase in cooking gas rates across all categories — households using subsidised gas for cooking and heating purposes, non-subsidised fuel and industrial-sized gas. LPG rates were last hiked by Rs 15 per cylinder on October 6, taking the total increase in rates since July to Rs 90 per 14.2-kg cylinder. Sources with direct knowledge of the matter said state-owned oil marketing companies have not been allowed to align retail selling price with the cost, and no government subsidy has so far been approved to bridge the gap. The under-recovery or losses on LPG sales have mounted to over Rs 100 per cylinder after international energy prices soared to multi-year high, they said. While Saudi LPG rates have jumped by 60 per cent to USD 800 per tonne this month, international benchmark Brent crude oil is trading at USD 85.42 per barrel. "LPG is still a controlled commodity. So, technically, the government can regulate the retail selling price. But, when they do that the oil companies have to be compensated for the under-recovery (or losses) they incur on selling LPG at rates below the cost," one of the sources. The government last year eliminated subsidies on LPG by bringing retail prices at par with the cost through periodic hikes. But, unlike petrol and diesel, whose pricing has been decontrolled, the government has not official announced deregulation of LPG rates. "So far, there is no indication that the compensation or subsidy will be restored as the gap between cost and retail price has widened," the source said. In case the government is not willing to bear subsidy, retail prices have to increase, he said adding that the increases might be moderated to spare consumers of any steep burden. Currently, cooking gas costs Rs 899.50 per cylinder in Delhi and Mumbai, and Rs 926 in Kolkata. This is the rate that domestic households — who are entitled to 12 cylinders of 14.2-kg each at subsidised rates, poor households that got free connections under the Ujjwala scheme and industrial users pay. Meanwhile, after a two-day pause, petrol and diesel prices on Wednesday were again hiked by 35 paise per litre each, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Petrol now costs Rs 107.94 a litre in Delhi and Rs 113.80 in Mumbai. Diesel is now priced at Rs 96.67 a litre in Delhi and Rs 104.75 in Mumbai. While petrol has already hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all major cities of the country, diesel has touched that level in over one-and-a-half dozen states and UTs from Jammu & Kashmir to Tamil Nadu. Prices differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of local taxes. Petrol price has been hiked on 22 occasions since September 28, when a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision ended. In all, prices have gone up by Rs 6.75 a litre. Diesel rates have been increased by Rs 8.05 per litre in 24 hikes since September 24. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. The diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 per litre during this period. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lpg-price-may-be-hiked-next-week-petrol-diesel-rates-up-again-1044698.html
27-10-2021||National||India determined to protect legitimate rights in its territorial waters: Rajnath Singh||The rise of serious threats such as terrorism, drug trafficking, piracy and climate change have thrown new challenges for the Indo-Pacific at a time when the competition over its resources has intensified, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday. In an address at a conference on the Indo-Pacific, Singh said the nature of the challenges in the region has considerable trans-national implications that require a cooperative response. The defence minister also asserted that India is fully determined to protect its legitimate rights and interests in its territorial waters and exclusive economic zone while supporting the maintenance of rules-based maritime systems. "While competition over resources has intensified, the rise of serious threats such as terrorism, piracy, drug trafficking and climate change have thrown new challenges for our Indo-Pacific region," he said. "The nature of these challenges in the region has considerable trans-national implications which require a cooperative response. There is, therefore, a need to find convergence of interests and commonality of purpose on maritime issues," Singh said. The defence minister said efficient, cooperative and collaborative harnessing of the region's maritime potential, remained essential for sustaining a steady path to prosperity. "India is committed to respecting the rights of all nations as laid down in the UN Convention on the Law of Seas (UNCLOS), 1982," he said. "We are fully determined to protect the legitimate rights and interests of our country in relation to our territorial waters and Exclusive Economic Zone while supporting the maintenance of rules-based maritime systems as mandated under UNCLOS," he added. His comments came in the backdrop of growing global concern over China's increasing expansionist behaviour in the Indo-Pacific that has forced many countries to come out with strategies to deal with the challenge. In his remarks, Singh elaborated on how the oceans have shaped human history from time immemorial, influencing the evolution of life as well as culture. "From an Indian perspective, looking West, archaeological explorations have revealed ancient maritime connections with other civilisations like Mesopotamia — modern-day Iraq, Dilmun — modern-day Bahrain, and Magan — modern-day Oman," he said. The defence minister said that maritime linkages enabling the exchange of goods, culture and goodwill were foundational for mutual prosperity in the past, and continue to remain as such even today. "Looking East, maritime linkages also played a vital role in taking Buddhism across the region, from Sri Lanka, South East Asian countries and all the way till Korea," he said. Singh noted that the amalgamation of ancient Indian folklore such as Ramayana and Mahabharata in South East Asian cultures is also a result of these maritime linkages. "In fact, the region was so inter-linked that according to a folklore, an Indian princess of Ayodhya married a Korean prince way back in the year 48AD," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-determined-to-protect-legitimate-rights-in-its-territorial-waters-rajnath-singh-1044701.html
27-10-2021||National||SC committee to probe Pegasus snooping issue shatters castle of govt propaganda: CPI MP||CPI MP Binoy Viswam on Wednesday said the Supreme Court's decision to form a committee of experts to enquire into the Pegasus snooping issue had "shattered the castle of government propaganda". The apex court appointed a committee of experts to inquire into the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of Indian citizens. "Supreme Court in pegasus upheld nation's honour.Verdict shattered the castle of Govt.propaganda with a mask of national security. Now, they may try to put hurdles before expert committee by denying necessary materials.Modi is afraid of truth. They live for pegasus! (sic)" Viswam said in a series of tweets on his Twitter handle. A bench comprising Chief Justice of India N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli said the three-member committee will be headed by former apex court judge R V Raveendran. Citing national security, the Centre had refused to file a detailed affidavit in the matter. The pleas are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. "NSO,the mother of spyware Pegasus will now try to protect Modi Govt.Israeli zionism and RSS Hindutva are ideological twins.Greed of NSO coupled with Israeli politics led them to the snooping in India.Modi Govt.spread red carpet for pegasus to spy on its own citizens. Shame to Modi (sic)," he said. "As they want to hide the truth, they suppressed my Question in Parliament after Temporarily approving it. Our fight to raise Pegasus in Paliament is vindicated by the supreme court decision," the MP added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-committee-to-probe-pegasus-snooping-issue-shatters-castle-of-govt-propaganda-cpi-mp-1044710.html
27-10-2021||National||Jitin Prasada, Sanjay Nishad among four new members take oath in UP Legislative Council||Four new members of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council, including state minister Jitin Prasada, were administered oath at a function here on Wednesday. Besides Prasada, Sanjay Nishad, who heads Nishad (Nirbal Indian Shosit Hamara Aam Dal) Party; Chaudhary Virendra Singh Gujjar and Gopal Anjan Bhurji were administered oath by Chairman of the Legislative Council, Manvendra Singh in Tandon hall of the Assembly. The four members were nominated to the upper house of the legislature last month. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were among those who were present on the occasion. Prasada, who hails from Shahjahanpur, had recently crossed over to the BJP from Congress and was also made a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government. Sanjay Nishad was in the news for his demand that the BJP should project him as a deputy chief ministerial face in the upcoming assembly elections. He had claimed that Nishads (fishermen) constitute about 18 per cent of the electorate and play a deciding role in 160 assembly seats. The Nishad Party had contested the 2017 assembly elections in alliance with the Peace Party led by Dr Mohamed Ayub and contested 72 seats. Its candidate Vijay Mishra had won from Gyanpur seat in Bhadohi district. Union minister and BJP in-charge for UP Dharmendra Pradhan had recently announced a tie-up with the Nishad Party for the 2022 election. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the party entered into an alliance with the BJP and Sanjay Nishad's son Praveen Nishad was nominated from Sant Kabir Nagar from where he won the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jitin-prasada-sanjay-nishad-among-four-new-members-take-oath-in-up-legislative-council-1044713.html
27-10-2021||National||HC issues summons to Ramdev in suit by doctors over misinformation against allopathy||The Delhi High Court Wednesday issued summons to Ramdev on a lawsuit by several doctors' associations for allegedly spreading misinformation against allopathy amid the Covid-19 pandemic, saying that the plea was not frivolous and a case for its institution was “definitely” made out. Justice C Hari Shankar granted four weeks to Ramdev to file his response to the suit. The judge clarified that he was “not expressing any opinion” on the merits of the allegations in the plaint against the Yoga Guru and the issue of grant of any relief, interim or otherwise, shall be looked into subsequently. “I have seen the video clips (of Ramdev). From the perusal of the video clips, your client is scorning the allopathic treatment protocol. He has literally gone to scorn at the prescription of steroids, people going to hospitals. From the perusal of the clips, there is definitely a case for the institution of the suit. They (plaintiffs) may have nothing for an injunction but the case is not frivolous,” the judge told senior counsel Rajiv Nayar, appearing for Ramdev. The senior lawyer said that while he had no objections to the issuance of summons in the matter, he opposed the allegations made in the case.  "There are three parts to the suit-- Coronil, defamation, and hesitancy against vaccination. The court may restrict notice to only defamation," Nayar urged the court.  "I am not passing any order. You file your written statement. Say there is no case," the judge responded.   “Permission to institute the suit is allowed. Let the plaint be registered as a suit. Let summons be issued in the suit,” the court ordered and posted the next hearing in January. Apart from Ramdev, the summons was also issued and a response ought from Acharya Balkrishna and Patanjali Ayurveda on the suit.  The court also issued notice to social media platforms Google, Facebook, and Twitter.   Three Resident Doctors' Association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Rishikesh, Patna and Bhubaneshwar as well as Association of Resident Doctors, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh; Union of Resident Doctors of Punjab (URDP); Resident Doctors' Association, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, Meerut, and Telangana Junior Doctors' Association, Hyderabad had moved the high court earlier this year. They alleged that Ramdev was misleading and misrepresenting to the public at large that allopathy was responsible for the deaths of several people infected by Covid-19, and insinuating that allopathic doctors were causing the deaths of the patients. Senior counsel Akhil Sibal, representing the associations, had argued that amid a pandemic, the Yog Gugu made unsubstantiated claims on Coronil being a cure for Covid-19, contrary to the licence granted to the drug for merely being an “Immuno-booster”. In their plea filed through advocate Harshavardhan Kotla, the associations had submitted that the yoga guru, who is a highly influential person, was sowing doubts in the minds of the general public concerning the safety and efficacy of not only allopathic treatments but also Covid-19 vaccines. The plea alleged that the misinformation campaign was nothing but an advertisement and marketing strategy to further the sales of the product sold by Ramdev, including Coronil which claims to be an alternative treatment for Covid-19. Earlier this week, the court had stated that the doctors' plea deserved consideration and could not be “thrown out” at the first stage as, at the present stage, it needed “to see if allegations in the plaint make out a case to be entertained”.  The court had on June 3 issued summons to Ramdev on a separate plea by the Delhi Medical Association in connection with his alleged statements against allopathic medicines and claims regarding Patanjali's Coronil kit. The court had refused to restrain Ramdev at that stage saying the allopathic profession was not so fragile. It had, however, orally asked Ramdev's counsel to tell him not to make any provocative statements. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-issues-summons-to-ramdev-in-suit-by-doctors-over-misinformation-against-allopathy-1044719.html
27-10-2021||National||Centre mulls sale of small LPG cylinders at ration shops||In a bid to enhance the financial viability of ration shops, the government on Wednesday proposed retail sale of small LPG cylinders through these outlets across the country. The government was also exploring collaboration between Common Service Centres (CSC) and fair price shops to provide e-governance services to the people. “Plan for retail selling of LPG cylinders through FPS on anvil. States/UTs to sensitise the FPS dealers on the same,” Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal said on Twitter. There are around 5.26 lakh fair price shops in the country through which subsidised foodgrains under the National Food Security Act are being distributed to the poor beneficiaries. The issue came up for discussion during a meeting that Food and Public Distribution Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey had with representatives of various state governments. Representatives from the ministries of electronics and IT; finance; and petroleum and natural gas also attended the meeting. Officials from Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) as well as CSC e-Governance Services India Limited (CSC) were also present. The oil marketing companies said they would extend necessary support for the same in coordination with interested state/UT governments, an official statement said. In the meeting, the food secretary stressed on the need for taking proactive measures for enhancing the financial viability of FPSs. The state governments said the collaboration with common service centres (CSC) will increase the viability of FPS. They also mentioned that they would coordinate with CSC to review feasibility according to local requirements. On the proposal to offer financial services via FPS, representatives from the Department of Financial Services (DFS) informed that the necessary support would be provided for the same in coordination with interested states. The government is planning to extend MUDRA loans to FPS dealers for capital augmentation, the statement added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mulls-sale-of-small-lpg-cylinders-at-ration-shops-1044725.html
27-10-2021||National||Nikahnama correct but Sameer Wankhede never changed his religion, says his wife||Kranti Redkar, the wife of Narcotics Control Bureau's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, on Wednesday said her husband was born as Hindu and he never changed his religion. Redkar also contested the claim made by the Qazi, who had performed the first marriage of Wankhede in 2006, that he was Muslim at the time of the 'nikah'. Wankhede is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion in the high-profile cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested. The officer is facing the departmental vigilance probe. Addressing a press conference, Redkar, who married Wankhede in 2017, slammed Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik for playing "low level" politics by making a string of allegations against her husband. Malik had alleged Wankhede was born as a Muslim, but forged documents, including a caste certificate, to show that he belonged to the Hindu SC category to get a job under quota after clearing the UPSC examination. "Is that Qazi above the Constitution? He should produce papers to show Sameer Wankhede had converted (to Islam) to marry his first wife," Redkar said, adding Wankhede had performed the 'nikah' in 2006 only to fulfil the wish of his late mother, who was Muslim. "It was just a formality. Sameer (Wankhede) is born as a Hindu. He never converted. Malik is levelling allegations out of his grudge owing to the (drugs) case involving his son-in-law," she claimed. Redkar admitted that the signature on the 2006 nikahnama was of Sameer Wankhede's. "He doesn't know much about nikahnama (a written document that two Muslim partners entering into a civil union must put their signature on to legalise their marriage)," she claimed. Meanwhile, Wankhede's father Dnyandev Wankhede said he would approach the court against Malik. "What do my religion or caste have to do with the drug case? I am Hindu and Mahar (Scheduled Caste). The 2006 Nikahnama is correct and my signature is also genuine. But I didn't understand the content of the document since it was in Urdu," he told reporters. Wankhede senior claimed there were only four members in their family. "The Qazi should show evidence to back his claim that the entire Wankhede family had attended the marriage in 2006," he said. Earlier in the day, Maulana Muzammil Ahmed, a resident of Mumbai, had told a news channel that he had performed the 'nikah' of Sameer Wankhede and Shabana Qureshi in 2006 in the Lokhandwala complex area. "Her father had approached me to perform the marriage in the Lokhandwala complex area. The groom's name was Sameer Dawood Wankhede who married Shabana Qureshi,” he said. When asked about Wankhede's claim that he was Hindu, the Qazi said that the 'nikah' would not have been performed in the first place if Sameer Wankhede was a Hindu. The Maulana also claimed that all the witnesses had signed the Nikahnama as per Islamic customs. "If Sameer Wankhede and his family members are claiming that he is Hindu by birth and that his father is also Hindu, then I would say it is wrong," he added. Refuting Malik's allegations, Wankhede had earlier said that his father was a Hindu and his late mother Zaheeda was a Muslim. Wankhede had also said that he belonged to a "composite, multi-religious and secular family in true Indian tradition" and that he was proud of his heritage. The NCB officer had stated that he married Dr Shabana Qureshi in 2006 under the Special Marriage Act. Both of them divorced mutually through a civil court in 2016. Later, in 2017, he married Marathi actress Kranti Redkar. On Wednesday, he told PTI that he had married (in 2006) as per Muslim customs as per the wish of his late mother. Wankhede also asserted that he had never converted to Islam and he belonged to a Hindu caste. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nikahnama-correct-but-sameer-wankhede-never-changed-his-religion-says-his-wife-1044726.html
27-10-2021||National||CBI arrests six persons in connection with Rs 6,000 crore Bank of Baroda remittance scam||The CBI on Wednesday arrested six persons in connection with the Rs 6,000-crore foreign exchange remittance scam in the Bank of Baroda, which was detected in 2015, officials said. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also carried out searches at 14 locations in connection with the case, they said. The agency had filed a chargesheet in the Court of Special Judge on December 12, 2015, against then AGM of the Bank of Baroda and then Forex officer of the bank, CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said. The CBI on Wednesday arrested six private individuals - Tanuj Gulati, Ish Bhutani, Ujjwal Suri, Hunney Goel, Sahil Wadhwa and Rakesh Kumar-- as part of its ongoing probe in the case, the officials said. The agency in 2015 had booked several officials of the bank and others for allegedly making remittances of over Rs 6,000 crore to South-East Asian countries by 59 current account holders from the Ashok Vihar branch of Bank of Baroda in the garb of purported payments of "non-existent" imports, they said. CBI sources said the agency has found that the Ashok Vihar branch was a relatively new branch which had permission to entertain Forex transactions only in 2013. They said that Rs 6,000 crore was transferred through nearly 8,000 transactions done between July 2014 and July 2015. The amount remitted in each transaction was kept at less than $1 lakh. "All the remittances were made to Hong Kong. The amount was remitted as advance for import and in most of the cases, the beneficiary was the same," an official had said after filing of the FIR. "Most of the foreign exchange-related transactions were carried out in newly opened current accounts wherein heavy cash receipts were observed but the branch did not generate an exceptional transaction report (ETR) and did not monitor the high value transactions," the senior official had said. The sources said these remittances were sent by splitting them into amounts below $1 lakh to avoid automatic detection by software used by banks to alert them about such transactions. They said in taxation language the technique is known as smurfing and holders were able to skip the scrutiny of such transactions. The sources said most of the 59 accused have been identified by the agency. "It was revealed that most of the addresses given by the companies / firms were either false or the companies / firms did not exist at the said addresses. Most of the accused persons allegedly involved in perpetration of the said crime have been identified and their interrogation is underway," the official had said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-six-persons-in-connection-with-rs-6000-crore-bank-of-baroda-remittance-scam-1044756.html
27-10-2021||National||Northeast got 'step-motherly treatment' under Congress: Sarbananda Sonowal||Alleging that the north-eastern region had received “step-motherly” treatment during the Congress rule since Independence, Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal claimed on Wednesday Prime Minister Narendra Modi did in seven years what the grand old party could not do in 70 years. It is due to PM Modi’s efforts that Assam and the north-eastern region are now on the path of a “never seen progress”, Sonowal said. Addressing a series of meetings at Tamulpur, Gossaigaon, and Bhabanipur constituencies during the day for the forthcoming bypolls in Assam, the minister for shipping, ports, and waterways said the BJP-led governments, both at the Centre and the state, have ensured overall development in Assam. "PM Narendra Modi did in seven years what the Congress could not do in 70 years. The Congress meted out step-motherly treatment to the Northeast, and only looted its resources," he added. The former Assam chief minister urged electors to vote for the NDA to continue with the "fast-paced development" journey of the state and the nation. While the BJP has fielded Phanidhar Talukar in Bhabanipur, its ally United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) nominated Jiron Basumatarry for Gossaigaon and Jolen Daimary for Tamulpur seats. "In seven years, steps taken by PM Modi have made India one of the strongest nations of the world and made the prime minister one of the most revered leaders globally. The BJP-led Assam government has brought equal development to both the Barak and Brahmaputra valleys. Peace and security for every community in Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) is now a reality,” the minister said. Bye-elections in Assam will take place in Thowra, Mariani, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, and Gossaigaon constituencies on October 30. The counting of votes will take place on November 2. The Majuli seat is also vacant, but a bypoll will not be held this time as its representative, Sonowal, had resigned from the Assembly just hours after the poll schedule was announced by the Election Commission. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/northeast-got-step-motherly-treatment-under-congress-sarbananda-sonowal-1044758.html
27-10-2021||National||Indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed in a democratic country, governed by the rule of law, except with sufficient statutory safeguards, as such surveillance, either by the state or by any external agency, directly infringed upon the right to privacy. “Every citizen of India ought to be protected against violations of privacy. It is this expectation which enables us to exercise our choices, liberties, and freedom," a three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said. Forming an independent experts committee, to be supervised by retired judge Justice R V Raveendran, to examine charges of snooping with Israel's Pegasus spyware, the bench said: “Right to privacy and freedom of speech are alleged to be impacted, which needs to be examined. The entire citizenry is affected by such allegations due to the potential chilling effect”. It said members of a civilised democratic society have a reasonable expectation of privacy, which is not the singular concern of journalists or social activists. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, however, pointed out that to access information, a need may arise to interfere with the right to privacy of an individual, only when it is necessary for protecting national security or interest and is proportional. The bench also quoted renowned scholar Daniel Solove, “Privacy often can be protected without undue cost to security. We can reach a better balance between privacy and security. We must. There is too much at stake to fail.” The court noted petitions filed by journalist N Ram and others had raised "Orwellian concerns" about an all pervasive technology like Pegasus. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indiscriminate-spying-on-individuals-cannot-be-allowed-supreme-court-1044762.html
27-10-2021||National||Govt appoints K V Kamath as NaBFID chairperson||The government on Wednesday announced the appointment of veteran banker K V Kamath as chairperson of the newly set up Rs 20,000 crore National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID). Parliament had in March cleared the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) Bill 2021 to support the development of long-term non-recourse infrastructure financing in India, including the development of the bonds and derivatives markets necessary for infrastructure financing. "New approach to building #AatmaNirbharBharat! Central Government has appointed Shri K. V. Kamath to the post of Chairperson, National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development, a newly set up DFI in India," Department of Financial Services (DFS), under the finance ministry, tweeted. Kamath, the first head of the New Development Bank (NDB) set up by the BRICS group of emerging market economies, had completed his five-year tenure last year. The 73-year-old banker, known among his friends as KV, began his career at erstwhile development finance institution (DFI) ICICI in 1971. Back in 2008, when ICICI Bank was hit by widespread rumours of 'run-ons', Kamath led from the front and was instrumental in its complete turnaround. He retired as managing director and CEO in April 2009 and became its non-executive chairman. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-appoints-k-v-kamath-as-nabfid-chairperson-1044768.html
27-10-2021||National||EAC-PM reconstituted, Bibek Debroy retained as chairman||The government Wednesday reconstituted the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (EAC-PM) for another two years retaining Bibek Debroy as its chairman. While Rakesh Mohan, Poonam Gupta and TT Ram Mohan have been appointed as its new part-time members, V Anantha Nageswaran has been dropped. Apart from Debroy, Neelkanth Mishra, Nilesh Shah and Sajid Chinoy have been retained as part-time members. “The Prime Minister has approved the reconstitution of the Economic Advisory Council to the PM (EAC-PM) for a period of two years or until further orders, whichever is earlier,” said an official notification. The council has been tasked with analysing any issue, economic or otherwise, referred to it by the Prime Minister, according to its terms of reference. It can also take up issues of macro-economic importance suo motu. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eac-pm-reconstituted-bibek-debroy-retained-as-chairman-1044779.html
27-10-2021||National||India concerned over China's new land border law||India on Wednesday asserted that the new “Land Boundary Law” unilaterally adopted by China would not have any bearing on bilateral arrangements put in place to resolve the territorial row between the two neighbours as well as to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas. A spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi expressed concern over the new law, which China’s top legislature passed on October 23 last amid the 18-month-long military stand-off along its disputed boundary with India. New Delhi also underlined that Beijing’s unilateral move to introduce the new law would not confer any legitimacy to Pakistan’s 1963 deal with China for illegal transfer of 5180 sq km of India's territory to the communist country. China brought about the new law at a time when its negotiation with India to resolve the 18-month-long stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh had hit an impasse. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s continued build-up and its recent incursion bids in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh of India also fuelled speculation about the tension along the disputed boundary between the two nations spreading from the western to middle and eastern sectors, too. “China’s unilateral decision to bring about a legislation, which can have an implication on our existing bilateral arrangements on border management as well as on the boundary question, is of concern to us,” said the MEA spokesperson in New Delhi. “Such unilateral move will have no bearing on the arrangements that both sides have already reached earlier, whether it is on the Boundary Question or for maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LAC in India-China Border areas. China's Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress on Saturday voted to adopt the new law on protection and exploitation of the country’s land border areas, which would take effect on January 1 next year. Xinhua, the state-run news agency of the communist country, reported that the new law stipulated that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the nation were “sacred and inviolable” and the state should take measures to safeguard its territorial integrity and land boundaries and guard against and combat any act that could undermine territorial sovereignty and land boundaries. New Delhi took note of China’s new law, particularly its provisions that empowered President Xi Jinping’s government to reorganise the districts in the border areas, including the ones along the country’s disputed boundary with India. “It may be noted that India and China have still not resolved the boundary question. Both sides have agreed to seek a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable resolution to the Boundary Question through consultations on an equal footing,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, said in New Delhi. “We have also concluded several bilateral agreements, protocols and arrangements to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC in India-China border areas in the interim.” Bagchi said that India would also expect that China would avoid undertaking action under the pretext of this law which could unilaterally alter the situation in the India-China border areas. “Furthermore,” he added, “the passage of this new law does not in our view confer any legitimacy to the so-called China Pakistan ‘boundary agreement’ of 1963, which the Government of India has consistently maintained is an illegal and invalid agreement.” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-concerned-over-chinas-new-land-border-law-1044780.html
27-10-2021||National||India successfully test-fires Agni-5 missile with range of 5,000 km||India on Wednesday conducted another test launch of its Agni V surface-to-surface ballistic missile even as its negotiation with China to resolve the 18-month-long military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) has hit an impasse. The Agni V can carry nuclear warhead weighing up to 1100 kilograms and strike targets within a range of 5000 kilometers. A spokesperson of the Ministry of Defence in New Delhi said that the test-launch of the missile from A P J Abdul Kalam Island off the coast of Odisha has been successful. The missile has given India capability to strike several cities in China, including the ones in the northern region of the communist country. New Delhi, however, underlined that successful launch of the Agni V missile was in line with the policy of the Government of India to have “credible minimum deterrence” that underpinned its commitment to the doctrine of ‘No First Use’ of nuclear weapons. The Agni V, like the other missiles of the same series, was designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) of the Government of India. It was tested in the past too, but the one from the A P J Abdul Kalam Island on Wednesday was the first user trial of the missile, which the tri-service Strategic Force Command, responsible for handling nuclear weapons, of late started inducting amid China’s growing aggression along its disputed boundary with India. “The missile, which uses a three-stage solid fuelled engine, is capable of striking targets at ranges up to 5,000 kilometres with a very high degree of accuracy,” the Ministry of Defence said in a statement shortly after the test launch was conducted. China had last month reacted to the media reports about the possibility of India test firing the Agni V missiles. A spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government in Beijing had cited the United Nations Security Council resolution 1172 to question India’s programme to develop ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons. The UNSC resolution 1172, adopted in June 1998, had called up to cease development of ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons. China already has in its arsenal missiles that can carry nuclear weapons and strike any part of India. New Delhi has of late been concerned over China’s continued build-up along the entire stretch of  its disputed boundary with India. Pakistan also of late restarted flouting the ceasefire along its Line of Control (LoC) with India after a lull of few months.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-test-fires-agni-5-missile-with-range-of-5000-km-1044787.html
27-10-2021||National||Air India stops credit facility on purchase of tickets, govt asks ministries to clear dues||After Air India stopped extending credit facility on purchase of air tickets, the government on Wednesday asked all ministries and departments to clear their dues to Air India given the ongoing divestment of the airline. Following this, the finance ministry also scrapped a 2009 order that required officials to travel only by Air India for tours paid by the government. “Air India has stopped extending credit facility on account of purchase of air tickets. Therefore, all ministries and departments are directed to clear Air India’s dues immediately,” the finance ministry’s department of expenditure said in a memorandum. Tickets from Air India will have to be purchased in cash till further orders, it said.  According to an official memorandum of 2009, all domestic and international air travel for official purposes or leave travel concession by the government had to be done only by Air India.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-stops-credit-facility-on-purchase-of-tickets-govt-asks-ministries-to-clear-dues-1044791.html
27-10-2021||National||Second dose of Covid vaccine overdue for over 11 crore people, shows Govt data||Over 11 crore people who have taken the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine have not got themselves jabbed with the second dose even after the expiry of the prescribed interval between two doses, according to government data. The data showed that over 3.92 crore beneficiaries are more than six weeks overdue for their second dose, around 1.57 crore are up to four to six weeks late, and more than 1.50 crore are up to two to four weeks overdue for their second shot of either Covishield or Covaxin. Also, over 3.38 crore people are up to two weeks overdue to becoming fully vaccinated. This issue was discussed in a meeting chaired by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya with health ministers and representatives of all states and Union territories on Wednesday. They were asked to focus on such beneficiaries who are overdue for their second dose, official sources said. The gap between the first and second dose is 12 weeks for Covishield and four weeks for Covaxin. Both doses are needed for adequate protection against severe Covid-19 infection and hospitalisation. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Bihar together account for around 49 per cent of such beneficiaries who are late for their second dose of vaccine. The Union Health Ministry has also written to several states and UTs asking them to prioritise administering the second dose to beneficiaries who have not got themselves jabbed with the second shot even after the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two doses, sources said. More than 76 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, with nine states and union territories administering the first dose to all eligible people. The eleven states and UTs which completed second dose coverage to more than 50 per cent of eligible beneficiaries are Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Goa, Ladakh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Daman and Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir. Over 32 per cent of the country's around 94 crore adults have been administered both the doses, Health Ministry officials said, adding the cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 103.53 crore. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-overdue-for-over-11-crore-people-shows-govt-data-1044792.html
27-10-2021||National||SC refuses bail to gangster Abu Salem in 1995 Pradeep Jain murder case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to grant bail to extradited gangster Abu Salem serving life imprisonment in the 1995 murder case of Mumbai-based builder Pradeep Jain. A bench of Chief Justice NV Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli said, “This is an application filed on behalf of the applicant/appellant seeking bail during the pendency of the appeal. Having heard counsel for the parties and carefully perusing the averments made in the application, we are not inclined to grant bail to the applicant/appellant”. The bench, however, taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case, directed the Registry to list his appeals against the February 25, 2015 verdict of the special TADA court, for final disposal in the third week of November 2021. On February 25, 2015, the special TADA court had awarded Salem life imprisonment for murdering the builder, along with his driver Mehndi Hassan. Another accused in the case Virendra Jhamb's sentence was set off against the period of detention undergone by him in prison during the various stages of investigation in the case. According to police, on March 7, 1995, Jain was shot dead by assailants outside his Juhu bungalow after he allegedly refused to part with his huge property to Salem. While one other accused Naeem Khan had turned approver, another accused Riyaz Siddiqui, who had also become approver, later turned hostile in the court. The trial of Siddiqui was later separated. The court, in January 2014 had dropped some charges against Salem in the case on the request of prosecution which said that some changes need to be withdrawn to maintain cordial relations between two sovereign countries - India and Portugal. Salem, also a convict in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts, was extradited from Portugal on November 11, 2005, after a prolonged legal battle. The Supreme Court of Portugal, in 2012, had dismissed an appeal of the CBI which had challenged the termination of his extradition. In June 2012, Salem was shot at in Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai allegedly by gangster Devendra Jagtap alias JD, an accused in the murder case of advocate Shahid Azmi who had represented a 26/11 Mumbai attack accused. In June 2017 Salem was convicted and later awarded a life sentence for his role in the 1993 serial blast case in Mumbai. Salem was found guilty of transporting weapons from Gujarat to Mumbai ahead of the blasts. On March 12, 1993, the country's commercial capital had witnessed an unprecedented attack with a series of 12 bomb explosions that took place one after another in about two hours. The dastardly attacks had left 257 dead, 713 persons seriously injured, and destroyed properties worth crores. In 2020, a Portugal court has dismissed a plea of Salem claiming that the Indian government had violated the condition of his extradition. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-bail-to-gangster-abu-salem-in-1995-pradeep-jain-murder-case-1044801.html
27-10-2021||National||Satya Pal Malik should resign as Governor, contest Goa polls: Deputy CM||Two days after former Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik accused the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant-led government of allegedly indulging in corruption in "any and everything", including providing food supplies to the distraught public during the first lockdown last year, Goa Deputy Chief Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Wednesday lashed out at Malik, currently a serving Governor of Meghalaya. Ajgaonkar told reporters on Wednesday that instead of making wild allegations, Malik should first resign from the constitutional post that he currently holds and contest elections in Goa. “He has to safeguard the value of the Governor's position. If you have the guts you retire and say whatever you want. Come into politics, contest elections in Goa, we do not have a problem,” Ajgaonkar said, a day after ruling state BJP leaders said that they would complain to the Centre about Malik's overeach. “Do not defame Dr Pramod Sawant's name ahead of elections. The CM works 18 hours a day. He has raised infrastructure for Covid. He (Malik) is making these comments because he was made to run out of here,” Ajgaonkar also said. Malik was abruptly transferred to Meghalaya in August last year, after he publicly criticised the Covid handling management of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Goa government. Malik in an interview to a national news channel on Monday had said that corruption was rampant in Goa in "any and everything" while also accusing the government of indulging in corruption vis-a-vis distribution of essential supplies to the people of Goa during the first lockdown. Ajgaonkar now claims that there could a linkage between the utterances made by the former Goa Governor and opposition parties in poll-bound Goa, who have gone to town demanding Sawant's resignation as well as judicial probe into the charges levelled by Malik. “He could have been in touch with the opposition, there could be fixing. He has given advantage to the opposition. He should be probed by the Home department. He should have evidence for the claims he is making,” Ajgaonkar alleged. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/satya-pal-malik-should-resign-as-governor-contest-goa-polls-deputy-cm-1044804.html
27-10-2021||National||Extortion claims: Sameer Wankhede records statement for over 4 hours before NCB vigilance probe team||Under fire from all quarters, controversial and high-profile NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede was grilled for over four hours by the federal agency’s higher-ups in connection with the barrage of allegations that he faces vis-a-vis the cases over the last one-and-a-half-years including the Cordelia drugs-on-cruise case.  However, Wankhede would continue to head the probe in the cruise rave party case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is accused and now fighting for bail. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Police has appointed an assistant commissioner of police-level officers to look into the allegations of extortion against Wankhede.  A five-member NCB team from New Delhi has landed in Mumbai and visited the NCB office at the Ballard Estate and collected some documents related to the case.  “We have started the probe… This is a very sensitive investigation, too early to share anything. We will not be able to share information in real-time. It’s a sensitive case. We shall enquire into all aspects and later inform the media,” deputy director-general Dnyaneshwar Singh said.  Aryan Khan’s defence team invokes constitutional rights Invoking constitutional rights, the defence team of Aryan Khan on Wednesday sought bail on the grounds that the arrest was illegal, reports DHNS. Justice Nitin Sambre has adjourned the matter till Thursday. Appearing of Aryan, senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi said, “the arrest memo did not give true and correct grounds for arrest…Article 22 of the Constitution is more important than Section 50 of the CrPC. It states that no person should be held without being informed about the grounds of arrest and the person shall have the right to consult a lawyer of their choice.” “This is a direct infringement of constitutional guarantees. We are all available to the agencies. Bail may be granted…there has been enough custody of the two, who are both residents of Mumbai,” said senior counsel Amit Desai concluding arguments for Aryan and Arbaaz Merchant. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extortion-claims-sameer-wankhede-records-statement-for-over-4-hours-before-ncb-vigilance-probe-team-1044805.html
27-10-2021||National||Central Vista: L&T wins bids to construct 3 buildings of Common Central Secretariat||Infrastructure firm Larsen & Toubro Limited was on Wednesday awarded the contract for the construction and maintenance of the first three buildings of the Common Central Secretariat under the Central Vista redevelopment project. According to the Central Public Works Department's bid documents, Larsen & Toubro Limited had quoted around Rs 3,141 crore, which was 3.47 per cent less than the estimated cost. The firm had submitted a total bid amount of Rs 31,41,99,87,657. "Proud moment for the Department: Shri Shailendra Sharma, DG, CPWD, handing over the letter of award for construction of prestigious Common Secretariat Integrated Buildings 1, 2 & 3 to Shri M V Satish, Director and Senior Executive Vice President (Buildings), L&T on October 27, 2021," the CPWD said in a tweet on Wednesday. The three new buildings of the Common Central Secretariat will come up on the plot where the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts is located. Last month, the CPWD had revised the estimated cost of construction and maintenance of the three buildings of the Common Central Secretariat. The estimated cost of construction and maintenance of these three buildings had been revised to around Rs 3,254 crore from Rs 3,408 crore. Tata Projects Limited is constructing a new parliament building while Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Limited is executing the redevelopment work of the Central Vista Avenue stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate under the Central Vista redevelopment project. The redevelopment of the Central Vista, the nation's power corridor, envisages a new parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the 3 km Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new office and residence of the prime minister, and a new vice-president enclave. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-lt-wins-bids-to-construct-3-buildings-of-common-central-secretariat-1044806.html
27-10-2021||National||PM Modi will meet Pope Francis on October 30, says Church||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet Pope Francis on October 30 during his European visit commencing later this week, a Catholic Bishops' body in Kerala said on Wednesday. In a statement, the Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) President Cardinal George Alencherry said they have come to know from official sources that the "meeting between His Holiness Pope Francis and Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will take place on Saturday, October 30". Describing it as a "historic meeting, the Cardinal said it will "add more energy and warmth to the relations between our country and the Vatican and the Catholic Church". He also wished "all success" to the Prime Minister for all his events in Rome and Italy. Modi will be travelling to Rome and Glasgow from October 29 to November 2 to attend the 16th G-20 Summit and the World Leaders' Summit of COP-26 respectively, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-will-meet-pope-francis-on-october-30-says-church-1044807.html
27-10-2021||National||India rejects net zero carbon emissions target, says pathway more important||India on Wednesday rejected calls to announce a net zero carbon emissions target and said it was more important for the world to lay out a pathway to reduce such emissions and avert a dangerous rise in global temperatures. India, the world's third-biggest emitter of greenhouse gases after China and the United States, is under pressure to announce plans to become carbon neutral by mid-century or thereabouts at next week's climate conference in Glasgow. But environment secretary R P Gupta told reporters that announcing net zero was not the solution to the climate crisis. "It is how much carbon you are going to put in the atmosphere before reaching net zero that is more important." The United States, Britain and the European Union have set a target date of 2050 to reach net zero, by which point they will only emit an amount of greenhouse gases that can be absorbed by forests, crops, soils and still-embryonic "carbon capture technology. China and Saudi Arabia have both set targets of 2060, but these are largely meaningless without tangible action now, critics say. Between now and the middle of the century the United States will release 92 gigatons of carbon into the atmosphere and the EU 62 gigatons, Gupta said, citing Indian government calculations. China would have added a staggering 450 gigatons by its net zero target date, he added. Representatives of nearly 200 countries will meet in Glasgow, Scotland, from Oct 31-Nov 12 for climate talks to strengthen action to tackle global warming under the 2015 Paris Agreement. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the conference in a sign of how the country is taking climate change seriously, officials say. Chinese President Xi Jinping is not expected. While working towards net zero, countries are expected to announce new and strengthened intermediate targets for cutting emissions. Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav said India was on track to achieve targets set at the 2015 Paris conference and left the door open to revising them. "All options are on the table," he said. India has committed to cutting the emissions intensity of its GDP by 33 per cent-35 per cent by 2030 from 2005 levels, achieving a 24 per cent reduction by 2016. Some environment experts say India could consider lowering its emissions intensity by as much as 40 percent dependent on finance and whether it has access to newer technologies. Yadav said he would measure the success of the Glasgow conference by how much it delivered on climate finance to help the developing world cut their emissions while ensuring economic growth. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-net-zero-carbon-emissions-target-says-pathway-more-important-1044819.html
27-10-2021||National||Religious posts by National School of Drama angers artists, writers||A series of religious posts on the Instagram channel of National School of Drama (NSD) have angered a group of writers and artists, including veterans Rohini Hattangadi and Seema Biswas. The bone of contention has been greetings posted by the NSD on occasion of Navratri, Eid and more recently Valmiki Jayanti and Karwa Chauth. “The dissemination of religious messages, imagery and iconography of any kind by public, state-run Institutions, goes against the remit of such institutions,” said a letter addressed to NSD Chairman Paresh Rawal and NSD Acting Director Dinesh Khanna and signed by more than 300 artists, writers, academics and former faculty members. NSD’s Instagram channel has posts about shows, important announcements, statements from the director and photos of visiting artistes and dignitaries. However, in October, the channel had put up a series of posts about deities such as Ma Mahagauri, Ma Brahmcharini, Ma Chandraghanta, Ma Kushmanda and Ma Katyayani during the Navratri festival. On October 19, there was a post on Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi, followed by posts on Valmiki Jayanti and Karva Chauth. The signatories include former NSD director Anuradha Kapur, academic A Mangai, alumni such as Aniruddha Khutwad, Kannan Unni, faculty members KS Rajendran and other eminent artists such as Shobana, Maya Krishna Rao, Sadaf Raza, Sudhanva Deshpande, Santhosh Venjaramoodu, Sharath Karanth, Abhishek Majumdar and Zeeshan Khan. The letter said that posts promoting religious festivals were an embarrassment to the institution and divert form its function as a reputed school for the arts. “If you should need assistance in improving the standards of public-facing communications, we urge you to reach out to past members of the faculty and artistic communities, who would be only too happy to help the institute maintain its identity as an institution of national repute,” the letter said. The signatories said though NSD has a rich tradition of celebrating all festivals within the campus for everyone to participate equally, being a national institution, it has no affiliation to any particular religion or community. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/religious-posts-by-national-school-of-drama-angers-artists-writers-1044821.html
27-10-2021||National||PSUs to now compete in open market for railway works||Public sector companies, including those owned by Indian Railways, will now have to compete in the open market with their private counterparts to bag railway contracts, the Railway Ministry said. The Ministry also withdrew its 2019 policy issued by previous Railway Minister Piyush Goyal which mandated that the Railway Board would first screen and award the work to eligible Public sector undertakings (PSUs). The winning PSU would then float the tender in the open market for the actual works. This policy had been in place to ensure railways gets price advantage through competitive bidding among PSUs. Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Tuesday decided to reverse this policy to cut down on paybacks and bring in more competition and thus, lower Railways' cost. The latest order does away with the policy of protectionism that PSUs enjoyed. In the future, instead of the board deciding which PSU should get the job, the zonal railways will float tenders directly in the market in which the PSUs can also participate. “All such work awarded under the existing scheme for which Letter of Award has not been issued or a Memorandum of Understanding signed or no major contractual obligation undertaken in any form, will also stand cancelled with immediate effect," said the order issued by railways on Tuesday. The Railways' capital expenditure has crossed Rs 2.15 lakh crore in a year as the NDA government is aggressively pushing massive infrastructure development. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/psus-to-now-compete-in-open-market-for-railway-works-1044823.html
27-10-2021||National||Attack on 'Ashram' set: Organisation of Sadhus blames Bollywood for 'defaming' culture, hurting sentiments||An organisation of religious leaders on Wednesday demanded that the cases registered against Bajrang Dal activists for allegedly ransacking the set of Prakash Jha's web series "Ashram" here be withdrawn, and accused the Hindi film industry of portraying Hindu saints and Indian culture in the wrong way. There was a "global conspiracy" to defame the "Sanatan Dharma", it said. Alleged Bajrang Dal activists on Sunday ransacked the set of the web series "Ashram" here and also threw ink at Prakash Jha, its producer-director, accusing him of portraying the Hindu community wrongly. The Aryawart Shatdarshan Sadhu Mandal Evam Acharya Parishad, an organisation of Hindu religious leaders, held a meeting on Wednesday and issued a statement accusing "Bollywood" of wrongly portraying Indian culture and Hindu saints and hurting religious sentiments during the past "five decades". “The way an Ashram was depicted in the first two seasons of this web series is condemnable. This is a global conspiracy to defame Sanatan Dharma,” the statement said. Why Bollywood was afraid of making such films about other religions, it asked. “Such films should be stopped or Hindus will retaliate and the administration and Bollywood will be responsible for this,” it added. The cases registered against Bajrang Dal activists who allegedly ransacked the set should be withdrawn, the organisation further demanded. On Monday, Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra had said that producers and directors will have to inform the authorities about 'objectionable content or scenes' in the script before seeking permission for shooting in the state. Mishra also supported the Bajrang Dal's demand to change the name of the web series. Police have so far arrested four persons in connection with the attack on the set. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attack-on-ashram-set-organisation-of-sadhus-blames-bollywood-for-defaming-culture-hurting-sentiments-1044845.html
27-10-2021||National||Complete first dose of vaccination by November end: Centre||The Centre on Wednesday asked states to target covering all eligible beneficiaries with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine by the end of November. Addressing the national review meeting on the Covid-19 situation, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya asked state health ministers to start a ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ (knock on every home) campaign to motivate people for vaccination in districts with poor coverage. Health Ministers of 13 states including T S Singhdeo (Chhattisgarh), Subhash Garg (Rajasthan), Jai Pratap Singh (Uttar Pradesh) and M A Subramanian (Tamil Nadu) attended the meeting held at Vigyan Bhawan. “No district should be without full vaccination. Let us aim to cover all eligible with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine by end of November 2021,” Mandaviya said at the meeting. The government had told the Supreme Court that it aimed to complete vaccination of all adults by December 31. Though India has administered more than 104 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines, the December 31 deadline to cover nearly 94 crore adults with both doses of vaccines is a tough task. A WhatsApp group with state health ministers to facilitate real-time interaction with the Union Health Minister has been created. Mandaviya urged the states to make regional and local level plans with all the stakeholders to reduce the number of people overdue for vaccination. As on Wednesday, nearly 11 crore beneficiaries who are due for their second dose of Covid-19 vaccines had not turned up to get the jab. Mandaviya also urged the states to draw up innovative strategies to review the planning and execution of district-wise plans for coverage of due beneficiaries of a second dose as available on Co-WIN portal. He also briefed the state ministers on the Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission and urged them to draw up strategies for timely implementation of the initiative. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/complete-first-dose-of-vaccination-by-end-of-november-centre-1044846.html
27-10-2021||National Politics||Nobody wants a disturbed Punjab: Amarinder Singh as he awaits Election Commission nod for his political party||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said confirmed that he is floating his own party and said lawyers are working with the Election Commission (EC) on his new political party. The lawyers have sent their request for the party name and symbol to the election body, he said. "Yes, I will be forming a new party. The name will be announced once the Election Commission clears it, along with the symbol. My lawyers are working on it," Captain Amarinder Singh said in Chandigarh.  Stating that everyone in Punjab have been through very difficult times, Amarinder said, "Nobody wants a disturbed Punjab." Singh further clarified that his party would look at opportunities for a seat-sharing pact with the BJP but they will not form an alliance with the saffron party.  "When the time comes we will fight all 117 seats, whether adjustment seats or we contest on our own," Singh said. More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nobody-wants-a-disturbed-punjab-amarinder-singh-as-he-awaits-election-commission-nod-for-his-political-party-1044620.html
27-10-2021||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh Polls: Former BJP ally SBSP extends support to Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav received a shot in the arm ahead of the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, when Om Prakash Rajbhar, the president of Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP), on Wednesday announced that an understanding had been reached between SP and SBSP to contest the polls together. The SBSP represents the electorally influential Rajbhar community and is a former ally of the BJP. Addressing a public meeting at Haldharpur town in Mau district in the presence of Akhilesh, Rajbhar said that the people of the state had made up their mind to 'defeat' the BJP in the polls. "The present dispensation has failed on every front....rising prices have made it very difficult for the people to survive...no section of the society is happy with the central and the state governments.....we have joined hands to oust the BJP from power in UP," he said. He also attacked prime minister Narendra Modi and said that the Centre was 'selling' precious assets of the country. "Modi used to say that he will not allow the country to be sold but now he himself is selling assets of the country," the SBSP chief said. In his address, Akhilesh said their alliance would become the 'nemesis' of the BJP. "BJP is certain to lose the polls," he added. Rajbhar, whose party enjoyed support among the 'Rajbhar' (an OBC) community, which formed around four per cent of the electorate in the state and was deciding factor on over two dozen Assembly seats, especially in the eastern UP region, said that the alliance had been forged to defeat the BJP. Rajbhar, whose party had contested the 2017 Assembly polls in the state in alliance with the BJP, was a minister in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet. He was however, sacked two years back after he turned a bitter critic of the saffron party following latter's refusal to accede to his demand of two Lok Sabha seats in UP in 2019 general elections. Despite parting ways, BJP has tried strike an electoral alliance with Rajbhar in the next year's Assembly polls and several senior BJP leaders had met the SBSP chief also in this regard. Talks, however, failed allegedly after Rajbhar demanded around a dozen seats. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-polls-former-bjp-ally-sbsp-extends-support-to-akhilesh-yadav-1044676.html
27-10-2021||National Politics||Before hitting campaign trail in Bihar bypolls, Lalu hints at thaw with Congress||RJD president Lalu Prasad on Wednesday hinted at a thaw between his party and the Congress, saying he had a telephonic conversation with Sonia Gandhi whom he asked to hold a meeting of “like-minded” parties which could join hands to take on the BJP. Prasad was talking to journalists before departing for election rallies in Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seats, where by-polls are scheduled for October 30. “Sonia Gandhi enquired about my well-being. I told her I am fine," said the septuagenarian leader, underscoring his personal equation with the Congress president which has kept the RJD-Congress alliance afloat in the choppy waters of politics. “I also said that she is the leader of a party with an all-India presence and she should convene a meeting of all like-minded parties which are opposed to the BJP,” said Prasad, whose party recently snubbed the Congress with its unilateral decision to contest by-polls to both the seats. The Congress had reacted with uncharacteristic aggression, with the AICC in-charge of Bihar Bhakt Charan Das asserting that his party, which has fielded its own candidates for the two seats in the by-poll, will contest all 40 Lok Sabha seats in the next general elections. Later, Prasad addressed the rally in Tarapur where huge crowds had turned up to catch a glimpse of the colourful leader who was addressing an election meeting after a gap of six years. Prasad claimed that the RJD-led Grand Alliance had, in the assembly polls last year, fallen short of majority because of “beimaani” (rigging) and that had he not been away in jail, serving sentences in the fodder scam, “they (pliant officials) would not have dared to do so”. “Why do I need to kill him. I have said that I have come to complete his visarjan (political annihilation). He will be finished because of his own deeds. He betrayed us and sided with the BJP though the RJD had helped him return to power in 2015. His prohibition law is a sham,” said Prasad, who, along with wife Rabri Devi, had ruled the state for 15 years on the trot. The former Railway minister also fumed at the high rate of inflation, blaming it on the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and pointing out “today, you have to cough up Rs 50 for buying a platform ticket. This was unthinkable in my time”. The RJD president is scheduled to sign off his electioneering with a rally at Kusheshwar Asthan, a reserved seat that became the bone of contention between his party and the Congress, which has been unsuccessfully contesting from there. The RJD hopes it will break the jinx with its imaginative play of the caste card. It has fielded a candidate belonging to the Musahar community which has a sizeable presence in Kusheshwar Asthan but remains politically under-represented. The party, by fielding a Musahar candidate, also hopes to dilute the age-old animosity in the area between Dalits and Yadavs – the castemen of Prasad – which could come in handy amid the state’s rapidly changing political landscape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/before-hitting-campaign-trail-in-bihar-bypolls-lalu-hints-at-thaw-with-congress-1044687.html
27-10-2021||National Politics||No public outrage, fuel price hike not an issue: Union Minister Bhagwanth Khuba||Union Minister of State for Chemicals & Fertilizers Bhagwanth Khuba on Tuesday claimed that the rising prices of essential commodities has not affected the common man. "Where is the public outrage? There is no outrage," he said. Khuba was responding to a question on rise in fuel prices at a news conference. He maintained that the fuel hike was linked to oil bond loans imposed by the previous UPA government, a claim that has been countered by the Congress earlier. However, Khuba said the oil bonds, coupled with inflation, caused the price rise. "There is no issue with the hike. It is only the Congress that is creating a ruckus over the issue. There is no public outcry against the hike," he asserted. "This is because the public is satisfied with the BJP government. The BJP government has controlled inflation in a much better manner compared to the previous UPA regime. People are aware of this," said Khuba, who represents Bidar in Lok Sabha. Meanwhile, Khuba also sought to clarify that there was no shortage of fertilisers. This follows some protests by farmers in the state over the issue. "There is no shortage of fertilisers. The government has enough stock. Farmers have been misinformed about it," he said. He further lashed out at Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah for spreading misinformation. "The Congress is desperate to win the bypolls in Hangal and Sindagi, when they know that they do not stand a chance against BJP. With ulterior motives, Siddaramaiah is spreading misinformation on fertiliser shortage," he charged. Spreading rumours about shortage when there is none will only lead to artificial deficit as farmers will start hoarding up fertilisers and middlemen will begin fleecing farmers with exorbitant prices, he pointed out. According to government data, there is a total demand of 2.8 lakh MT until the end of October 2021 for fertilisers. This includes Muriate of Potash (MOP), Di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP), Complex fertiliser and Urea. After fulfilling the demand, there is still 6.05 lakh MT of fertiliser available, according to Khuba. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-public-outrage-fuel-price-hike-not-an-issue-union-minister-bhagwanth-khuba-1044700.html
27-10-2021||National Politics||Will launch party once EC clears name, symbol: Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he will launch his new political party when the Election Commission clears the name and symbol, and claimed that many people from the Congress are in touch with him. “I am forming a party. But I cannot tell you the name right now. When the Election Commission (EC) approves the name and symbol, only then I can tell you. Let us wait for the EC to approve," he said during his first press conference after resigning as the chief minister last month. He also said that he will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday to continue his efforts to resolve the issues of farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three new agriculture laws. Singh had resigned as the Punjab chief minister amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Responding to a question, Singh claimed many people from the Congress are in touch with him and that they will come out in the open when the time comes. “Obviously many people are with us. We are waiting for the opportune moment. But I will not take their names as my supporters are already being harassed,” he said. Asked how many MLAs are in touch with him, the former CM said, “If Rahul Gandhi needs to have back-to-back meetings with Punjab Congress MLAs, what does it mean?” On not resigning yet from the Congress, he said, “I have spent 50 years in the Congress, how does it matter if I stay for another 10 days?” Singh had last week said that he would soon launch his own party, and that he was hopeful of a seat adjustment with the BJP provided the ongoing farmers' stir was resolved in their interest. He also asserted that he had never spoken of aligning with the BJP, and that all he wanted was seat sharing. “In military parlance, it means concentration of forces,” he said while stating that he had, however, not yet talked to the saffron party in this regard. The leader further said he had no intention of aligning with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), but only with breakaway Akali groups. Asked about the reported refusal of SAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to tie up with him, he said, “If Dhindsa has to put up a real fight, he will have to concentrate his forces too. “To defeat the Congress, SAD and AAP, we all have to work as a joint force,” he asserted. Meanwhile, Sidhu took another dig at Singh and called him the “negative force” stalling development in Punjab. "We, the 78 MLAs of Congress, could never imagine, what we received an arm-twisted, ED controlled BJP loyal Chief Minister of Punjab @ capt-amarinder who sold the interests of Punjab to save his skin! You were the negative force stalling justice & development of Punjab," Sidhu tweeted. Singh, however, dismissed the tweet as “trash” and said the thought of seat sharing with the BJP came to his mind only after he was forced out of office. “States have to work with the Centre to function effectively,” he pointed out. “We will fight and defeat Sidhu from wherever he contests the upcoming assembly polls,” he said. The former CM also alleged that ever since “Mr Sidhu came on the scene (took over Punjab Congress reins), our surveys show there has been a drop of about 25 per cent in the Congress' popularity.” Rejecting the Congress claims of a majority of party MLAs hvaing opposed his continuation in office, he said, “Once they (party leadership) had made up their mind to replace me, all these excuses were made.” He added that the so-called 18-point agenda of the Congress for his government was nothing but part of the Punjab 2017 manifesto, adding that the Kharge committee, formed by the party to end factionalism, was clearly told that 92 per cent of the poll promises had been fulfilled. Singh also dismissed allegations against his Pakistani friend Aroosa Alam. Even as he asked if Alam was the “only issue left in Punjab”, he questioned the intention of (Sukhjinder) Randhawa in raising the issue now after never mentioning it all these years. Singh asserted that Alam had been visiting him for 16 years and he would definitely invite her again. Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had recently said that a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether Alam, a Pakistani journalist visiting Amarinder Singh for several years, has links with Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Amarinder Singh later shared with the media a booklet titled 'Facts v/s Disinformation', detailing achievements of his government from March 2017 till September 18, 2021. On the political issues he will prioritise in the elections, the former CM said a manifesto committee will finalise the same. Punjab goes to polls early next year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-launch-party-once-ec-clears-name-symbol-amarinder-singh-1044703.html
27-10-2021||National Politics||BJP MLA Krishna Kalyani joins TMC, fifth legislator to switch over||Raiganj's BJP MLA Krishna Kalyani joined the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday. Kalyani is the fifth BJP legislator in West Bengal to join the TMC after winning the assembly elections earlier this year, in a major setback to the opposition party. He is the former North Dinajpur district president of the TMC who joined the BJP ahead of the assembly elections and was fielded from Raiganj. Kalyan, who has been at odds for quite some time with former Union minister Debasree Choudhury over running the BJP's affairs in the North Dinajpur district, was welcomed to the TMC by its secretary-general and senior state minister Partha Chatterjee. "No self-respecting person can work freely in the BJP," Kalyani told reporters at the TMC headquarters here. He said he was also upset with the "anti-people policies" of the Centre, which has not taken a single step to check spiralling fuel prices. "I was increasingly thinking that I cannot be a part of BJP anymore. If I had not spoken in favour of Mamata Banerjee's welfare policies before the assembly polls, I had made a mistake that I want to correct now," he said. "If someone wants to do good work as an MLA he is not allowed to do that in the BJP," he alleged. Reacting to the development, BJP state President Sukanta Majumder said Kalyani should explain that how he suddenly "woke up" to the policies of Mamata Banerjee. "Kalyani will get a befitting reply from the people of Raiganj in the future," Majumder said, adding that he joined TMC to serve his personal interest. Kalyani had quit the BJP earlier this month but did not resign as an MLA. Earlier, BJP's Krishnanagar Uttar MLA Mukul Roy, Bishnupur MLA Tanmay Ghosh, Bagdah MLA Biswajit Das and Kaliaganj MLA Soumen Roy joined the TMC, besides Asansol MP Babul Supriyo. The MLAs are yet to resign from the assembly or to be disqualified under the anti-defection law, while Supriyo has put in the papers. BJP had won 77 seats in the assembly elections with two of the legislators -- Dinhata MLA Nisith Pramanik and Santipur MLA Jagannath Sarkar -- later resigning to retain their MP seats. TMC had won 213 seats in the assembly elections in April-May and bagged the Samserganj and Janipur seats earlier this month, taking its tally to 215 in the 294-member House. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mla-krishna-kalyani-joins-tmc-fifth-legislator-to-switch-over-1044704.html
27-10-2021||National Politics||Pegasus snooping attempt to 'crush' Indian democracy: Rahul Gandhi||Describing the Supreme Court order on Pegasus issue as a "big step", Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the snooping episode involving the Israeli spyware was aimed at "crushing" India's "vibrant" democracy and this "attack" could have been ordered only by Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Home Minister Amit Shah. Rahul told a press conference that the Congress would continue to raise the issue in Parliament, as snooping on Constitutional functionaries and Opposition leaders was a "criminal act" and an "illegal action". He also claimed that the Congress-JD(S) government in Karnataka was toppled using Pegasus. "I hope the Supreme Court will do their job and provide justice. But this is a deeper problem. If the Prime Minister is using this as a personal tool…if the data of snooping on Opposition leaders and Constitutional authorities is arriving on the Prime Minister’s desk, then it is a criminal act. We will follow it up," Rahul said. He also sought answers on whether data collected using Pegasus was stored outside India. If it was stored outside, the government has launched an attack on "national security" and it was no wonder that the government refused to give full details to the Supreme Court, he said. "Some illegal things have been done by the Prime Minister or the Home Minister. Otherwise, details could have been provided. They wanted to hide it," Rahul, who spearheaded the Congress protest against the government in Parliament on the issue, said. "We welcome the order of the Supreme Court in the matter. It is not a matter of politics. It is an attack on the democratic structure of the country, on the people and on freedom. Only two people can direct this attack and when the truth comes out they will have no answer," he said, adding that the Supreme Court has "basically supported what we were saying". The Opposition, including the Congress, has asked the government whether it has deployed Pegasus to snoop and whether the data has been given to any foreign country. The government has refused to answer these queries citing national security. He said Pegasus was a "nasty subversive way to control the politics of people...Pegasus was an attempt to crush Indian democracy, to make sure the vibrancy of democracy is crushed and people are controlled. We are confident that we will get to the truth through the SC order," Rahul said. Asked whether the issue would be raised in Parliament and other parties taken into confidence, he said the Congress would speak with other Opposition outfits. "We will again raise it in the Winter Session of Parliament. We know the BJP does not like that and will try to prevent it. But we want a discussion." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-snooping-attempt-to-crush-indian-democracy-rahul-gandhi-1044723.html
27-10-2021||National Politics||'Devdoot' Modi gave human touch to economic growth: Amit Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a human touch to economic growth to ensure that its fruits reached the common man as against the “dry” definition given by economists that limited reforms to charts and graphs, Home Minister Amit Shah said on Wednesday. Addressing a conference to mark 20 years of Modi as an elected administrator, Shah showered sobriquets such as “Dev Doot” (Messenger of God) and flag bearer of Indian culture, crediting him for replacing the atmosphere of anger and despair prevalent before 2014 with that of hope. “Just governance and reforms cannot end the problems faced by a nation. It requires a different kind of vision that is possible only when the leader has risen from the masses, from among the poor,” Shah said. He was speaking at the National Conference on ‘Delivering Democracy: Two Decades of Narendra Modi as head of Government’ organised by the Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini. Shah said Modi was of the firm belief that fruits of development should reach every person and be all-inclusive, an approach that has won him accolades from the masses over the years. “By becoming God’s messenger of Indian culture on the world stage, Modi has popularised Yoga and Ayurveda across the world with the consent of 177 countries,” Shah said. Taking a swipe at the Opposition, Shah said that before the 2014 general elections, the central government was in disarray. “What government did we have at the time of the 2014 polls? We had a government where cabinet ministers didn't consider the PM, a PM. Everybody considered themselves the PM,” he said Shah said the makers of the Indian Constitution had rightly chosen a multi-party democratic system for India. But the system did not yield the desired results from the mid-1960s till 2014. “People wondered if the system had failed as it didn’t yield fruitful results. With great patience they took a decision and gave power to PM Modi with absolute majority,” Shah said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/devdoot-modi-gave-human-touch-to-economic-growth-amit-shah-1044772.html
27-10-2021||National Politics||Mundra drug haul: 'Why no action against Adani?', asks Mallikarjun Kharge||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Wednesday questioned the government over lack of action against the Adani Group in connection with the drug seizure at its port in Gujarat's Mundra. "Why has no action been taken against Adani Group even after drugs worth over Rs 25,000 crore were seized in Gujarat's Mundra Port run by Adani Group? Small fish are caught and showed, while no action is taken against big fish is sitting right next to the BJP government," Kharge alleged. He told media persons here on Wednesday that government properties are being leased out to Adanis and Ambanis, while privatisation of public sector firms would result in further loss of jobs. "BJP leaders are misusing power and are spending huge amount of money during elections. They know how to use ED, CBI and IT Department to target and threaten the opposition leaders," Kharge charged. "BJP leaders think that they would get votes even if they don't do anything. BJP failed to fulfill its promises, caused price rise, and did injustice to farmers. They say 'Sab Kaa Saath Sab Kaa Vikas', but they are causing 'Sab Kaa Satyanash'. People would give a befitting answer," he noted. 'Rahul will be Congress chief' Kharge said Rahul Gandhi would become the Congress president, and the calendar of events for the elections to select the party chief is already announced. Rahul Gandhi is engaged in the party's works, and is responding to people's problems. Modi and BJP are against Rahu Gandhi because he has the strength, Kharge added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mundra-drug-haul-why-no-action-against-adani-asks-mallikarjun-kharge-1044793.html
27-10-2021||National Politics||Will Sasikala emerge successful in her attempt to 'reclaim' the AIADMK?||Five months after she announced her return to politics, V K Sasikala seems to have finally stirred the hornet’s nest in the AIADMK, Tamil Nadu’s principal Opposition party. The AIADMK, which has been speaking in “one voice” on keeping Sasikala at bay, is now sending “mixed signals”. As the all-powerful friend of late J Jayalalithaa, Sasikala had controlled the AIADMK from the sidelines for decades but is now locked in an intense battle with her one-time lieutenants for political survival. Though the opposition to taking her back into the party is real and strong given the anti-Sasikala faction is headed by Edappadi K Palaniswami, who has the backing of the majority of the AIADMK MLAs, the new voices (read O Panneerselvam) that appear to be supporting Sasikala’s “re-entry” cannot be brushed aside either. Sasikala begins her tour On her part, Sasikala is also not taking things lightly anymore. After being confined to her palatial bungalow in upscale T. Nagar for over six months, the ousted AIADMK general secretary has finally begun her political sojourn. She will tour a few districts in southern Tamil Nadu this week during which she will pay respects to ‘Pasumpon’ Muthuramalinga Thevar, a revered political figure from the Mukulathor community to which she too belongs, at his mausoleum on Friday. Sasikala has vowed to “reclaim” the AIADMK from the current leadership –Panneerselvam and Palaniswami – following the party’s defeat in the April 6 assembly elections. However, the close friend of late Jayalalithaa is yet to make any headway in her efforts to take over the AIADMK leadership with no visible swell in her support base. ‘Newfound’ support from OPS What could hold out some hope to Sasikala in her quest to take control of the party yet again – she was interim general secretary for ten months after Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016 -- is the latest statement by her one-time foe Panneerselvam who has taken a completely different line from that of the AIADMK vis-à-vis her return to the party fold. During an interaction with media on Monday, Panneerselvam, flanked by Mukulathor leaders, said a decision on reinduction of Sasikala into the AIADMK will be taken by the party’s High Command, a statement that is in direct contradiction with Palaniswami’s stand that Sasikala has “no place” in the outfit. Panneerselvam’s statement is not just a retort to Palaniswami, political analysts say, but also a signal to Sasikala that he may not be averse to doing business with her. The fact that no former minister who was present when OPS made the statement took objection to it might indicate more than what meets the eye, they said. “Sasikala is OPS’ umbrella in the storm of solitude. OPS will be willing to put his weight behind Sasikala as he feels isolated within the party. And for the AIADMK, she could become a rallying point as far as the Mukulathors are concerned. Even if the Mukulathors back Sasikala, she will face tough resistance from the EPS camp,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. OPS’ statement and the fallout Sidelined completely within the party after he was forced by the BJP to play the second fiddle to EPS who was the Chief Minister then, OPS is slowly starting to reassert his authority within the AIADMK and might be willing to join the Sasikala bandwagon to send a message to his former boss, Palaniswami. The statement by OPS, who rebelled against Sasikala in 2017 only after which Palaniswami was elected as leader of AIADMK Legislature Party, has cheered the Sasikala camp, with T T V Dhinakaran welcoming the move and terming Panneerselvam as a “calm and composed” person. With her repeated assertions on “taking over,” the party not finding enough supporters within the AIADMK, OPS’ support may provide much-needed momentum to Sasikala’s campaign. Even if Sasikala gets an opening in the AIADMK courtesy OPS, the camp led by EPS will oppose her re-entry tooth and nail for it would dilute its powers within the party, to say the least. Prof. Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH that at best Sasikala can “control the party” as she does not have enough time to become a “mass leader.” “The AIADMK has to come into a revival mode. They are harming the party. I think EPS is strategically indifferent because he is content with what he has. He knows he will not be accepted by everyone as the leader. So, he is just content with what he has by ignoring the leadership issue. I don’t see Sasikala also attaining a dominant position immediately. The first thing AIADMK should do is to unite all factions and then choose a leader,” he said. For anyone to take full control of the party will be a long haul given the simmering differences between the warring factions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-sasikala-emerge-successful-in-her-attempt-to-reclaim-the-aiadmk-1044820.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Won't help: Lone on FIRs against students for celebrating Pakistan win against India||Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone on Tuesday said punitive actions against the Kashmiri youth will not help as they have not helped in the past as well. Referring to the registration of two FIRs against the medical students in the valley for celebrating Pakistan's victory over India in the Sunday's T20 international cricket match at Dubai, Lone said he "does not see anti-Indianism or pro-Pakistanism as an irreversible condition". He was reacting to a tweet calling for the suspension of the students. The Peoples Conference chairman said, "We live in Kashmir and have to live with those who are ideologically opposed to us". "But we're confident that it is a game of narratives of discourses. And that we will win. We will convince all about the goodness of our ideology. We will prevail. But that is if you allow us to," he said. "We don't see anti Indianism or pro-Pakistanism as an irreversible condition. It is at best a curable disease. Let us cure it. Allow us to cure it. Trust me. Punitive actions can worsen the disease," he added in another tweet. We don’t c anti indianism or pro pakistanism as an irreversible condition. It is at best a curable disease. Let us cure it. Allow us to cure it. Trust me. Punitive actions can worsen the disease. Meanwhile, CPI (M) secretary Ghulam Nabi Malik termed the FIR as "unwarranted, unnecessary" and demanded immediate rollback of the charges against the students. "The past experiences reveal that such punitive actions have not helped in achieving any results nor it will have any desired outcome this time. Winning and losing is part of any game and in a democratic setup everybody has a choice to cheer up for his favourite team or a player," Malik said. He said there are such examples where Indian fans gave standing ovation to Pakistan cricket team after its victory and same things happened with Pakistani crowds cheering up for the India team.  In 1999, Chennai crowd gave a standing ovation to victorious Pakistan side. The crowd applauded the fact that Pakistan on that day was the better of the two sides. The Pakistani team reciprocated in kind to the crowd's gesture, taking a victory lap around the ground. Nobody become anti-national if he supports one team or the other, he said. Malik urged upon J&K administration to immediately revoke the charges framed against the medical college students and help them to continue their degrees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wont-help-lone-on-firs-against-students-for-celebrating-pakistan-win-against-india-1044565.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||J&K Congress demands restoration of statehood before Assembly polls||The Jammu and Kashmir Congress on Tuesday demanded the reinstatement of statehood before assembly elections and claimed the people of the Union Territory were not happy with Home Minister Amit Shah's "roadmap" of holding the polls followed by statehood restoration. During his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir after the repeal of Article 370 provisions, Shah said on Saturday the youth of Kashmir will get opportunities, so a right delimitation will be done, which will be followed by elections and then the status of the statehood will be restored. "I have said this in the country's Parliament, and this is the roadmap," he had said. In a meeting on Tuesday under the chairmanship of Congress' Jammu and Kashmir affairs in-charge Rajni Patil, the party leaders discussed the Union home minister's statement and reiterated the demand for early restoration of statehood. "The party leaders apprised the leadership about the resentment amongst the people over the statement of the Shah. "These vague statements of the Union government are not acceptable to the people of Jammu and Kashmir who feel they have been deprived of their status and identity and the same should be restored in the shape of full statehood," the Congress said in a statement. It said Patil discussed various issues, including the huge damage to crops and orchards and loss of lives due to heavy rains and unseasonal snowfall, and impressed upon the government to announce adequate ex gratia to the affected people. Patil and the Congress' Jammu and Kashmir unit chief G A Mir briefed the meeting about the nationwide programmes scheduled by the AICC in the coming days and asked them to reach out to the people through 'Jan Jagran Abhiyan'. They also briefed them about the pan-India membership drive to be launched next month as decided in the recent Congress Working Committee meeting chaired by Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-congress-demands-restoration-of-statehood-before-assembly-polls-1044581.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||'No specific denial by Centre': Supreme Court sets up panel to probe Pegasus snooping matter||The Supreme Court on Wednesday formed an independent expert committee, to be supervised by Justice R V Raveendran, a retired top court judge, to go into the "truth or falsity" of allegations of snooping on citizens by use of Israel's Pegasus spyware. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said the court had no option but to accept prima facie allegations by a batch of petitioners, including journalist N Ram, for a probe, as the union government made an "omnibus and vague" denial in its limited and short affidavit in the matter. The court passed its order taking into account the public importance and the alleged scope and nature of the large-scale violation of the fundamental rights of the citizens of the country. It noted a broad consensus that unauthorised surveillance or accessing of stored data from the phones and other devices of citizens for reasons other than the nation’s security would be "illegal, objectionable and a matter of concern." "Our effort is to uphold the constitutional aspirations and rule of law, without allowing ourselves to be consumed in the political rhetoric. This court has always been conscious of not entering the political thicket. However, at the same time, it has never cowered from protecting all from the abuses of fundamental rights," the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said.  As petitioners raised grave concern on violation of the right to privacy by use of spyware sold only to government agencies, the bench said, "Every invasion of privacy must pass the test of reasonableness and constitutional necessity."  The Centre, for its part, had refused to divulge details whether Pegasus was used or not, citing the national security concerns.  The bench said it is a settled position of law that in matters pertaining to national security, the scope of judicial review is limited. “However, this does not mean that the state gets a free pass every time the spectre of “national security” is raised. National security cannot be the bugbear that the judiciary shies away from, by virtue of its mere mentioning," the bench said in its 46-page judgement.  The court also pointed out some foreign governments have seriously taken the purported spyware attack, and some have initiated proceedings internally to determine the truth. It also rejected the Centre's proposal to form its panel, saying it would violate the settled judicial principle against bias, i.e., that ‘justice must not only be done but also be seen to be done'. The court constituted the technical committee comprising of three members, including those who are experts in cyber security, digital forensics, networks and hardware. The members are Dr Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, Professor (Cyber Security and Digital Forensics) National Forensic Sciences University, Gandhinagar, Dr Prabaharan P, Professor (School of Engineering), Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Amritapuri, Kerala and Dr Ashwin Anil Gumaste, Associate Professor (Computer Science and Engineering), IIT Bombay. Their functioning will be overseen by Justice R V Raveendran, former judge, Supreme Court. He will be assisted by Alok Joshi, former IPS officer (1976 batch) and Dr Sundeep Oberoi, Chairman, Sub Committee in (International Organisation of Standardisation/ International Electro-Technical Commission/Joint Technical Committee). Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-specific-denial-by-centre-supreme-court-sets-up-panel-to-probe-pegasus-snooping-matter-1044613.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Early snowfall rekindles hope of tourism revival in Kashmir||While early snowfall in Kashmir this season resulted in huge losses to apple growers, it has brought cheers among adventure tour operators, who are readying to welcome tourists. After the meteoric drop in tourist arrivals after the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019 and then struck by consecutive Covid-19 lockdowns, the tourism industry in Kashmir is eagerly waiting for a revival. And early snowfall this season has rekindled hopes among the tour operators. Shahid Rasool, owner of Gulmarg Ski School, says they have been preparing for the last one month to welcome ski and winter sports enthusiasts to Kashmir. “More than the expected number of bookings have already come for this winter which is a good sign for the business,” he said. Rasool said that the first batch of ski enthusiasts will arrive in Gulmarg in mid-December when there will be enough snow on the slopes. “Most of the bookings are from different states of the country but we are also expecting international tourists as Covid-19 restrictions have eased,” he added. In recent years, footfall of adventure tourism in Kashmir has increased. Even last year owing to a ban on international travel due to Covid, Gulmarg was housefull during winter as domestic tourists visiting Europe rushed to the winter tourist destination. Ghulam Rasool Akhoon, president of Shikara union at Dal Lake says in recent days the flow of tourists has increased. “Despite the recent civilian killings, not many bookings were cancelled which is a good sign for tourism revival,” he said. To augment the tourism sector, an iconic tourist festival is going on from October 23 to October 29 organised by the Department of Tourism. Even Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was on a three-day visit to J&K, said Kashmir is all set to welcome tourists and urged people to visit the “beautiful part of India”. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/early-snowfall-rekindles-hope-of-tourism-revival-in-kashmir-1044643.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Ayodhya included in Delhi govt's free pilgrimage scheme: Kejriwal||The Delhi Cabinet on Wednesday approved the inclusion of Ayodhya in its free pilgrimage scheme for the elderly, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced. Kejriwal had on Tuesday offered prayers at the Ram Janambhoomi site in Ayodhya. The announcement by Kejriwal comes ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls early next year which his AAP plans to contest. Under the 'Mukhya Mantri Teerath Yatra Yojna', the Delhi government bears complete expenditure on free pilgrimage of senior citizens to places like Jagganath Puri, Rameshwaram, Shirdi, Mathura, Haridwar, Tirupati among others, he said. Over 35,000 senior citizens have undertaken pilgrimage under the scheme. Due to Covid-19, the scheme was halted for the last one-and-a-half years but now instructions have been issued to resume it and the trains for various destinations are expected to be started in the next one month, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-included-in-delhi-govts-free-pilgrimage-scheme-kejriwal-1044661.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Teen girl from UP raped in West Bengal; police nab accused||A teenage girl from a village under Haldi police station limits here was allegedly kidnapped and raped by a 20-year-old youth, police said on Wednesday. The accused was arrested on Tuesday, police said. A 15-year-old girl had gone missing from her house on September 8. Her father had lodged a case against an unknown person for luring her away, SHO Suresh Chandra Dwivedi said. The police, who launched an investigation, traced the girl to Hooghly in West Bengal on October 25, the SHO said. In her statement to the police, the girl alleged that the youth, belonging to Dumraon village in Buxar district of neighbouring Bihar, kidnapped her from the village and took her to Hooghly, where he allegedly raped her. On the basis of the statement, the youth has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Dwivedi said. The victim has been sent to the district hospital for a medical examination, the SHO added. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teen-girl-from-up-raped-in-west-bengal-police-nab-accused-1044662.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Delhi schools, colleges to reopen from November 1 in hybrid mode||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has allowed reopening of all educational institutions from November 1 and Chhath Puja celebrations in the city amid Covid strict protocols, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday. Schools will have to ensure that classes are conducted in a hybrid mode which means online classes will continue, he said. "All private and government schools can be reopened from November 1. However, parents cannot be forced to send their ward to schools,” Sisodia said at a press conference after a DDMA meeting. The minister said more than 50 per cent of the students in a class should be called to school and all the staff are required to be fully vaccinated as soon as possible. Sisodia said a restricted number of people will be allowed to conduct Chhath Puja at predetermined spots across the capital. "People are requested to follow all Covid protocols and wear masks... The Covid situation is under control in Delhi but one has to remain careful,” he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-schools-colleges-to-reopen-from-november-1-in-hybrid-mode-1044663.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Plea in Delhi court seeks FIR against Haryana CM for 'inciting' BJP workers against protesting farmers||A petition was filed before a Delhi court on Wednesday seeking registration of an FIR against Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar for allegedly inciting BJP members earlier this month to use criminal force against the protesting farmers. The petition filed by advocate Amit Sahni alleged that there was a controversial video of the Chief Minister and BJP member recorded during a meeting with the workers belonging to party's 'kisan morcha' at his residence at Chandigarh on October 3. It claimed that in the video, the CM was seen instigating party workers to use criminal force against the protesting farmers and “to create 500- 600-1,000 volunteers in every district of north and west Haryana, and be ready to face sticks, imprisonment, which will make them big leaders.” The petition, which is likely to come up for hearing before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta on Thursday, accused that Khattar has committed offence under various sections, including 153 (giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief). The petition urged the court to summon the Khattar and punish him in accordance with law, and also direct the police officials concerned to conduct investigation against him by lodging an FIR. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-delhi-court-seeks-fir-against-haryana-cm-for-inciting-bjp-workers-against-protesting-farmers-1044674.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan Minister Harish Chaudhary to quit government||Rajasthan Revenue Minister Harish Chaudhary has expressed his desire to leave his post and has conveyed it to the party high command, including Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. He also met Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday here in the national capital to discuss various organisational issues. Chaudhary told PTI that he believes in the ideology of 'one person one post' and wants to fulfil the new responsibility given to him by the party with dedication. "I have informed the party high command including party president Sonia Gandhi, former president Rahul Gandhi, our state in-charge and the chief minister," he said. Chaudhary said he does not want to give fuel to any controversy or speculation about his resignation from the post of minister. "This is my opinion, which I have conveyed to the party high command," he said. On the upcoming Punjab assembly elections, Chaudhary said he has been watching the party organisation there for the past few months and that the Congress will retain power in the state with a majority. Choudhary is an MLA from the Baytu assembly seat of the state. He is reckoned among the most powerful ministers in the Rajasthan government and is also considered close to Rahul Gandhi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-minister-harish-chaudhary-to-quit-government-1044680.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Eminent Gandhian thinker S N Subba Rao passes away in Jaipur||Veteran Gandhian S N Subba Rao, who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh government hospital here for the last few days, died here on Wednesday morning due to a cardiac arrest. He was 92. The body was shifted from the SMS hospital to Vinoba Gyan Mandir in Bapu Nagar where Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra and other leaders and followers paid homage. Expressing deep condolences on the demise of Subba Rao, CM Gehlot, who had a long association with the Gandhian leader, said he used to visit Rajasthan frequently and had recently come to Jaipur. The CM said Subba Rao inspired the youth of the country for decades through his camps. Gehlot too attended several of his camps at a young age. The CM said he is deeply pained at the demise of Subba Rao and it was a personal loss for him. “I visited him in Bengaluru last year when he was ill. I told him that I have come to take you with me to Jaipur. Recently, he wrote a letter to me informing that he is coming to Jaipur and arrived in a train,” he told reporters at Vinoba Gyan Mandir. Gehlot said the eminent Gandhian ideologue was admitted to the hospital and he met him several times in the hospital to enquire about his health. The CM said he came in contact with Subba Rao at the age of 10-12 years and had attended several of his camps in Jodhpur. Gehlot said his songs inspired many people and he too keeps his songs on his mobile phone. “I was listening to his songs on the way,” he added. He also said a platform will be created so that the young generation can take inspiration from the personality of Subba Rao. Earlier, Gehlot tweeted expressing condolences on his demise. “The death of the Gandhian ideologue, who inspired the youth of the country for more than 70 years continuously through his camps, is an irreparable loss,” he tweeted in Hindi. “Bhaiji started a campaign to make the youth aware throughout his life, telling the new generation about the country even abroad. I felt at peace while participating in his camps,” the CM said. Gehlot said his inspirational songs and thoughts will continue to give inspirational messages. “We are fortunate that we continued to meet him in Rajasthan,” the CM said. Governor Kalraj Mishra also condoled the death. "Governor Kalraj Mishra has expressed condolences on the demise of veteran Gandhian thinker Dr S N Subba Rao,” a Raj Bhawan statement said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eminent-gandhian-thinker-s-n-subba-rao-passes-away-in-jaipur-1044684.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Baldev Prakash is J&K Bank's new MD and CEO||Jammu & Kashmir Bank on Wednesday said the Reserve Bank has approved the appointment of Baldev Prakash as its next Managing Director and CEO from the next year. The Reserve Bank of India has vide letter dated October 26, 2021 accorded approval to the candidature of Prakash as MD & CEO of the Bank for a period of three years from the date of taking charge or April 10, 2022, whichever is earlier, J&K Bank said in a regulatory filing. The state-owned lender will separately inform about the appointment of Baldev Prakash as MD & CEO by its board and the actual date of assuming charge by him. Prakash has over 30 years of experience in banking in various roles at small and large size branches at SBI. He had joined SBI as a probationary officer in 1991 and he is currently the Chief General Manager (Digital and Transaction Banking Marketing Department) at SBI, Mumbai. Presently, R K Chhibber is the Chairman and Managing Director of J&K Bank, who assumed charge of the bank in June 2019. Jammu & Kashmir Bank stock traded at Rs 43.20 apiece on BSE, up 5.62 per cent from the previous close. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/baldev-prakash-is-jk-banks-new-md-and-ceo-1044708.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Filed plea in SC to transfer Mehbooba Mufti’s petition in PMLA case, Centre tells HC||The Centre Wednesday informed the Delhi High Court that it has filed a plea before the Supreme Court seeking the transfer of PDP leader Mehbooba’s Mufti’s petition which challenges the Constitutional validity of a provision of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The counsel representing the Centre told a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh that the transfer petition is likely to come up for hearing before the apex court within a week -- on October 29. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on December 23. The Centre had earlier told the court that several petitions concerning various provisions and scheme of PMLA are pending in the Supreme Court and the matter has been assigned to a special bench and parties have exchanged certain queries, one of which is directly in question here. The Centre had said it intended to move a transfer petition so that the matters can be done together. It had said that the questions before the Supreme Court included issues concerning the commencement of investigation under PMLA. Former J&K Chief Minister Mufti, in her plea filed in March, has sought to declare Section 50 of the PMLA as void and inoperative, being unfairly discriminatory, bereft of safeguards, and violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution. Section 50 of the Act empowers the authority, that is, officers of ED, to summon any person to give evidence or produce records. All persons summoned are bound to answer the questions put to them and to produce the documents as required by the ED officers, failing which they can be penalized under the Act. She has also challenged issuance of summons to her by the ED in a money laundering case and sought a stay which was refused by the court earlier. The 61-year-old leader, who was released last year after more than a year in detention following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, was served notice to appear at the ED headquarters in the national capital. Initially, the ED had summoned Mufti for March 15 but it did not insist on her personal appearance at that time. Thereafter, she was summoned for March 22. Mufti, in her petition, said she has received summons from the ED under the provisions of the PMLA, purporting to call for 'evidence' on pain of punishment, whereas she is, to all intents and purposes, a subject of investigation. "She has not been informed if she is being summoned as an accused or as a witness. She has also not been informed of what she is being summoned in connection with and the scheduled offence under the PMLA which gave rise to the proceedings in respect of which impugned summons has been issued to her. The petitioner is not the subject of investigation, nor is she an accused, in any of the scheduled offences to the best of her knowledge,” the plea said. It claimed that ever since Mufti was released from the preventive detention following the formal abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, there have been a series of hostile acts by the State, against her, acquaintances and old family friends, who have all been summoned by the ED and a roving inquiry about her personal, political and financial affairs was made, in the course of which their personal devices have been seized. Earlier, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and advocate Amit Mahajan, representing the ED, had said there was no need to issue a formal notice to them as they are already appearing before the court and said they will file a short note on the issue of the question of law. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/filed-plea-in-sc-to-transfer-mehbooba-mufti-s-petition-in-pmla-case-centre-tells-hc-1044721.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||16 houses gutted as fire breaks out in Himachal Pradesh's Malana village||Sixteen houses were gutted and around 150 people were rendered shelterless after a massive fire broke out at a village in Himachal Pradesh's Kullu district on Wednesday, a disaster management official said. One person has been injured in the fire incident which took place in Malana village at 1:28 am, State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. Expressing anguish, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet said, "The fire incident in Kullu, Himachal Pradesh is very painful. I extend my sympathies to all the families who have suffered in this tragedy in the historic Malana village. The state government and local administration are engaged in relief and rescue work with alacrity." हिमाचल प्रदेश के कुल्लू में हुआ अग्निकांड अत्यंत दुखद है। ऐतिहासिक मलाणा गांव में हुई इस त्रासदी के सभी पीड़ित परिवारों के प्रति मैं अपनी संवेदना व्यक्त करता हूं। राज्य सरकार और स्थानीय प्रशासन राहत और बचाव के काम में पूरी तत्परता से जुटे हैं। By embedding Twitter content in your website or app, you are agreeing to the Developer Agreement and Developer Policy. Preview Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also expressed grief over the fire tragedy and said the administration is engaged in rescue work. "Deeply saddened by the damage caused by the fire in Malana village of Himachal Pradesh. I express my sympathy to all the villagers whose houses were damaged in this accident. The state government and administration are engaged in the rescue work with full dedication," Shah said in a tweet in Hindi. Thakur has directed the district administration to provide relief and rehabilitation to the affected families. Kullu Deputy Commissioner Ashutosh Garg, along with other officers, visited the spot and supervised the relief work, a government spokesperson said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-houses-gutted-as-fire-breaks-out-in-himachal-pradeshs-malana-village-1044728.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Something dangerous happening on Indo-Pak border: Amarinder||Slamming the state government for its repeated denial of any serious security issues, former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said there was something wrong and dangerous happening at the borders, which the state could ill-afford to ignore. He trashed allegations that the Border Security Force (BSF) would take over the state's administration or will be deployed in the Golden Temple and said such misconceptions were being spread by certain people to score brownie points in the run-up to the Assembly elections. "The BSF is here for helping maintain national security as we are a border state," he said, calling for full support by the state to the Centre in the interest of national security.Addressing a press conference here, Amarinder Singh said he was not an alarmist but his experience in the Indian Army and as chief minister of the state told him that "something is going to happen". "Yet a home minister who has been in his chair for one month claims to know more than me!" he quipped, taking a dig at Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. "Sleeper cells of the Pak ISI and Khalistani forces are creating trouble, technology is becoming more advanced. The capacity and range of drones are increasing, first, they came in just five to six km from the border, now they reach 31 km," he pointed out. "We have to be very careful of the clandestine war from across the borders," he added. It was the duty of every responsible government to tackle such threats, Amarinder Singh stressed, countering those who mock his concerns over national security. The state government, he said, should put the facts before the people and take their help in getting information instead of denying the danger. It should own up and take necessary action to combat the threat, he said, adding that even at the all-party meeting held on the issue, it seems the political parties were not properly briefed. While Punjab Police was a first-class and well-trained force, they were, however, not trained to combat such threats, said the former Chief Minister, asserting they need the help of the BSF and the CRPF to tackle the problem. He pointed out that even in the days of terrorism, the army was helping out and nobody took over the state government's job. The BSF's assistance was essential to maintaining peace in Punjab, he said, adding the state has been through tough times and nobody wants it to suffer again. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/something-dangerous-happening-on-indo-pak-border-amarinder-1044737.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Special session of Punjab Assembly on November 8 to discuss BSF jurisdiction issue||The Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved summoning of the special session of the state assembly on November 8 to oppose the Centre's notification extending the jurisdiction of the BSF from 15 km to 50 km along the International Border. A demand will also be made during the session to repeal the three farm laws. The decision on the session has been taken after consensus on the issue at the All-Party Meeting held at Chandigarh on October 25, an official statement said here. In another decision, the Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi gave approval to the Punjab Anti Red Tape Rules, 2021 framed by the Governance Reforms and Public Grievances department. The Act shall be applicable to all departments and their attached or subordinate offices including all units of local self-government, boards, corporations, public sector enterprises, societies, trusts, commissions, or autonomous bodies established or constituted by an Act of the State Legislature or whose expenditure is met from the Consolidated Fund of the State. It shall also ensure that all the entities would mandatorily simplify their process to reduce the burden of compliances by at least 50 per cent within a period of six months of the commencement of this Act. The Act would also provide for disciplinary as well as financial penalties against erring officials for violations committed under this Act, the statement said. In a bid to promote ease of doing business in the state, the Cabinet also gave a go-ahead to the amendments in Punjab Right to Business Act, 2020 for inclusion of expansion by existing Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) under the purview of the Act.  The amendment in the Act provides an enabling eco-system for self-declaration, exemptions, speedier approvals, and inspections for existing MSMEs to expand and operate in the state.  The cabinet also allowed faceless assessment of GST and VAT. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/special-session-of-punjab-assembly-on-november-8-to-discuss-bsf-jurisdiction-issue-1044753.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Pegasus: SC asks expert panel to recommend mechanism on surveillance||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the experts panel to ascertain if any governmental agency has used the Pegasus spyware on the citizens of the country, and under what law, rule, guideline, protocol, or lawful procedure such deployment was made. Giving details of the terms of reference of the committee set up in the Pegasus snooping case, a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said the panel would also find out details of the victims and persons affected by such spyware attack.  It would also examine the actions taken by the central government after reports of hacking of WhatsApp accounts of citizens using Pegasus spyware were made public in 2019. The court also entrusted the panel to make recommendations on the need for enactment or amendment to existing law and procedures on surveillance and for securing the improved right to privacy. It also asked the technical experts committee to suggest the establishment of a mechanism for citizens to raise grievances on suspicion of illegal surveillance of their devices. The panel would also recommend enhancing and improving the cyber security of the nation and its assets and to ensure the prevention of invasion of citizens’ right to privacy. It has also been asked to recommend for setting up of a well¬equipped independent premier agency to probe cyber security vulnerabilities for threat assessment relating to cyber-attacks and to investigate such instances. It has also been given a task to recommend any ad-hoc arrangement that may be made by the top court as an interim measure for protection of citizen’s rights, pending filling up of lacunae by Parliament. The court asked the panel to conduct a thorough inquiry and place its report expeditiously. It posted the batch of petitions for hearing after eight weeks. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pegasus-sc-asks-expert-panel-to-recommend-mechanism-on-surveillance-1044763.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||DDMA allows Chhath Puja celebrations at designated places amid strict Covid protocols||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday allowed devotees to perform Chhath Puja at designated spots in the national capital amid strict Covid protocols. The DDMA, which devises Covid management policies for the capital, had banned Chhath Puja celebrations at public places, including at Yamuna riverbanks, water bodies and temples in Delhi, after a meeting on September 30. The ban on Chhath celebrations had triggered protests by opposition parties the BJP and the Congress. "The DDMA has allowed Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi at designated spots. A limited number of people will be allowed to perform the puja amid strict Covid protocols," Sisodia said at a press conference after a DDMA meeting. "People are requested to follow all Covid-19 protocols and wear masks... The Covid situation is under control in Delhi but one has to remain careful,” he said. Amid protests by the BJP and the Congress against the Chhath Puja ban, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier this month urged Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to call a meeting of the DDMA to allow celebrations in public. Chhath, celebrated after Diwali by people belonging to Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, involves the offering of 'Arghya' by fasting women to the Sun god in knee-deep water. Earlier in the day, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri launched a special Covid-19 vaccination drive in Burari's Ibrahimpur village for devotees who will be observing fast on Chhath festival. Puri was accompanied by BJP MP Manoj Tiwari, the party's Purvanchal face in the national capital. Concentrated mostly in East Delhi, the Purvanchal community has a sizable number in the national capital and plays an important role in elections. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddma-allows-chhath-puja-celebrations-at-designated-places-amid-strict-covid-protocols-1044766.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||T20 WC: Rajasthan teacher who celebrated Pakistan's victory against India arrested||A private school teacher in Rajasthan's Udaipur was on Wednesday arrested, a day after she was sacked by the school management for allegedly posting a WhatsApp status celebrating Pakistan's victory over India in a T20 Cricket World Cup match. Police had registered a case against her on Tuesday. Nafeesa Attari, a teacher at Neerja Modi School Udaipur, had posted a picture of Pakistani players with the caption, "Jeeeet gayeeee, We wonnn," after India's loss to Pakistan. After screenshots of her WhatsApp status went viral on social media, the school management had on Tuesday terminated her from the job. "The teacher was arrested today morning," Amba Mata Station House Officer Narpat Singh said. He said Attari has been arrested under IPC Section 153 (B) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration). Earlier, apologising for her WhatsApp post, Attari had released a video statement saying she did not intend to hurt anyone's sentiments. "Someone messaged me asking whether I supported Pakistan. As the message contained emojis and it was a fun environment, I replied, 'Yes'. However, that doesn't mean that I support Pakistan. I am an Indian and I love my country. I love India as much as everyone else does," Attari said in her video message. "As soon as I realised that I have made a mistake, I deleted the post. I am sorry if I have hurt anybody's sentiments," she said. India lost its first match of the T20 World Cup, against Pakistan, by 10 wickets on Sunday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/t20-wc-rajasthan-teacher-who-celebrated-pakistans-victory-against-india-arrested-1044767.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM announces to scrap 40,000 cases of VAT against industrialists, traders||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday announced to scrap 40,000 pending cases of value-added tax (VAT), out of the total 48,000 cases related to the financial years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17, against traders and industrialists across the state. He was addressing a galaxy of industrialists, traders and prospective entrepreneurs on the second day of 4th Progressive Punjab Investors Summit on the theme of 'A story of Partnership, Delivery & Growth: Investors Reassured' here. CM Channi said only 8,000 remaining cases will be settled amicably by asking the concerned traders/ industrialists to deposit only 30 per cent of the total outstanding tax liability, thus saving them from a lot of inconvenience caused to them on this count. He announced that they will only have to deposit 20 per cent of the tax liability during the current fiscal and the balance 80 per cent by the next. CM Channi said this industrial-friendly initiative will go a long way in boosting their morale to invest in a big way. He added that the state government will act as a facilitator to promote the industry at new heights of glory. Assuring of the best air connectivity to boost economic activity in the region, CM Channi also announced to lay the foundation stone of upcoming greenfield (fresh) airport at Halwara (Ludhiana) on November 15 and said that the prestigious airport will be completed within eight months. Reiterating his government's firm commitment to create a conducive ecosystem for the ease of doing business in the state, CM Channi assured the industry of fulsome support to make Punjab the frontrunner state not within the country but across the globe. Listing the major initiatives to repose confidence among the industrialists and traders to give further impetus to industrial growth, CM Channi said the Punjab government has already okayed several pro-investor initiatives and concessions to boost trade and industry in the state. He added that the state government has allowed faceless assessment of GST and VAT due to which the traders and industrialists now need not to present themselves physically before the taxation officers anymore. CM Channi further said the mobile squad, earlier comprising 14 persons, has also been reduced to only four in the taxation department adding that institutional tax in vogue since 2011 also stands abolished for promotion of trade and industry in the state. He also announced a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for the defaulters to be introduced in Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC), Punjab Financial Corporation (PFC) and Punjab Agro Industries Corporation (PAIC). Likewise, CM also said an amnesty scheme will also be introduced for the plot holders of the Punjab State Industries Export Corporation (PSIEC). CM added that fixed charges on electricity connections for medium-scale industries have been slashed to 50 per cent. He said Rs 150 crore will be spent on the up-gradation of the infrastructure in the industrial focal points. He also announced that the state government will soon simplify the procedure for change of land use to facilitate the entrepreneurs and industrials for setting up their ventures seamlessly. Channi further said that to boost economic activity in the border districts of the state, the Punjab government will acquire requisite land for Patti-Makhu rail link and hand it over to the Ministry of Railways before ensuing budget. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-announces-to-scrap-40000-cases-of-vat-against-industrialists-traders-1044810.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Govt expects to spend Rs 2.99L cr under AMRUT-2: Puri||The centrally-sponsored AMRUT-2 (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) will have an investment of Rs 2.99 lakh crore over five years from FY 2021-22 to FY 2025-26, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri announced. He said that the scheme aims to provide 100 per cent coverage of water supply to all households in around 4,700 urban local bodies by providing about 2.68 crore tap connections and 100 per cent coverage of sewerage and septage in 500 AMRUT cities by providing around 2.64 crore sewer/septage connections. Under AMRUT- 2, cities will submit City Water Balance Plans (CWBPs) online on a robust Mission portal of MoHUA. CWBPs will give the status of water availability, water demand and supply in the city culminating in gaps in services. With a target of filling these gaps, projects will be formulated in form of an Action Plan. These plans will be aggregated at the state level in form of State Water Action Plan (SWAP), he said. The mission mandates the implementation of 10 per cent worth of funds allocated to million-plus cities in PPP mode. Taking up projects on 24x7 water supply in 500 AMRUT cities which have population above one lakh is encouraged. It also has a reform agenda targeted towards strengthening municipal governance and water security of cities. Major reforms include reducing non-revenue water to below 20 per cent, recycling treated used water to meet at least 20 per cent of total city water demand and 40 per cent for industrial water demand at state level, 24x7 water supply with ‘Drink from tap’ facility, rejuvenation of water bodies, GIS-based master plans of the cities and efficient town planning, credit rating of cities and raising funds through the issuance of municipal bonds, the guidelines said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-expects-to-spend-rs-299l-cr-under-amrut-2-puri-1044834.html
27-10-2021||North and Central||Teacher, 3 students among 6 arrested in UP, Rajasthan for celebrating Pakistan win; more detained in J&K||Six persons, including a private school teacher in Rajasthan's Udaipur and three engineering students from Kashmir who were studying in Agra in Uttar Pradesh, have been arrested for allegedly posting objectionable messages on social media or raising anti-national slogans after Pakistan's victory over India in the T20 cricket World Cup.  Uttar Pradesh Police said seven persons have been booked in five cases in districts of Agra, Bareily, Badaun and Sitapur for making remarks against the country after the match on October 24. Out of them, five have been arrested, the police said on its Twitter handle. Two more persons were detained by Jammu and Kashmir police, taking the number of detainees to eight in the case of pro-Pakistani slogans raised by some people in Samba district after the match. The Jammu and Kashmir Police had earlier registered two cases under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against some medical students living in hostels at the Government Medical College in Karan Nagar in Srinagar and SKIMS Soura. The action came after videos posted on social media showed students and others raising objectionable slogans and celebrating Pakistan's victory in the high-voltage match between the traditional rivals. Nafeesa Attari, a teacher who was sacked by Neerja Modi School Udaipur management for posting a celebratory WhatsApp status, was arrested on Wednesday morning, according to SHO of Amba Mata police station Narpat Singh.  He said that the teacher has been arrested under IPC section 153 (B) (Imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration). Attari had put up a picture of Pakistani players with the caption, "Jeeeet gayeeee, We wonnn". After screenshots of her WhatsApp status went viral on social media, the school management terminated her and a case was registered against her. The teacher had released a video statement apologising for the post and saying she did not intend to hurt anyone's sentiment.  "Someone messaged me and asked whether 'you support Pakistan'. As the message had emojis and it was an environment of fun, I replied 'Yes'. But, it doesn't mean anywhere that I support Pakistan. I am an Indian and I love India. I love India as much as everyone else does," Attari said in her video message.  She further said, "As soon as I realised that I have made a mistake, I deleted the status message. I am sorry if I have hurt anybody's sentiments." An FIR was registered at the Jagdishpura police station in Agra against three Kashmiri students from Raja Balwant Singh Management Technical Campus who were earlier suspended by the college and a police complaint filed against them by local BJP leaders. SP City Vikas Kumar said, "Three engineering college students have been arrested after the complaint received against them on Tuesday."  They have been booked under IPC Section 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups), 505 (1)(B) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public) and Section 66 F of the Information Technology Act, the police said. Dr Pankaj Gupta, director of administration and finance at the institute, had said on Tuesday that the students were suspended with immediate effect. "The students were studying under the Prime Minister Super Special Scheme. We have also apprised the PM office and AICTE of the students' act. However, students have apologised," Gupta had said. On Wednesday, right-wing Hindu outfits protested at the Collectorate premises and demanded action against the students who celebrated Pakistan cricket's victory against the Indian team. They also submitted a memorandum to the officials concerned in this connection.   According to the faculty members, the members of these outfits had allegedly barged into the college campus and staged a protest against the students.  Gupta said the protesters forcibly entered the campus at around 3.45 PM on Tuesday when classes were taking place and tried to also gain access to the students' hostels. "Their act was inappropriate and unacceptable. They did not even try to contact the college management and when they were stopped from entering the hostel premises, they began raising slogans," Gupta said.   While many have expressed outrage on social media and demanded action against those seen in the celebratory videos, others have said there was nothing wrong with supporting another team. Several leaders from Jammu and Kashmir including PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti disapproved of the police action and said it will further alienate the youths. However, Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina accused Mehbooba Mufti of having "Talibani ideology" and said anyone who celebrated Pakistan's victory would be jailed for "conspiring" against the country. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teacher-3-students-among-6-arrested-in-up-rajasthan-for-celebrating-pakistan-win-more-detained-in-jk-1044840.html
27-10-2021||Oasis||Acts of compassion||Chivalry is not dead. In this deadly pandemic era, several Samaritans have been rescuing the people in need risking their own lives. But the Samaritan I am talking about is a young boy, straight from college: Omer Syed. He is my wife’s nephew. My wife died of ovarian cancer on April 10 after battling for more than five years. In her last days, she was gasping for breath. A doctor in the family suggested supporting her with oxygen, but getting an oxygen cylinder was next to impossible, amid the pandemic, despite efforts from many of my relatives and friends. It was then that Omer emerged like a Samaritan. With the help of his friends, he arranged a cylinder and connected it to my wife. That was not the end. One cylinder would last only for 12 to 18 hours. However, Omer ensured a constant supply of cylinders. The hospice ambience was espoused to everyone’s solace. But the difficulty in her breathing aggravated. The death became predictable. The condition was worsening and the progression was inexorable. After a literal fight with death, my wife finally lost her life. I felt traumatised by the scene of my beloved wife Naiyara dying in my arms. Additionally, there was a chain of questions that kept nagging me: Did she have a good death? Had I let her down at the very end? Did she suffer too much at the end? Could I have done better? However, even amid an unexpected, bitter outcome, Omer Syed’s timely help can never be overlooked. What he has done is a little too much for his age and worldly exposure. It needs to be recognised and appreciated. The wisdom of parable lies in recognising the needs of the ‘other’ and reaching out with compassion and love to whoever they may be and in whatever circumstance prevails. True compassion extends the warmth of love. Compassion and love cannot be limited to those we know and like. Let the Almighty bless him. Every time I spread my prayer mat to offer Namaaz I remember Omer and pray for his well being.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/acts-of-compassion-1044833.html
27-10-2021||Opinion||Microsoft could again unseat Apple as most valuable company||By Tae Kim, Microsoft Corp. is in the technology sweet spot. With another stellar quarter fueled by growth of the cloud computing business, the software giant is showing that it could have the best fundamental outlook among its tech giant peers. The company said revenue totalled $45.3 billion in its fiscal first quarter, a jump of 22 per cent from a year earlier and more than the $43.9 billion median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Profits also surpassed expectations. Microsoft’s shares climbed as much as 2 per cent in after-hours trading. There is logic to the positive reaction: The main drivers of the strong results are sustainable for the foreseeable future. First, there is the return-to-office trend. As employees started heading back into physical offices, they will need to be outfitted with the latest software from Microsoft. Even more important is the industry-wide transition toward cloud computing. Microsoft’s Azure unit, which rents computing power to startups and larger businesses, posted an impressive 50 per cent growth for the quarter.  Azure is in a position to thrive for years to come. The opportunity is massive. According to Wedbush Securities, global cloud-services spending will approach $1 trillion over the next decade as businesses spend more on cloud computing. Microsoft is the No. 2 player, with about 20 per cent of the market, according to Gartner. It grew at more than double the rate of market leader Amazon Inc.’s Amazon Web Services last year. Microsoft has a unique advantage. Unlike its cloud competitors, it sells traditional PC software and operating systems, and can provide better integration with its products. Many medium-size companies prefer consolidating their purchases with one company to avoid the complexity of multiple vendors. That may be why a recent Morgan Stanley survey of chief information officers showed Microsoft would gain the biggest share of technology budgets over the next three years — above all other technology companies including Amazon. Here’s another lucky circumstance. While many firms have had to deal with supply-chain complications, Microsoft’s main businesses — software and services that rely on data traveling over the internet — have been relatively unscathed.  Apple Inc., in contrast, has to manufacture and ship iPhones across continents. Amazon’s e-commerce operation must stock merchandise to sell for the holidays. Microsoft wasn’t the only technology behemoth to post robust results Tuesday. Google-parent Alphabet Inc. reported a nearly 70 per cent jump in net profit in the latest quarter. It’s all the more evidence that even as regulators train their sights on the big tech companies, they continue to generate eye-opening profits.  What’s next for Microsoft? Ahead of the latest results, the company was valued at $2.33 trillion — second to Apple’s $2.47 trillion. The two companies have traded off the designation of most valuable company a number of times in recent years. It might not be long before Microsoft retakes the crown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/microsoft-could-again-unseat-apple-as-most-valuable-company-1044592.html
27-10-2021||Opinion||Lakhimpur Kheri: Their victims, our victims||Shubham Mishra, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) booth president in Lakhimpur Kheri, was in the back seat of the vehicle which ran over farmers on October 3, killing four of them. While the vehicle's other occupants, including reportedly, Central minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, escaped, Shubham was among the three lynched by the enraged farmers. Does Shubham's family deserve sympathy for having lost their 29-year-old son in this manner? Does his wife - left with a year-old daughter - need to know that those involved in the conflict that claimed her husband's life are sorry about how her husband died? Or does this family - also farmers - become untouchable because their son was a BJP member who travelled in the killer vehicle, thereby indistinguishable from those who decided to mow down the protesting farmers? It's not an easy question, especially if you support the farmers' protest. So before visiting Shubham's family to offer condolences, should Yogendra Yadav have taken permission from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha? As punishment for this visit, the Morcha suspended Yadav, its core committee member, for a month and asked for a public apology. Yadav apologized for not informing or consulting them, but not for the visit, because he maintained, "You cannot be partisan about grief." But being partisan about grief is what sustains our politics. Priyanka Gandhi's visit to the family of a farmer who was mowed down was televised nationwide. She also visited the family of journalist Raman Kashyap, killed in the incident. But she did not visit Shubham's family because the police told her they didn't want to meet her, she claimed. This leader who chose to believe the police – was she the same leader whose fiery confrontation with the UP police when stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri went viral? Priyanka Gandhi could get no one from her party, no journalist from the many openly supportive of her, to check with Shubham's family? At any rate, his family denied having spoken to any policeman about Priyanka's intended visit. Twenty years ago, what stopped Sonia Gandhi, who was leading a team of 18 MPs to Gujarat in the wake of the 2002 violence, from meeting the families of the 59 burnt alive in the Sabarmati Express' S6 coach at Godhra? Forget the Congress president; not even Gujarat's NGOs bothered to inquire about these families. Had they done so, they would have realized that most of those who died were not Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) fanatics but just ordinary Hindus: retirees and housewives for whom the VHP's Ayodhya journey was a tempting opportunity to go on a pilgrimage where all arrangements had been taken care of. As it turned out, because of their boycott by secularists, the VHP remained the only contact through whom I could trace them out even a month after the train was burnt; the only group they could turn to. Yet, even in the presence of VHP members, most of them strongly decried the revenge that was being meted out on Muslims in their name. Leave aside the questionable ethics of seeing victims of mob violence as "our victims, your victims" (to quote Yadav). What about the damage done by such politics? Isn't it clear as day that such one-sided sharing of grief only drives victims into the arms of those claiming to represent them based on their identity alone, who see them as faceless victims whose tragedy must be exploited? Significantly, though then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi used the train burning to justify the anti-Muslim pogrom that followed: "a chain of action and reaction is going on", even he did not visit the families of the Sabarmati victims. Revisiting these families a decade later, I found that the VHP had, after milking the train burning incident to the maximum, abandoned them. This brought to mind the revelation by the Hindus who'd moved out of their Muslim neighbourhood after the Radhabai Chawl incident (in which six Hindus were burnt alive during the Mumbai 92-93 riots): it was Congress MP and alleged "Muslim-lover" Sunil Dutt who'd facilitated their resettlement in a Hindu area nearby. The Shiv Sena, who exploited the Radhabai Chawl incident to organize a "Hindu backlash" against innocent Muslims (as per the Srikrishna Commission Report), only contacted these Hindus when they needed to parade them as "Hindu victims" in front of dignitaries. But who knew? The Sena still claims it "saved Hindus" during the riots; the world still believes this. The Kisan Morcha would never have allowed Yogendra Yadav to visit Shubham's family. Unlike Sunil Dutt's good deed, today's media-driven times will not, fortunately, allow Yadav's brave gesture to remain unknown. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/lakhimpur-kheri-their-victims-our-victims-1044625.html
27-10-2021||Opinion||Headwinds in Jammu and Kashmir likely to continue||One wonders whether Union Home Minister Amit Shah meant a headwind or tailwind when he spoke about the winds of change sweeping Kashmir on his recent visit to Jammu and Kashmir. Several recent instances of deterioration in the ground situation are making the government's Kashmir story less and less believable. An ongoing encounter to hunt down eight terrorists in Poonch, targeted killing of members of the minority community, a pervasive sense of fear in the Valley and questions about administrative corruption raised by the former Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Satyapal Malik make gaping holes in the government's narrative. Nine casualties is an embarrassingly large number for the Indian Army to swallow in what has turned into the longest encounter in J&K - 16 days and counting, in the last 18 years. It is hard to believe the allegations of the security forces that they were directed by a Pakistani under-trial prisoner, Zia Mustafa, who has been in a high-security prison for the last 17 years. Mustafa allegedly died in the crossfire when taken to the encounter site last week to identify the terrorists' hideout. The Pakistan establishment will draw their own conclusions from the Poonch events about the state of India's intelligence network in the area and the preparedness of its armed forces. They will calibrate future militant operations across the Line of Control accordingly. One can also be reasonably sure that there will be a retaliatory tit-for-tat killing of an under-trial Indian prisoner in a Pakistan jail in lieu of Mustafa's death. It is disturbing that the security establishment has been unable to identify the leaders of the shadowy groups calling themselves "The Resistance Front", which claimed responsibility for killing minorities in the Valley or of the "Peoples' Anti-Fascist Front", which has claimed to have killed nine Indian soldiers in Poonch. Without this information, no one can ascertain whether these groups are indigenous or foreigners. Unless clearly identified, Pakistan will be able to make successful propaganda that the violence is the work of local militants. Targeted murder of the Hindu community has led to renewed out-migration, and those who remain, mostly migrant workers, are living inside secure camps. But fear also pervades the majority community, afraid they may be held accountable for the acts of unidentified terrorists. Even politicians are scared, especially those perceived to be close to the Centre, such as members of Sajad Lone's Peoples' Conference or Altaf Bukhari's Apni Party. What has happened for sure is that the Centre's claims that demonetisation and later improved security linked to making the state a Union Territory would end terrorism in J&K no longer hold water. Terrorist activity has persisted, and ordinary citizens have become even more suspicious of the Centre's moves. Further pitting the majority against the minority is the provision made by the Lieutenant Governor's administration to re-open property deals made by Kashmiri Pandits forced to migrate in the 1990s. They can now be classified as "distress sales", and the previous owners can ask for either return of the property or full reimbursement at current prices. Land ownership is already a sensitive issue in J&K, and after the abrogation of Article 35A, it is seen as a mechanism of affecting demographic change in the Valley. Fear of outside settlers has been exacerbated by land allotments to industrialists and entrepreneurs from the rest of India. The government is deploying a 6000-acre existing land bank (15,000 acres have been identified in the Valley alone for the land bank) to woo investors to set up food parks, multiplexes, film production centres, Information Technology Parks, medi-cities, and schools. During Shah's visit to Srinagar, Sajjan Jindal's JSW Steel announced a Rs 150 crore project to manufacture colour-coated steel at Lassipora in Pulwama. Yet another agreement was signed with Dubai on October 18 for investment in infrastructure, including industrial parks, IT Towers, logistics centres, a medical college and a speciality hospital. Many are apprehensive that investors might be crony capitalists of the government who could take the Dubai route to invest in J&K. They are also afraid that such huge investments could deepen institutionalised corruption in the administration where it is said that money changes hands for every posting in the police service above the rank of Deputy Superintendent. Now, Satyapal Malik, a former Governor, has alleged that Kashmir is the most corrupt place in the country. Malik has gone public with two instances where he was offered a bribe of Rs 150 crore each to clear the files. According to him, one involved a project by 'Ambani' (unspecified ) and another was linked to a "senior Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh functionary." Malik is known to have scrapped a plan to allot compulsory insurance of government employees in J&K to Anil Ambani's Reliance General Insurance, criticising the scheme as being "full of frauds". In the other project, without naming names, he said everyone knew "who the RSS in-charge was in J&K." Governor Malik's expose refers to a period when none of the "three dynasties" accused by the Modi government as the fount of all corruption in J&K, was in power. Against a worsening situation on the ground, it is doubtful that the issue of Kashmir can be resolved by Home Minister Amit Shah's offer of talks with the youth and his "Kashmiri brothers and sisters". He has suggested setting up "Youth Clubs" at the panchayat level. He forgot to consult them before bifurcating their state and taking away their special constitutional status. If indeed he now wants to engage more frankly with Kashmiris, then why choose the one-way format of "Mann ki Baat" to meet with elected members of panchayats and district development councils at Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre? Why could no one ask him questions? The political process initiated by Delhi has failed to let down roots. While the public sentiment may not be with the traditional political parties, it is far from aligning with the sponsored politics of Delhi either. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/headwinds-in-jammu-and-kashmir-likely-to-continue-1044677.html
27-10-2021||Opinion||Why India is on the cusp of a virtuous cycle||With new infections on the decline and the pace of vaccinations picking up in India, an economic recovery is slowly underway. The recovery is still uneven and still some distance from becoming durable. However, with benign macro stability risks and strong growth rates, the country is well poised to enter a virtuous cycle like the period between 2003-07. A recent report by Morgan Stanley suggested a virtuous cycle, supported by strong capex and productivity, is taking off in India. "This is a clear inflection in India's macro environment. Rising capex ratios will significantly lift employment prospects and boost income and consumption growth, creating a virtuous cycle," the report said. That the country is on a steady path to economic recovery is evident from a study by rating agency ICRA, which shows half of the indicators recovered above their pre-Covid levels in the second quarter (July-September) of the current financial year. "We think that India's economy is well-positioned and ready for a takeoff in this cycle, given the global macro backdrop as well as supportive policy reforms. The risks to the outlook are more external than domestic and cyclical rather than structural in nature," the Morgan Stanley report said. The report expects GDP growth to be average seven per cent between FY23 and FY26. Exports growth, one of the key drivers for steady economic growth, has been strong and will remain so as policymakers make concerted efforts to improve the business environment, incentivise corporate activity, and attract manufacturing investment. Led by manufacturing, capex to GDP ratios are seen rising six percentage points from FY21 to FY26. One of the key reasons the country is on the cusp of a virtuous cycle is the government's policy, which has shifted from boosting consumption via transfers to boosting growth via investments. "Policymakers have been initiating reforms for a while now, and we believe that the economy is now in a good position to reap the cumulative benefits from past reforms," the note said. The report cited Goods and Service Tax (GST), which was simplified after a clumsy rollout and eased compliance burden on the corporates. The corporate tax rate cut to 25 per cent and the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme where the corporate sector will get a tax benefit amounting to 4-6 per cent of incremental sales over the base year – are seen as the steps towards lifting investment and corporate profitability. India is also benefiting from global supply chain diversification as the PLI scheme helped foreign direct investment in manufacturing pick up. External demand conditions are also expected to remain strong with exports growth strengthening. India, which lost market share since the outbreak of the Covid-19, has started to regain its share. While the government is incentivising private corporate capex, it is also lifting fiscal spending on key infrastructure projects at the same time. The National Infrastructure Pipeline plan initiated by the government released a pipeline of projects in April 2020 and will span across FY 2020-25. "It will lift public and private infrastructure spending to an average 6.6 per cent of annual GDP in the period. As it stands, government spending (by both the Centre and states) has accelerated to a six-year high as of August 2021 on a 12-month trailing sum basis," the report said. Notably, one of the conditions of any economic recovery to sustain is stable macroeconomic indicators. The report says that India's macro stability indicators are in good shape. Consumer price-index-based inflation is expected to stay within the Reserve Bank of India's tolerance zone of 2-6 per cent during the report's forecast horizon. "Cyclical developments will still matter for India's inflation outlook, and a faster pace of recovery will impart upside risks to our forecasts," it said. On the external stability front, the current account deficit is expected to widen to 1.7 per cent of GDP in FY23, but the report says the deficit is likely to stay within the comfort zone, and the overall FDI flows will be able to fund the deficit. "Looking at it from a saving-investment gap perspective, even though we expect a rise in investment to GDP ratios, the productive nature of growth will mean that aggregate saving in the economy will rise too, limiting the widening of the current account deficit," the report said. There is good news from the financial stability front also. After a prolonged rise in non-performing assets in the Indian banking system, bad loans started to slow down after peaking in FY18. The report noted that the Covid-19 shock did not result in bad loans, as feared initially, partly because of weak credit growth. Credit costs are projected to decline to 164 bps for FY2022 and further to 135 bps in the next financial year. The risks to India's growth outlook are more external than domestic and cyclical than structural. For example, the US core PCE inflation significantly rising could lead to the US Fed's disruptive pace of rate hikes. Then, the RBI may have to raise interest rates more quickly than in the base case scenario. A sharp increase in oil prices, driven by the supply side, is yet another risk. "India remains one of the key net importers of oil. Thus, a sharp increase in oil prices driven by the supply side would still pose risks to India's macro outlook," the report said. A slower than expected pace of fiscal consolidation, which could affect inflation dynamics, is yet another risk. If such risks materialise, the RBI would have to tighten to a greater extent, which would, in turn, weigh on the private capex and growth momentum. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-india-is-on-the-cusp-of-a-virtuous-cycle-1044718.html
27-10-2021||Panorama||Will Shivraj Singh Chouhan survive the MP bypolls?||The outcome of the four by-elections, voting for which is on October 30, is being widely seen as crucial for the continuance of Shivraj Singh Chouhan in office.  Barring 15 months of the Congress’ Kamal Nath government-- between December 2018 and March 2020 – Chouhan has been ruling the state since November 30, 2005, and is the longest-serving BJP Chief Minister in the country.  Currently the lone BJP CM from the party’s Vajpayee-Advani era, Chouhan has managed to pull on even as the party high command summarily removed his counterparts in Karnataka, Gujarat and Uttarakhand in recent months. But ever since their ouster in quick succession, the buzz has been growing that Chouhan is next in the firing line. The growing political clout of his rival and state Home Minister Narottam Mishra is evident. Mishra, a close confidante of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, was recently inducted in the BJP’s 80-member national executive. He had played a crucial role as Amit Shah’s pointsman in toppling the Kamal Nath government. Another member nominated from MP in the national executive is Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, who has endeared himself to the BJP high command and RSS. After lying low for a while, Scindia has emerged as a parallel power centre vis-a-vis Chouhan. Arguably, no one seems to be more acutely conscious of his sense of vulnerability than Chouhan himself. The crushing defeat of the BJP in the Damoh by-election by the Congress in May this year is still haunting him. Now, he has pulled out all stops to make sure that the BJP wins all four seats in the coming by-elections. Reputed to be an untiring election campaigner, he has gone the extra mile this time around to woo the voters in the poll-bound seats. The by-polls were necessitated by the death of three MLAs and an MP due to Covid-19. The Khandwa Lok Sabha seat fell vacant with the death of Nand Kumar Singh Chouhan. The Jobat, Prithvipur and Raigaon Assembly seats fell vacant with the death of Congress MLA Kalawati Bhuria, BJP MLA Jugal Kishore Bagri and Congress MLA Brijendra Singh Rathore, respectively. Flush with funds and assured of full support from the government machinery, the ruling party was far ahead of the Congress in terms of resources — both financial and human — as campaigning ended on October 27. Chouhan announced a plethora of development projects for the poll-bound seats in the last two months. Even after the polling date was announced, he did not stop promising bonanzas. His announcements of Rs 20,000-crore subsidies on electricity for farmers and door-to-door free food grains distribution in tribal blocks came after the model code of conduct had kicked in. The Congress lodged several complaints of alleged violation of the code with the Election Commission, but to no avail. Former CM Kamal Nath has accused the Election Commission of dancing to the BJP’s tune. Like the previous two rounds of by-elections — for 24 seats in November last year and for Damoh Assembly seat in May this year — the electioneering  this time turned into a personal slugfest between Chouhan and Kamal Nath. In election meetings, the CM justified toppling the Congress government in March last year, alleging that Kamal Nath had reduced the state secretariat into a den of corruption. The former CM played the victim card, repeatedly reminding the electorate that the BJP conspired with “purchasable” Congress MLAs to topple his government. The BJP had an obvious advantage of organisational strength and government machinery fully backing the party. It deployed half of the cabinet members, along with its office bearers, in the constituencies to take care of the material needs of the campaign from the day the polling date was announced.  The Congress sorely lagged behind the ruling party in resources. However, the Congress has shown more astuteness in candidate selection than the BJP. For Jobat seat, the BJP could not find a winnable candidate from its cadres and so had to field Congress defector Sulochna Rawat. A three-time Congress MLA, she joined the BJP barely a week ahead of the filing of nomination papers. In Prithvipur seat, the BJP roped in a turncoat from Samajwadi Party. In Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, the denial of ticket to Harsh Singh, son of the five-time MP from the seat late Nand Kumar Singh Chouhan, fuelled speculation of a massive sabotage by the Thakurs, whose support has been decisive in the BJP’s victory in the past. To control possible damage, the party brought in Congress MLA Sachin Birla last week. Birla, a prominent Gujjar leader, had won on the Congress ticket from Badwah seat, one of the Assembly segments in the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat.  The month-long electioneering saw the CM hopping from one election rally to another, attacking Kamal Nath, painting a rosy picture of the state, and promising El Dorado to the electorate. However, Chouhan evaded responding to Kamal Nath’s repeated demand to give an account of the achievements in the 17 years of BJP rule. The Congress leader asked in election meetings that if Chouhan’s performance was indeed so spectacular as the chief minister claims, why did the voters reject his party in the 2018 Assembly election? The revolt by Jyotiraditya Scindia and his 19 MLAs had made it possible for Chouhan to return to the post for a record fourth time in March 2020. Since then, he has been skating on thin ice. It is widely believed that the BJP high command had to hastily anoint him chief minister for want of time to look for a more favourable alternative amid an outbreak of Covid-19. Chouhan was elected a day before the Prime Minister declared the national lockdown on March 24, 2020. But will he survive the coming by-elections is the question all Madhya Pradesh is asking. (The writer is a senior journalist based in Bhopal)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/will-shivraj-singh-chouhan-survive-the-mp-bypolls-1044828.html
27-10-2021||Panorama||Getting dung on India's climate agenda||As the goal to attain 'net zero' emissions by 2050 gains global currency, climate change mitigation by trapping excess carbon dioxide in the atmosphere gains an added significance. That the soil holds three times more carbon than the atmosphere has been scientifically validated. However, unchecked soil degradation has left this potential far from being fully realised. Maintaining the capacity of the soil to act as a functional carbon sink needs to be done in tandem with the goal of emission reduction. As a milch country, has the country valued cattle dung to gain the desired global attention? As a replenishable biological resource, dung holds soil particles together for making the landmass act like a veritable carbon sink while keeping the soil moist and productive. With 5 million tonnes of dung on offer on a daily basis, India holds rare credentials to bring dung on the global climate agenda. While its climate-friendly credentials of trapping soil carbon are only beginning to be realised, dung has add-on benefits of being antibacterial and antifungal, with recently developed thermally-insulating paint made out of it being the latest addition to its list of virtues. Little has been done to salvage dung that lies splintered on roads with cows foraging from the roadside dust bins. Considered an economic resource of immense cultural value, its colossal neglect has yet to catch the attention it deserves. Nothing could be more curious than such an abandonment of a resource that comes virtually free. Even the National Biogas Program, launched in 1981, to convert dung into cooking gas has done pretty little to uplift dung's sagging image as a valuable resource. Dung is a deceptively simple raw material that has shown immense conversion value. Its nutritive worth for crops and energy value as fuel runs into billions of rupees, worthy of making the market go bullish. However, dung littered on the streets provides a grim example of how its tangible aspects as a source with multiple benefits have failed to garner political attention. Political philosopher Jeremy Waldron may have been referring to dung when he said 'things are not quite as they seem'. No surprise, therefore, people have learnt to live with dung which is unceremoniously scattered almost everywhere. While its ritual significance amidst diverse cultural traditions is discerning, dung plastered as cakes on village walls and as dung-pyramids dotting the landscape presents a different story. However, a milk-nation has paid scant attention to dung. The question begging attention is: Despite many virtues, why have good ideas about dung lacked systematic promotion? The only exception was when noted economist E F Schumacher had pulled it out from the near abyss in the '80s by advising the government to get gas and manure out of it, through what became known as biogas. In forty years that have gone by, not only has the ambitious program of building 12 million biogas units fallen short of the target by over 70%, but also has more dysfunctional and defunct units to its credit. It may read like a fairy tale on unsuccessful attempts at quietude but dung has continued to act as a periscope of ideas to tease creative minds. Interestingly, like most bakery products, sun-baked dung cakes can now be ordered online. There is an energy and manure value in dung cakes! Perhaps, more attractive is the recent proposal by the Chhattisgarh government to buy dung for Rs 2 per kilo at farmers' doorsteps. The country needs to value its dung from a climate perspective, incentivising its distribution to enriching soils can be a national program. Given the climatic urgency, there can be little denying that the country needs to be both empathetic and prepared to bring dung on the climatic agenda. Unless we alert ourselves from being lout in our dealing with dung, it will remain neglected both as a resource as well as an idea,||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/getting-dung-on-indias-climate-agenda-1044832.html
27-10-2021||Right in the Middle||Honouring 'Your Honour'||Losing a parent is one of the worst things that can happen. Those last moments where you stand watching helplessly as the last signs of life leave. The person who bids adieu is at peace experiencing the pleasures of heavenly peace but for those of us bystanders in this life’s journey, it is a void that can never be replaced. I lost my dad a few weeks ago. It is something I cannot explain. Why God? Is a question that immediately pops up. Then the furious preparations for the final adieu. My spouse and my daughter were our strength. Seeing to every detail and seeing that everything was done to precision a quality I admire in my husband who leaves no stone unturned. Coming home after all the formalities was another chapter. We talked late into the night about father. He retired from the judiciary as a District and Sessions Judge and the president of the District consumer forum. He was one of the first four to be offered the chair of the first ever consumer forums when they were introduced at the divisional levels of the state. A brilliant student and sportsman in his school days, he saw a double promotion, representing sports, tennis being his favourite, debating, elocution and the works. While math and physics were his forte, English and Shakespeare were his favourite. He was a morally upright judge. The lawyers who lost their cases solemnly said they were Privy Council judgements. Compassion, honesty, simplicity and humility were his lifestyle. He was a quiet man, intelligently witty and totally unassuming. A devoted husband, his nephew once asked him, "Uncle, don’t you like going to hotels?" "Why should I?" he quipped. "When I have married the best cook." A doting father and grandfather and a best friend for life. We feel his presence more than ever. Tears don’t trickle down anymore, there’s only a inexplainable peace he has left behind. Quietly conversing with him has now become a way of life. Asking him for favours is what my mother does, all the time. "I want to do Law" was what our daughter told us in her eight grade. I was quietly elated but did not express it. The determination to learn law continued. Now well into her second year in one of the top Law schools in the country she is the chosen one, the apple of his eye, to continue a grand legacy, one of compassion, honesty, simplicity and humility. The song has ended but the melody lingers on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/honouring-your-honour-1044831.html
27-10-2021||Second Edit||Attack on Shami a national shame||The online attack on bowler Mohammed Shami in the wake of India’s T20 Cricket World Cup loss to Pakistan last Sunday is of a piece with the trend of targeting Muslims for everything that goes wrong in the country. In fact, they are sometimes targeted even when right and good things happen, the argument then being that things went well in spite of them. Shami was trolled and abused not because his performance in the match was below par but because he is a Muslim. The entire team performed below par, with other bowlers and batters too failing as much as Shami to put up a fight. But others did not have to face the vicious attack that Shami was subjected to. He was called a traitor and was told to go to Pakistan, and it was also suggested that he had taken money to lose to Pakistan. The entire country should be ashamed of such a response, which shows how pernicious is the malaise that has affected society and how deep the rot has gone. The communal poison that has infected it is influencing its attitudes and responses and judgement of people and events in all fields of life. It is often argued that only some individuals are seen to be openly malicious and indulge in such tirades and the entire society should not be blamed for them. While this is true, it is also a fact that such campaigns are becoming more toxic now and more frequent and widespread than in the past. Hatred, divisiveness and hostilities are so much promoted that everything is seen through the prism of caste, community and religion. The attack on Shami was not an isolated event. There were also reports of attacks on Kashmiri students after India lost the match. It should also be noted that neither the Indian cricket team nor the BCCI came out strongly and clearly in support of Shami or condemned the attack on him. All the players have social media accounts with a large following. No-one criticised the targeting of Shami and expressed their solidarity with him. BCCI is a public institution which has the responsibility to support its players in such situations. This was when the BCCI and the team supported the ICC’s call to protest against racism by taking the knee. A number of former players expressed their support for Shami, but they too avoided the fact that he was targeted for being Muslim. It is unfortunate that the response from the sports community did not recognise the problem for what is, and there is a lack of moral and political courage in this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/attack-on-shami-a-national-shame-1044825.html
27-10-2021||South||Schools in Puducherry to reopen on November 8 for classes 1 to 8||Puducherry Education Minister A Namassivayam on Wednesday announced here that all government and privately managed schools in the union territory and its outlying regions of Karaikal and Yanam would reopen on November 8 to conduct physical classes for students of grade 1 to 8. The Minister told reporters after holding discussions with officials of the Education department that with the incidence of Covid019 cases having come down in the Union Territory, it was decided to allow in-person classes in schools for grade one to eight students. Already classes for 9 to 12 have been conducted from September 1. Namassivayam said all necessary standard operating procedures and adherence to Covid protocols would be ensured. He also clarified that attendance was not compulsory and parents' permission to send the children to schools would also be ensured. While schools in urban areas would function from 9 am to 1 pm, those in rural areas would function from 9.30 am to 1 pm. Schools would work for six days -- Monday to Saturday. The midday meal school scheme would be held in abeyance and institutions would function for half a day only. Free transport services for students would be available as in the past. Noting that 95 per cent of teachers have been vaccinated, he said the remaining staff would get the jabs in the next few days. Students of classes 1, 3, 5, and 7 would have classes on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays while the students of grades 2, 4, 6, and 8 would have classes on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. As attendance was not compulsory, children who do not turn up for physical classes would have online classes. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-in-puducherry-to-reopen-on-november-8-for-classes-1-to-8-1044669.html
27-10-2021||South||Kerala to submit Rs 2,000 cr expatriate rehabilitation package to Centre||As 12.5 lakh Malayali NRIs returned to Kerala citing job losses during Covid-19, the Kerala government is set to propose a Rs 2,000 crore rehabilitation package for returnees to the Centre, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed the state Assembly on Wednesday. Replying to a calling attention motion in the house, Vijayan said that the state government has already extended assistance like loans for entrepreneurship at subsidised rates to NRIs who returned during Covid-19. A total of 1.33 lakh returnees were given financial assistance of Rs 5,000 each. Around 17.5 lakh Malayali NRIs returned by registering on Covid Jagratha portal of the state of which 12.67 lakh had cited job loss as the reason and many of them have already returned. "In addition to the various schemes implemented by the state government, a detailed Rs 2000 crore-worth proposal will be submitted to the Centre soon for the implementation of a comprehensive rehabilitation package for the expatriates," Vijayan said. However, as per the information received from the Airport Authority of India, a total of 39,55,230 passengers travelled abroad through the state airports between May, 2020 and October 2021, he said.  (With PTI inputs) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-submit-rs-2000-cr-expatriate-rehabilitation-package-to-centre-1044682.html
27-10-2021||South||TDP trying to enter into an alliance with BJP: YSR Cong leader Vijayasai Reddy||The political war between the YSR Congress and TDP in Andhra Pradesh is turning murkier with the YS Jaganmohan Reddy-led party on Wednesday calling its rival a "terrorist organisation" and claiming that it is trying to enter into an alliance with the BJP. The fresh charges came as TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind to dismiss the Jaganmohan government following attacks on his party offices besides alleging that the dispensation was protecting drug mafia in the state. YSR Congress Rajya Sabha leader V Vijayasai Reddy told a press conference that the TDP has not won a single election since 2019 when the Jagan Mohan government assumed power, which indicates that TDP losing sympathy and confidence of people. "Naidu is the most selfish leader. He committed mistakes in Andhra and so he came to Delhi. Abusive language was used by party leaders against the Chief Minister. Naidu came to Delhi to explain these," Reddy said while demanding that a law should be enacted to punish those who use abusive language against Constitutional authorities. Asked whether the YSR Congress is rattled by the TDP's attempt to cosy up with the BJP, Reddy answered in the negative, saying Naidu is "trying to align" with the BJP and he has "reliably learnt" that it has offered 13 out of 25 Lok Sabha seats to the saffron party while retaining the majority of the seats with it. "This was a formula which (former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and then AIADMK supremo) M G Ramachanran had employed in Tamil Nadu. Knowing Naidu, the question is whether the BJP is in a position to believe Naidu or not," he said. "We are not rattled. Our vote-share has increased from 51 per cent after the Lok Sabha polls. Even if TDP, BJP and Janasena come together, it won't make any difference. We are sure that we will win the 2024 polls also," he said. TDP had walked out of the NDA and joined hands with the Opposition in 2018 after the demand for special status for Andhra Pradesh was ruled out. It even contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the Congress but later moved away from the Opposition camp. Queried whether the YSR Congress has off-late started on an attack mode on the BJP, Reddy said Jaganmohan had made it clear that it would give "issue-based" support to the NDA but refused to join the Cabinet and continue to adhere to it. "Why should we regret?" he retorted when asked whether YSR Congress regretted not joining the Modi government against the backdrop of TDP's efforts to align with the BJP. Reddy also said the TDP chief was going against the wishes of NT Rama Rao, the founder of the party who always took a stand against using Article 356 of the Constitution, by demanding the dismissal of the government. While emphasising that he would not justify the attacks on TDP offices, Reddy claimed the attacks were a "spontaneous reaction" of YSR Congress sympathisers and supporters who were agitated against the abuses hurled at Jaganmohan. "Naidu is the biggest terrorist leader...I don't have any hesitation in calling TDP a terrorist organisation in Andhra Pradesh and Naidu is leading it. The successor of this terrorist outfit is Lokesh (son of Naidu)," he alleged. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-trying-to-enter-into-an-alliance-with-bjp-ysr-cong-leader-vijayasai-reddy-1044715.html
27-10-2021||South||Nature's fury fuels protests against Kerala's high-speed rail, Sabarimala airport projects||The back-to-back calamities in Kerala are fueling the protests and resentment against major infrastructure projects in the state, such as the high-speed rail line and the Sabarimala airport. Apart from the ecological issues posed by the proposed constructions, concerns are also being raised over the requirement of construction materials like rocks in large quantities. The viability of the projects and huge financial burden on the cash-strapped exchequer are the other concerns raised by those opposing the much-hyped projects of the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front. On Wednesday, hundreds of people participated in a protest march in front of the government Secretariat against the high-speed rail project. Apart from those who fear of losing land, activists, religious heads and leaders of the Congress and BJP joined the protest. The 530-kilometre long semi high-speed rail line project from Thiruvananthapuram in the South to Kasargod in the North, named as Silver Line, is being projected not just as a high-speed travel option, but also as an eco-friendly alternative to the congested rail and road networks. The travel time from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasargod, which is around ten hours by rail and road now, could be reduced to around four hours with the proposed line. The major resistance against the project is with regard to exploitation of nature. The railway line, with protective wall on either sides, would literally separate the state into two and would affect natural water flow, says environmentalists. Rights activist C R Neelakantan said that as per data available from the detailed project report around 75 lakh loads of rocks and almost same quantity of sand would be required for the project. Hence, it would only lead to massive quarrying activities, he pointed out. While the project's estimated cost is Rs 64,000 crore and foreign funding was also being explored, Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that the actual cost would be manifold higher and the state would fall into a debt trap. Even as the Central nod for the project was still pending, the state government was going ahead with preliminary measures of land acquisition, said S Rajeevan, general convener of the action council against the project. Resistance against the Sabarimala airport project is also gaining further momentum in view of the recent floods and landslides as the proposed project site Cheruvally estate is close to the recent flood and landslide-hit Mundakkayam and Koottickkal areas of Kottayam district. Neelakantan said that the state government should seriously rethink whether such major projects that were not even viable should be taken forward at the cost of the ecosystem. He also said that there was no requirement for an airport at Sabarimala as Sabarimala Ayyappa temple pilgrimage was only a two-month-long affair. Moreover, the proposed land is also caught up in a legal tangle. Political parties, rights forums, religious heads and people fearing displacement over the projects allege that vested commercial interests were the key driving forces of these 'unviable' projects. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/natures-fury-fuels-protests-against-keralas-high-speed-rail-sabarimala-airport-projects-1044749.html
27-10-2021||South||Minor in Kerala delivers at home with help of YouTube videos||A 17-year-old girl in Kottakkal in Kerala's Malappuram delivered a child in her house on October 20 reportedly without the help or knowledge of any others but only by watching videos on deliveries on YouTube. The incident came to light as the girl sought medical aid after an infection developed during the delivery. The hospital then intimated child protection and police authorities and a youth in the neighbourhood was subsequently arrested on charges of raping and impregnating the minor girl. As per the girl's statement, the youth was arrested under POCSO Act and remanded to judicial custody. The girl's parents were said to be unaware of the pregnancy and the delivery. The girl's mother had vision ailments, said sources. The girl and child were out of complications after treatment. It may be recalled that a report published by the Kerala government's economic and statistics department in 2019 had revealed that 22,552 women in the 15-19 age group delivered in the state during 2017. The state government had also initiated various measures to curb child marriages. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minor-in-kerala-delivers-at-home-with-help-of-youtube-videos-1044769.html
27-10-2021||State||Kannada love: 5 lakh to sing on October 28 in Karnataka||Five lakh singers will simultaneously render three popular songs at iconic places and tourist attractions in Karnataka on October 28 as part of the state government's Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations. The Kannada and Culture department is gearing up for the unique feat by coordinating with all the 31 district administrations and private organisations. Overseas Kannada associations will also take part in the event.  Kannada and Culture minister V Sunil Kumar told reporters that all preparations have been done. "It is not just singers but any citizen can join and sing the songs. This is not a government programme but a people's event. As per the plan, more than five lakh singers will take part in the event in more than 1,000 places. The rendition of songs across Karnataka will begin at 11 am," said Kumar. The government has chosen 'Baarisu Kannada Dindimava' penned by Rashtrakavi Kuvempu, 'Jogada Siri Belakinalli' by Dr KS Nissar Ahmed and music director Hamsalekha's 'Huttidare Kannada Nadalli Huttabeku' for the programme. In Bengaluru, the event will take place at Vidhana Soudha and see the participation of CM Basavaraj Bommai, minister Sunil Kumar, chief secretary and other bureaucrats. People will sing the songs at bus, railway stations and airports at Bengaluru, Mangaluru and Hubballi. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kannada-love-5-lakh-to-sing-on-october-28-in-karnataka-1044551.html
27-10-2021||State||Karnataka government directs its temples to conduct cow-worship on 'Govardhan Puja'||The Karnataka Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department has directed temples under its control to conduct cow-worship on 'Govardhan Puja' on November 5 the day after Deepavali, a Minister said. "I wholeheartedly welcome State @BJP4Karnataka Government’s order directing Muzrai department to conduct Gau Puja in all the Muzrai temples on Balipadyami Day as part of Deepavali celebrations," Karnataka Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries Murugesh Nirani tweeted on Wednesday. He said, "A cow is a sacred animal and an integral part of our culture." The day after Deepavali is celebrated in most parts of the country as Govardhan Puja where livestock is bathed, decorated and cows are worshipped. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-government-directs-its-temples-to-conduct-cow-worship-on-govardhan-puja-1044743.html
27-10-2021||State||Nodal officer for Covid-appropriate behaviour at public offices in Karnataka||Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar on Wednesday ordered all public offices to appoint a nodal officer for the enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour. The nodal officers will “enforce and ensure” compliance by officials/staff and visitors during working hours. Kumar has warned of action for non-compliance. The state is witnessing a downward trend in daily Covid cases and to sustain the gains, it is essential to ensure compliance by officers, staff members and visitors at public offices, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nodal-officer-for-covid-appropriate-behaviour-at-public-offices-in-karnataka-1044800.html
27-10-2021||State||Mysuru Zoo gets orangutans||Now visitors to the ‘City of Palaces’ have one more reason to visit the Mysuru zoo as two pairs of orangutans brought from Singapore and Malaysia have been kept for the public. These orangutans were brought to Mysuru in August but the public can only see them from Wednesday. Bank Note Paper Mill India, Mysuru (BNPM) funded an enclosure for the animals with Rs 70 lakh funds under its corporate social responsibility initiative. BNPM Chairperson Tripti Patra Ghosh inaugurated it. Zoo Authority of Karnataka Chairperson Mahadevaswamy, Member Secretary B P Ravi, Mysuru Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni and the officials of BNPM were present. The orangutans were brought under an animal exchange scheme. While Merlin, the 17-year-old male and Atina, the 13-year-old female were brought from Singapore, Afa, a five-year-old male and Minnie, a 7-year-old female, were brought from Malaysia. Kulkarni said the Mysuru zoo has got two gorillas and they would be kept for public viewing soon. An enclosure is under construction and Infosys foundation is the funding agency for the enclosure. The animals will be put for public viewing once the works are completed, he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-zoo-gets-orangutans-1044848.html
27-10-2021||State||Curtains come down on Hangal public campaign||The public campaign for bypoll to Hangal Assembly constituency came to an end at 7 pm on Wednesday.  Both Congress and BJP hit the roads on the last day of public campaign to woo voters. Saffron and Congress flags adorned most of the roads in Hangal town.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai conducted roadshows in Masanaktte, Kudala, Naregalla and other villages of Hangal Assembly segment. The party took a road show in the town from Kumareshwar Virakta Mutt. Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, Ministers Govind Karjol, B C Patil, Dr K Sudhakar, Munirathna, Lok Sabha member Shivakumar Udasi, BJP candidate Shivaraj Sajjanar took part in the road show. A host of Congress leaders participated in the massive public meeting organised at the taluk stadium in Hangal. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, MLA Dr G Parameshwar, KPCC working president Salim Ahmed, party candidate Srinivas Mane were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/curtains-come-down-on-hangal-public-campaign-1044850.html
27-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka now has 7 cases of AY.4.2 Covid-19 variant; 3 reported from Bengaluru today||The number of Delta AY.4.2 variant of coronavirus, which is spreading rapidly in some foreign countries, has increased to seven in Karnataka with three more people found to be infected with it in the Bengaluru. Speaking to reporters here, State Health and Family Welfare Commissioner D Randeep said, "There are seven cases (of AY.4.2) in the state -- three in Bengaluru and four in different parts of the state." Maintaining that the Covid-19 cases are under control in the state, Randeep said the government is making a negative RT-PCR test report, obtained 72 hours before arrival, mandatory for those coming from abroad to the state. "The test report has to be uploaded on a portal called Air Suvidha. Other than that, there is no restrictions like quarantining people," Randeep clarified. He further said the Centre and the state will initiate certains measures to check the super-spreader variant of Covid-19, which has spread in some foreign countries. There are no reports of deaths due to the new variant but one or two people have been hospitalised, he added.  Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-now-has-7-cases-of-ay42-covid-19-variant-3-reported-from-bengaluru-today-1044629.html
27-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Good news for govt employees as Karnataka hikes dearness allowance||In a Deepavali gift, the Karnataka government ordered a hike in dearness allowance (DA) for its employees on Wednesday, the second such increase in this financial year.  The DA of government employees will now be 24.5 per cent of their basic pay, up from 21.5 per cent, a hike of three percentage points, according to an order issued by the Finance Department.  The DA hike will come into effect retrospectively from July 1.  Even pensioners will benefit from this hike.  According to the order, the DA hike will apply to “full-time government employees, employees of Zilla Panchayats, work-charged employees on regular time scales of pay, full-time employees of aided educational institutions and universities who are on regular time scales of pay.”  The order is also applicable to current and former employees on UGC/AICTE/ACAR scales of pay, the Finance Department said.  The hike would benefit as many as six lakh employees, aside from 4.5 lakh pensioners. The fresh order comes months after the previous B S Yediyurappa government hiked DA for employees by 10.25 percentage points, from 11.25 per cent of the basic pay to 21.5 per cent. The order was issued on July 26, the day Yediyurappa resigned as chief minister, making it a parting gift of sorts.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/good-news-for-govt-employees-as-karnataka-hikes-dearness-allowance-1044688.html
27-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 7 Delta Plus cases reported in Karnataka||Karnataka currently has seven cases of Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus, including two AY.4.2 in Bengaluru, a senior official said on Wednesday. Three such cases are reported in Bengaluru and the remaining four in different parts of the state, State Health and Family Welfare Commissioner D Randeep told PTI. There are no reports of deaths due to the new variant but, one or two people have been hospitalised, he said. Meanwhile, in its latest guidelines for international arrivals, the Karnataka government has said all travelers should have negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report. This test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey. "The test report has to be uploaded on a portal called Air Suvidha. Other than that there are no restrictions like quarantining people," Randeep said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-7-delta-plus-cases-reported-in-karnataka-1044712.html
27-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Online gaming ban: Karnataka HC to hear prayer for interim relief||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday heard submissions in a batch of petitions challenging the amendment to the Karnataka Police Act banning online games of skill being played forstakes. Justice Krishna S Dixit adjourned the hearing to Thursday, indicating that the court will consider the prayer for interim relief. During the hearing, the court initially indicated that the matter may be heard in entirety instead of the prayer for interim relief. It asked whether the police are prepared not to take any coercive action by registering FIRs under the amended provisions. However, Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi submitted that such a blanket interim order may hamper the registration of offences related to betting in cricket matches. The state government by amending the Karnataka Police Act, 1963, prohibited and criminalised the playing of games of skill, including online games, by risking money or otherwise. All India Gaming Federation and others have challenged the legislation claiming that games such as poker, chess, rummy, fantasy sports are all games of skill and various court orders have categorically differentiated games of chance and games of skill. Senior advocate Abhishek Singhvi, appearing for Rummy Federation, submitted that the new legislation includes games of skill, despite the fact that Supreme Court judgments and two high court verdicts, including the recent Madras high court and Kerala high court orders, clearly held against such a proposition. The Amending Act was passed by the Karnataka Legislative Assembly on 21 September 21, 2021. Thereafter, the Governor of Karnataka gave his assent on October 4, 2021, and it was notified and brought into force on October 5, 2021.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/online-gaming-ban-karnataka-hc-to-hear-prayer-for-interim-relief-1044795.html
27-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sans fellowship, OBC students of PhD struggle to make ends meet||Thousands of students belonging to other backward communities (OBC) pursuing PhD at various universities in Karnataka are struggling to continue their research as they have not received monthly fellowship from the government for the last three months. The department of social welfare has not even invited applications from candidates to distribute this fellowship and this is causing inconvenience for students to continue research activities. These students are entitled to a monthly fellowship of Rs 10,000. In fact, some of the universities, including Bangalore University (BU), have mentioned during the PhD admission notification this year that, “the fellowship will not be given to OBC students”. Speaking to DH, some of the students said, “This is not just a problem of students in Bangalore University. None of the OBC students pursuing PhD courses in state-run universities have received fellowship this year.” Amount reduced “Even the fellowship for SC/ST students was reduced from Rs 25,000 to Rs 10,000. Following protests from students, BU withdrew the decision and retained the earlier amount,” said another student. Students said they need to go out for field work and it has become difficult for them to manage the expenses. “Due to the pandemic, even our families are in a financial crisis and we are struggling to manage fuel costs and even food expenses,” said a student who is awaiting fellowship. “It has become our daily routine to check the students’ scholarship portal, looking for the fellowship application,” said another student. Naveen (name changed), a PhD student of BU, said, “A majority of us quit jobs to join PhD programme and are dependent on the fellowship. The officials concerned should understand this as we do not have any other source of income.” No funds allocated Officials of the social welfare department told DH that funds have not been allocated by the government. “We have written to the government about it. Unless the funds are released from the government, we cannot proceed further,” said an official. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sans-fellowship-obc-students-of-phd-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-1044796.html
27-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Higher Education dept signs MoU with Infosys||The Karnataka Department of Collegiate and Technical Education has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Infosys under the ‘Help Educate’ programme to provide training for students and faculties of the state government colleges. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan signed the MoU here on Wednesday. He said it would benefit around 5 lakh students and faculties every year by facilitating blended learning. “The MoU includes three components of providing access to Infosys Springboard (a CSR arm of the company) which has 4,900 plus courses and 1.6 lakh learning resources, providing faculty development programme and supporting the government in setting up digital infrastructure by donating 15,000 debonded computers,” said the minister. As explained by the minister, Infosys Springboard is a digital platform developed at a cost of Rs 35 crore, aimed at multiple digital skills with life skills.  The Rotary has extended support to transport and install computers at the designated colleges and will also provide operating system and the required software for the computers. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-higher-education-dept-signs-mou-with-infosys-1044798.html
27-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah remotely controlled by Delhi family, says Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that people are his remote control while Congress leader Siddaramaiah is remotely controlled by a family in New Delhi. Hitting back at Siddaramaiah’s “remote control” chief minister jibe, Bommai said that his remote was with the people of the state. He was speaking at a mega road show organised by the BJP in Hangal on Wednesday, in the run up to the byelection.  Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, who spoke on the occasion, described Congress a sinking ship. Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol said that Siddaramaiah claims credit for Anna Bhagya scheme. “But, only the gunny bag (of the rice) is of Siddaramaiah. The rice in the bag is of Prime Minister Modi,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-remotely-controlled-by-delhi-family-says-karnataka-cm-bommai-1044808.html
27-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Claims under PMJAY received for 42% Covid deaths in Karnataka||Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST), the independent agency that implements the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) scheme has so far received 15,780 claims under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY), which accounts for 41.48% of Covid patients who died in the state. In all, 38,037 Covid deaths have been reported so far in the state's official daily bulletins. While 4,682 claims were of people who succumbed to the virus in a government set-up, 11,098 claims were by people who died in private hospitals.  PMJAY primarily covers BPL (below poverty line) patients (up to Rs 5 lakh per year). If an individual is uninsured, it covers 30% of the package rates (up to Rs. 1.5 lakh per family per year) for APL (above poverty line) families. So far, 2,75,707 Covid patients have taken treatment under PMJAY, out of the 29,86,835 who got sick due to Covid in the state. Many of these were home-isolated or isolated at Covid care centres. Only those who were hospitalised can raise claims under PMJAY. "The number of beneficiaries who got AB-ArK benefits for Covid treatment are far fewer than those who are eligible and in need, because many people find availing the scheme difficult in rural hospitals. Secondly, there is limited systemic support to help BPL patients to benefit from AB-ArK," Dr Prashant N S, assistant director (research) and faculty, Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, said.  Prashant has been working with the adivasi community in Chamarajnagar district since 2014, after his first stint as a doctor from 2003 to 2008 in the same district. "For instance, tribal patients who travel by bus from BR Hills to the Chamarajanagar district hospital, a distance of 44 km, are asked for BPL/ration cards which they don't carry or a referral letter from the taluk hospital. The process is long drawn and the poor are not educated enough to approach the officials concerned. If the ration card doesn't mention the name of the son (beneficiary), for example, they are asked to approach the panchayat development officer. There are many such instances," he said. SAST executive director N T Abroo told DH, "The question of producing a BPL card doesn't arise, as once tested Covid positive, a bed is offered to a patient. The scheme was open for Covid patients from BPL, APL, migrant families and other state returnees who do not have any card or documentation. Quite a large number of beds were reserved for walk-in patients who do not have mobile phones, in government hospitals. Triaging was done well, especially in the second Covid wave."  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/claims-under-pmjay-received-for-42-covid-deaths-in-karnataka-1044842.html
27-10-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||9 Karnataka districts report zero Covid cases||Nine districts in Karnataka reported zero Covid infections while 17 districts had cases in single digits on Wednesday. The state added 282 fresh cases and 13 deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 29,86,835 and 38,037. Bagalkot, Bidar, Chamarajanagar, Gadag, Haveri, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Vijayapura and Yadgir reported zero infections and zero Covid-19 related deaths. The day also saw 349 people being discharged, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,40,339. Active cases stood at 8,430. Bangalore Urban accounted for the maximum number of 142 new cases and six deaths. Other districts too reported fresh cases, including 31 in Kodagu, 28 in Dakshina Kannada and 18 each in Mysuru and Hassan. Three deaths were reported from Dakshina Kannada, two in Mysuru and one each in Hassan and Tumakuru. The positivity rate for the day was 0.24% and the case fatality rate 4.6%.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/9-karnataka-districts-report-zero-covid-cases-1044844.html
27-10-2021||West||Mumbai police record statement of witness Sail over his allegation of extortion bid in Aryan Khan case||Mumbai Police recorded the statement of independent witness Prabhakar Sail for over eight hours in connection with his allegation of an extortion attempt by NCB officials in the drugs seizure case involving Aryan Khan, an official said on Wednesday. Sail appeared before the city police on Tuesday evening and the process of recording his statement was completed at around 3 am on Wednesday, he said. After recording his statement, Sail left the office of Assistant Commissioner of Police, Azad Maidan, early on Wednesday, the official said. He has been provided protection by the city police in the wake of revelations he made in his application, the official said. On Tuesday, Sail's lawyer Tushar Khandare claimed that his client was "misused" during the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month during which drugs were allegedly seized and Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, was arrested. The city police on Tuesday said they received four applications alleging extortion by NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede and other officials, and have launched an enquiry to verify these claims. One of the applications was sent by Sail, who had alleged that he overheard K P Gosavi, another witness in the cruise ship raid case, talking to one Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of Rs 25 crore including Rs 8 crore for Sameer Wankhede, police said. Wankhede, the IRS officer who visited the NCB office in Delhi on Tuesday, has denied the allegations. A police official earlier said they will verify claims made by Sail. Police teams are also verifying locations of mobile phone numbers as well as CCTV footages of various places mentioned in Sail's application, he had said, adding that appropriate action will be taken after the enquiry. The Mumbai Police have also received two applications against Maharashtra cabinet minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik an official earlier said without elaborating. Malik has raised a string of allegations against Sameer Wankhede and also accused him of illegal phone tapping and forging his documents to secure job. Sail on Tuesday said he stood by his allegation of extortion demand against Wankhede and others, and nobody had tutored him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-record-statement-of-witness-sail-over-his-allegation-of-extortion-bid-in-aryan-khan-case-1044574.html
27-10-2021||West||With 'nikah nama', Nawab Malik intensifies attack against Sameer Wankhede||Carrying out yet another exposé against NCB’s Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede, Maharashtra Minority Affairs Minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik on Wednesday shared a copy of the ‘nikah nama’ of his first marriage with Dr Shabana Qureshi and related photos. “This is the 'nikah nama' of the first marriage of 'Sameer Dawood Wankhede' with Dr Shabana Quraishi,” Malik tweeted. I want to make it clear that the issue i am exposing of Sameer Dawood Wankhede is not about his religion.I want to bring to light the fraudulent means by which he has obtained a caste certificate to get an IRS job and has deprived a deserving Scheduled Caste person of his future “Photo of a sweet couple Sameer Dawood Wankhede and Dr. Shabana Qureshi,” he said in another post on Twitter. Malik said that he wants to expose the officer who has entered the IRS with the help of a fake caste certificate. “I want to make it clear that the issue I am exposing of Sameer Dawood Wankhede is not about his religion. I want to bring to light the fraudulent means by which he has obtained a caste certificate to get an IRS job and has deprived a deserving Scheduled Caste person of his future,” he said. The development comes a day after Wankhede’s second wife Kranti Redkar, a Marathi actress and sister Yasmeen Wankhede, a lawyer and activist, denied the officer was a Muslim and used a fake caste certificate to enter the civil services. Wankhede’s father Dnyandev Wankhede, who has retired as a senior police inspector of State Excise, had said: "I am Dnyandev Wankhede...I am not Dawood Wankhede…I am a Hindu, my late wife Zaheeda was a Muslim...my son is serving the motherland with devotion and integrity.” On the other hand, Wankhede himself too had earlier issued a denial. “My father is a Hindu and my mother late Zaheeda was a Muslim…I belong to a composite, multi-religious and secular family in true Indian tradition and I am proud of my heritage…I married Dr Shabhana Qureshi in 2006 in a civil marriage ceremony under the Special Marriage Act, 1954. Both of us are divorced mutually through Civil Court under the Special Marriage Act in 2016. Later in 2017, I married Kranti Dinanath Redkar.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-nikah-nama-nawab-malik-intensifies-attack-against-sameer-wankhede-1044605.html
27-10-2021||West||Bearing fruit: Custard apple cultivation brings handsome earning to drought-prone Latur farmer||A farmer from a hot and water scarcity-prone area in Maharashtra's Latur district has earned about Rs 40 lakh in the last two years by taking up cultivation of custard apple, which requires low investment, according to a district administration official. The success story of farmer Balkrishna Namdev Yelale was highlighted by the Latur district information office in a release on Tuesday. Yelale has a seven acre farm in Janwal village, located on a hard basalt rock of the Deccan Plateau. He earlier used to cultivate grapes for sale in international markets. However, a few years ago, he suffered a setback when his grapes were rejected by buyers abroad over the issue of use of pesticides, the official said. But, Yelale was determined not to give up and he decided to plant custard apple on his farm. According to the official, the area faces water scarcity and high temperatures frequently. Due to the smell of leaves of the custard apple plant, animals don't eat it, he said. "The custard apple plants require very less water and about Rs 50,000 for maintenance every year. The fruit yield is five to ten tonnes per acre. This cultivation has made Yelale earn nearly Rs 40 lakh in the past two years," the official said. The farmer's yield is now in good demand in Hyderabad, Delhi and Navi Mumbai markets among fruit pulp-making companies, he added.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bearing-fruit-custard-apple-cultivation-brings-handsome-earning-to-drought-prone-latur-farmer-1044616.html
27-10-2021||West||PIL in Bombay HC seeks to restrain Nawab Malik from making comments against NCB||A city resident has filed a PIL in the Bombay High Court, seeking directions to Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik to refrain from making any comments against the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), in light of the drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is an accused. The public interest litigation (PIL) was filed on Tuesday by one Kausar Ali, who claims to be a priest and a person working for the rehabilitation of drug addicts. Ali has urged the HC to direct Malik not to make any comments against the NCB or any other investigating agency associated with the Aryan Khan case and officers of such agencies, saying it will demoralise the probe agencies and encourage drug abuse among citizens. Citing some of Malik's recent tweets, the PIL says the minister has been tweeting and making claims against the NCB and its officer Sameer Wankhede to "demoralise" them. The plea claims that the NCB, under the supervision of Wankhede, has proven to be the "most effective" agency in the recent past. The high court is yet to assign a date for hearing the PIL. Aryan Khan (23) was arrested on October 3 along with his friend Arbaaz Merchant, fashion model Dhamecha and some others by the NCB, after it raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs onboard. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are now lodged at the Arthur Road prison, Dhamecha is at the Byculla women's prison. A special court for NDPS cases had refused to grant them bail following which they moved the high court. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping. Wankhede has refuted the allegations and denied any wrong-doing. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pil-in-bombay-hc-seeks-to-restrain-nawab-malik-from-making-comments-against-ncb-1044618.html
27-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs party organisers took nod from Centre: Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday claimed the Cordelia cruise drugs party organisers had taken permission directly from the "directorate of shipping" at the Centre and not the state police or the state home department. Speaking to reporters here, Malik also claimed that a member of an international drugs mafia was present on the same cruise, and asked how come he was moving scot-free, while some others were arrested, following a raid on the ship earlier this month. Malik also said if the Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede's birth certificate, which the minister had posted online to claim the official forged documents to secure job, turns out false, then he will resign from his ministerial post and retire as a politician. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2 during which drugs were allegedly seized. Later, Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, and some others were arrested. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drug bust case as "fake" and levelled a string of allegations against Wankhede, who led the raid. On Wednesday, the minister said, “The Cordelia cruise drugs party organisers—Fashion TV— had not taken any permission from the Maharashtra Police or the state home department. They obtained the permission directly from the directorate of shipping, which comes under the Union Ministry for Ports, Shipping and Waterways.” Malik said, “I believe that a top committee of NCB officials from Delhi has arrived here. They should check the call detail records of personal phones of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, (witnesses) K P Gosavi, Prabhakar Sail and Wankhede's driver Mane. You will need no recording of statements. The phone calls will be self-explanatory." The minister also claimed that a member of an international drugs mafia was present on the same cruise. "There are some of videos of the party in which the person, sporting a beard, can been seen. I am told he was in the Tihar Jail (Delhi) and in a Rajasthan jail in the past. The NCB's Delhi team should check the CCTV cameras of the cruise. How come a few people were arrested and the international level drugs mafia (member) is moving scot-free?” the NCP spokesperson asked. Malik also said that if Wankhede's birth certificate, which he had posted on social media, turns out to be false, then "I will resign from my post and retire as a politician". "If my claims are true, then Sameer Wankhede should at least apologise to me and my family. He will lose his job for sure," the minister said. Malik had earlier levelled a number of allegations against Sameer Wankhede and also accused him of illegal phone tapping and forging his documents to secure job. Wankhede, who visited the NCB office in Delhi on Tuesday, has denied the allegations.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-party-organisers-took-nod-from-centre-nawab-malik-1044630.html
27-10-2021||West||Trial court's order in Tarun Tejpal case 'retrograde', 'fit for 5th century': Goa government to HC||The Goa government told the Bombay High Court's bench here on Wednesday that the victim in a 2013 rape case, in which journalist Tarun Tejpal was acquitted, was named and shamed and the trial court's judgement was "retrograde" and "fit for fifth century". The Goa bench of the HC, comprising Justices Revati Mohite Dere and M S Jawalkar, later adjourned the hearing into the matter till November 16, when it will hear Tejpal's application challenging the maintainability of the state government's appeal against his acquittal in the case. Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, representing the Goa government, stated before the bench that the prosecutrix (woman) was "named and shamed". He also termed the judgment of the trial court as "retrograde" and "fit for fifth century". Justice Dere said “in not just this case, but in all the cases of rape, we will not allow lawyers to read the evidence, we will read it ourselves". She said a lawyer can point out the page number while submitting about the evidence. On May 21 this year, a sessions court acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. Later, the Goa government filed an appeal against it in the HC. The matter came up before the HC's division bench on Wednesday when Tejpal's lawyer Amit Desai submitted to the court to consider two applications filed by him. Tejpal has challenged the maintainability of the Goa government's appeal against his acquittal in the case. Desai said the permission to file application (challenging the session court's order) was not granted by the state government to the public prosecutor on the day when it was filed. He also said that they have filed an application for 'in-camera' hearing into the matter, which Mehta opposed. The bench will hear later Tejpal's application seeking in-camera hearing into the matter. The hearing on Wednesday was held in virtual mode. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trial-courts-order-in-tarun-tejpal-case-retrograde-fit-for-5th-century-goa-government-to-hc-1044642.html
27-10-2021||West||International drug lord was present on the cruise during NCB raid: Nawab Malik||Continuing the broadside, Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik on Wednesday made a sensational disclosure alleging that an “international drug lord” was present onboard the cruise ship Cordelia during the October 2-3 raid, adding that NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede let him off the hook. "During the rave party (onboard Cordelia), an international drug lord was present in the ship and the NCB officials, led by Wankhede, let him off the hook…. The drug lord is a close friend of Wankhede. He should tell why he (Wankhede) let him (drug mafia) go," Malik said.  "I have a video of the drug lord dancing with his girlfriend. If the NCB does not take action, then I will release the video," he said, indicating that the exposing would continue against Wankhede. While Wankhede was not available to respond to the allegations, his wife Kranti Redkar said, “Day in and day out, Malik is making allegations…let him tell this to the court and prove it.”  Malik also pointed out that when the rave party was held, the Covid-19 protocols were in place. “The permission was taken from the Directorate General of Shipping and not from the Mumbai Police or the Maharashtra home department,” he said. “There was one bearded man present in the alleged party, who is a former jailbird having been lodged in Delhi’s Tihar Jail and a Rajasthan prison,” Malik said.  “That person belongs to an international drug mafia and was there with his girlfriend who was carrying a gun. Why was no action taken against them? The cruise ship’s CCTV footage of that day should be investigated and the truth will be revealed,” Malik said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/international-drug-lord-was-present-on-the-cruise-during-ncb-raid-nawab-malik-1044644.html
27-10-2021||West||RT-PCR test mandatory for people returning to Surat post Diwali holidays||In an attempt to prevent the rise in Covid-19 cases, the civic body in Gujarat's Surat city has made it mandatory for people to carry RT-PCR test reports while returning to the city after Diwali holidays, an official said on Wednesday. The test is mandatory for everyone, irrespective of whether they have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the official said. According to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), locals returning to the city post the Diwali holidays will have to mandatorily carry their RT-PCR reports not older than 72 hours. The precaution is being taken to ensure that the city doesn't see any spike in Covid-19 cases, it said. A large number of people, especially migrant workers engaged in the city's diamond and textile units, visit their hometowns during Diwali and people also go on vacations. An appeal has been made for people to get their mandatory RT-PCR test done, not more than 72 hours before their entry to the city after vacationing, said Pradeep Umarigar, municipal officer of health, SMC. "We also appeal to people to take their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine before going on vacations. Those who have recently tested Covid-19 positive will be given a relaxation," the official said. The SMC will deploy teams at the airport, bus stands, and road entry points to check the RT-PCR test reports of people returning to the city, he said, adding that the civic body will also provide facilities for RT-PCR tests for people who were unable to get tested earlier. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-people-returning-to-surat-post-diwali-holidays-1044694.html
27-10-2021||West||Cruise drugs case: Sameer Wankhede faces two probes||Controversial and high-profile NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede now faces two separate probes - by an internal investigation by the federal agency, and another by the Mumbai Police. The Mumbai Police has appointed an assistant commissioner of police-level officers to look into the allegations of extortion against the officer. Meanwhile, an NCB team from New Delhi has landed in Mumbai and visited the NCB office at the Ballard Estate and collected some documents related to the case. The team is headed by deputy director general Dhyaneshwar Singh, who has been asked to head the vigilance probe by NCB chief SN Pradhan. “We have started the probe… This is a very sensitive investigation, too early to share anything. We will not be able to share information in real-time. It's a sensitive case. We shall enquire into all aspects and later inform the media of the developments,” Singh said. It may be mentioned that deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain, who heads the South-West Region, has sent the affidavit of witness no. 1 in the drugs-on-cruise case, Prabhakar Sail, to the NCB director general. Accordingly, on Tuesday, Wankhede, an officer of the 2008 IRS-batch, was summoned to New Delhi, during which he presented his side of the story. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Police probe is expected to be headed by ACP Milind Khetle. Sail, who is the personal bodyguard of Kiran Gosavi, another witness in the cruise ship raid, had alleged that Wankhede, Gosavi and some other NCB officers had sought Rs 25 lakh from Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan to release his son Aryan Khan in the drugs bust case. He had also alleged a meeting that Gosavi had with Pooja Dadlani, the secretary of SRK, in the latter’s car. However, the Mumbai Police did not elaborate what complaints that they have received against Wankhede. Sail’s statement has been recorded by the Mumbai Police. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cruise-drugs-case-sameer-wankhede-faces-two-probes-1044707.html
27-10-2021||West||Eight injured as BEST bus rams into dumper truck in Mumbai||Eight persons were injured, five of them seriously, on Wednesday when a BEST bus rammed into a dumper truck from behind in Dadar area in Mumbai, a civic official said. The injured persons included three women passengers and the driver and the conductor of the bus operated by the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking. The incident occurred this morning when the bus (route no 22) was on its way to Pydhonie in south Mumbai from Marol. A CCTV grab shows a speeding BEST bus ramming into the dumper truck from behind at a traffic signal on Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Road, one of the arterial roads, around 7.15 am. Due to the impact, a passenger standing in the bus door was thrown out on the road while other passengers jumped out. Meanwhile, the official said all the eight injured passengers are admitted at civic-run Sion Hospital. Doctors at the hospital informed that the condition of five injured persons, including the bus driver, conductor and three passengers, is serious while the other three are "stable". BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade did not respond. According to the "Road Accidents In Maharashtra 2020" statistics, Mumbai had witnessed 1,812 road accidents, in which 349 persons were injured, 1,740 others sustained grievous injuries and 443 minor injuries. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eight-injured-as-best-bus-rams-into-dumper-truck-in-mumbai-1044711.html
27-10-2021||West||Arrest has become rule and bail exception: Aryan Khan's lawyer||Invoking Constitutional rights, the defence team of Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, on Wednesday sought bail for him on the grounds that his arrest was illegal. Justice Nitin Sambre adjourned the matter till Thursday. Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, a former Attorney General of India, who represented Aryan and senior counsel Amit Desai who stood for Aryan and Arbaaz Merchant and advocate Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh, who appeared for Munmum Dhamecha concluded their arguments. “The arrest memo did not give true and correct grounds for arrest. Article 22 of the Constitution is more important than Section 50 of the CrPC. It states that no person should be held without being informed about the grounds of arrest and the person shall have the right to consult a lawyer of their choice,” Rohatgi told the court. "Bail is the rule and jail is the exception. Now, it has become - arrest is the rule and bail is the exception,” said Desai. “This is a direct infringement of constitutional guarantees. We are all available to the agencies. Bail may be granted. There has been enough custody of the two, who are both residents of Mumbai,” said Desai, concluding arguments for Aryan and Arbaaz. During the next hearing, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh will present his arguments along with Special Public Prosecutor Adwait Sethna. "I will try to finish my arguments within one hour," Singh said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/arrest-has-become-rule-and-bail-exception-aryan-khans-lawyer-1044733.html
27-10-2021||West||NCB officials made me sign blank papers, says witness in another drugs case||Days after NCB witness Prabhakar Sail claimed that he was made to sign blank papers by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the cruise drugs case, another witness in a separate drugs case on Wednesday levelled a similar allegation against the agency officials, including its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede. The witness, Shekhar Kamble, a resident of Navi Mumbai, said he was made to sign on 10-12 blank papers by Wankhede and others, which were later used as panchnama in connection with a Nigerian national’s arrest from Mumbai's Kharghar in August this year. He also claimed that although no drugs was recovered from the Nigerian national, the NCB falsely showed that some amount of MD drug was found on him. He said he had played the role of an informer in that case and after the raid in Kharghar, the NCB had caught two Nigerians, but let off one of them, he claimed. “On the day of raid in August, I along with six NCB officials reached Kharghar to catch a Nigerian national, but he managed to flee from the spot. Later, we went to another location in Kharghar, where around 50 Nigerians were present. As we entered, all of them escaped, but the officials caught two Nigerians and brought them to the NCB office, where one of them was let off,” he said. "After taking my and friend’s Aadhaar cards, the NCB officials asked me just to sign 10 to 12 blank papers. When I asked them about the panchnama, Wankhede and other officials said they will write it and I don’t have to worry,” Kamble added. He said he came to know that he was a witness in the case after Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik made public a list of the agency’s 26 different drugs cases and the witnesses in those cases. He said after he read about Malik's claims, he rang up NCB officer Anil Mane on Tuesday to express his concern over the claims in the Nigerian case. "The officer asked me to visit the NCB office on Wednesday, but I did not go," Kamble said. Kamble said he now fears for his life as “anything can happen” to him since he has spoken up about the NCB’s "frauds". On August 27, the NCB had issued a press release, which said that it had intercepted a Nigerian national, identified as Kingsley Ukwueza, following a raid at Kharghar. As per the NCB, it was the agency's case number 80/2021. The accused was held at a Nigerian community kitchen, who was present there along with around 50 Nigerian nationals. However, others had disappeared from the spot and two NCB officials had suffered injuries due as the Nigerians scrambled to escape, it had said. The accused Nigerian national is a big MD trafficker or supplier in Navi Mumbai and has international linkages, the NCB had said. On Sunday, Prabhakar Sail had claimed that Rs 25 crore were demanded by an NCB official and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, who was arrested in the cruise drugs case. He also claimed NCB officials had asked him to sign nine to ten blank papers. Sail had told media persons that he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office after the October 3 raid about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs 8 crore to Sameer Wankhede". Minister Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping. Wankhede has refuted the allegations and denied any wrong-doing. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-officials-made-me-sign-blank-papers-says-witness-in-another-drugs-case-1044750.html
